Go easy on me, baby. 
Mummy's been having a lot of big feelings recently. 
Just like - I feel a bit confused. 
I don't know. And I feel like I don't really know what I'm doing. 
I think, you know, a lot of people tend to think that the person that leaves a relationship or leaves a marriage is fine. 
That's not the case at all, not that I ever expected to feel like that. Like, I - it was - you know, it was one of the biggest decisions I've had to ever make in my life. 
And it was a lot for me to forgive myself for doing something like that, you know? But definitely, a few times where I was like, do I really think that the grass is greener somewhere else? 
- 'cause it never bloody is. 
...Like, it never is. So yeah, that definitely cropped up a few times, being like, have I maybe made a mistake? 
I don't know. But you know, that was in the sort of, like, the thickness of the turmoil of me thinking about, you know, whether or not to do what I did. 
Everything always seemed to change a lot when I was growing up. But he is just a tree. He's like a 300-year-old tree with roots that spread for miles, you know. 
And I felt safe - very, very safe, and no one had ever given me that before. 
That song's not about Simon. I saw some reviews last night. 
The only song that's about Simon is "Easy On Me." I would never write a song like "Woman Like Me" about my kid's dad. 
You ain't never had, ain't never had a woman like me. It is so sad a man like you could be so lazy. 
It's about someone I was thinking about dating who just did not step up. You think I'm going to leave a marriage and end up with your behavior? 
All you do is complain about decisions you make. How can I help lift you if you refuse to activate the life that you truly want? 
It's a sacrifice, but I can't live a lie. Let it be known - let it be known that I tried. 
That let it known that I tried lyric was more because - there was so many stories that were written about why we broke up, like anyone [expletive] knew. 
No one knew. It was more of me just being, no actually, this is my story, and this is how I felt, and this is how extreme it was. 
Trying to lean into it all. Ain't it funny how the mighty fall? 
Yeah, thank God. 
I definitely think that my voice has matured. But I also think that my delivery on the album is because of the lyrics and what I'm singing about. 
I definitely don't feel the need to wail all the time anymore. Like, there's no - my lower register on this album shines more than... 
...On any other record, I think. 
I'll be taking flowers to the cemetery of my heart for all of my lovers in the present and in the dark. 
It was so up and down, you know, how I felt. And I think that the sort of display of and variety of styles on the album sort of is a musical representation of where my head was at, to be honest with you. 
It was this, and it was that, and then it was this. It was all like whiplash. 
When I walk in a room, I'm invisible. I feel like a ghost. 
Do you know what? I've - well, one thing I have really bloody learned is I'm going to change my mind all the time. 
You know, I think the age thing is a bloody good idea. It's an easy bloody idea. And so I might - you know, I might keep going with it, or I might not. 
Exactly. It's my album. I'll call it what I want. 
Cry your heart out. 
Thank you so much, and happy holidays. 
Thank you, darling. Bye. 
Cry your heart out. Clean your face. 
Hello, it's me... 
Hello from the other side. I must've called a thousand times to tell you... 
Hello. How are you? 
Well, it wasn't so much it wouldn't sell, it was more that people wouldn't be interested. . That means more to me. 
Oh, the reaction's been ridiculous. I'm pretty overwhelmed, to be honest. 
I take it as a huge compliment, really. You know, I listen to music as a fan for the outlet of my emotions and stuff like that. 
So the fact that people seem to be listening to my music for the same thing is really, really wonderful. 
And that's why I like to put my music out there. Obviously, you know, I hope that I bring joy to people's lives and not just sadness... 
...As well. But yeah, you know, I love it. Sometimes it is a bit intense, but, you know, once I've sort of said, come on, snap out of it, they do. 
You know, I crack a joke, and it chills them out, it breaks the ice so then they're fine. 
Yes, I totally agree. It's pop-y-er than a lot of pop songs I've even heard. 
Send my love to your new lover. Treat her better. We've got to let go of all of our ghosts. 
We both know we ain't kids no more. Send my love to your new lover... 
I was in New York with Ryan Tedder, and "Trouble" came on the radio, which Taylor - Taylor's song that she did with Max and Shellback. 
And I loved - and I knew it was Taylor, and I was like, who did this though? I was like, it's amazing. 
And I've always loved her, but, I said, this is a total other side to her that I want to know, who, like, brought that out in her. 
And he said Max Martin. So we - I reached out to him, yeah I got my management to reach out. And he says yeah, and they came to London. 
And I took my guitar along and I said, I've got this riff, and I played it. And then they recorded it, and then we put a beat to it and then "Send My Love" happened - really, really quickly. 
Send my love to your new lover. Treat her better. 
Yes. I think in some ways my attitude towards my ex-boyfriend when I was writing "21" was a little bit immature. 
But I was a kid, I was 21. I mean, so it was fine. And now that I'm a mom, I feel like everything I do, I'm making a legacy for my child so I try and be very articulate with my feelings going forward because he will read all about this one day. 
And I want him to know that I, you know, I cared about how I was portrayed when he existed in my life, you know, and that I wasn't flippant with those things. 
So he is my legacy, you know? So I'm very, very conscious to have become a grown-up. I don't want to be a baby raising a baby. 
You know, my boyfriend's older than me so I'm a lot more worldly than I used to be. . 
Everybody tells me it's 'bout time that I moved on and I need to learn to lighten up and learn how to be young. 
Oh, you did? Where did you live? 
Oh, my God, that's so nice there. Look at you. 
It was lovely down there, yeah. 
Oh, no. No, it's a filthy river, but it ran through my home. It ran through - you know, and a lot of my life was spent walking alongside the River Lea to go and get to somewhere else. 
I worked at a cafe called the River Lea Caf. It's just a huge part of my life. 
But it's in my roots, in my veins, in my blood, and I stain every heart that I use to heal the pain. 
So I blame it on the River Lea, the River Lea, the River Lea... 
But, you know, it's just that - the idea of the song is, you know, I've - especially since I became a parent, let alone writing this record, I'm dealing with myself for the first time, and I have a lot of bad habits. 
So rather than admitting that I have bad traits in my actual character, I would always be like, well, that's how I was raised, that's what happens when you come from where I'm from  and all that. 
And it's so unfair on where we're from. And I'm very proud that I'm from Tottenham. And I don't go back that often, but I'm very proud that I'm from there. 
And it's completely made me who I am, and I think it's one of the reasons I've managed to keep - hold onto myself and keep myself together because we're very humble in Tottenham. 
So I'm very glad that I'm from there. And that's what the song's about. 
The River Lea, the River Lea, the River Lea... 
Yeah. But I have the same morals that I've always had, and his dad is a really wonderful man. I think it will be all right. 
And he will always know why he gets to live such a wonderful life - 'cause I don't want him thinking that comes for free because it does not. 
"Sweetest Devotion." 
Yeah, I recorded him - I want to sit next to my mommy. . 
With your lovin' there ain't nothin' that I can't adore. The way I'm runnin' with you, honey, is we can break every low. 
I find it funny that you're the only one I ever looked for. There is something in your lovin' that tears down my walls. 
I was always looking for the feeling that he gives me, and I was looking for it everywhere in the wrong places having no idea that I would find it in having a child. 
The sweetest devotion hitting me like an explosion. 
And he did, he hit me like an explosion . It's the most shocking thing when you have a child. 
You can't prepare yourself - oh, my God, what have I done? 
But, just, his love is just like - the love I feel for him is so poignant. And that's what I've been looking for, like, my whole life, like, and on my records, it's like I'm looking for this love. 
And I don't need to find it in my partner. I have it in my partner and I'm lucky, but, like, I'm going to be a mom forever no matter what happens. 
And that love is always going to be there. 
The sweetest, the sweetest, it's the sweetest... 
Thank you. Thanks for having me. 
The sweetest devotion. 
Thank you. Hi, guys. Hi, everyone.
Hi, hi, hi. As you can see it took an army to make me strong and willing again enough to do it. But thank you all from the bottom of my heart.
Five years ago, when I was last here, I also was pregnant, and I didn’t know. And I was awarded that shortly after — I found out shortly after, which was the biggest blessing of my life.
And in my pregnancy and through becoming a mother I lost a lot of myself. And I’ve struggled, and I still do struggle being a mom.
It’s really hard. But tonight winning this kind of feels full-circle, and like a bit of me has come back to myself.
But I can’t possibly accept this award. And I’m very humbled and I’m very grateful and gracious. But my artist of my life is Beyoncé.
And this album to me, the “Lemonade” album, is just so monumental. Beyoncé, it’s so monumental. And so well thought out, and so beautiful and soul-baring and we all got to see another side to you that you don’t always let us see.
And we appreciate that. And all us artists here adore you. You are our light.
And the way that you make me and my friends feel, the way you make my black friends feel, is empowering.
And you make them stand up for themselves. And I love you. I always have and I always will.
Grammys, I appreciate it. The academy, I love you. My manager, my husband and my son.
You’re the only reason I do it. Thank you so much. Thank you very much to everybody.
Thank you. Thank you. Thank you very much.
Thank you. First of all, I really do apologize for swearing. George Michael, I love him.
It means a lot to me. So I'm really sorry if I offended anyone anywhere. This is Greg Kurstin.
Thank you very much for this award. Thank you to the Academy, thank you to my record label, thank you to my manager, Jonathan.
I get so nervous. And I'd like to thank Greg because Greg kept coming to England for me to work with me and it was hard work, this record and I had a very short attention span.
And he would come to me in England and said I didn't have to leave my son, and yet you would leave your son and daughter.
So thank you for your patience with me and helping to create my favorite song I've ever done. So, thank you, Greg.
Thank you. Hi, guys. Hi, everyone.
Hi, hi, hi," she started. "As you can see it took an army to make me strong and willing again enough to do it.
But thank you all from the bottom of my heart. Five years ago, when I was last here, I also was pregnant, and I didn’t know.
And I was awarded that shortly after — I found out shortly after, which was the biggest blessing of my life.
And in my pregnancy and through becoming a mother I lost a lot of myself. And I’ve struggled, and I still do struggle being a mom.
It’s really hard. But tonight winning this kind of feels full-circle, and like a bit of me has come back to myself.
But I can’t possibly accept this award. And I’m very humbled and I’m very grateful and gracious. But my artist of my life is Beyoncé.
And this album to me, the “Lemonade” album, is just so monumental. Beyoncé, it’s so monumental. And so well thought out, and so beautiful and soul-baring and we all got to see another side to you that you don’t always let us see.
And we appreciate that. And all us artists here adore you. You are our light.
And the way that you make me and my friends feel, the way you make my black friends feel, is empowering.
And you make them stand up for themselves. And I love you. I always have and I always will.
Grammys, I appreciate it. The academy, I love you. My manager, my husband and my son.
You’re the only reason I do it. Thank you so much. Thank you very much to everybody.
I remember how I felt hearing her voice. I fell in love immediately with her. The way I felt when I first heard ‘No No No’ was exactly the same as when I first heard Lemonade last year...
The other artists who mean that much to me are all dead.
Oh, thank you. Hi guys. Hi.
Hi everyone. Hi! Hi!
Hi! Hi! Um, as you can see, it took an army to make me strong and willing again, um, to do it, and I thank you all from the bottom of my heart.
Five years ago when I was last here, um, I was so, I was pregnant and I didn't know, and I was awarded that — I found out shortly after, which was the biggest blessing of my life.
Um, and in my pregnancy and through becoming a mother I lost a lot of myself and I've struggled. And I still do struggle being a mom, it's really hard.
Um, but, tonight, winning this kind of feels a bit full circle, and like a bit of me has come back to myself.
I can't possibly accept this award, and I'm very humbled and I'm very grateful and gracious. But my artist of my life is Beyoncé and this album for me — the Lemonade album — was just so monumental, Beyoncé, it was so monumental, and so...
well thought out and soul bearing, and we all got to see another side to you that you don't always let us see and we appreciate that and all us artists here f*cking adore you.
You are our light. And the way you make me and my friends feel — the way you make my black friends feel — is empowering, and you make them stand up for themselves and I love you.
I always have, and I always will.
Grammys, I appreciate it. The Academy, I love you. My manager, my husband, and my son — you're the only reason I do it.
Thank you so much. Thank you very much to everybody.
[Motherhood] is really hard ... Tonight, winning this kind of feels full circle and like a bit of me has come back to myself.
But I can’t possibly accept this award, and I’m very humble and very grateful and gracious, but the artist of my life is Beyonce and this album to me, the Lemonade album is so monumental, Beyoncé.
So monumental. And so well thought out, and so beautiful and soul-baring. And we all got another side to you that you don’t always let us see and we appreciate that … all us artists here fucking adore you.
You are our light. And the way that you make me and my friends feel, the way you make my black friends feel, is empowering, and you make them stand up for themselves.
And I love you, I always have, I always will. Grammys I appreciate it. The Academy, I love, you, my manager, my husband, and my son.
You’re the only reason I do it. Thank you so much, thank you very much to everybody.
