Well I came to the region about 6 months ago, I first went to Syria because I work with U.N.H.C.R. and there are 1.5 million refugees in Syria alone from Iraq and while I was there, I went inside and met with some internally displaced people. 
And this trip is to get a better picture of the internally displaced people and to discuss with the local government, with our government, with the NGOs and with local people, the situation and try to understand what is happening, because there are over 2 million internally displaced people and there doesn't seem to be a real coherent plan to help them and there's lots of good will and lot's of discussion --but there seem to be a lot of uh -- just a lot of talk at the moment and a lot of pieces need to be put together. 
So, trying to figure out what they are. 
Well, I in my research before I came here, I looked at the numbers and there are over 4 million people displaced and of the 2 million internally displaced it's estimated that 58 percent are under 12 years old. 
So it's a very high number of people in a very, very vulnerable situation and a lot of young kids. So far the different U.S. 
officials I've met with and different local people I've met with all have shared concerns and very, very strongly you know they have spoken out about the humanitarian crisis but um, but there seems to be a block in. 
Well I think the global community always has a ... has a responsibility to any humanitarian crisis. 
And I think it's in our best interest to address a humanitarian crisis on this scale because displacement can can lead to a lot of instability and aggression and you know pop. 
We don't ... we certainly we just don't want that we have.. A lot of people feel it's a little calmer now ... 
this is the time to really discuss and and try to get these communities back together. But if these communities don't start coming back together properly, if we don't start really counting the people ... 
understanding where they are ... what they need ... making sure the schools are being built ... 
making sure the electricity the water and all these needs are being met and also understanding that a lot of the people that will return are going to come back to houses that are occupied or destroyed and bombed out and we have to we have to have... 
It's going to be a big operation to understand the needs ... to address it to help people put the pieces of their life back together and return to their communities. 
So it's really just putting kind of ... getting the plan together ... getting the group together and everybody actively focused on helping the IDPS and the refugees. 
I always hate speculation on the news, so I don't want to be somebody who speculates. Um but I think it's clear, I think, I think you know a displaced unstable population is you know is a very what happens in Iraq, and how Iraq settles in the years to come is going to affect the entire Middle East. 
And a big part of what is going to affect how it settles is how these people are returned and settled into their homes into their community and brought back together and whether they can live together and what their communities look like, so it does have broad implications. 
Uh, what about you  why are you here? It was an easy choice to make. I've uh, I felt I had to come here because it is very difficult to get answers about especially the internally displaced people. 
It's as I said even U.N.H.C.R. who I traditionally work with -- they are not able to be inside at the moment and so I was very frustrated and just getting a bunch of ideas and papers but not knowing what's really going on, so so today I'm able to talk to all different people from our government and their government and really get some answers as to what is holding up the processes to really really assist these people properly. 
To put pressure on the U.S.? 
I think certainly creating awareness. And I think you know what I found is there is... I spoke to the State Department today about meeting our goal, you know the U.S.'s goal of 12,000 people and they still intend to reach that goal and they have and you know there are many different people who can be cynical or say well how are they going to do it, and I will ask them how are you going to do it and is there some way we can help to ... 
you know ... is there some thing we all need to understand more is there ways we can help to process different people in different countries better is there because uh because we do need to get those people and we do need to in eight months get as close to 12,000 people as possible we should and I have to believe that there are people working towards that goal so.. 
So at least that and um, what was your other question? 
Hello. Under-Secretary General, Foreign and Defence Ministers, Your Excellencies, Ladies and Gentlemen,
This is the third UN Defense Peacekeeping Ministerial I have attended, but the first on my home soil.
I am very proud to speak here as an American.
I am a patriot. I love my country and want to see it thrive.
I also believe strongly in an America that is part of an international community.
Countries working together on an equal footing is how we reduce the risk of conflict.
It is how we avoid the need to send men and women of our militaries to fight and sacrifice overseas.
The UN was set up for that purpose. As a way of resolving differences peacefully, supporting each other’s prosperity, and extending universal rights and freedoms.
It is in all our interests for the UN to be made effective, brought closer to the lives of citizens, and not ever misused.
At a deeper level, a country that believes that all men and women are born free and equal cannot be true to itself if it doesn’t defend those principles for all people, wherever they live, regardless their circumstances, and no matter how desperate their struggle.
In fact, our support should be strongest where rights are threatened the most.
We seem incapable of upholding minimum standards of humanity in many parts of the world.
That this comes at a time when humankind is richer, and more technologically advanced than ever before, is all the more painful.
Eighteen years ago, when I first began working with the UN Refugee Agency, there were just under 20 million displaced people worldwide, and the numbers were falling.
Today there are over 65 million people displaced, and the numbers are rising.
More countries are experiencing some form of violent conflict today than any time in the last thirty years.
UN peacekeepers now comprise of the second largest group of forces deployed overseas, and are often required to serve where there is little or no peace to be kept.
Against this backdrop, it is easy to dismiss our institutions as flawed or ineffective.
My hope, instead, is that young people in particular will feel inspired to join the effort to improve them: to join the ‘men and women in the arena’, to paraphrase President Roosevelt, ‘who strive — are striving — to do deeds, and whose faces are marred by dust and sweat and blood’.
In that regard, I want to express my respect for men and women who serve as peacekeepers, and for those who have been killed or injured.
The protection of civilians is the primary responsibility of governments. When UN peacekeepers are deployed, it is usually where a government is unable or unwilling to protect civilian life.
[read more]Those United Nations missions often represent the last and only hope for millions of people facing daily threats to their safety and their basic rights.
The need for peacekeeping troops to have the best possible training and equipment and the highest standards of personal conduct becomes obvious when measured against that weighty responsibility.
That is why this meeting is so important, because it is in the hands of the governments you represent to enable peacekeeping to live up to its ideals and the needs of our time.
So, as you discuss how to strengthen UN peacekeepers and give peacekeepers the capabilities they need to operate in today’s dangerous environments, I ask you to take time to consider this question from the perspective of women.
Around the world there are countless examples of women rising, leading, taking their destiny into their own hands, inspiring us all.
But women and girls are still the majority of the victims of war. They are over half of all refugees, and the vast majority of the victims of rape and other sexual and gender-based violence.
Women are at the absolute epicenter of modern conflict, in the worst possible sense. But more often than not they are still on the outside looking in when it comes to politics and decisions about their futures.
If we went by the principle that those affected by a problem should be in charge of determining the solution, then the majority of the world’s peace negotiators, foreign ministers and diplomats would be women.
We all know the reality.
In Afghanistan, thousands of women have recently come together in public, risking their lives, to ask that their rights and the rights of their children be guaranteed in peace negotiations that so far they have been allowed no part of.
Their stand is inspiring, but it should not be necessary and the international community’s silent response is alarming to say the least.
There can be no peace and stability in Afghanistan, or anywhere else in the world, that involves trading away the rights of women.
Worse still we see impunity for crimes committed against women and girls during conflict, or when women human rights defenders are attacked, or killed, or imprisoned.
Too often, whether or not we confront these human rights violations depends not on the law, on universal standards, but on how much our governments think that their business or political interests in that country might be affected.
This is as harmful to our long-term security and stability as it is unacceptable on a human and moral level.
None of this is to discount the efforts of the many men, great husbands, fathers, brothers and sons, who have been with us in this fight.
It is simply the reality of the unequal power relations, abuse of power, gender bias, violence and lack of justice that keep so many women in a subordinate, and therefore vulnerable, position internationally.
As long as we continue to put almost every other issue ahead of women’s rights and participation, we will remain stuck in a cycle of violence and conflict.
We will have learned nothing. And our institutions will count for less than they should.
From my experience, a growing number of men and women in uniform understand this. When we are at our best, doing what we are called to do, we all share the exact same goals.
The same mandate. A safer, more stable world. We fight to defend our freedoms and rights and the freedoms and rights of others.
I recently met a male peacekeeper, who had just returned from deployment as a gender adviser in the Central African Republic.
He told me that when he had started his career serving in Afghanistan, he considered women’s rights to be a “soft” issue and not what war was fought for.
But his experiences had made him understand that it is exactly what should be fought for, and exactly what stabilizes a country.
His ability to contribute to this goal became a source of pride to him. He had made that jump in his thinking.
And while he had been doing a great service to his country already, he had now added that understanding and that sense of partnership with the women he served.
There is progress. The number of cases of alleged sexual exploitation and abuse are down, although even a single case is unacceptable.
The numbers of women peacekeepers is on the rise, with African nations in particular leading the way on this.
There are more gender advisers on UN missions, although still not enough. And improved the training on the protection of civilians is starting to come into effect.
But there is still a long way to go to demonstrate that anyone who commits violations will not be tolerated and will be investigated and prosecuted without exception.
There is still much more to do to increase the number of women in the ranks of peacekeeping missions.
Having met some formidable female peacekeepers this morning I think this change cannot come soon enough for the effectiveness and impact of missions.
And of course, we cannot call for more women to serve, without making it safe and viable for them to do so, including ensuring that they themselves are not vulnerable to sexual harassment or abuse.
New actions by your governments in all these areas can make a huge difference. But they, I believe must be accompanied by commitments to ensure women’s representation in peace negotiations.
To be consistent in the defense of women’s rights, in all places, and to address the deep-seated societal reasons for inequality and violence against women.
And above all we need an understand that women themselves are protectors: As mothers. As peacekeepers.
As human rights defenders.
Women are already contributing to peace in theatres of war across the world without recognition or glory, because it comes naturally to them.
It’s important to them.
Think how much more we could achieve with women’s equal participation in all aspects of society. Not at the expense of men, but alongside men.
Because we are all partners in this life.
We humans are capable of horrors, and unspeakable cruelty. But we are also capable of building civilizations, improving laws, demanding justice.
We are willing to fight for people we’ve never met and for their families. We fall. We fail.
We lose our way, often when we are made to feel afraid.
But in our moments of strength and clarity, we know that all people are in fact equal. We know that while we can and should be proud of who we are individually, we are a part of a global world.
And we know that we are supposed to come together in defense of something greater than ourselves.
Thank you very much.
Well, I put a lot of my hopes for the future on the younger generation. Maybe that’s because I live with six kids, aged 12 to 19, so I see that particular group – and I certainly see how much more pressure they are under than we were at their age.
They’re quite overwhelmed with a lot of information that we were sheltered from. But I see Mad [Maddox] online speaking in Russian to someone or talking to Korea, or Shi [Shiloh] saying hi to her friends in Namibia, I see there’s this new way young people can connect and know each other in this global way.
It’s how they’ll start to solve our problems.
I think that like most families, we have had this bigger thing happening with the pandemic. But of course you also have these life markers.
We went into it having just gotten out of the hospital with Zahara [who underwent surgery early last year], and we were so happy she was OK that we entered lockdown in a different state of mind.
But, you know, there are also these other markers of life: Pax going into his senior year, but not being able to enjoy all that it is to be a senior; Zahara finally getting her driving licence, but she’s taking the test with the driver wrapped in the full outfit with the masks.
It’s not how you imagine these moments. But birthdays go on, and I think that for many people, it’s made us all feel very human together.
There’s something beautiful about that.
I wanted it to be close to their dad, who is only five minutes away. I felt a little pressure moving in.
Like I had snuck into where DeMille and Chaplin would hang out. I love most that there is no entertainment room, but lots of pathways and places to walk and think.
I feel very fortunate we have that at this time.
Well, I was never very good at sitting still. Even though I wanted to have many children and be a mom, I always imagined it kind of like Jane Goodall, travelling in the middle of the jungle somewhere.
I didn’t imagine it in that true, traditional sense. I feel like I’m lacking in all the skills to be a traditional stay-at-home mom.
I’m managing through it because the children are quite resilient, and they’re helping me, but I’m not good at it at all.
Well, I love them. I feel like we’re such a team. It may sound clichéd, but you love and you try, and even if you burn the eggs, that doesn’t matter in the end.
But also, you’ve met our kids. They’re pretty capable.
I’m feeling that I’ve come through a few things. I’m trying to be hopeful. I think this is something we’ve all discovered through the pandemic.
It’s called Know Your Rights . We want to help young people to identify who or what is blocking them from accessing their human rights, and how to try to overcome that.
The message to young people is, no one has the right to harm you, to silence you.
Young people are engaged and ready to fight. But there is a level of misinformation we never faced growing up.
We want the book to help give them the tools to strengthen their fight and empower them in a very practical way.
Maybe it’s just the young punk in me, but I like the spirit of the youth. I believe they can see right and wrong with more clarity.
I see a lot of older people making excuses for certain behaviours, and it tends to be the younger person who is quicker to say, “But this is simply wrong, and we stand against it.” I’ve wanted to remain that person.
I started in my early twenties, putting on my boots and backpack, and going out to try and figure out what the hell was going on in the world.
I tried to give myself a broader education than I’d had at school. I grew up in a very empty place, in many ways, so had to go to find a wider understanding.
I went through a phase of being so shocked and angry about a system that tolerates millions of people being displaced by war, genocide and persecution.
I’m still just as angry about injustice, but whereas my younger self wanted to tear down the system, I’ve learnt I have to fight to try to change it from within.
I have a love-hate relationship with the UN. I love when I see practical solutions and protection for those in most need.
I love to see people from around the world risking their lives for that. What I hate is how little focus governments have on actually solving the reasons people flee.
I hate it when we don’t speak out and defend the rights of all people equally. And I hate when I feel the focus isn’t encouraging people and countries to be independent, but seems to benefit from them being broken.
I think if anything it has worsened. We speak as if refugees are a burden. But they’ve had to adapt.
They have a different skill set, a different look in their eye. They’ve confronted their own humanity in such a profound way.
They’ve stood up to oppression. We should honour their fight. Honour the people who’ve fled bombs and protected their kids.
I’m still very nervous. Even the other day, I thought to email him to ask him some questions, and I was composing my email to get it just right.
He’s incredible. The story is about Don, but it’s also equally about the conflicts he has been witness to, and the lives of the people within the now-famous photographs, who they were, and the often darker truth of those conflicts.
I love this cast, and that we all came together. I signed up to support Chloé [Zhao]’s vision and Marvel’s commitment to expand the way we see “superheroes”.
Running around in a gold bodysuit was not how I imagined my forties. But it’s good crazy, I think.
I don’t know. The past few years have been pretty hard. I’ve been focusing on healing our family.
It’s slowly coming back, like the ice melting and the blood returning to my body.
But I’m not there. I’m not there yet. But I hope to be.
I’m planning on it. I do like being older. I feel much more comfortable in my forties than I did when I was younger.
Maybe because… I don’t know… maybe because my mom didn’t live very long, so there’s something about age that feels like a victory instead of a sadness for me.
So I like it. I’m looking forward to my fifties – I feel that I’m gonna hit my stride in my fifties.
Though we were on the trampoline the other day, and the children said, “No, Mom, don’t do that. You’ll hurt yourself.” And I thought, “God, isn’t that funny?” There was a day I was an action star, and now the kids are telling me to get off the trampoline because I’ll hurt myself.
Even at their young age they know that what matters is to feel safe and loved and stable. To not see those you love harmed.
To know your own mind and truth and not to live a lie.
They are from across the globe. When I see Mad in Cambodia, it’s his home. He is a Cambodian man, and at the same time, he is also an American citizen and a global citizen.
But it’s not just important for him to go there, it’s important for his siblings to go there, too. We’ve been very blessed to have a family of different cultures and races.
We are all learning from each other.
Aw, well I feel like it’s a big deal if they accept me, you know? I mean, that’s the thing for a lot of mothers, and for a lot of parents regardless.
But I think even more so if you have adopted children. They have to choose you, too. It’s not the parents’ family and they’re in it.
It’s our family.
Well, I know this may sound strange, but don’t make it a duty for them to do good or have to give back.
If we can help children feel that it’s not about duty or service or charity, but the joy of an interconnected life with people you respect, then it feels very different.
I couldn’t force anything on anybody, which is part of the fun. They are all very different.
I was best friends with my mom. I loved having babies, but I love sitting up at night and talking to my kids.
I like the teenage years. I like the older years. I love hanging out with them.
We’re all trying to figure out what the best way is, but I imagine there’ll be more and more regulations, and I think that’s the best thing that can happen.
Because even a thoughtful consumer can be conned by a good promotion of something that is not in fact good, right?
I invest in quality pieces, and then just wear them to death. Boots, a favourite coat, a favourite purse, I don’t change things often, you know?
That’s one of my things.
Enjoying your vintage pieces, if you have them, and rediscovering some vintage shops seems like part of the way forward.
And with beauty, Guerlain is really a favourite of mine. Z [Zahara] and I share the perfume products, such as the lotion and the body wash.
I love that she and I will remember each other by a smell. Especially as my first memory of Guerlain was the scent of my mother’s powder.
The goal is to help train women in different countries to work as beekeepers. In fact, one of the first women coming into the programme will be from the area where we work in Cambodia.
Oh my God. I’ve always heard people asked that question and I think in the back of my head, “I wonder what I’d say if anybody ever asked me?” But I’ve never prepared the answer.
Hmmm. Somebody said the surprise about me is that I’m a closet foreign policy wonk. I’m a bit more boring than people would think… I’m a bit of a geek.
Ha! If somebody could tell me how to unwind, I would like to know. I have never learnt how, and I have decided, at 45, I’m never going to.
I’m gonna go further, I’m gonna get more wound.
