Well, a president is a public servant. They are temporary occupants on the office by design. When your time is up, then it is your job to put the country first and think beyond your own ego and your own interests and your own disappointments. 
My advice to President Trump is if you want, at this late stage in the game to be remembered as somebody who put country first, it’s time for you to do the same thing. 
Absolutely. I think it was time for him to concede probably the day after the election or at the latest two days after the election. 
When you look at the numbers, objectively, Joe Biden will have won handily. There is no scenario in which any of those states would turn the other way and certainly not enough to reverse the outcome of the election. 
I think our adversaries have seen us weakened, not just as a consequence of this election, but over the last several years. 
We have these cleavages in the body politic that they’re convinced they can exploit. There is an old adage that partisan politics should stop at the water’s edge. 
That when it comes to our foreign policy, that it is the United States of America, not the divided States of America. 
Well, I titled it the promised land because even though we may not get there in our lifetimes, even if we experience hardships and disappointments along the way, that I at least still have faith we can create a more perfect union. 
Not a perfect union, but a more perfect union. 
We have gone through a presidency that disregarded a whole host of basic institutional norms, expectations we have for a president, that had been observed by republicans and democrats previously and maybe most importantly and most disconcertingly, what we’ve seen is what some people call truth decay. 
Something that’s been accelerated by outgoing President Trump. The sense that not only do we not have to tell the truth, but the truth doesn’t even matter. 
The president doesn’t like to lose and never admits loss. I’m more troubled by the fact that other republican officials who clearly know better are going along with this, are humoring him in this fashion. 
It is one more step in de-legitimizing, not just the incoming Biden administration, but democracy generally. 
That’s a dangerous path. We would never accept that out of our own kids behaving that way if they lost. 
If my daughter’s in any kind of competition, pouted and then accused the other side of cheating when they lost, when there was no evidence of it, we’d scold them. 
I think that there has been this sense over the last several years that literally anything goes and is justified in order to get power. 
That’s not unique to the United States. There are strong men and dictators around the world who think that I can do anything to stay in power. 
I can kill people, I can throw them in jail, I can run phony elections, I can suppress journalists, but that’s not who we’re supposed to be. 
One of the signals I think that Joe Biden needs to send to the world is that no, those values that we preached and we believed in and subscribed in, we still believe in. 
A, it tells us that we’re very divided and as I said, it’s not just the politicians now, the voters are divided. 
It has now become a contest where issues, facts, policies per se, don’t matter as much as identity and wanting to beat the other guy. 
That’s taken priority. I do think the current media environment adds to that greatly. This democracy doesn’t work if we don’t have an informed citizenry. 
This democracy doesn’t work if we don’t have a responsible elected officials at other levels who are willing to call the president when he’s not doing something right. 
Call him on it. 
He’s a good example of somebody who I think understood deeply the need to be able to see another person’s point of view. 
There’s no American figure that I admire any more than Abraham Lincoln, but he did end up with a civil war on his hands. 
I think we’d like to avoid that. I do think that a new president can set a new tone. That’s not going to solve all the gridlock in Washington. 
I think we’re going to have to work with the media and with the tech companies to find ways to inform the public better about the issues and to bolster the standards that ensure we can separate truth from fiction. 
I think that we have to work at a local level. 
When you start getting to the local level Mayors, county commissioners, et cetera, they’ve actually got to make real decisions. 
It’s not abstractions. It’s like, we need to fix this road. We need to get this snow plowed. 
We need to make sure our kids have a safe playground to play in. At that level, I don’t think people have that kind of visceral hatred and that’s where we have to start in terms of rebuilding the social trust we need for democracy to work. 
Yeah. I think that’s a legitimate and understandable criticism. At the end of the day, I consistently tried to treat my political opposition in the ways I’d want to be treated. 
To not overreact when, for example, somebody yells, you lie in the middle of me giving a joint congressional address. 
I understand why there were times where my supporters wanted me to be more pugilistic. To pop folks in the head and duke it out a little bit more. 
Every president brings a certain temperament to office. I think part of the reason I got elected was because I sent a message that fundamentally, I believe the American people are good and decent and that politics doesn’t have to be some cage match in which everybody is going at each other’s throats and that we can agree without being disagreeable. 
There are a set of traditions that we have followed in the peaceful transfer of power. The outgoing president congratulates the incoming president. 
Instructs the government and the agencies to cooperate with the new government coming in. You invite the president elect to the oval office and then on an inauguration day, the president invites the president elect to the white house. 
There’s a small reception and then you drive to the inauguration site and the outgoing president sits there, as part of the audience, as the new president is sworn in and at that point, the outgoing president is a citizen like everybody else and owes the new president the chance to do their best on behalf of the American people. 
Whether Donald Trump will do the same thing, we’ll have to see. So far, that’s not been his approach, but hope springs eternal. 
There’s a promised land out there somewhere. 
Of course. It was heartbreaking. Very rarely though did you see it so viscerally and over a stretch of time where the humanity of the victim is so apparent. 
The pain and the vulnerability of someone so clear. It was, I think a moment in which America, for a brief moment, came face to face with a reality that African-Americans in this country, I think had understood for quite some time. 
I was heartened and inspired by the galvanizing effect that it had on the country as a whole. The fact that it wasn’t just black people. 
It wasn’t just so liberals who were appalled by it, reacted to it and eventually marched, but it was everybody. 
It was a small first step in the kind of reckoning with our past and our present, that so often we avoid. 
For a couple of reasons, one, is that we have a criminal justice system in which we ask, oftentimes very young, oftentimes not very well-trained officers, to go into communities and just keep a lid on things. 
We don’t try to get at some of the underlying causes for chronic poverty. If we’re going to actually solve this problem, there are some specific things we can do to make sure that our contracts with police officers don’t completely insulate them when they do something wrong. 
Putting money into budgets for training these police officers more effectively. Teaching police officers not to escalate, but to deescalate, but it’s important for us not to let ourselves off the hook and think this is just a police problem because those shootings, that devaluation of life, is part and parcel with a legacy of discrimination and Jim Crow and segregation, that we’re all responsible for. 
If we’re going to actually put an end to racial bias in the criminal justice system, then we’re going to have to work on doing something about racial bias in corporate America and bias in where people can buy homes. 
That is a larger project in which, the good news is, all of us can take some responsibility. We can all do better on this front than we’ve been doing. 
Scott, how are you? Elbow bump. 
Well, I was terrified of it and very quickly mobilized a team to figure out how are we going to take the best possible approach. 
From the start, I had some very clear criteria, which was number one, we’re going to follow the science and the second thing was, let’s make sure we’re providing good information to the American people. 
That may be the one thing that Donald Trump and I agree on, is that he doesn’t agree with me on anything. 
I don’t see him as the cause for our divisions and the problems with our government. I think he’s an accelerant, but they proceeded and sadly are going to likely outlast him. 
First of all, I don’t think this is just a plague on both their houses here. The democrats opposed George Bush on a whole bunch of stuff, but Ted Kennedy worked with George Bush to pass a prescription drug plan for seniors. 
Nancy Pelosi, who adamantly opposed the war in Iraq, time and again, voted even when her base was angry about it, to make sure that our troops were funded once the decision to send in troops to Iraq, went in. 
The media landscape has changed and as a consequence, voters perceptions have changed, so that I think democratic and republican voters have become much more partisan. 
I would often hear this from republicans during my presidency. Some of these folks had been colleagues of mine. 
I served in the Senate. Some of them were friends of mine and they would confess to me, I said, look, Mr. 
President, I know you’re right, but if I vote with you on this, I’m going to get killed. I’ll lose my seat because what had happened is their voter base had soaked in so much information that was demonizing me, demonizing The Affordable Care Act, that it becomes very difficult, even for folks who want to cooperate to cooperate. 
That’s why I am somebody who does not blame the current partisanship solely on Donald Trump or solely on social media. 
You already saw some of these trends taking place early in my presidency, but I do think they’ve kept on getting worse. 
It was a little sharper than that, but it was pretty good, Scott. 
Look, it’s a legitimate question. Keep in mind the context here. Just two years earlier I’d run for the US Senate, in an unlikely race. 
Two years before that I had run for Congress. 
In a race I lost. A couple of years before that I’d run for the state senate. We’ve got two young kids. 
Michelle’s still working. I asked myself in the book, how much of this is just megalomania? How much of this is vanity? 
How much of this is me trying to prove something to myself? Over time, she made a conclusion that I shouldn’t stand in the way of this. 
Yeah and she did grudgingly. The fact that I ended up winning didn’t necessarily alleviate her frustration because the toll it takes on families is real. 
I think I actually realized that even while I was in the job. The fact that she put up with it and forgave me was an act of grace that I am grateful for and I’m not sure I deserved it. 
This is going to be on the south side of Chicago, in historic Jackson park and it’s the place where Michelle and I met. 
Where I first started in public life. 
It’s going to be a place where we have the standard model oval office and Michelle’s dresses, which will be very popular, no doubt, but also a whole host of facilities that allow us to provide classroom training to young people who are interested in public service and to beautify a park that can serve a whole bunch of young people who’ve been underserved in the past. 
On that last day, the emotions really focus on the team that you’ve been working on and it’s very rare outside of maybe war time, where you get a collection of people working together in a sustained way under that kind of pressure and stress. 
There’s a melancholy to it. There was also though and I write about this, a satisfaction, in knowing that I had finished the job. 
I had run my stretch of the race and I could say unequivocally, despites, regrets and disappointments about some things not getting done, the country was better off when I left than when I got there. 
Well, they're not ideal institutions. But what we found is, is that when we combined blunt talk with engagement, that gives us the best opportunity to influence and open up space for civil society. 
And the human rights agenda that we think is so important. And, you know, a good example of this is Burma. 
Where I was the first US president to visit there. 
Well, the - what is true is that China has - over the last several years, because of the surplus that they've accumulated in global trade and the fact that they're not accountable to their constituencies, have been able to funnel an awful lot of money into Africa, basically in exchange for raw materials that are being extracted from Africa. 
Yeah. Well, I disagree with him on that, don't I? And I've had this experience before when we've visited Senegal in my last trip to Africa. 
I think that the president there President Sall, is doing a wonderful job in moving the country forward - a strong democrat. 
But in a press conference, I was very blunt about my belief that everybody deserves fair treatment, equal treatment in the eyes of the law and the state. 
Well, keep in mind, first of all, we've shut off the pathways for Iran getting a nuclear weapon, which was priority number one. 
Because if Iran obtained a nuclear weapon, then they could cause all those same problems that you just listed with the protection of a nuclear bomb. 
And create much greater strategic challenges for the United States, for Israel, for our Gulf allies, for our European allies. 
Well, in Congress I'm confident that we're going to be able to make sure that the deal sticks. With respect to the Gulf states we had the leaders up to Camp David. 
And I described for them our interest in making sure that they built their capacity to defend themselves and their territory and to make sure that destabilising activities that Iran may be engaging in are checked. 
But keep in mind, our Gulf partners, for example, their combined defense budget is ten times Iran's defense budget. 
Well, and - and - and that's the issue. And that's the challenge as - so the point that I made to them consistently is, you have a strong, reliable partner in the United States. 
But ultimately, how issues get resolved in the Middle East is going to depend on both strengthening military capacity, but also addressing the underlying social and political issues that may lead not only to Iran being able to stir up problems among Shia populations, but also addressing some of the issues that are leading to the enormous and significant threat that they face from ISIL. 
Let me first of all say that Prime Minister David Cameron's been an outstanding partner of ours on not just the anti-ISIL coalition, but on a whole host of security issues. 
And I want to congratulate his government for meeting the commitment of the 2% defence budget. Because we don't have a more important partner than Great Britain. 
I wouldn't say pressure. I think I had an honest conversation with David that Great Britain has always been our best partner. 
Well, you know, I guess you could go back to 1812 and that would  you know, that - 
Yeah, right, right. But that's ancient history - 
In modern times there's no country where we have closer affinity in terms of values, and on the international stage a nation with greater capacity. 
And so I think David understands that part of the greatness of Great Britain, of the United Kingdom is that it is willing, as we are, to project power beyond our immediate self-interests to make this a more orderly, safer world. 
And we're glad we have that partner. 
Well, I - you know, obviously the - the whole debate that's been taking place about the European Union, the eurozone, Greece that's a complicated piece of business. 
I will say this, that having the United Kingdom in the European Union gives us much greater confidence about the strength of the transatlantic union and is part of the cornerstone of institutions built after World War II that has made the world safer and more prosperous. 
Climate change agenda with China. 
I've got a pretty long list. 
You know the - it's interesting - that one of my - every president, every leader has strengths and weaknesses. 
One of my strengths is I have a pretty even temperament. I don't get too high when it's high and I don't get too low when it's low. 
And what I found during the course of the presidency, and I suppose this is true in life, is that investments and work that you make back here sometimes take a little longer than the 24-hour news cycle to bear fruit. 
There will be. Look there was never a promise that race relations in America would be entirely resolved during my presidency or anybody's presidency. 
I mean, this has been a running thread - and - and fault line in American life and American politics since its founding. 
Thank you so much. I enjoyed it. 
Well, let me make a couple points. Number one, you’re the last guy I would have help me pack… 
So that’s point number one. Point number two, they were applauding Michelle’s dress, which was spectacular, even by her own standards. 
I tell you, what has started to hit me is that the collection of unbelievable talent and vision and dedication in my team, the people I’ve gathered around, some of whom have been with me for this entire ride, some of whom I got to know later, many of whom came of age in this job, so I’ve seen them start in these really junior jobs and now they’re running huge operations and married and their babies are crawling on the floor of the Oval Office… 
It’s a family, and… 
So far, nobody’s named their kid Barack. I’ve been a little upset about that. 
Yeah, I got through about four minutes of the thing and then started, you know, getting the hanky out and… 
I – I – it’s a… 
Well, it’s interesting. There are two things that can get me teary. One is talking about my daughters or seeing my daughters and the second is my team. 
I mea,n you remember after 2012 when I went over to the campaign office and I saw all those kids who had been working so hard… 
… and it was the same kind of emotion that stirs up this deep gratitude for their devotion and I think an appreciation that even though from their perspective, I’m the one inspiring them, in fact all I’m doing is drawing from their energy. 
They’re the ones inspiring me. I’m reflecting back what’s inside of them, which is just a lot of goodness and a lot of heart and idealism. 
And so that gets me choked up. 
Look, the point is, it feels like the band is breaking up a little bit. And it really has been a team effort, it’s been a really big band, a full orchestra. 
Horn section and all that. And one of the things that I tell people I appreciate is that – that spark, that thing that we took a flyer on in 2007, 2008. 
You know, it didn’t always manifest itself in the day to day grind of governing, but the truth is it’s – it never died out. 
And I would continue to see it every day in what happened here in the West Wing and the East Wing and the White House. 
The idealism and the dedication stayed with the staff and got us through some really hard times. 
… in the future. I don’t think they come away from this feeling like government service doesn’t work… 
… politics is terrible. 
That was a nail biter. 
I think it was literally called like two minutes after the polls closed. 
No, but I had to rush to get to the hotel to concede. 
Yeah, this is… 
Yeah, this was 16 years ago. So – so, I just got thumped in a congressional race and the truth is that it was a great experience for me. 
It ended up being a building block for subsequent races. It taught me a lot. 
And so, you’re already a little mopey about things, and as you know, David, because we’re close friends, Michelle was never that wild about me going into politics. 
I’ve got – I’ve got two little kids, we’re pretty broke, or at least at that point I had one little kid and one on the way. 
And a friend of mine says, “Look, you’ve got to get back on the horse. You’re kind of down in the dumps. 
Why don’t you go to the Democratic National Convention in L.A.? It’ll cheer you up. You’ll be among folks who are excited about politics and you can stay with me.” 
Right. So I have to I think make a couple of calls to engineer somehow renting this car and I get to the hotel where my friend is ready to go and we go over to the convention and they give me the pass that is – basically only allows you to be in the halls, like the ring around the auditorium. 
This is – yes, and – and I think they’d – my friend would try to get me into some of the after parties after the convention and bouncers would be standing there saying, “Who’s this guy?” And “He doesn’t have the right credentials.” 
It didn’t. I – I felt as if I was a third wheel in this whole thing, so I ended up leaving early and… 
And I – and that was a stage when I was really questioning whether I should continue in politics. 
Yeah, no, it was – it was an interesting moment. And you know, since this is your podcast, I might as well give you a little credit. 
I think, in our conversation, you were initially and sensibly skeptical about… 
Yes, but you overcame your skepticism. And – and I saw a possible path. 
… and I connected well. And it – it told me that in a big field, in the U.S. Senate race, that I might have a chance to win, so. 
But – but it is… 
No, we wouldn’t. So things – things work out. 
Part of the reason – a little grayer, yes. But part of the reason for that I think is because, you know, success came late to me, notoriety came late. 
And it – it made me realize that to the extent that I had been successful, it wasn’t about me. It was about certain forces out there and – and me hitching my wagon to a broader spirit and a broader set of trends and a broader set of traditions. 
The logo I thought was a loser, it looked like the Pepsi logo and I thought… 
… that seems a little… 
That’s what I figured. 
But – but what Yes, We Can described and I really meant was that this was not simply about me, that this was about us. 
Look, you know, you don’t know – it’s hard to get outside of yourself completely and evaluate all the factors that contribute to your character. 
Some of it is just temperament. Now that we’ve been parents and you’re a grandpa, you start noticing, there is an essence of each kid that barring really severe trauma expresses itself. 
That’s who they are. 
No, my mom was – she was eccentric in many ways. She was… 
Yeah. Yeah, but she always insisted on shaving her legs. 
For all – yeah, for all the ups and downs of our – our lives, there was never a moment where I didn’t feel as if I was special, that – that I was not just this spectacular gift to the world. 
And that’s what you want your moms… 
… and your dads to – to give to your kids. 
Yeah. And – and I never doubted her – her love and commitment for me. And she was so young when she had me. 
I mean, she was – she was 18, right? So in some ways, by the time I was 12, 13, she’s interacting with me almost like a friend as well as a parent. 
Yeah ,and I didn’t always necessarily handle that well. It’s not sort of a recipe for ideal parenting. 
But what I did learn was that unconditional love makes up for an awful lot, and I got that from her. 
Now, a part of – a part of – going back to the question about politics, though… 
You know – you know what it was, David, and I think has remained true, is it’s not that I didn’t fear losing, it’s that I feared more being dishonest or being a jerk or losing respect for myself. 
I feared that more than losing. 
Exactly. The – the story I tell about myself didn’t allow me to say oh, well let’s trim my sails here for expediency. 
And – and so, at the end of the day, I think that part of sustaining my sanity through this thing was having gone through enough growing up and community organizing and not being in the spotlight and having had this weird 15 minutes of success at Harvard and being president of the law review… 
… but then going back into the state legislature where I’m operating in obscurity. 
Sometimes brutally so, but… 
But it – it – she has been ballast for our family. 
And I – no doubt contributed to me feeling calm because here’s what I knew about Michelle the same way I knew about my girls or my sister or my best friends. 
Their relationships with me never depended on my success or outward success. They didn’t – my best friends from high school don’t operate any differently with me now than they did when I was… 
Yeah. That’s – I mean, you know, I’ve been lucky. It’s interesting. 
As you get older, you figure out some things you’re good at and some things you’re not. You have hopefully a better self assessment of yourself. 
And one gift I do seem to have is getting really, really good friends around me who’ve got my back. 
And that gives you a certain serenity in the midst of a lot of foolishness. 
Yeah. Some of this, I think, is just a kid growing up and it turns out – and I see this in my own daughters. 
People go at their own pace, right? 
Yeah, well what it meant was that – what – the kind of discipline that I see in my daughters developing at 15 or 16 took me until I was 20 or 21 because there wasn’t somebody nagging me and giving me some perspective the way Michelle and I are able to give my daughters… 
No, I don’t think so. It was just sort of gradual. 
Yeah, exactly. Huge overcompensation, I’m humorless, and you know, have one plate and one towel and, you know, and – and fasting on Sundays, and you know, friends start noticing that I’m – I’m begging off  going out, you know, at night because I have to, you know, read, you know, Sartre  or something. 
They didn’t work, I think, because people were all like wow, this guy is just too intense. 
… go on a picnic? 
Right. I remember. 
It was a pretty good speech. 
How’s that worked out for you? 
The whole hope you change you  thing? 
Well, look, a couple of things. The – you’re right about that speech, I knew what I was gonna write because essentially I had been off Broadway practicing during that Senate race, because I had been traveling through not just Chicago, but downstate Illinois. 
Old factory towns, you know, you’re in the quad cities, you’re in Cairo, you’re in, you know, places that, you know, people would’ve assumed I couldn’t connect. 
But as I’ve said before, it felt actually pretty familiar to me because they were my grandparent’s culture in many ways. 
From Kansas. And so – so a lot of the lines of that speech in 2004 were really just a pulling together of what I had been feeling, what I had been seeing, the conversations I’d been having. 
Yeah, during the course of that couple of years. And so we both anticipated that it was – would do well. 
I don’t think any of us anticipated the electric impact that it had… 
Yeah, but – but I – I always viewed that as an aspirational speech, not a perfect description of what is but a description of our best selves and who we might be, that the reality of our common cause and how it connected to our best traditions, starting with the Constitution through the fight for abolition, through the Civil Rights era, the Women’s Movement. 
… for unionization. And you know, the image of, you know, of – of melting pot army during World War II. 
You got the Italian guy and you got the, you know, Polish guy and suddenly they’re all becoming one unit fighting fascism, right? 
There’s always been a mythology around that. There’s always been an uglier set of impulses in America, exterminating Native Americans for their lands and slavery and Jim Crow and… 
Exactly. So – so the point was not to bury that ugliness, but to say that there is this trajectory, the arc of the  universe is long. 
It ends towards justice. It is a struggle, but there’s this thing in us, there’s this thing in this country that is good and unifies us. 
And ultimately, will win out. That was the speech. 
But what I think we also saw is that the – the resistance to that vision of America, which has always been there, was always powerful, mobilized and asserted itself powerfully. 
It would’ve validated this vision and it would’ve reinforced it and – and it would have, I think, consolidated itself for a generation or two. 
And so Mitch McConnell’s insight, which I’ve – I’ve said, just from a pure… 
… tactical perspective, was pretty smart and well executed, the degree of discipline that he was able to impose on his caucus was impressive. 
His insight was that we just have to say no to that. And if we can just throw sand in the gears, then at a time of deep economic crisis, when people are really stressed, really worried, we’re already stressed and worried before the crisis, now are thinking the – the bottom’s falling out of their lives and their home prices are going down, their 401s are evaporating, they’re losing their jobs. 
And – and win back seats in the Senate. And – and so, I understand what happened politically. 
Look, you know, I think that Hillary Clinton performed wonderfully under really tough circumstances. 
I’ve said this publicly, I’ll repeat it. I think there was a double standard with her. For whatever reason, there’s been a longstanding difficulty in her relationship with the press that meant her flaws were wildly amplified relative to… 
But – but – well, the reason I bring this up is because we’ve both been in campaigns. If you think you’re winning, then you have a tendency, just like in sports, maybe to play it safer. 
No, you’re right, not well understood. But understandably, I think she looked and said well, given my opponent and the things he’s saying and what he’s doing, we should focus on that. 
Education, family leave, community colleges, making it easier for unions to organize, that’s an agenda for working class Americans of all stripes. 
And we have to talk about it and we have to be present in every community talking about it. 
The – the problem is, is that we’re not there on the ground communicating not only the dry policy aspects of this, but that we care about these communities, that we’re bleeding for these communities… 
… that we understand why they’re frustrated. There’s a – there’s a… 
And the values. And there’s an emotional connection, and part of what we have to do to rebuild is to be there and – and that means organizing, that means caring about state parties, it means caring about local races, state boards or school boards and city councils and state legislative races and not thinking that somehow, just a great set of progressive policies that we present to the New York Times editorial board will win the day. 
And – and part of… 
Well, yeah. No, you know, I mean… 
It’s interesting. You and I both, I think, would acknowledge that when we were campaigning, we could connect. 
Once you got to the White House and you were busy governing, then… 
… partly, you’re just constrained by time, right? You are then more subject to the filter. And this is – you know, I brought up Fox News, but it was Rush Limbaugh and the NRA and there are all these mediators who are interpreting what we do, and if we’re not actually out there like we are during campaigns, then folks in – in a lot of these communities, what they’re hearing is Obama wants to take away my guns… 
Obamacare’s about transgender bathrooms and not my job, Obama is disrespecting my culture and is primarily concerned with coastal elites and minorities. 
And so – so part of what I’ve struggled with during my presidency and part of what I think I’ll be thinking a lot about after my presidency is how do we work around all these filters? 
Just from a policy perspective… 
Tom – Tom Vilsack, my agriculture secretary from Iowa. We – we devoted more attention, more focus, put more resources into rural America than has – has been the case probably for the last two, three decades. 
And – and it paid great dividends, but you just wouldn’t know that, that’s not something that you would see on the nightly news. 
And so we’ve got to figure out how do we show people and communicate in a way that is visceral and – and makes an emotional connection as opposed to just the facts… 
… because the facts are all in dispute these days. 
This  microtargeting. 
Well, part of what I’ve been saying to – to people, and this was even when I thought we were gonna win, was that – that narrow Democratic coalition, the quote/unquote “Obama coalition,” that if – if properly executed, yes you can probably win presidencies repeatedly. 
It constitutes the majority of the country, but you can’t govern. 
I don’t worry about that, partly because I think that the Democratic Party has stayed pretty grounded in fact and reality. 
Trump emerged out of a decade, maybe two, in which the Republican Party, because it had to say no for tactical reasons, moved further and further and further away from what we would consider to be a – a basic consensus around things like climate change or how the economy works. 
Relative to Corbyn or relative to some of the Republicans. 
And – and so – so I don’t worry about that. What I do worry about is that in an era where we are looking for simple solutions that – and want 1000 percent of what we want and when we want it, that we end up starting to shut ourselves off from different points of view, shutting down debate, becoming more dogmatic, becoming more brittle. 
… wasted votes in – in Brooklyn. 
Well, I think – look, my – my intentions on January 21st is to sleep, take my wife on a nice vacation, and she has said it better be nice. 
She deserves it. I’m gonna start thinking about the first book I – I want to write. We’ve got to unpack, and – and I don’t need your help on that either. 
Yeah. So – so you just have to – you have to get back in tune with your center and – and process what’s happened before you make a bunch of good decisions. 
It – it – I want to make sure that I’m doing everything I can to – to amplify and lift up a next generation of voices not just in politics, but in civic life. 
And I – I have the connections and I think credibility to – to be able to do that in some unique some ways. 
There’s a little bit of a generation gap, you know? The – in some ways, we… 
Yeah, it’s just that they’re – they haven’t quite gotten to prime age yet and what we want to do is maybe accelerate their presence on the – on the scene, and that’s where I can be helpful, shine a spotlight on all the great work that’s being done and all the wonderful young Americans who will help lead the way in the future. 
Love you back, brother. 
Yeah, you were getting a little cynical. 
I appreciate that. 
It’s been a pretty good ride. 
