It's so exciting because for an album to -- to still have legs -- it's, I guess, eight months later -- I recorded six song in Spanish and I recorded five new songs. 
And the most exciting thing about the re-release is the video album. I shot eight new videos. So there's a music video for each song on the album, which has never been done before. 
I sure don't. I don't. 
Well, it's similar to -- I sang in French at the Oscars a couple of years ago... 
... and I don't speak French. I learned it phonetically. 
And we took, you know, one sentence at a time. And I just spoke the lyrics over and over and over again and then put the melody to it. 
They don't like it. 
You must not know about me. 
Well, because, I mean, it's a little honest and some guys don't deserve that song. 
But there are some guys that do. And when they find out a man actually wrote the song, Neo, who is an artist and very talented, I know he's getting a lot -- a lot of talk from the guys, like, how could you write that? 
Basically we can't forget our power and our worth. And sometimes, you know, you're so in love, you forget that. 
And sometimes you feel like you're not being, you know, appreciated. And, you know, sometimes they forget that they can be replaced. 
And it's important to have songs like that, to remind us. And we can hear those songs when we need that extra boost of confidence. 
Well, I've always written songs like "Independent Woman" and even "Bootylicious"... 
... as silly as it is, it was, you know, at a time where I gained weight and I said, you know, I'm OK with that. 
That's real. That's life. That's just a part of being a woman. 
Every person is not thin. So I tried to encourage women to be strong and write the type of songs that I need to hear. 
I'm not that confident. I don't wake up every morning, you know, feeling like the lyrics in my songs. 
So sometimes I write the songs that I need to hear and that I feel other women need to hear. And I'm all about empowerment and the strength that we have when we unite as women. 
Well, I am confident and I think it starts with my parents, you know? 
Oh, very, very depressed. We -- it was a long time ago and we're all over it now. 
And we're all friends and happy for each other. And it's so great just to know that we can grow. But at the time, I was very young. 
And being 18, it was a -- now I look at it as something that was great and I'm very happy that I experienced that. 
It was such a great lesson, a great life lesson, a very young age. And it kind of forced me to mature and look at my job different. 
So I tried to take the negative and just turn it around. And that's what I've done in my career over and over again. 
Don't you ever for a second get to thinking you're irreplaceable. 
I could have another you in a minute. Matter fact he'll be here in a minute, baby. 
I can have another you by tomorrow, so don't you ever for a second get to thinking... 
Oh, love to love you, baby. 
Well, I'll start by saying that I respect all of those young ladies and... 
... you know, I feel really fortunate that the media does not attack me the way they attack them. Sometimes, you know, I see the way, you know, they can't go anywhere without paparazzi. 
And I feel like people just need to calm down some time. 
I don't think I'm boring, I just -- I love what I do and I get more satisfaction out of writing a song or maybe painting or being on a boat in Anguilla or, you know, just things that are a little more relaxing than going out, you know, and... 
Well, I don't know if it's discipline or just certain things don't excite me because I've been doing this for so long. 
So when I have time off, it's more exciting for me to rest. 
I do party. I mean when it's -- when I'm on vacation, I, you know, I have my rare wine. I'm with my friends. 
We dance. We -- that's the time to party. 
I think it comes back to watching my parents. They were both very successful, you know, before they knew that I even wanted to sing. 
And my father was one of the number one salesmen at Xerox and my mother owned a successful hair salon in Houston. 
And they worked hard. You know, they didn't grow up with a lot of money. They went to college and worked hard for everything that they had. 
And I saw my mother working 14 hours a day and still taking us to school in the morning and spending Sundays with us after church. 
It is. But it's possible. And, you know, it's -- it's a blessing because I know what I want and I have goals and I've met so many of my goals. 
And I just keep making new goals, because I'm never satisfied and I always want to grow. 
That's what I want. 
A little more. But still -- I'm still pretty private and now I think people respect that I'm private and don't really ask any more. 
And I guess, you know, people get used to things and it's not as exciting, which is great. 
You are supposed to ask. 
Because that is your job. 
But I don't answer. 
Yes, I do. I grew up, you know, with my parents together. But there's a time for that and... 
Well, thank you. 
Thank you very much. 
No, I'm not married. No. 
Well, you know, it's not just me. Every celebrity, you know, they say you're married after two weeks -- or they say you're pregnant after one date, you know? 
Yes. That doesn't bother me at all. 
I know. It's amazing. It really is. 
It's, you know, a great honor for me for them to even ask because they've never had a musician on the cover of the magazine. 
So not only was I the second black woman, I was the first non-model or athlete. 
Yes. We have a clothing line together and my -- my grandmother was a seamstress and all of my family -- my mother sews -- sewed all of our costumes and is still my -- my stylist. 
And we have a clothing line together and it's named after my grandmother. 
Down to ride 'til the very end, it's me and my boyfriend. Me and my boyfriend. 
Down to ride 'til the very end, it's me and my boyfriend. Me and my boyfriend. 
Down to ride 'til the very end, it's me and my boyfriend. Me and my boyfriend. JAY Z: Talk to 'em, B. 
If I was your girlfriend, I'll be there for you, if somebody hurts you, even if that somebody, teasin, was me. 
Hey, believe me, I could upgrade you. 
Audemars Pigeut you. 
Have you rocking purple labels! 
Time to let me upgrade you. 
Introduce you to some new things. 
I can up, can I up, let me up... 
Yes, I was, in the beginning. More so because I was, you know, wearing swimsuits and, you know, I've never done a full swimsuit spread. 
Well, I mean, I was pretty comfortable after we -- we started. But, you know, I'm a human being. I'm like OK, I hope this, you know -- and I'm not the standard pencil thin woman. 
And I requested a photographer that I felt comfortable with and they were, you know -- they did everything I asked and we had a good time. 
How do you respond to that, right? 
No. Absolutely not. I mean, you know, we have help. 
We have the retouching. We have can you thin me there, point me there, you know? 
That's just a part of it. Even when you don't ask, they do it. I've looked at covers, I'm like wow! 
Well, I have to say my mother, you know? 
Definitely. I love that character because she was flawed and because, you know, I have my dramatic scenes where I was able to cry and be more emotional and be someone that, you know, when everyone else was glamorous, had no makeup on, thick eyebrows, funny wigs and I'm not a bright-eyed child. 
Yes, I -- that would have been way more fun than diving. 
But, actually, yes, I thought the character had so much substance and people kept saying do you -- was it weird for you to be in the background? 
Yes. One thing I've learned, you know, there's nothing good about being comfortable and too safe. I mean there's something good about being comfortable. 
But not safe. And, you know, I would have never grew if I didn't take risks. And I was scared to do a solo record. 
I was terrified. But I did it and I learned. 
Well, you know, I'm going to be on tour until September. 
Yes. But my next goal, acting, growing as an actress and doing more films, and then just being a normal person, learning to cook, the things that I should know how to do already but I've been too busy to learn. 
I can make some good Hamburger Helper. 
Isn't that bad? 
And my mother cooks. She's the best cook in the world so I have no excuse. 
Yes. She makes the best Creole food and all the gumbo and Jumbalayah and soul food. But when I go home, I want to be babied. 
I want my mom to cook me the food and I want to wear my socks and crawl up into bed and I don't want to cook. 
I do. I do. So I just have to take some time off. 
I want to take a year off and maybe take Spanish. And I really love to paint. I'd love to taken an art class and you know visit museums and just do things, you know, that have nothing to do with music or entertainment. 
I've tried but you know... 
Yes, I'm still a baby. 
Thank you so much. 
BEYONCE KNOWLES, SINGER, SONGWRITER, ACTOR: I told you, don't touch me. 
Of course I want to be a mother. 
I am opening in Croatia. 
Well, I've been fortunate to be able to tour around the world for years. We started with, of course, Kelly and Michelle of Destiny's Child. 
Our first album came out when I was 15 years old. 
Well, my name, Beyonce, is actually my mother's maiden name. Her last name is Beyonce. And there were no more men in the family, no more sons. 
So she said let me name my daughter, her first name, Beyonce. And that's a little confusing enough. 
You know, growing up I was called "Be-yownce" and "Bounce" and "Be-amichi." And Beyonce is easy enough. 
(SINGING "AT LAST") 
Could you imagine? 
Yes, it is. I actually was able to play the legendary Etta James in a film I co-produced called "Cadillac Records," and... 
... you know, she's had a very interesting life. And... 
... and I admire her so much. It was very dramatic and really difference for me. 
And it was a stretch for me. I wasn't sure if I was able to do -- if I was ready to do it. And thank God I had the support of my mother. 
And she convinced me, you're ready. 
Believe it or not, I've never heard it. I need to go and check it out. 
OK. KING: OK. Now you often talk about an onstage alter ego, "Sasha Fierce." 
Oh, that was definitely Beyonce. 
Sasha Fierce, I usually use when I'm really nervous and when I'm on the stage and I have to do up-tempo songs and I have to be really sexy in my dance videos. 
I'm so proud. You know, I've -- I've always said it, I never thought I would live for this -- you know, to see this moment. 
And I'm very happy with the progress our country has already made. 
Of course. I think, you know, it's definitely something that's 
It would be wonderful. 
Get out of my house! 
Get out of my house. 
First, I suggest you pack your toothbrush. And then I want you to get your socks, your shaving kit, your underwear, you prophylactics if you think you need them, and get your ass out of here! 
To hell! But until then, I suggest maybe the Four Seasons. 
That's Idris Elba. He's amazing. And, you know, he brought out a lot of wonderful things in my performance. 
It was the first time I did improv. And, you know, he is a student and a great teacher. And we've spent a lot of time just with the two of us going back and forth with the script and making adjustments and making it our own. 
...and Ali Larter. 
I actually like it a lot more. You know, I still like -- it's easier for me. And I guess it's because I hold so many things in, because I always have to be so professional. 
And I work very, very hard. 
No, not like that. 
You know, especially not the one in the end. But you know, it's life. I've seen it and I use all of my own experiences and my experiences from my friends and from everyone around me. 
I didn't in the beginning. It took me -- it took me a couple of movies, because I was born to sing. 
I really believe I was born to more than sing, to entertain. And it's very natural for me. And acting came very naturally. 
I actually just spoke with her. She's doing, I think, very well. She just had a show in Madison Square Garden. 
And she's such an inspiration, such a beautiful and talented woman. And I'm fortunate to -- to be someone that was with her on her first movie. 
She's grown so much. And, you know, just to see her strength is beyond inspiring. 
Oh, I mean, I know so much every year. Jay and I have always been very private about our relationships. 
And, you know, I -- even after we became husband and wife, we still continue to be private. And I think it's protected us from -- from a lot of things. 
And people give us a lot of respect. And I guess I learned that as happy as I am, I still need to keep -- keep it private. 
It's really difficult, very difficult -- especially when you're happy. And some people just make up things and make up rumors and -- to try to get you to speak and defend things. 
And you just have to be really secure in your relationship. 
So it must be working. 
What am I obsessed with? 
(SINGING "SINGLE LADIES (PUT A RING ON IT)") 
Oh, it was so hilarious. It was very difficult to stay focused. I told him in rehearsals, make sure I'm ahead of them so I can't see what they're doing, because I -- I couldn't keep a straight face. 
Yes, it's amazing. 
Oh, you know, it's something that is the ultimate compliment. 
Especially -- especially right now. I always had -- I have a younger sister, so I feel like I've always had someone that looked up to me. 
But to think that, you know, I'm responsible for so many young people, sometimes, is really overwhelming. 
But I am very conscious of that when I make decisions. And especially the older I get, you know, I don't take it for granted. 
And especially for beautiful children, you know, like -- like the Obamas. I met them. And they're so young. 
And I can only imagine the pressure that they have to be under. 
I really do. You know, it used to terrify me. But now I feel like it's -- you know, my music is bigger than just performing and dancing and videos. 
I have a voice and I try to -- to teach women how badly we need each other, how much we need to support each other and how anything that you really want, you have to work for. 
Well, I think she's doing a lot better. She is such a very talented woman -- and very smart. And I think it's really important in those times of need that people give people their privacy. 
Oh, she's so chic. And she -- one thing about her, she knows how to dress appropriately. Wherever she is, she is just -- her lines are always clean. 
She knows how to dress for her body. Very timely. You see her pictures years from now, they will never be out of style or out of fashion. 
No. And that's something that -- that she teaches us. You don't have to -- to spend a lot of money to look like Michelle Obama, who is the fashion icon. 
I think that's, you know, something that, especially right now, in this time, we all need to know. 
Oh, of course, especially the first couple of shows. There's so many things that -- that can go wrong. 
But, you know, you just have to kind of fight through it. And right now, it's getting easier. 
Then be nervous. 
Didn't be nervous. It's true. Something is wrong. 
It's time to go find another job. 
Well, right now, one in eight Americans don't have proper meals. So I've teamed up with Hamburger Helper and Feeding America. 
And our goal is to donate 1. -- I'm sorry, 3.5 million meals to local food banks. 
Oh, how sweet. 
Oh my -- wow. He's so sweet. I can't wait to hear him sing. 
That is so nice. 
Really? That's very exciting. What a nice -- what a nice spirit. 
KING: By the way, on your last tour, did you fall down? 
Not only my last tour, I fall all the time. 
Oh, yes. I do. I do. 
I do a lot of choreography and I'm always in very high heels. And I'm running up and down stairs and doing flips in harness, in -- you know, I'm very -- you know, I do a lot of things, very physical. 
But I can't let that stop me from giving my all on the stage. 
I do. Yes, definitely. I have the best mother in the world. 
And my mother is literally my best friend. I respect her so much. And I admire her and I had a wonderful -- a great example. 
She was very hard-working. And I can trust her with anything. 
Thank you for having me. 
