Yeah, Jamaican people play it. It’s like… Musicians from Jamaica play that music, you know? Like Musicians from – you might find Black Musicians from America play the Funk or Blues, you know? 
People down here play Reggae Music. 
Well, you know, the way I feel about the music… It can be copied you know. But, it’s not copied direct... 
It’s the feel. You know? It carry a feel. 
If you ask plenty musicians… Them know it – but them can’t do it. So people still searching for this truth here, which this Reggae music you know, bring cross to them. 
And the only purpose it serve is to tell the people about Rastafari. 
In a sense. Me really used to listen to a lot of music, you know? I mean first time… Used to listen to music that play on the radio. 
We couldn’t afford to buy records so we listened to the Radio, and anything the radio play is that we hear. 
So I wasn’t really into them thing, I was really into like – they call it spiritual music. You know? 
‘Cause it got me revolutionized. You know? 
Well I’ve been a Rasta from ever since. You know? But it’s not how long you’ve been a Rasta, it’s how long it take you to grow – because what you is – is what you is. 
From beginning to the end. You can never change, ‘cause if you even adopt things later – your own fate ah write out. 
So we ah just Rasta from creation, you know? It’s not an easy thing to explain. We’ve got educated standards and we still have people who can’t do it. 
But me ah common sense man, that mean when we explain things we explain it very, very simple way that me explain to a baby. 
The baby’ll understand too, you know? So we ah say now, like the Bible. The Bible say, God say he shall return as the King of King, the Lord of Lords, The Conqueror, the Lion of the Tribe of Judah, and him shall come in a new name. 
And his new name shall be dreadful among the heathen. 
This? This is my identity man. Yeah this is my identity. 
Well if you Rasta then you wouldn’t say why you shouldn’t have it, because you know freedom is freedom and you don’t have to bow you do whatever you like. 
But it’s not a thing to say, “I wouldn’t like to be a Rasta because I wouldn’t like to have this” You dig? 
It can’t be a thing like that. That would be a foolish thing. You yourself know that it’s God create I and I don’t want no life no obligation. 
That means you’re your own man, that’s the first time you hold yourself. You do what you want to do. 
Anything people want to say about you - you don’t care because… you know what I mean? Even then we still have a comeback … 
The more you accept herb is the more you accept Rastafari. You hear what me ah say? Me who accept herb… Herb is important, but herb is more important to the people who no accept it yet because that is the reality. 
I mean, we not selling them something that you crave but… It make sense and me say. Herb – Herb is a plant. 
I mean, Herb so good for everything. Why these people who want to do so much good for everyone, who call themselves government and this and that – why them say you must never use the herb? 
You see? And we take that and we can’t find... we just see them just say, ‘no you must not use it because it makes you rebel.’ Against what? 
Against men own crave, because them crave for the things like... say them have some material things and them want fi captivate your mind and tell you say, ‘well you have to work, and we’ll put you on pension,’ and them keep it all. 
So Herb make you look upon yourself and… Instead of you want to work for ‘Di Man’ you want fi be one of the Man too. 
Not in the sense of how him is, but in the sense that, ‘why should you have to bow to these things?’ 
No man. But – in this time, I mean like, how you stance… You reaching a sense where you strong enough, can take a little smoke  Sound of all them car a pass… although you live in a city you don’t hear it. 
Because you’re thinking. Your friend leave you just live so. You know, the whole world confuse you and you worried and you don’t have no time to think. 
Herb is a ting that give a little time to yourself so you can live. If you use it. 
Alcohol make you drunk man. It don’t make you meditate it just make you drunk. When you drink alcohol you don’t meditate – you’re more giddy-headed. 
Herb is a consciousness. 
Well it’s just like what we are saying... It’s that I don’t care. You see the people who make it outlawed is but a few. 
Majority a people ‘pon the earth want it. It’s just a few, because guns and prisons and bad life treat you bad, so people kinda… But me want some people power… And the only people power is Rastafari. 
Media. If I were in the Newspaper, I would do a lot of interviews, because what I want to say I would get it across. 
But when you talk to someone, you have to go to someone, and it must be healthy for their business. 
And if it too militant, them try fi spread a type of propaganda. You know the media  … Control. 
Well… You say dabble in Politics? I don’t know what that is. You say stand up and talk fi my rights? 
I know that that is. See? And I don’t care who the guy is… because my right is my right. 
Like my life. You know? All I have is my life. 
That means that I can say I don’t want that or I don’t want this. When I check it out, the biggest man was a baby one time, so I don’t know when [they] get all of these big ideas, want to be ruler, want people, and help enforce ‘devilism.’ Can’t dig it. 
Can’t take it. Me a rebel man. Me a revolutionist. 
Yeah me see myself as a revolutionary, who don’t have no help. And nah take no bribe from no one, meh fight it single-handed. 
The music. Rasta is the future. See? 
Rasta is the future escape. 
Tuff Gong? It just come up you know, it come up, because Gong is a song, a reggae song, and Tuff is tough. 
Well, new things that's going on, artists have new recording, like, I'm not familiar with them now. 
I just a man who audition artists and do the recordings. 
We're distributing and we try manufacturing. 
A brethren down there has a record shop. 
Twelve Tribe organization? Make a man like Skill Cole tell you. The-I tell Jah Rasta. 
Organized. Like for instance if them understand what it is to really get this music out and really don't give it away. 
The only thing they can do is organize by controlling who get the music and when them get the music, what them do with it. 
A lot of people get music and all them do is put it inside of them place and keep it. The artists get tie up. 
Some of them understand the situation of the artist and their culture, and the only thing you can do is organize and get it done. 
Yeah. Tuff Gong is organized but you still have a lot of artists who outside there you know, who don't know really what goes on. 
All they can do is get the explanation from people who are exploiting them. 
Yeah. Marcus Garvey show us to industrialize. He say we are to make something. 
They're getting control, more control, but they're getting control that the people that are sending the message feel like them have a place them control to send the message from. 
Because a lot of people have control over what them say, because even the people's studio that you go in and you can't just say what you want to say, because they won't agree. 
Just like Tuff Gong, you know, is like a place where your voice is free. You make a record, you sell the record, and you're telling the truth without any interference. 
Well, all over the country after that. 
Yeah. And we might come back soon. 
Well, no reason. 
No, only this weekend thing. 
To tell you the truth, people. Plain people. All people, Black people, Chinese. 
I don't think it "catch on." I think people have the spirit, then it is there. You don't "turn" a Rasta. 
You can accept the truth. Everyday it happens. This thing here is not like "more and more' people, because the people that people think of, there's a lot of people, but there are a lot of children, even more than people, so everything have a future. 
Cause when people talk, they talk only of people, as them see people walk, them no remember children that can't walk yet. 
There's a lot more of them that can't walk. This is development. 
Reggae is one of the ways, if the lyrics deal with the truth. The music is one way to communicate. The people can communicate. 
Communication go on, you know. Someone hear the truth, and tell it to someone, next one tell it to the next one. 
There is not no one man who really tell everyone cause each one a go teach the next one. Like you hear a good advice, you tell someone else. 
And it go on, you know. As soon as you know I was living in Jamaica a long time, before I did even know. 
Then, it was there. 
Maybe about eighteen years, before I really come to the reality of the truth. 
Well, the advice was always like in me like, so when you see a vision and meet people and talk to them and find like for instance suppose I was talking to a man like Skill Cole, long time that I talked to him, I find that I have the same kind of communication in life, so you become like a family. 
You become one cause you have the same belief. So Rasta go. Rasta is exactly, is plenty, like me. 
We just have the same beliefs and we become family. 
Never change. That was only one album. That was just "Survival." That was one album dealing with like Africa. 
That was the result of my personal experience. Like from Jamaica, to America and all the places that I saw. 
That one was good. Well, it was so good that you know it was one of the best I ever enjoyed. Really meeting the people that fought in the war, sit down with the generals, talk to the generals. 
One general say to me say I hear you are going, you really going back to Jamaica? I said yes. Him say Why? 
I say I got a lot of work over there to do. Him say Work, what, you are at home! Him say I tell him that I have work to do in Jamaica. 
Him tell me Foolishness. This is Africa, you are in Africa, stay in Africa! You know what I mean? 
And this is a big general. 
That was good. That was the best invitation you could get. Man who fight for the land tell you stay it's your home. 
Him risk him life, him was fighting. Plenty people shoot after him and him still live. Come tell me stay. 
In Zimbabwe. It's the best. 
Yeah, just a visit. Is the land of Rastas. That's where the first named Rasta come from. 
Ah, you mean the Russians are coming? 
You know this is a thing that grow. I don't think anyone can predict, like say, so much time a man predict and can make mistakes and the best thing is go and tighten it up. 
Because all you know you're on a positive road. You have some type of direction where you're going, so you have to just keep on going. 
You have some type of direction where you're going, so you have to just keep on going. It's like a ship at sea. 
You don't really see the land but you know it's over east, so you just keep going east. So reggae music will go on. 
There's five hundred million people in Africa say Yeah! Reggae music have its biggest audiences in Africa. 
I mean it's big in Europe too but it have the biggest audience in Africa. And that is no boast nor show-off nor anything. 
Is just the truth. You go to a place like Nigeria, man, go to a place like Senegal. Any one of them country there. 
Is a big thing man. Big. 
Nearest I ever get to that place is Zimbabwe. No. I'll go to South Africa, yeah, because by 1983 Africa must be free. 
South Africa got a man named Botha, and Botha soon drop off. 
Of course! Our songs got banned all the while. "Rastaman Vibration" was one of the first record ever banned for me. 
Yeah, because it carry the speech of Haile Selassie, and because the country trying to go communist or socialist, they never want to hear what Selassie have to say. 
So them just ban it. When Rastaman song get banned in Jamaica man it was war at the radio stations that play our music. 
War! A literal going to fight fe get your music played. Cause you know them figure say Rasta is changing society. 
But that is what we come to do. And people get quarrelsome and weak. We come to change things and when them see changes them quarrel and say it's changing. 
And that's what we come fi do, and them know it. 
Well we started out fi do our own business, and that was the time when the record industry start squeeze we out. 
Them pay out the radio station not to play our music. Yeah we couldn't understand why no one no play our music. 
Them come and say somebody go in there and thief the record and carry it home. Not that them love the record so much but the act of sabotage. 
Yeah we have fi go down find out what was happening. And then when you start shake up some couple guys, guys tremble and talk. 
That's what them do. The big radio, the big industry, them was the one gave us the most sabotage down there. 
Because you know there was a time when them find that the radio ease up and start play the songs then, because they realize if we come in, it going to be like what it is today. 
Everyone in Jamaica can go and do a record. It not like America where people don't know how it happen. 
In Jamaica you can just go ask any man pon the street how fi make a record. They all do it. No more secret. 
Well before that now you couldn't know. It look like these things come, is God must have bring these down here. 
It spoiled now everyone can do it so they never really want to unite against the strong. That's the way we can do. 
We run a studio, too, look how far that reach. Is like taking a step too far as far as all them see. 
My favorite reggae singer is Bunny Wailer. He's the only singer who sing things all the while. All the rest of them people are pure jokers. 
Yeah! Well, them a joker. Bunny Wailer is the only many you can take up him song and realize that he's dealing with something all the while. 
Most people skank it out. 
Long time no play together. 
I don't say that I don't like it because there's something in it that if you don't like this. There's something in it that you might like, something in it that you must like. 
Because of suppressed feelings, feelings bubbling over, bubbling over. I might not like this four bars but the next four bars got something I like. 
Serious, you know, seriousness what deal with real serious cultural music. After while plenty people run from the road. 
Slip off the road. Go up on the sidewalk. Cause it's not all the while but every artist I think today popular they have fi come again. 
And if you can't come again, then you can't stay. If you can't come again, ta-ta. 
Well, it's like anywhere it produced I think the people would like it. I feel, reggae music is like an effort. 
Any man who's doing it. It's an effort because him know exactly what him doing. 
Well, I just have one out named Uprising, so we don't have no plan right now. 
Another form emerging? Well, you never can tell you know. Because what really happen is that music can just play over, over again. 
Create new things, new music. But with the ability that reggae music really have I don't think anybody can really go above it, not right now. 
Especially now, the type of music, you stay with reggae or you gonna be disco or you gonna be funk. 
But this feeling is a real early feeling. 
Well, rockers is the same dub music you know, and maybe music that doesn't deal with the culture, maybe just deal with dance, like some people do now. 
Well the bible you know. The bible and Haile Selassie. Never have no influence in that same sense. 
You know a brethren named Dago? Him used to live in America, him was a draftsman. Him say boy, I'm here and I sight it and come on to Jamaican. 
That was the same time my mother want me to come to America. I talked to him plenty before I leave. 
Him show me things. Some of the things when I asked him I said show it to me in the bible, and he looked in the bible and show me. 
I say Ah, this is not really a wrong. 
I know Mortimer Planner long time, still but Mortimer Planner you know, an influence, but I don't think him have an influence pon me. 
I still talk to him but not big influence. 
Utterance of His Majesty, that is like bible. You have books of Marcus Garvey. Good book but none like some like Marcus Garvey books Haile Selassie book, is something that is dealing with the Christian tradition. 
It's not popular. Plenty books them stop books you know there's a lot of books we must get that I don't know that I don't think we're going to get like because them lock them up. 
The public must not get them. There was a time in Jamaica when you couldn't have the bible. I didn't know that time. 
Yeah, but them tell me that therer was a time in Jamaica whne they see you with a bible you go to jail. 
Because you know the bible, it got too much truth. And people read and people clean. A man read some and whole heap of things happen right wasy. 
You know people eat so much pork and get so upside down. 
MOVE organization? Them say them is Rasta so them must have a connection. 
I don't think that suffereing come through because they like fuptown, because that don't stop this from go so [furrows brow]. 
Because I don't think because I live uptown is any better off than anyone else. The man live uptown, you can go to bed early because you have a bed, you know, and your place around you might clean, which is good for you, but that don't stop your spiritual awareness from knowing sufferation. 
If the spirit don't right the flesh suffer regardless of where you live. I mean you couldn't tell me the Prime Ministers or the Presidents is living that good. 
You might have all everything and go live in a big which house but take up any sufferer and put him there, see if him no suffer the same. 
There's no big life anywhere man everybody suffering today. True, cho. Tension, tension come you know. 
Toothpaste make people fight, toothpaste. It's like Richie Havens say, biggest of man will have to cry, or something like that, you know what I mean? 
Say it same way. Say it same way. Don't change them. 
Change toward Rasta? Yes because what is happening is there's a lot of things to see. You know words, words have great meaning. 
One of the words say you can't put new wine in old bottles. One of the words say what has been hidden from the wise and the prudent revealed to the babe and the suckling. 
Next word say a little child shall lead them. So all of this is well. The youth you know, they granny, they - is not say they don't love Rasta, them love Rasta, them really love Rasta. 
But the pressure come from when shall Rasta in our house you understand? Anytime the policeman can kick in the door and come in. 
Because them society, don't want Rasta, so society try and wipe out Rasta say find out say be great. 
Even when me know what a man who them know. Him was a minister of finance in Jamaica. One man named Coore. 
And him son is a dreadlocks, a pure reggae music say Jah-Jah. Yeah. So him can't hate him son, you know what I mean? 
Maybe him try, but it can't work. So all them thing it can't work. People have them one son that them love, them check them son, come back in with all these dreadlocks, look like going through whole heap of tribulation and thing, you know, what should a look? 
Best time of his life. She might feel vex or the father might feel, you know what I mean, but that is not the thing. 
The only thing what them fret for is because he is a Rasta. And they have to feel him gone to prison some. 
Him cannot - even the first time they used to lock you up for herb. They just hold you and carry you down and say they find herb pon you. 
Cause you a Rasta, there's no way nobody ever say no. And you can't accept that so easy. So you people fret for you under them circumstances there, so them say that, you know what I mean? 
No come here Jah Rastafari, the policeman come too. You understand? But over the time it change because even David Coore's son have fi go turn, you know what I mean, so the whole society mash down on t he truth because we up front that even the Prime Minister have fi use Rasta, and every one of them in Jamaica if them no use Rasta, no go. 
Them have fi try and associate themselves with Rasta some way. They have to do it. Because Rasta have the conscience of the people. 
Them try all sort of propaganda, to discourage Rasta, but it can't work. 
That's what them say. But we couldn't beat them til them have fi join we now. There was a time we couldn't beat them cause them a say anywhere you see two or three Rasta, shoot, ask question later, you understand? 
That mean I can imagine now today you can see a baby with dreadlocks. A baby! You know what I mean? 
Dreadlocks! This baby you know, you can never change this baby. This baby a come with the truth. 
So you know, it grow. The Rasta is in no haste you know. That's why reggae music is no gonna be just a music which just come and just come like a thing and is hot and then no see it. 
As long as there is truth, there is music. And the only music that tell the truth man, in a real way, with no cost no whole heap of humbug to the spirit is dum-be-be-dum-be-be-dum That inside feel. 
Well, I did know that this year is the fiftieth year - pass them back to Rasta. 
Is the Golden Jubilee, that's it. November 2nd. Been 50 years now since Christ government set upon earth, returned to earth. 
The Russians can't take guns and destroy it you know. Bad man. 
Of course them try it in Ethiopia. Mengistu is not a Ethiopian. Mengistu is a Russian. 
Well them a idiot them is Russians Too. Yeah. Them say there is no god. 
And me, I know that there is a god. Cause I know who god is. And the guys stick me with a gun and say there is no god. 
I say yes, there is a god. And them fire it! And it miss. 
And fire it again and it miss you know. And them fire plenty time and it miss because there is a god. 
