We're going to get this place rebuilt. 
Hey, you're good at this. You've done this before. 
Yes. Thanks for having me and having all of us here. 
I just always had a love for this place. I mean it's really like no other city we have. It's got its own unique vitality and it's the home of Mardi Gras and -- I mean, where else can you do something as silly as this and people really enjoy it? 
It's great for . 
Yes. I've been here since -- coming here since '94. I came here then for a film. 
But I lived here for about three months and really fell in love with the place. And it's been a nice home for myself and my family. 
They -- I mean, you come here, you'll meet seventh generational families here, people that -- they are not leaving. 
They love this place and it's very important to them. 
We live in a few -- I mean, we're a pretty nomadic family, as you can imagine. 
But, yes, we have a base here. 
We pack up the kids. We've got our system and it's truly a mobile unit. And we plop down here and we can plug into a school here and ... 
Los Angeles -- we're there right now for a month here while Angie is working. And then we'll be back through here and... 
The film or whatever we're focusing on, yes. 
A few months after. I was out filming "Jesse James" in Calgary when the storm hit. And it was talking to people at the first Clinton Global Initiative -- we were talking about the lack of -- or the help that was needed with the rebuilding effort. 
And I knew -- I know a little bit about building. And I certainly know people who know a lot about building. 
And could we start putting these people together, and, you know, help the good folks here get -- you know, rebuild their communities. 
Well, no question. I mean but it -- you know, the Ninth Ward has got a lot of attention. And we're starting here because it seems to have the least -- or the most difficulty of coming back. 
But this is -- this is everywhere. You -- to see the extent of the damage and the extent of the people -- the extent of the lack of movement is -- I mean, this goes on for parish after parish after parish. 
We want to build homes, OK? 
Well, it certainly illuminated the fact that there's a portion of our society that we're overlooking, that we're not taking care of. 
And so that's -- that's -- that's where it started from. It started from a gentleman I had met who was in his 70s, I believe, and was telling me how he had done everything right, according to the American dream -- getting a job and saving for a house and buying the house and raising his family and sending his kids off to school from that house -- and then it all being wiped out. 
But it can be fixed. 
That's right. OK, so we're... 
That's right. We're trying to send people to the Web site, because what we now have here are -- we can get families into homes by the end of summer. 
We -- you're going to see this community start to come back. And where we need help is we need America to come together like they did directly after the storm and help the families here meet that financing gap to build properly, to build safely. 
... Corporations -- yes, high net worth individuals -- to come in and adopt a house. We're calling this -- this pink, which I'll explain back here, the adopt-a-house campaign -- and to adopt a house, adopt 10 houses, adopt a little piece of a house. 
But for every $150,000 that comes in, a family will move into one of these new homes. 
Yes, it's really . 
All of this was unnecessary. It didn't need to happen. And we feel that there is a responsibility to right that wrong. 
This would have at one time been someone's house. 
Yes, it's hard to imagine... 
...that within -- on that night, within under 20 minutes this place had a -- the break was right over there and there would have been a surge of water that eventually climbed to 20 feet. 
OK. This is what we're calling the adopt-a-house campaign. It's part art installation, part act of social disobedience. 
but it's really meant to work as a fundraising component. And we were looking for something that was -- that was loud and would get a lot of attention and that was also hopeful. 
Well, you know, I -- it's my fault. It's my fault. 
But, you know, I took from Christo some of the works that... 
... Had done at that time. 
We thought about it. But... 
It just felt like pink screamed the loudest. 
I think there's a beautiful story to it. And at night, as I say, the story continues. It glows from within which, to me, represents the heart of the house, the family. 
And you will also see -- what we have to remember here, that in this very spot, as far as the location, that there were over -- or there was nearly 1,000 deaths. 
Yes, I did. Yes, I did, because -- because I know we can do this. I believe it should be done. 
There's -- I will -- I'll debate anyone for on the reasons why we should be rebuilding here. There are multiple reasons, but no better reason than when you meet the families -- the families who are trying to get back, families who have been dispersed, families without a really clear-cut direction on how to do it or not do it or to relocate. 
That would be... 
They are putting a family in a house. They are returning a family to their neighborhood. Done. 
And I also want to say that this is also set up where people can contribute at all levels. It's set up, if you go to the Web site... 
You can buy -- you can buy the tip of the corner of the house. You can adopt that section. Or you can adopt a solar panel and give it to someone for the holidays as a... 
...and give it to them in their name or ... 
... A low-flush toilet. That's right. 
By the end of the summer, you will see homes finished and you will see families moving in. 
These are -- Miami, certainly. And let's not forget the Netherlands are 27 feet under -- you know, below sea level. 
This right here where we're sitting is like -- it is like two to five feet, as far as I understand it, right here. 
It's not that difficult to deal with. 
That's right. We started there. 
We made 75 percent. We were able to cut the inhabitants' utility bills by 75 percent. We didn't make zero yet, but we're working on it. 
Yes. This was an international competition. And some young guys won it out of New York. 
And it's really cool. It's going up now. It's worth a visit. 
Oh yes. Oh yes, sure. I'm putting in a water capture system at -- in our home in L.A. 
Right now and incorporating solar. And, yes, I think it's really exciting, this idea that we can insert ourselves into the ecosystem, this idea that within nature, there's no concept of waste is mind-boggling to me. 
Anything that's discarded becomes fuel or becomes food for something else. And that we can be -- we can be living that same way. 
Right. And -- and will be again. 
A sustainable community. 
A family. It's all family. You talk to the people here and they'll talk about a -- they'll tell you about a front porch culture, where neighbors helped neighbors -- a lot of barbecues, sitting on the front porch and stories and music. 
And that's it. It's family and friends, period. 
That's fantastic. That's great. 
Well, I'll do exactly that. We've -- I was really pleased to see we had already been shown interest from Senator Clinton's campaign and also from Senator Obama's campaign. 
And that makes me hopeful. 
I'm still -- you know, I'm still -- I lean -- I'm still -- I'm still listening. Yes, I'm still listening. 
Well, I -- you know, I duck and jive. Keep moving. Just keep my head down a lot. 
That's been my -- that's been my modus operandus. But -- but for something like this, I -- I feel very fortunate to have it and then I can direct it this way. 
Truthfully, I worry about that. I'm very concerned about that. They call out my kids by names and shove cameras in their faces. 
And I really believe there should be laws against that. I mean, my kids believe that any time you go outside the house, it's just a wall of photographers and people that take your picture. 
That is their view of the world. And I -- I worry about the effect it will have on them. But -- but we'll do our best and... 
Yes, I would love to see it. I mean I think -- I think it should be. I think it's truly out of hand. 
They didn't ask for this. 
Sure. I think about it -- I think about it a lot. But, you know, we'll make them as strong and respectful individuals as we can. 
Yes. That's great. That's great. 
It is so true. They are as much my blood as I am theirs. And they are brothers and sisters. 
And I look at this -- it's -- one of them came from Ethiopia and one from Vietnam and one from Cambodia and one was born in Namibia. 
And they are -- they are brothers and sisters. And they have fun. And they squabble and they fight, just like any other family. 
It makes me so proud. 
Well, again, I'm going to -- it is a very interesting country and also a place that could use focus and assistance -- and they say the birthplace of mankind, as far as we know it right now. 
...the oldest lineage of humanity. 
But she is an absolute delight. She -- I just can't see life without her. 
No. We -- I can't -- I can't tell you anything more than it just felt right. And... 
KING: They just fell out of the air? 
Yes. It just kind of -- we stumbled on it and after much deliberation and -- when it felt right, it felt right. 
I can't explain it. 
Oh, yes. Yes. Yes. 
Yes, we're just getting started. 
We'll see. We'll, you know, we'll probably crap out somewhere. I don't know. 
But, yes, we're not done. 
Well, we're, you know -- we -- we are -- we're fortunate that we can give them -- we have time to give them attention and -- and protect their upbringing. 
And we'll know when -- when we should stop. But I see it as such a positive right now. 
I'm sure -- I'm sure that... 
...a weight on our kids. But, hopefully, you know, I'll probably be -- probably have worn out my welcome by the time they're old enough to really realize. 
And it'll -- it won't be that -- that important or overshadowing. 
Yes, we take turns. 
No, we -- we just -- we keep the brood together. That's a law of ours. So we'll take turns and make sure we get time off in between for everyone. 
And see it  thriving again. But not only here, St. Bernard Parish next door and the other parishes over here. 
I would love to see that. 
Yeah. Right over here. MLK. 
Martin Luther King. It's up and running and in beautiful shape. 
Yeah, it's great. Yeah, it's great. 
It's the -- I think it's the greatest gift that I can give my kids is that she is -- that they have such a fantastic mother. 
Dedicated, kids first. Really inventive and great fun for them and very, very protective. 
Well, apparently it was great fun. We got on all right. 
That came after, Larry. That came after. 
No, not really. Challenge each other a lot. Have good fun with that. 
The hardest job in the world. The most rewarding job in the world. There's something to -- with the long days in here, we're out here as soon as the sun comes out and to come home and have dinner with your kids and have to discipline one of them who is out of line and still have the energy for that is -- I can't explain the fulfillment of that, but it is everything. 
I haven't found it, no. 
Yeah. Sure. I mean. 
Yeah. Because I -- I can see and I -- the question people usually ask is how do I help, how do I help? 
How can I help? People want to help. It's in our nature. 
It's who we are as Americans and here walking around it I saw potential. I saw how and by bringing in a lot of people who really knew how. 
I can't speak to that but this is -- certainly has to be a long haul project for it to work and there is no turning back. 
I'm a little shy to do that but in the instance, no, I'll be doing exactly that. 
Well, of course -- you know her to be one of the great leaders as far as helping and changing and shaping up the world as we know it. 
So yeah, she's been nothing but supportive, of course. 
I don't know. I always see it as a -- really a -- I see it becoming less and less of a focus as I get older. 
I think it's really more of a younger man, younger woman's game. But I'll come in and play the ... 
I'd like to drop in if I'm still invited every few years or so. Look at Newman. I like the way Newman does it. 
He's got such elegance and class to it all. 
I -- that was never my calling as they say. So at this point, I'd rather -- it takes so much time there's just other things I'd rather be doing. 
University of Missouri. Mm-hmm. I didn't graduate, though. 
I'm a credit and a half short or something like that. 
Right. Right. I don't know. 
I stumbled this way and it worked out. 
You keep seeing the lists of all the road blocks that we're going to encounter and have yet to encounter, it would appear to daunting. 
But to people like Charles and everyone else on the ground. I mean there's literally hundred of people now involved in this that this thing is working. 
It will get done. It's a big project, but there's no reason why we -- when I say we, I mean America, can't get it all done. 
We can get this going. 
So the plan here is to start with 150 homes -- 150 homes that follow the criteria that I mentioned before. 
To build those 150 homes, I need the help of the American people. We need the help of the American people. 
We need to all join together to do this. But the point is, it is possible. 
I do now. It's always been a love of mine and it was that love that brought me here and led me and others to reach out to the architects that we did to work on ... 
KING: So you participate, then, with the ... 
Yeah. I do a little of that. I do a little of that. 
And hope there's some time to build in the future. 
That's right. I do like geometry, very much. 
Really? That's hilarious. I mean, I jonesed on it. 
Yeah, I liked it. 
I think I should stay out this first round. I think that -- it would be a bit egotistical of me to think I could do that but -- so instead we called on the great minds to come here and answer these problems. 
This will be -- this, I'm telling you, will be one of the greenest communities in the U.S. 
Oh yes. Another great thing about the installation here is all these materials here are nontoxic. This paint that you see here, it will be reused in chairs and umbrellas and nothing goes to waste here. 
Nothing goes to waste. It is all lit by solar panels and those panels are the very panels that will end up on a family's home. 
So there is not an ounce of waste in what you see out there. 
Well, that's the hope. And that's the plan. The levees are certainly better than they've been. 
There still needs to be work going on. It's supposed to go on to 2011. The wetlands now being addressed. 
MR-GOs being shut down, which became a conduit for exacerbating the strength of the storm. And we're building this with the strongest methods that are known today. 
So people want to be here, be back here, have the best shot that they will ever have. 
Yes, Charles has been here from the very beginning and been just a tremendous help and has shown tremendous leadership in shaping this and finding out this project with what shape it would become, and is really one of the leaders in the future of New Orleans. 
This -- I mean, we've talked about it. You keep seeing the lists of all the road blocks that we're going to encounter and have yet to encounter, it would appear to daunting. 
But to people like Charles and everyone else on the ground. I mean there's literally hundred of people now involved in this that this thing is working. 
It will get done. 
No, no I can't. And it's a big project, but there's no reason why we -- when I say we, I mean America, can't get it all done. 
We can get this built. 
Yes, and again, we've set our initial goal at 150, but there are thousands and thousands and thousands of homes that need to be rebuilt and can. 
We can do it. We're just going to need the support. 
Charles, the question is, why rebuild it? Why should people come back? I mean, how do you answer that? 
How long have you lived here? 
You told a story about bringing your father here to see the area for the first time after the devastation. 
This is why we're here. 
Yes, this is the location, yes? 
No, it can't change. 
It's the Lower Ninth and it will always be so. 
No, listen it's been the community and the hundreds of people working on this. And this is truly a group effort on the ground. 
All hands on deck king of scenery. 
You can read it in your bathtub, pull it out and drop it in and it'll be in exactly the same condition. 
You know, Bill, in my eyes, is one of the great thinkers of the new paradigm of how we need to build. 
And it came from two stats that actually came from Bill's research, and Bill's book, is that 40 to 45 percent of all our pollution comes from our buildings -- our building is the culprit, and that we need to readdress how we go about our buildings, how we think about our buildings. 
Bill is one of our voices. I mean, he's certainly our quality control. The idea here was, after all of this suffering and loss, can we actually provide a better home for people who lost everything? 
And really, you know, for green technology to work, it has to work on all economic levels. And this, for us, has been a great proving ground. 
There's hope, too. It's moving. It can move now. 
Thank you, much. 
Thank you. Thank you, much. 
