well first of all, I speak only Cantonese. 
so, I mean, there is quite a difference as pronunciation and things like that is concerned. 
definitely, definitely!! 
well not really, you see, because most of the mandarin pictures here are dubbed anyway. 
anyway. I mean in this regard, they shoot without sound. so it doesn't make any difference. 
yeah, well that's where the difficulty lies, you see. I mean in order to....the Cantonese have a different way of saying things....I mean different from the mandarin. 
so I have to find, like, something similar to that in order to keep a kind of a feeling going behind that  something, you know, matching the mandarin deal. 
does it sound complicated? 
yeah, I agree with you. I man, see, to me, a motion picture is motion. I mean, you've got to keep the dialogue down to the minimum. 
quality wise, I mean, I would have to admit that it's not quite up to the standard. however, it is growing and it is getting higher and higher and going toward that standard that I would term quality. 
well, I mean, definitely in the beginning, I had no intention whatsoever, that what I was practicing, and what I'm still practicing now would lead to this, to begin with. 
but martial art has had a very, very deep meaning as far as my life is concerned because, as an actor, as a martial artist, as a human being, all these I have learned from martial art. 
right. martial art includes all the combative arts like karate-- 
--or karate, judo, Chinese Gung-fu, or Chinese boxing, whatever you call it. all those, you see, like, Aikido, Korean karate, and on and on and on. 
but it's a combative form of fighting. I mean some of them became sport, but some of them art still not. 
I mean some of them use, for intense, kicking to the groin, jabbing fingers to the eyes, things like that. 
violence, man! 
I'd probably break my hand and foot! 
not really. most of them you see, to me at least, the way that I teach it, all types of knowledge ultimately man self-knowledge. 
is, therefore, these people are coming in and asking me to teach them, not so much how to defend themselves, or how to do somebody in. 
rather, they want to learn to express themselves through some movement, be it anger, be it determination or whatever. 
so, in other words, what I'm saying therefore, is that they're paying me to show them, in combative form, the art of expressing the human body. 
it might sound too philosophical, but it's unacting acting or acting unacting....if you know-- 
I have huh? so what I'm saying, actually, you see, it's a combination of both. I mean here is natural instinct and here is control. 
you are to combine the two in harmony. not--if you have one to the extreme, you'll be very unscientific. 
if you have another to the extreme, you become, all of a sudden, a 
right man, that's it. 
he started training with me after the film. not... 
right. right. you see, actually, I do not teach, you know, karate, because I do not believe in styles anymore. 
I mean I do not believe that there is such thing as, like, a Chinese way of fighting or a Japanese way of fighting--or whatever way of fighting, because unless a human being has three arms and four legs, there can be no different form of fighting. 
but, basically, we only have two hands and two feet. so styles tend to, not only separate man-because they have their own doctrines and the doctrine became the gospel truth that you cannot change! 
but, if you do not have styles, if you just say, "here I am as a human being, how can I express myself totally and completely?"--now that way, you won't create a style because style is a crystallization. 
that way is a process of continuing growth. 
well, first we use the foot. 
and then we use the elbow 
you name it man, we use it! 
you have to, you see, because that is the expression of the human body. I mean, everything, not just the hand! 
when you are talking about combat, well, if it is a sport--well now your talking about something else, with regulations, and rules--but if you're talking about fighting-- 
--with no rules, well then, baby, you'd better train every part of your body! and when you do punch--now I'm leaning forward a little bit hoping not to hurt any camera angle--I mean you've got to put the whole hip into it, and snap it!and get all your energy in there and make this into a weapon. 
well, actually, you see, that is part of Chinese boxing. there are as many schools, different schools... 
well, that's good. I mean, I'm very glad, I'm very glad to see that because at least somebody is caring for their own bodies, right? 
I mean that's a good sign. well it's kind of a slow form of exercise which is called tai chi chuan--I'm speaking mandarin just now--in Cantonese, "Kai di kune", and it's more of an exercise for the elderly then the young. 
I mean, have-wise, it's very slow and you push it out but all the time you are keeping the continuity going; bending, stretching, everything. 
you just keep it moving. 
it is--I mean to them the idea is "running water never grows stale." so you've got to just "keep on flowing." 
well, that depends...as a fighter, Steve--Steve McQueen--now, he is good in that department because, that son of a gun has got the toughness in him.... 
I mean, he would say, "all right baby, here I am, man," you know, and he'll do it! now James Coburn is peace-loving man.... 
right? I mean, you've met him.... 
I mean he's really, really nice, and super mellow, and all that... 
you know what I mean? now he appreciates the philosophical part of it. therefore, is understanding of it is deeper then Steve's. 
so it's really hard to say, you see what I'm saying now? 
I mean it's different, depending on what you see in it... 
man, listen to me, ok? to me, ultimately, martial art means honestly expressing yourself. now it is very difficult to do. 
I mean it is easy for me to put on a show and be cocky and be flooded with a cocky feeling and then feel, then, like pretty cool and all that. 
or I can make all kinds of phony things, you see what I mean? and be blinded by it. or I can show you some really fancy movement-but, to express oneself honestly, not lying to oneself--and to express myself honestly-that, my friend is very hard to do. 
and you have to train. you have to keep your reflexes so that when you want it--it's there! when you want to move, you are moving and when you move you are determined to move. 
not taking one inch, not anything less than that! if I want to punch, I'm going to do it man, and I'm going to do it! 
so that is the type of thing you gave to train yourself into it; to become one with it. you think----it is. 
I meant that as a joke of course! and it's a heck of name, man! I mean every time I said it at that time I was super-conscious! 
I mean, really now, that's another interesting thing, huh? lets say if you learn to speak Chinese... 
Pierre Berton: yeah? It's not difficult to learn and speak the words. the hard thing, the difficult thing, is behind what is the meaning: what brought on the expression and feelings behind those words. 
Like, then I first arrived in the united states and I looked at a Caucasian, and I really would not know whether he was putting me on or is he really angry? 
because we have different ways of reacting to it -- those are the difficult things, you see? 
of course, not. 
ahh, that's it. 
well, you see, the title of that particular episode of longstreet is called "the way of the intercepting fist". 
now I think the successful ingredient in it was because I was being Bruce lee. 
myself, right. and did that part, just expressed myself, like I say, "honestly expressed myself, at that time. 
and I, because of that, brought, you know, favorable mentioning in, like, the new York times, which says, like, "a chinaman who, incidentally, came off quite convincingly enough to earn himself a television series and so on and so on and so forth." 
he's one of my students, you know that? 
oh I remember them, I said.... 
this is what it is, ok? 
I said, "empty your mind, be formless, shapeless, like water. now you put water into a cup, it becomes the cup. 
you put water into a bottle, it becomes the bottle. you put it in a teapot, it becomes the teapot. now water can flow, or it can crash! 
be water, my friend."--like that, you see? 
well that was the original idea. now paramount, you know I did longstreet for paramount, and paramount wants me to be in a television series. 
on the other hand, Warner brothers wants me to be in another one. but both of them, I think, they want me to be in a modernized type of a thing and they think that the western idea is out! 
whereas I want.... 
I want to do the western because, you see, I mean, or else can you justify all of this punching and kicking and violence except in the period of the west? 
I mean, nowadays, I mean you don't go around 
oh you mean here? 
well, unfortunately, that's often the case. you see, I hope that the picture I am in would either explain why the violence was done--whether right or wrong, or what not--but, unfortunately, pictures, most of them here, are done mainly just for the sake of violence. 
you know what I mean? like, you know, guys fighting for 30 minutes straight, getting stabbed 50 times! 
I am a martial artist.... 
well, let me say this. first of all, the word superstar really turns me off--and I'll tell you why. 
the word "star" man, it's an illusion. it's something what the public calls you. you should look upon oneself as an actor, man. 
I mean you would be very pleased if somebody said  "man, you are e a super actor!" it is much better than, you know, superstar. 
therefore, i... 
I am now....I am honestly saying this, okay? yes, I have been very successful, okay? 
but I think the word "star" is....I mean I do not look upon myself as a star. I really don't. I mean believe me, man, when I say it. 
I mean I'm not saying it because.... 
I am going to do both because, you see, I have already made up my mind that, in the united states, I think something about the oriental, I mean the true oriental, should be shown. 
you better believe it man. I mean it's always that pigtail, bouncing around, "chopchop," you know? with the eyes slanted and all that. 
and I think that's very, very out of date. 
yeah, "number one son." 
no, they were going to make it into a new Chinese James bond type of a thing. now that, you know,"the old man Chan is dead, Charlie is dead, and his son is carrying on." 
no, Batman came along you see. and then everything started to go into that kind of a thing. 
by the way, I did a really terrible job in that, I have to say. 
well, such a question has been raised. in fact, it is being discussed and that is probably why the warrior is not going to be on. 
you see? because,m unfortunately, such a thing does exist in this world, you see. like, I don't know, in a certain part of the country, right? 
where they think that, business wise, it's a risk. and I don't blame them--I don't blame them.I mean, in the same way, it's like in Hong Kong, if a foreigner came and became a star, if I were the man with the money, I probably would have my own worry of whether or not the acceptance would be there. 
but that's all right because, if you honestly express yourself, it doesn't matter, see? because you're going to do it! 
I--oh man!--like how....I have been criticized for that! 
oh, definitely. let me say this: when I do the Chinese film I'll try my best not to be as.....American as, you know, I have been adjusted to for the last 12 years in the states. 
but when I go back to the states, it seems to be the other way around, you know what I mean? 
yeah, man. I mean they're trying to get me to do too many things that are really for the sake of being exotic. 
you understand what I'm trying to say? 
so, it's really, I mean.... Pierre Berton: when you live in both worlds, it brings its problems as well as its advantages, and you've got them both. 
let me ask you whether the change in attitude on the part of the Nixon administration 
well, first of all, this happened before that. but I don think that things of Chinese will be quite interesting for the next few years--I mean not that I'm politically inclining toward anything, you know, but... 
but I mean once the opening of china happens, you know, I mean that it will bring more understanding! 
more things that are, hey, like different, you know? and maybe in the contrast of comparison some new thing might grow. 
so, therefore, I mean it's a very rich period to be in. I mean like, if I were born, let's say 40 years ago and if I thought in my mind and said, "boy, I'm going to star in a television series in America," well...that might be a vague dream. 
but I think, right now, it may be, man. 
you know what I want to think of myself? as a human being. because, I mean I don't wan to sound like ask Confucius, sayyyyyy-- but under the sky, under the heaven, man, there is but one family. 
it just so happens that people are different. 
thank you, Pierre Berton, thank you. 
