I speak to you today with feelings of profound sorrow. Throughout her life, Her Majesty The Queen – my beloved mother – was an inspiration and example to me and to all my family, and we owe her the most heartfelt debt any family can owe to their mother; for her love, affection, guidance, understanding and example.
Queen Elizabeth was a life well lived; a promise with destiny kept and she is mourned most deeply in her passing.
That promise of lifelong service I renew to you all today.
Alongside the personal grief that all my family are feeling, we also share with so many of you in the United Kingdom, in all the countries where the Queen was head of state, in the Commonwealth and across the world, a deep sense of gratitude for the more than 70 years in which my mother, as Queen, served the people of so many nations.
In 1947, on her 21st birthday, she pledged in a broadcast from Cape Town to the Commonwealth to devote her life, whether it be short or long, to the service of her peoples.
That was more than a promise; it was a profound personal commitment which defined her whole life. She made sacrifices for duty.
Her dedication and devotion as sovereign never waivered, through times of change and progress, through times of joy and celebration, and through times of sadness and loss.
In her life of service we saw that abiding love of tradition, together with that fearless embrace of progress, which make us great as nations.
The affection, admiration and respect she inspired became the hallmark of her reign. And, as every member of my family can testify, she combined these qualities with warmth, humour and an unerring ability always to see the best in people.
I pay tribute to my mother's memory and I honour her life of service. I know that her death brings great sadness to so many of you and I share that sense of loss, beyond measure, with you all.
When the Queen came to the throne, Britain and the world were still coping with the privations and aftermath of the Second World War, and still living by the conventions of earlier times.
In the course of the last 70 years we have seen our society become one of many cultures and many faiths.
The institutions of the state have changed in turn. But, through all changes and challenges, our nation and the wider family of realms – of whose talents, traditions and achievements I am so inexpressibly proud – have prospered and flourished.
Our values have remained, and must remain, constant.
The role and the duties of monarchy also remain, as does the sovereign's particular relationship and responsibility towards the Church of England – the church in which my own faith is so deeply rooted.
In that faith, and the values it inspires, I have been brought up to cherish a sense of duty to others, and to hold in the greatest respect the precious traditions, freedoms and responsibilities of our unique history and our system of parliamentary government.
As the Queen herself did with such unswerving devotion, I too now solemnly pledge myself, throughout the remaining time God grants me, to uphold the constitutional principles at the heart of our nation.
And wherever you may live in the United Kingdom, or in the realms and territories across the world, and whatever may be your background or beliefs, I shall endeavor to serve you with loyalty, respect and love, as I have throughout my life.
My life will of course change as I take up my new responsibilities. It will no longer be possible for me to give so much of my time and energies to the charities and issues for which I care so deeply.
But I know this important work will go on in the trusted hands of others.
This is also a time of change for my family. I count on the loving help of my darling wife, Camilla.
In recognition of her own loyal public service since our marriage 17 years ago, she becomes my Queen Consort.
I know she will bring to the demands of her new role the steadfast devotion to duty on which I have come to rely so much.
As my heir, William now assumes the Scottish titles which have meant so much to me. He succeeds me as Duke of Cornwall and takes on the responsibilities for the Duchy of Cornwall, which I have undertaken for more than five decades.
Today, I am proud to create him Prince of Wales, Tywysog Cymru, the country whose title I have been so greatly privileged to bear during so much of my life and duty.
With Catherine beside him, our new Prince and Princess of Wales will, I know, continue to inspire and lead our national conversations, helping to bring the marginal to the centre ground where vital help can be given.
I want also to express my love for Harry and Meghan as they continue to build their lives overseas.
In a little over a week's time we will come together as a nation, as a Commonwealth and indeed a global community, to lay my beloved mother to rest.
In our sorrow, let us remember and draw strength from the light of her example. On behalf of all my family, I can only offer the most sincere and heartfelt thanks for your condolences and support.
They mean more to me than I can ever possibly express.
And to my darling mama, as you begin your last great journey to join my dear late papa, I want simply to say this: thank you.
Thank you for your love and devotion to our family and to the family of nations you have served so diligently all these years.
May 'flights of angels sing thee to thy rest.'
Parliament is the living and breathing instrument of our democracy, that your traditions are ancient.
We see in the construction of this great hall, and the reminders of medieval predecessors of the office to which I have been called, and the tangible connections to my darling late mother we see all around us, from the fountain in New Palace Yard, which commemorates the late Queen’s Silver Jubilee to the sundial in Old Palace Yard for the Golden Jubilee, the magnificent stained glass window before me for the Diamond Jubilee, and so poignantly, and yet to be formally unveiled, your most generous gift to Her Late Majesty, to mark the unprecedented Platinum Jubilee, which we celebrated only three months ago with such joyful hearts.
The great bell of Big Ben, one of the most powerful symbols of our nation throughout the world, and housed within the Elizabeth Tower, also named for my mother’s Diamond Jubilee, will mark the passage of the late Queen’s progress from Buckingham Palace to this parliament on Wednesday.
My Lords and Members of the House of Commons, we gather today in remembrance of the remarkable span of the Queen’s dedicated service to her nations and peoples.
While very young, Her Late Majesty pledged herself to serve her country and her people, and to maintain the precious principles of constitutional government, which lie at the heart of our nation.
This vow she kept with unsurpassed devotion. She set an example of selfless duty, which with God’s help and your counsels, I am resolved faithfully to follow.
I am standing here in this exquisite Chapel of St George at Windsor Castle, so close to where my beloved mother, the late Queen, is laid to rest with my dear father.
Seventy years ago, on the eve of her coronation, my late mother, Queen Elizabeth II, received the wonderful news that a British Team, led by Colonel, later Lord, John Hunt, had successfully climbed Mount Everest.
The pair who reached the summit, supported by a dedicated team of mountaineers and sherpas, were a New Zealander and a Nepali Sherpa, thus bringing together two nations that have long shared a mutual love and respect for the mountains and for exploration.
It has not escaped my notice that there is a wonderful symmetry in the coinciding of the 70th anniversary of that achievement with my own Coronation.
The bond between my family and the legacy that resulted from that historic moment was further strengthened through The Duke of Edinburgh’s Award Scheme, which Lord Hunt helped my father to create and which has since offered millions of young people opportunities to explore their own strengths and skills, as well as to offer their services to the community.
What we are celebrating today must be one of the greatest examples of endurance, combined with careful planning and collaboration.
Our world is facing unprecedented and existential challenges, including climate change which endangers fragile ecosystems, including the Himalayan range.
I dearly hope we can take inspiration from the Everest Expedition of 1953 in order to work together in a similar fashion to safeguard our beautiful world for future generations.
Thank you Alison and a personal thank you to all of you for taking the time to be here today.
The film you have just seen underlines a simple but critical message – that our early childhood fundamentally shapes the rest of our lives.
This is about looking at childhood holistically. Looking upstream in a preventative manner to promote healthy life outcomes for us all.
From pregnancy to age five, our brains develop at an amazing rate, faster than any other age. During this time, we lay the foundations and building blocks for life.
It is when we learn to understand ourselves, understand others and learn about the world in which we live.
The way we develop, through our experiences, relationships, and surroundings at that very young age, lays the scaffolding for our abilities and capabilities as we grow, and into adulthood.
This time really is, therefore, a golden opportunity to transform our future life outcomes.
This however is not just about supporting children in the earliest years of their lives. It is also about building healthy communities in which they can grow.
Because the healthy development of our children relies on healthy adults. So this is why we all have a part to play.
And that is why I’m standing here in front of you, to ask you, some of Britain’s most influential business leaders, for your support in helping create the societal change that is needed.
I have spoken before about the need to make early childhood the societal equivalent of climate change.
In the way that the business world has embraced the net zero target to protect our environmental ecosystems, you also have an important role to play in ensuring that our social ecosystems are protected too.
Your business organisations are living examples of these social ecosystems, so building healthy environments both in and out of the workplace is fundamental.
I know many of you are already doing incredible work in this area, not only through supporting parents in the workplace but also prioritising diversity and inclusion, as well as the general well-being of your staff, customers, and communities.
It is and will remain, important to find new ways of adapting to your workforces. Especially given that many are parents, carers, and extended family members, and we know that the well-being of the adults in a child’s life is the single most important factor in the healthy development of children.
I would however like us to think a little more radically.
Across industry it is individuals, it is people and the connections and relationships they form that are central to workplace ecosystems.
Whether internally with colleagues or externally with customers, relationships are vital for collaboration and a core element to the culture and functionality of your businesses.
But does your workforce have the skills and capability to build and maintain these vital relationships?
Equally, the world we live in today is highly complex, rapidly changing but also highly interdependent.
If we want to foster collaboration, we need our workforce to be resilient, flexible and able to work through differences with each other, but we all need the skills and capabilities to do so.
We need the ability and capacity to be self-aware enough to manage our own behaviours and actions, in order to build meaningful relationships with each other.
We need the ability to manage things like stress and conflict, to be adaptable to change and stay motivated when faced with challenges.
This comes from our social and emotional skills, the foundations of which are laid in childhood.
Despite however the critical importance of these skills, not only in our working lives, but also in our private lives too, not enough emphasis is placed on building these capabilities and building environments which nurture these skills, as we grow and develop through childhood.
I believe therefore that we need two things to really transform society for generations to come.
The first is to prioritise creating working environments that provide the support and training your workforce needs to cultivate and maintain its own social and emotional wellbeing.
This will benefit them personally and professionally as well as creating a better working culture within your organisations.
Given most of your workforce have a role to play in raising the next generation at home, it will also transform the experience of the very youngest in society too.
The second is a more concentrated effort in supporting the social and emotional development of our youngest children.
Because as with most human development, the key time to build these social and emotional skills in the first place is in the first five years.
I know businesses are feeling the pressure across the board. However, I truly believe that by investing in early childhood, with a specific focus on social and emotional development, businesses in turn will see in the future… better communication, better working relationships, improved resilience, employees finding better work–life balance, less stress, more patience and understanding and increased job satisfaction.
Not only that, but the societal impact we could have, if we work together on this, could transform lives for generations to come.
As the saying goes, it really does take a village.
I am so grateful for you all joining me on this journey and I’m so looking forward to the discussion this morning to hear your thoughts and ideas on this important topic.
I am both honoured and delighted to be standing here in front of you today as your new Colonel. At the same time, I’m sorry that my father couldn’t be here with us here today to say farewell, but I know he would talk of his fierce pride and admiration for you all, and of his own sadness to be moving on from an appointment he held so dear since 1975.
The Welsh Guards have always been a formidable group of soldiers; raised for war in 1915, then leading the way on operations ever since.
Key players in World War Two, The Falklands, Balkans, Iraq, and Afghanistan to name but a few - your Battle Honours underpin your fighting spirit of today.
The Jam Boys and Little Iron Men of the First World War laid the foundations of this Battalion, and while they may not have been my easiest or driest days in the Army, my memories with The Welsh Guards Sniper Platoon Salisbury Plain are some of my best.
Another key milestone in my life was also shared with the Welsh Guards, this time in the Jungles of Belize as I received my A-Level results over the Bowman Radio…  Many of you will know the feeling of being in the jungle; you’re incredibly hot, continuously soaking wet and with nowhere to hide from potentially horrendous results, it could have been a really bad day!
Ultimately though, it was the camaraderie, the togetherness, and of course the banter of the Welsh Guards that got me through that period, and it’s a time I look back on fondly.
I believe it’s only with these bonds and this ‘togetherness’, that you can create a strong body of professional soldiers, but of course, it’s not just each other that we rely upon.
The support of our families, our friends and our loved ones, is vital, and I’m so pleased to see many of them here today.
None of us could do what we do without their support, and I look forward to meeting you and your families over the coming years and getting to know you all.
My wife and I are absolutely delighted to be with you in Wrexham today to celebrate your becoming a city.
As you know, city status was granted to eight different communities in order to celebrate my late mother’s Platinum Jubilee.
As we now mark this historic occasion, we also look back, with mingled sadness and pride, at that extraordinary reign, during which, as you know, my mother’s great love for Wales was always apparent.
It is thoroughly fitting that we should celebrate the creation of Wales’s newest city in the setting of this magnificent church, which truly deserves its designation as one of the Seven Wonders of Wales.
Of course, as no fewer than six of the seven Wonders are in North East Wales, we cannot help but think that whoever wrote that famous anonymous rhyme – Pistyll Rhaeadr and Wrexham steeple, Snowdon’s mountain without its people, Overton yew trees, St.
Winifred’s Well, Llangollen’s Bridge and Gresford’s bells – must have been from this part of the world!
A little earlier today, I had the opportunity to see one of the other wonders of Wrexham, namely the football club, which is busy putting Wrexham on the map as never before.
And, of course, this comes after the Welsh national team has brought unprecedented international ecognition to Wales through qualifying for the World Cup.
The motto of Welsh football – Gor-au Chwar-ae, Cyd Chwar-ae – sums up the spirit of community, and of joint endeavour, which is so important to Wales, and which, over the years, I have come to know and value more than I can possibly say.
So, Ladies and Gentlemen, as you celebrate your new-found status for this very special part of the world, nothing could give me greater pleasure than to say llongyfarchiadau and to wish you every possible success for the future.
I am personally delighted to be here at the Tusk Conservation Awards, to celebrate their tenth year alongside so many alumni from past events.
Our shared goal is to draw the world’s attention onto some truly remarkable people working on the frontline of conservation in Africa today.
I am sure you will all agree with me that the commitment, innovation and courage shown by each of our winners and finalists is deeply humbling.
And as always, it’s been wonderful to see their outstanding work on the big screen.
These short films brilliantly bring to life the work which the Tusk Awards champion. Thank you to all the talented filmmakers behind them.
Tonight’s event provides a perfect moment not only to reflect on the remarkable achievements of our nominees, but also take stock of the immense challenges that we continue to face in preserving the natural world.
The many ecosystems of Africa are precious; they underpin economies and livelihoods and support an extraordinarily rich biodiversity that plays a critical function in reversing climate change.
As Sir David Attenborough reminded us at this ceremony five years ago, Africa’s wildlife is truly special.
What the Awards alumni, their dedicated teams and local communities are protecting is ‘one of the great natural treasures of the world’.
And yet, we also know that it is just a fragment of what there once was. That is why it is vital that we do everything in our power to halt the frightening decline in species that our planet has witnessed over the last 50 years.
It is also why the work of Tusk and its partners is so critical. It’s only by collaborating and building partnerships across communities, organisations, and the public and private sectors that we can foster lasting, meaningful change.
Tusk has taken the lead, both through its Conservation Symposium and new Collaboration Fund, to encourage initiatives that deliver impact, share solutions and build partnerships to scale up conservation efforts.
We must empower communities that face the challenges of coexisting with wildlife and we must promote grass-roots organisations to establish community-led approaches that preserve and enhance their natural heritage.
We are living through turbulent times and it is all too easy to lose sight of how critical it is that we look after our natural world.
But we must remain focused on investing in nature and the environment, protecting it for future generations.
We must not pass on the baton to our children and grandchildren, apologising for our lack of collective action.
Instead, we must do all we can to support those who support our natural world, often at great risk to themselves.
The Roll of Honour that we saw earlier serves as a shocking reminder of the ultimate price paid by too many men and women on the frontline of conservation.
The work that rangers and game scouts do as nature’s guardians is truly remarkable.
They patrol thousands of miles each year, putting their lives on the line every day, protecting wildlife and eco-systems, supporting communities, and mitigating harmful human-wildlife conflict.
They do vital work in collecting data to monitor species and deepen our understanding of the world around us.
They inspire the next generation to love and respect nature and they teach our children about the fragility of the natural world.
For this reason, I want to applaud Tusk and its partners for its ambitious Wildlife Ranger Challenge campaign that has now raised over $16m to support the salaries and operations of some 9,000 African rangers impacted by the pandemic.
We owe a huge debt of gratitude to the dedication and bravery of these men and women.
Let me finish by congratulating our finalists and award winners again. David, Ian – when we spent time together earlier this year, I was reminded of both your commitment and dedication - it is truly inspiring.
And to Achilles, Neddy, Miguel and Dismas - I know that your work is helping to ensure that Africa’s incredible natural heritage is protected for future generations.
I look forward to working alongside all of you during my future visits.
You all should be rightly proud to join the remarkable Tusk Alumni whose incredible achievements over the last ten years have helped lead these efforts.
To everyone else who has made this evening and these awards possible, including those behind the scenes tonight and Tusk’s partners and sponsors, I say ‘thank you’.
I wish you all a wonderful evening.
