‘As I say, many, many times, the fans, they’re always, I’m always gonna say good about them. They are the most important things in football, you play for them. 
They always on my side. I feel that every time when I go, when I walk in the streets, the fans come to me and they appreciate what I did- what I do for football, and for me, it’s the most important in football. 
The fans for me are everything.’ 
‘Well, honestly, it was close… but as you know, as my history in Manchester United’s, your heart, you’re feeling the way these two that you did before, make the difference. 
And of course, as well, Sir Alex Ferguson. 
‘I think it was, it was the key. It was the difference in that moment, but I cannot be loyal if I will. 
I wouldn’t say that Manchester City wasn’t close. But I think I did a conscious decision. 
‘Yes, I did. Yes, I did. I spoke with them, with him.’ 
‘He said to me, ‘It’s impossible for you to go to Manchester City’. ‘And I say, ‘Okay, boss’. So I took the decisions and I repeat, I was conscious that it was a good decision.’ 
‘That feeling was amazing. But not only the day of the game, I felt before the week, before that everything changed. 
The world spoke about me, Cristiano, back home, back where I belong. 
‘Yes, Viva Ronaldo, me back.’ 
‘Yes, of course I did, as I told you before, the fans for me, they are everything.’ 
‘Of course I was. As you know, I don’t follow the records, the records follow me, so it’s good. Another one in my book.’ 
‘It’s good, as I told you before, it was a good moment. Nobody expects, because things change around, in my opinion in 72 hours, which is – you plan or they spoke – not only Manchester City but other clubs too, spoke about your name that ‘you will change Juventus for another club.’ 
‘Piers, to be honest, when I signed for Manchester United, I thought everything had changed because it’s 13 years since I change. 
I was in Real Madrid nine years and three in Juventus. 
‘No, they stopped on a clock, in my opinion, which is something that surprised me. 
‘Nothing changed. Surprisingly. Not only the pool, the jacuzzi, even the gym. 
‘At United, the progress was zero, in my opinion. 
‘I don’t know what’s going on, but since Sir Alex Ferguson left I saw no evolution in the club, the progress was zero. 
‘No, of course not, nobody . The people who I speak to, nobody knew it was him and suddenly he’s . 
‘Of course, I respect we have to call because he assumed the job regardless, all the coaches that I had in my career, I call them boss because if they assume the job we have to call in that way. 
‘To be honest, Piers, it’s something that I don’t understand. It’s the new coaches that are coming around, they think they find the last Coca Cola in the desert, which is I don’t understand the football that invents many, many years. 
‘I don’t know what’s going on, but since Sir Alex Ferguson left I saw no evolution in the club, the progress was zero. 
‘No, of course not, nobody . The people who I speak to, nobody knew it was him and suddenly he’s . 
‘Of course, I respect we have to call because he assumed the job regardless, all the coaches that I had in my career, I call them boss because if they assume the job we have to call in that way. 
‘To be honest, Piers, it’s something that I don’t understand. It’s the new coaches that are coming around, they think they find the last Coca Cola in the desert, which is I don’t understand the football that invents many, many years. 
‘I felt the last four or five months that the press criticise me even more. Sometimes I don’t I don’t understand why? 
Even the Portuguese press, they criticise me a lot. I don’t understand. 
‘It’s good. It’s good. I feel proud for that. 
It means a lot for me because it means that people like me too. I’m charismatic, I think – why I’m the number one? 
Sometimes I ask that question to myself. Why me? And not another one? 
‘I care for the people who like me. I’m not wasting time, for the people who don’t like me, I think it’s a waste of time, these people are not interesting in my life. 
‘Piers I don’t understand. You should ask this question to him. But I don’t know, I don’t know why he criticise me so bad, I don’t believe that he’s jealous of me. 
‘Probably, because he finished his career in 30s. So I’m still playing at a high level. I’m not gonna say that I’m looking better than him. 
Which is true, but… 
‘People can have their own opinion, but they don’t really know what’s going on. For example, inside the training ground and Carrington area or even my life, they should listen not only to one point of view, they have to listen to my point of view as well. 
Because it’s easy to criticise if you don’t know the whole story.’ 
‘They are not my friends, they are colleagues. We play together, they’re not coming, we’re not ever having dinner together, for example. 
‘But as I told you, Piers, before, it’s part of my journey, they keep criticise me, negativity every time. 
So I follow. I continue my trip. And I have to catch up the people who like me.’ 
Well, so far feeling very good. I’m so proud to make this big decision in my life in football. As you mentioned before, in Europe, my work, it’s done. 
I won everything. I played in the most important clubs in Europe. And for me now is a new challenge. 
As you mentioned in Asia, I’m glad for that Al-Nassr gave me this opportunity to show and develop, not only for the football, but also for the generation, the young generation, the women’s generation as well, for the young boys. 
And for me, it’s a challenge. But in the same way, I feel very, very happy and very proud. 
They are happy as well. You know, when I take my decisions, my family, they always support me, especially my kids. 
But it’s good. They are very happy. The welcome yesterday was amazing. 
We feel good here. Saudi Arabia people they are lovely with me and with my family. So, I’m really proud. 
As I told you before, for me, this is a great opportunity not only in football, but also to change the mentality of the new generation. 
As nobody knows, but I can say now I had many opportunities in Europe, many clubs in Brazil, in Australia, in the US, even in Portugal, many clubs try to sign me, but I give the word to this club for the opportunity to develop not only the football, but the other part of this amazing country. 
And for me, it’s a good challenge. I know what I want, and I know, of course, what I don’t want as well. 
So always a good chance to change, to help with my knowledge and my experience, to help to grow many, many important points. 
Also, a woman that. Many people probably don’t know, but Al-Nassr, they have a woman’s football as well. 
And I want to give a different vision of the country, of the football, the perspective of everybody. 
So, this is why I took this opportunity. 
Many people speak and give you give their opinions, but they really did not know nothing about football. 
As you know, the football now, probably the last 10, 15 years, they are different. All the teams are more prepared. 
All the teams are ready. If you see and you give the example of World Cup, the only team that won the champions was Saudi Arabia. 
Don’t forget that. 
And you had many surprises. South Korea, for example, the African teams, Costa Rica, for example, they did a good job. 
It’s not easy to win any games today because the teams are prepared. The football, it’s different. The evolution of football is different. 
So, for me, it’s not, it’s not the end of my career to come in South Africa. This is why I want to change. 
And to be honest, I’m really don’t worry about what the people say. I took my decisions and I have responsibility to change it. 
But for me, it’s… I’m really, really happy to be here. And I know the league is very competitive. The people don’t know that as well, but I know because I saw many games and you know what I want. 
And I’m looking forward… to play. And I hope to play after tomorrow if the coach thinks it’s a good change… chance. 
But I’m… you know, I’m ready to enjoy it to still play football and enjoy the people. 
I mean, you declare itself is good to coming here a bit. The all records there. So, I’m going to beat a few records here as well. 
So, for me, is that… it’s a good chance, as you say, this contract is unique because I’m a unique player as well. 
So, for me, it’s normal. 
It’s simple. I come in here to win, to play, to enjoy, to be part of the successful of the country and the culture of the… the culture of the country. 
And I’m here all together with Al-Nassr, with my coach, with my president and the all the other people from Al-Nassr. 
And what I want is to enjoy, to smile and play football. 
Maybe some times. I know that people have different ways to see me but I'm used to it. 
It can be sometimes. People that really know me, they adore me. 
Yeah sure. The people that live with me, aren’t that many. But the people I work with have a very good impression of me for sure, because of how I am. 
Yes, I did have a happy childhood but it was different in a way, since I left my family when I was 11 years old. 
And left my family with only 11 years old it was very painful but it was worth the sacrifice to be where I’m today. 
I'm sure he will. 
Many of them. He gave me a lot of advices and I remember most of them. I only feel sorry that he wasn’t here when I won all the awards, neither team awards nor individual ones, because I know that he was sure that I was going to win them since he believed in me and knew the sin that he had but sometimes things happen for a reason. 
But I'm very proud of him, including my mother, my sisters and brother and all the people that loves me and that I love. 
No, my brother and sisters are more critical than my mother, but I like it because at the end I know I can be better and do better. 
I'm talking about the football. My mother doesn’t, she's more calm and understands me. 
I have many tears left. 
Yeah, because it’s good to cry. But it's not just me. Any one who goes through bad times, it's because you have to be used to all the type of circumstances. 
I have cried a lot. People that know me or work with me knows, I don’t want to say that I'm bad at losing, but when a person gets angry, it's normal. 
The last time I cry was when I won the champions. It was one of the best moments in my life. 
It’s true, it’s a part of life, especially in my work. But I’m sure that I’m a winner person. I’m sure that I win more than lose. 
I don’t like to use that word, never, because in this life we don’t know what is going to happen. At this time my house and the club that I like the most is Madrid but you can’t ever say from this fountain I won’t drink. 
I’m very happy in Madrid. 
It was a hard time, because I thought we could have got much farther that we did. But it happened because the team players are mostly new, aswell as the coach, so the team was in process. 
Success can’t be done perfectly, it takes it time. I remember my first two years in Manchester I didn’t won anything, and then I saw the most important things. 
Of course not, it was a dream for me. My family and I are very happy that I made my dream. Because like I said before this club is my face. 
I really don’t know the true story, Ferguson told me that the player told him “you have to sigh that kid” 
Amazing relationship. I talk to him sometimes on the phone. Because friendship cant end just because you change your life everything have a cycle and I had an amazing cycle on machester. 
He knew what I wanted, that I wanted to play in Madrid. I spoke with him and told him what I wanted and he told me I can go. 
I love it.. ohh it’s more pressure more responsibility but that part of it. If I wasn’t the most expensive player of the world I still would have the same responsibility but I really like it 
Not really. To be honest, I had a little speech of what I was going to say, but when I was on the stairs and heard the noise I said “it's not going to be easy” and when I came out I got shocked cause I didn’t know what to say so I said the first thing that came to my mind. 
She found the kid, that's the most important. 
I don’t think so 
I hope so. We can win La Liga, it is possible we have to see what happen with barca. 
For the people that I love I only have one face but for some people we cant have one face. 
I was more before. But sometimes to ... 
No. What people sees is who I am. 
No.. no... it's “that Portuguese how good is he” 
Sometimes I don’t. Because people before the matches wants pictures and autographs and then at the game they insulted me. 
No, I’m a smart guy and I know I shouldn't do that. I don’t need anyone to tell me “Cristiano you cant do that” 
Really nice, I can say the same thing about him. Raul for me is and example of one of the best professional I have ever played with and I like to work with him. 
We need to rest there. 
In a way people were expecting something else but those people doesn’t know me. During the holidays people can say whatever they want. 
During the season you are working and when you are in holidays you need to rest and do whatever you want with your family, you girlfriend, wife or whatever. 
I enjoy been on holidays because you can do whatever you want and people can’t say anything to you. 
I’m in love with Madrid 
what he was saying I didn’t understand him. 
Ahh.... a Gf. That's OK there isn’t a problem 
Be a captain? I got here a year ago, you never know I’m Portugal’s team captain but it would be a priviledge to be Madrid's. 
It'ss not right to say only one I have maybe ones that I like 
I want raul to stay with us, but in the future if he leaves I would like to use the number 7 
at this moment Pellegrini 
No, keep insulting me is ok 
well I can tell you that... I go to Valdebebas, eat my breakfast there. Sometimes I eat Milk with cheese and bread sometimes I eat cereal with cereal nothing else 
before I go to sleep? Uhh I can’t tell you that  that private I cant answer that. 
yes is would like to. 
It's because my hair is very strong and without it, it's imbarassing. 
No, I thought he would have said something different 
What he said the other day when I did the Armani campaign he said “that's not true I see him in the dressing room and I haven’t seen that. 
I like to play with him 
Also a great person a great player. His adaptation wasn’t easy as mine but he will turn out to show that he’s a great player 
He is a great friend of mine and Kaka just like the rest of teams, that wants to show that he is a great player and I'm sure that he is going to succeed in this club . 
