Everybody, this has been the one of the greatest tours of our life. We really... 
Of all the shows on this tour, this particular show will remain with us the longest because... 
...Not only is it the last show of the tour, but it's the last show that we'll ever do. 
Oh, yeah. Ziggy played guitar, jamming good with Weird and Gilly and the Spiders from Mars. He played it left hand, but made it too far. 
Became the special man, then we were Ziggy's band. Ziggy really sang, screwed-up eyes and screwed-down hairdo, like some cat from Japan. 
He could kill them by smiling. He could leave them to hang. Well, he came on so loaded, man -  and a snow-white tan. 
So where were the Spiders... 
Well, I guess the simple one-liner is that myself and my mates and I guess a certain contingent of the musicians in London at the beginning of the '70s were fed up with denim and the hippies. 
And I think we kind of wanted to go somewhere else. And some of us, I think - us more pompous, arty ones... 
...Probably read too much George Steiner and kind of got the idea that we were entering to this kind of post-culture age and that we better do something post-modernist  quickly before somebody else did. 
Well, neither. I think they were just devices to create this new distancing from the subject matter. 
There was a kind of a diffidence, an idea that really hadn't been thought of before, that the history of rock could be recycled in a different way and brought back into focus without the luggage that comes along with it. 
It was a sense - a very strong sense, of irony, I think. Well, it became the foundation of two or three of us. 
I mean, I'm wary of the word glam because I think that became the all-inclusive term for any bloke with lipstick on, which is fine, you know, and that's what it is when it comes down to the public level. 
The public - obviously, they take things in a very simplistic fashion, and so they should. That's why we have such wonderful television. 
You know? But I think that, as I say, there were some - I guess it was, you know, kind of that art school kind of posturing that the Brits usually have. 
And it was I guess people like myself and Roxy Music that had a different agenda about taking up music. 
I think we all were kind of - well, maybe. I can't speak for Roxy, of course, but some of us were failed artists or reluctant artists. 
You know, the choices were either, for most Brit musicians at that point, painting or making music. 
And I think we opted for music, one, because it was more exciting. And two, you could actually earn a living at it. 
Sorry about that. 
Well, it was a pudding, you know. It really was a pudding. It was a pudding of new ideas. 
And we were terribly excited. And I think we took it on our shoulders that we were creating the 21st century in 1971. 
That was the idea. And we wanted to just blast everything in the past, rather like the Vorticists did at the beginning of the century in Britain, or the Dadaists did in Europe. 
You know, it was the same sensibility of, everything is rubbish, and all rubbish is wonderful. 
Very, very rarely, actually. No, it wasn't really something that I - because I never believed it. It always felt like you were trying too hard to look like the audience or something. 
That whole thing about the artistic integrity, which of course, I've never bought into with any artist - it's just not a real thing. 
Ah, I didn't say that wearing - a glamorization of the rock artist was any truer than the other thing. 
They're both - it's all artifice. 
Yeah. I think my main point would be is that the T-shirt and denims thing in my mind was also an artifice. 
I didn't feel comfortable in that because I didn't feel like one of the working men. I mean, I could never be a blue collar-y  kind of Springsteen-y type artist because I don't believe I am that, and I don't believe I could ever represent that. 
And it is merely representation. 
Well, my father worked for a children's home called Dr. Barnardo's Homes. They're a charity. 
He was a charity worker, in fact. My mother was a housewife. Both from - well, my father was from a farming family, agricultural family in the north of England. 
And my mother came from a very working class. 
Oh, wow. It was so - I think the only music I didn't listen to was country and Western, and that holds to this day. 
It's much easier for me to say that. The kind of music I didn't listen to was pretty much that. I mean everything, from jazz to classical to popular. 
And Tibetan horns were a great part of it in 1966, '67 . I love Tibetan horns. I think Tibetan horns are one of the most wonderful sounds in the world, and Tibetan chanting. 
Well, firstly, no, I was 13, not 16. 
And it was - my best friend hit me because I'd pulled his girlfriend. So I think probably in his mind he had every right to do that. 
And the greatest thing... 
Well, it was, you know, very uncomfortable . The best thing - part of it, of course, is that we still remained very close friends. 
And I can't remember - it must be 40 years later. 
Pretty much so, yeah. 
I probably take in more in one eye than most people do with two, so I think I'm all right. 
Still don't know what I was waiting for. Time was running wild - a million dead-end streets. And every time I thought I got it made, it seemed the taste was not so sweet. 
Then I turned myself to face me, but I never caught a glimpse of how the others must see the faker. 
I'm much too fast to take the test. Changes. Turn and face the strange changes. 
Didn't want to have to be a richer man. Changes. Turn and face the strange changes. 
Just wanted to be a better man. Time may change me, but I can't trace time. 
Well, I can only really look at it the way I look at it now, which is, I think, independently of myself, Ziggy Stardust has his own life. 
He's his own creation. And you know what? Good luck to him. 
But frankly, for me, I kind of closed the door on him in 1973. 
And I'm very happy that he's having such success and that people still like him and all that. I heard he got married. 
I personally have another life, you know, which doesn't belong to Ziggy Stardust. And I do tend to not really get that involved in what I've done in the past. 
I do kind of leave that up to other people, and that's much how I feel about Ziggy. I kind of prefer the audience, and maybe writers or commentators or whatever, to make what they will of the Ziggy Stardust period and character because it actually doesn't interest me much now. 
I think much has been made of this alter ego business. I mean, I actually stopped creating characters in 1975, for albums anyway. 
The only time that I've adopted characterization again since that point for my own albums has been an album called "Outside" that I did with Brian Eno a few years ago, which really had a myriad - maybe one too many characters. 
But it had a lot of characters on that, and I played all the parts. But that was done as a sonic theatrical piece of music. 
But the character thing really is sort of, for me personally, rather ancient history. But it's kind of - I guess over here specifically in America, the soundbite-y  thing really kind of stays around. 
And you're known by the - you're defined by the two or three things that the largest amount of people know about. 
And that kind of is who you are publicly. And mine is really Ziggy Stardust, characters, "Let's Dance." That's me in the American... 
...Frankly, in the American eye. But in fact, in Europe, I'm more kind of this bloke what writes lots of stuff. 
And I kind of - I guess, I - you know, a greater number of the 26 or so albums that I've made are known in Europe than they are in America. 
And myself. It was a co-production. 
Well, we started talking about the possibility, and we sort of reunited about five years ago. And we had since that point been talking about the possibility of doing another album together. 
And I was the one that was really quite reticent about doing it because I'm very aware of how well thought of a lot of our earlier stuff is by the audience for those particular albums, the things that we did in the '70s and early '80s. 
And I didn't in any way want to cheapen or tarnish the reputation that we had. And so it took me a very, very long time to figure out the way in to re-collaborating again. 
And it seemed to me that the best possible thing to do was take the emphasis off the production side of things and put it on quality and strength of songs. 
So I stockpiled or started stockpiling songs that I thought really were good, sound pieces of work, so that we went into the studio with a very definite end point in view, and we really didn't have to lean back on the past at all. 
That was for 18 months, actually... 
...Which, out of a career of nearly 40 years, is not very long. However, I'll answer your question. 
I'm not actually a very keen performer. I like putting shows together. I like putting events together. 
In fact, everything I do is about the conceptualizing and realization of a piece of work, whether it's the recording or the performance side. 
And kind of when I put the thing together, I don't mind doing it for a few weeks. But then quite frankly, I get incredibly bored because I don't see myself so much as a - I mean, I don't live for the stage. 
I don't live for an audience. That really doesn't... 
Most people are. 
Frankly, if I could get away with not having to perform, I'd be very happy. It's not my favorite thing to do. 
As I say, I don't mind trying it out and making sure something seems to work well. But I really do rather want to move on because I think it's rather a waste of time endlessly singing the same songs every night for a year. 
And it's just not what I want to do. What I like doing is writing and recording and much more on the - I guess, on that creative level. 
It's fun interpreting songs and all that, but I wouldn't like it as a living. 
It's a god-awful small affair to the girl with the mousey hair. But her mummy is yelling no, and her daddy has told her to go. 
But her friend is nowhere to be seen. Now she walks through her sunken dream to the seat with the clearest view. 
And she's hooked to the silver screen. 
They pulled in just behind the bridge. He lays her down, he frowns. Gee, my life's a funny thing. 
Am I still too young? He kissed her then and there. She took his ring, took his babies. 
It took him minutes, took her nowhere. Heaven knows, she'd have taken anything, but all night, she wants a young American. 
Young American, young American. She wants the young American. All right. 
But she wants the young American. All the way from Washington. Her breadwinner begs off the bathroom floor. 
We live for just these 20 years. Do we have to die for the 50 more? All night, he wants the young American. 
Young American, young American. He wants the young American. All right. 
All right, well, he wants the young American. 
No, I want - I start - what I wanted to do when I was 9 years old, I wanted to be the baritone sax player in the Little Richard band. 
I probably also wanted to be Black at that particular time as well . And so I got my father to help me out with the saxophone. 
And we bought it over, like, a two-year period. We had something in Britain then called the hire-purchase system, or HP. 
And I bought it on HP, which is like, you pay two and sixpence a week. 
Yeah, over, like, a thousand years. So at the end it costs you maybe twice as much as if you could have afforded cash . 
And I started playing around with local rock bands, you know, with the alto. And then, in a nutshell, somebody fell ill one night, the lead singer of one of the bands. 
And they knew I could sing, so they asked me if I would stand in. And I quite enjoyed it, actually, I must say, at 14. 
It was a real trip, you know, to have girls wave at you and smile and everything just because you opened your mouth and sang. 
And - but really, I guess - but, no, I really wanted to do, more than anything else, up until I was around 16, 17, was write musicals. 
I really wanted to write musicals. That's what I wanted to do more than anything else. And it kind of - because I liked rock music, I kind of moved into that sphere, somehow thinking that somewhere along the line, I'd be able to put the two together. 
And I suppose I very nearly did with the Ziggy character. But I had such short attention span and got disinterested so quickly after I created some kind of project that I wanted to move on. 
And I never really got the book together for the thing. So I had all the songs and the characters, but by the time we'd gotten it on the road and I'd been doing it for 18 months, oh, God, I couldn't wait to move on to something else. 
No, that was my point. 
No, my point was I wanted to rewrite how rock music was perceived. 
And I thought that I could do some kind of vehicle involving rock musicals... 
...And presenting rock and characters and storyline in a completely different fashion. 
It was - well, it was the conception. I mean, God, I would love to have handed it onto somebody else, and I guess Ziggy would have been the perfect vehicle to have done with. 
I don't know why, to this day, I didn't find some other kid, after I'd done it for like six months, and said, here you are. 
Put the wig on, and send him out and do the gigs, you know? I mean, it would have been much the best thing to do. 
And then I could have moved on quicker to something else. But that comes back to what I was saying. 
I needed to sing because nobody else was singing my songs. 
So I had to do it myself. 
Yes, the Lindsay Kemp Mime Company. 
Yeah. Well, actually it all kind of ran - I tended to be - I seemed to be kind of involved in so many things all at the same time, which is still how I kind of operate today. 
I just - I can't keep my fingers out of any pies. 
I think everything that I learned about stagecraft and carrying through - creating a through point for a theatrical device. 
I think Lindsay Kemp really introduced me to the work of Jean Genet. And through that, I kind of kept reeducating myself about other prose writers and poets. 
He instigated - he opened an awful lot of doors for me in terms of a new approach to what I could do. 
I could never have done what I did without being involved with Lindsay Kemp's company. 
I know. That's my proudest moment of the Ziggy Stardust movie. 
Yeah - well, mime over here; isn't it? 
I know. It's so utterly appalled over here. 
You know, we didn't know that in England because we love it over there. 
And it broke our hearts when we came over here and realized that mimes were kind of tantamount to some kind of artistic criminals. 
I think I do. Yeah. 
Having not really written any generational songs - I think maybe two or three of the songs that I've ever written have any bearing on the age of the listener. 
My stuff tends to be far more concerned with the spiritual and with subjects like isolation and being miserable. 
So I think that sort of touches on really any age group. So in my terms, they're just songs. The vehicle for those songs is a music that did indeed start as youth culture music. 
But it has aged well in itself. No, it's just what I do. I mean, I wouldn't know how to write and play any other kind of music, frankly. 
Time takes a cigarette, puts it in your mouth. You pull on your finger, then another finger, then your cigarette. 
Well, the wall-to-wall is calling. It lingers, but still you forget. Oh, you're a rock 'n' roll suicide. 
You're too young to lose it, but you're too old to lose it. And the clock waits so patiently on your song. 
Well, you walk past the cafe, but you can't eat when you've lived too long. Oh, you're a rock 'n' roll suicide. 
Now the Chev brakes are snarling as you stumble across the road. But the day breaks instead, so you hurry home. 
Don't let the sunlight blast your shadow. Don't let the milk float ride your mind. They're so natural, religiously unkind. 
Oh, no, love. You're not alone. You're watching yourself, but you're too unfair. 
You got your head all tangled up. But if I could only make you care - oh, no, love. You're not alone, no matter what or who you've been, no matter when or where you've seen. 
All the knives seem to lacerate your brain. I've had my share. Now I'll help you with the pain. 
You're not alone. 
Thank you. Thanks very much. Rockers...
Jazzers... Samplers... That was a fantastic concert last night.
I think both Wayne and myself were just so moved to hear our compositions coming back at us through your ears and abilities.
It was dynamite. You don't know how much we appreciate it.
I chatted with some of the students last night and I asked one of them if he could give me a good joke to start today off with and also his worst fear.
He said, "I'll give you both. How does a tuba player answer the telephone? Hello, Dominoes."
"Thank you," I said.
Oh, I should remind you that anybody left over from the proceedings today can join my wife and I at  Little Stevie's for a slice.
Dunkin Donuts, then, alright?
I've got a message here for the administration from my sometimes-collaborator and fellow musician Reeves Gabrels, ex-alumni.
It says here, "I haven't forgotten that $900 I owe from my last semester. I should point out that this has been owed since the spring of 1980.
I read recently in Allegro that they are holding an unclaimed check for me backdating from my days with Tin Machine."
Well, that should wipe out about $30-worth right there.
As always on occasions like this, I really never know what to do—which is pretty much the way that I've handled my career as a musician/writer.
I guess any list of advice I have to offer to a musician always ends with "If it itches, go and see a doctor." Real world!
But that's not going to be of any help today.
My sometimes-collaborator Brian Eno described himself as a non-musician. In fact he tried to get it put into his passport as his work definition.
"Non-musician? Made any records?"  "Of course not.
I'm a bloody non-musician." Anyway I'd describe myself, I think, as a bit of a non-musician. I took classes, initially, after seeing the Little Richard band in a film with, at that time Britain's foremost baritone jazz player Ronnie Ross.
I was about 14 and I gave him a phone. I found his number in the phone book and he very kindly took me on.
But I quickly found that what was written as "be doo boo doobie doop ba doo bip ..." That's a George Redman composition, West Coast band, 60s you wouldn't know about it.
"Be doobiee doobie doop a doop bip," when I started playing it, came out as "bdzzzz dzzzzz zzzz." So it seemed that authenticity and the natural form of expression wasn't going to be my forte.
In fact, what I found that I was good at doing, and what I really enjoyed the most, was the game of "what if?" What if you combined Brecht-Weill musical drama with rhythm and blues?
What happens if you transplant the French chanson with the Philly sound? Will Schoenberg lie comfortably with Little Richard?
Can you put haggis and snails on the same plate? Well, no, but some of the ideas did work out very well.
So, I learned enough saxophone and guitar and what's euphemistically called "composer's piano" to get my ideas over to proper musicians, as we have here today.
And then I went on a crusade, I suppose, to change the kind of information that rock music contained.
I adored Coltrane, Harry Parch, Eric Dolphy, Velvet Underground, John Cage, Sonny Stitt. Unfortunately, I also loved Anthony Newley, Florence Foster Jenkins, Johnnie Ray, Julie London, the legendary Stardust Cowboy, Edith Piaf and Shirley Bassey.
A word about Shirley Bassey. During the very early days of Ziggy Stardust, we often used to play these fairly grotty clubs called the "workingman's clubs." They were sort of like nightclubs but you got a cheap meal.
The whole family would come. A round of beer. A rock act.
A stripper—sometimes one in the same. Well, backstage one night I was desperate to use the bathroom.
I was dressed in my full, battle finery of Tokyo-spaceboy and a pair of shoes high enough that it induced nose bleeds.
I went up to the promoter—actually I tottered over to the promoter—and I asked, "Could you please tell me where the lavatory is?"
And he said, "Yeah, look down that corridor. On the far end of that wall. You see that sink?
I said, "My good man, I'm not taking a piss in the sink."
He said, "Listen son, if it's good enough for Shirley Bassey, it's good enough for you."
From which I learned that mixing elements of bad taste with good would often produce the most interesting results.
So, in short, I didn't feel comfortable as a folk singer or an R&B singer or a balladeer. I was drawn more and more to the idea of manipulation of signs, rather than individual expression—a concept that really had its start in the late 50s with Pop Art and by the early 70s I found myself making what British writer Simon Fricke described as "art pop."
It wasn't so much about how I felt about things, but rather, how things around me felt. To put it simply, I had discovered the Englishman's true place in rock and roll.
This all sounds, I suppose, quite dispassionate, but believe me, still, even now, when I hear the most fantastic solo being played on a CD and it's on the fadeout, I still rush over to the volume switch and bring it up in proportion to the way it's fading down, so I can catch that last note.
It still is very much my life. It's impossible for me to talk about popular music without mentioning probably my greatest mentor, John Lennon.
I guess he defined for me, at any rate, how one could twist and turn the fabric of pop and imbue it with elements from other artforms, often producing something extremely beautiful, very powerful and imbued with strangeness.
Also, uninvited, John would wax on endlessly about any topic under the sun and was over-endowed with opinions.
I immediately felt empathy with that. Whenever the two of us got together it started to resemble Beavis and Butthead on "Crossfire."
The seductive thing about John was his sense of humor. Surrealistically enough, we were first introduced in about 1974 by Elizabeth Taylor.
Miss Taylor had been trying to get me to make a movie with her. It involved going to Russia and wearing something red, gold and diaphanous.
Not terribly encouraging, really. I can't remember what it was called—it wasn't On the Waterfront, anyway, I know that.
We were in LA, and one night she had a party to which both John and I had been invited. I think we were polite with each other, in that kind of older-younger way.
Although there were only a few years between us, in rock and roll that's a generation, you know? Oh boy, is it ever.
So John was sort of  "Oh, here comes another new one." And I was sort of, "It's John Lennon!
I don't know what to say. Don't mention the Beatles, you'll look really stupid."
And he said, "Hello, Dave." And I said, "I've got everything you've made—except the Beatles."
A couple of nights later we found ourselves backstage at the Grammys where I had to present "the thing" to Aretha Franklin.
Before the show I'd been telling John that I didn't think America really got what I did, that I was misunderstood.
Remember that I was in my 20s and out of my head.
So the big moment came and I ripped open the envelope and announced, "The winner is Aretha Franklin." Aretha steps forward, and with not so much as a glance in my direction, snatches the trophy out of my hands and says, "Thank you everybody.
I'm so happy I could even kiss David Bowie." Which she didn't! And she promptly spun around swanned off stage right.
So I slunk off stage left.
And John bounds over and gives me a theatrical kiss and a hug and says "See, Dave. America loves ya."
We pretty much got on like a house on fire after that.
He once famously described glam rock as just rock and roll with lipstick on. He was wrong of course, but it was very funny.
Towards the end of the 70s, a group of us went off to Hong Kong on a holiday and John was in, sort of, house-husband mode and wanted to show Sean the world.
And during one of our expeditions on the back streets a kid comes running up to him and says, "Are you John Lennon?" And he said, "No but I wish I had his money." Which I promptly stole for myself.
"Are you David Bowie?"
No, but I wish I had his money.
It's brilliant. It was such a wonderful thing to say. The kid said, "Oh, sorry.
Of course you aren't," and ran off. I thought, "This is the most effective device I've heard."
I was back in New York a couple of months later in Soho, downtown, and a voice pipes up in my ear, "Are you David Bowie?" And I said, "No, but I wish I had his money."
"You lying bastard. You wish you had my money." It was John Lennon.
These are just a few moments from my life. This moment is very definitely yours. Thank you so much for indulging me for the last 10 minutes.
I hope it's been reasonably interesting for you.
Music has given me over 40 years of extraordinary experiences. I can't say that life's pains or more tragic episodes have been diminished because of it.
But it's allowed me so many moments of companionship when I've been lonely and a sublime means of communication when I wanted to touch people.
It's been both my doorway of perception and the house that I live in.
I only hope that it embraces you with the same lusty life force that it graciously offered me. Thank you very much and remember, if it itches, play it.
