I danced with the devil. I made it through hell, and I don't know why. How am I different? 
I did, and they didn't, and it doesn't feel right. I miss the hell we can't raise. 
Yeah. I mean, I'm down. We'll just bleep this interview to death. 
I came out of treatment and began working on this album shortly after. And I was very angry. I had some healing to do, but I got out a lot of that anger in my music, and then there's, like, an evolution on the project where you see me going from angry to then, like, owning my power and my sexuality... 
...And then to, like, happier love songs. 
And so there's this arc over the album where it's angry to happy. And I just love that. 
Demi leaves rehab again. When is the  going to end? Sounds like a voice in my head. 
I can't believe I'm not dead. 
...I'm trying to figure this out just like you are. So for people to have their opinions on that was, like, really frustrating. 
I'm alive by the skin of my... 
I'm just trying to keep my head above water. I'm your son, and I'm your daughter. 
Far from innocent, what the what consent? Numbers told you not to, but that didn't stop you. 
The reason why I share my music is because I know that somebody out there is going to be able to relate. 
So I never hold anything back. 
'Cause I'm finally 29 - funny, just like you were at the time. Thought it was a teenage dream, just a fantasy, but was it yours, or was it mine? 
Seventeen, 29. 
I don't care. I didn't even think that it was going to be a headline. 
No, it doesn't surprise me 'cause there's a lot of people out there that have to - an opinion on everything I say and do. 
But I just don't read it. Like, it's not important to me. And there's so many ignorant people on the internet, and you just can't pay attention to them all. 
Pinch me. Singe me. 
A lot of it was based off of that reaction that I had gotten the year before with coming out as nonbinary and using they/them pronouns. 
That was one that I couldn't really escape from. 
Get your tickets to the freak show, baby. Step right up to watch the freak go crazy. Am what I am, and what I am is a piece of meat. 
Take a bite just to watch me bleed. 
Yeah, of course. I mean, anybody that turns 30 has lived life experiences that have transformed them into who they are today. 
And I think my 20s was for figuring out who I am. And also, that's just an ever-evolving process. And my 30s - it's nice to, like, enter this new chapter where I'm figuring out what makes me happy and not living my life for other people. 
I can't hold back. I'm falling in love. 
Thank you so much. 
Honestly I think this is forever for me. 
I've had a lot of lives, like my cat, you know, I'm on my ninth life. I'm ready to get back to doing what I love, which is making music. 
Thank you so much for that sweet introduction. That was so, so sweet. I like... 
I loved meeting you. I'm so happy that you were able to relate to that song. That's why I make my music. 
You know. I, I go through a lot as a human on this earth and, if I can give back to society by the art that I create, that's the way that I want to do it. 
I just want to say you're a big inspiration to me, because, you know, when I started following you, I saw how much you were posting and your activism work. 
And I just want to say, like, the person that I am today is a result of, you know, some of the incredible people that I've started to follow on Instagram and... 
and even just get to know, you know. I've, I've made a lot of friends over this last year. Uhm, and Loke being one of them, you know, we've gotten pretty close since we met at that poetry show last year. 
And, uhm, and it's just beautiful. You know I... I found that once I was able to do the work on myself, I could really show up for other people. 
And that's, that's what it's really about as like, let's, let's all work on ourselves so that we can show up for others. 
You know? You're so dope to follow and like such an inspiration. So, I just, like, thank you for saying that about me, but that's exactly how I feel about you. 
Like, yeah, you're dope. 
What do I love about myself? I love how free and open I am. Right now, in my life, I feel like I had to really strip myself of all constraints, to really become the person that I most identify with. 
And, in my life today... you know, I've tried on many identities throughout over the years. You know, the sexy, feminine popstar that I felt like people wanted me to be, or the poster child for recovery, and now I'm embracing the fact that my lack of commitment to any one identity isn't a lack of commitment. 
It's just an openness to continue to evolve. That's the thing that I love about myself today is I'm just continuing to evolve and, and I'm not attached to any specific identity. 
I'm just continuing to learn and grow. And tomorrow I might be somebody different. But it's because of a lesson that I would have learned today. 
That was important for me to learn. 
What makes me soar? 
You know, just knowing that every day is up to me is something that really helps me open my eyes in the morning. 
After living a life for other people so many years, I now wake up in the morning and I'm like what is going to make me feel the most loved and comfortable and supported today. 
And, if it's a hard day, it might be staying in bed watching movies. You know? If it's an easier day, it might be, like, I would really thrive by going on a hike and, you know, meditating or doing whatever I want to do today. 
Like, it's just knowing that there's some flexibility to every day in my life, to match my wants and my needs. 
And knowing that I have that, a little bit of spontaneity, room for spontaneity during my days, it was... 
what keeps my life exciting. 
For so many years, I was used to telling my story of my struggles and saying, "This is what I've been through and, if, you know, I can help others, this is what I... 
by sharing my story, then this will be good." And I realized, no, there's so much more to living and you only are able to begin living once you do the work on yourself, because then you can be there for other people. 
And then you can start sharing other people's stories and giving them a platform. And I think my world was a lot smaller when I was only telling my story. 
And, over the past year, my world's opened up a lot and it's given me more of a purpose, more of a fight to fight for people that don't have the same platform that I do. 
Well, you know, I had the opportunity to have, like, exclusives with this magazine or whatever and this outlet and, it's like, it doesn't feel right. 
Like, it needs to come from... I always felt like it needed to come from me. Because then I could really decide how much I wanted to share. 
You know? And what I did with the doc, as I said when I first sat down, I was like, "Alright, I'm going to spill it all and whatever I don't want to use we can take out, but let's just get it on camera so we have it. 
And, if something feels  that feels like too much, then I can deal with that later." But then I realized once I, I talked about everything, it felt so empowering and freeing that I just continued to talk. 
And look, I like to call myself an open book with boundaries because I feel like everyone deserves to keep something sacred for themselves. 
But, the things that I felt like would benefit others from knowing I definitely talked about, and... 
and I'm really excited for people to get to understand a little bit more of my past and my story. You know, if I can help people have compassion by, like, hearing someone else's story and saying, 'Oh, I didn't know that about them. 
And maybe I should be less quick to judge when I hear that they OD'd in the media.' If I can help them there, maybe they won't judge someone on the street that might be talking to themselves, or they won't judge someone that is in rehab. 
You know, it's like we all struggle and if we don't have compassion for our neighbors, if we don't have compassion for... 
Like, what are we doing here? You know? 
One thing that I think people have a common misconception of is that if people are using drugs, or if they are dealing with an eating disorder or self-harm, that they want to die. 
And I actually said, there were many times in my life that those things stopped me from dying. In the same way that it almost killed me, tt saved my life at times because there were times that I dealt with suicidal ideations. 
And had I gone forward with that, in that moment, instead of another destructive coping mechanism, you know, I wouldn't be here to tell my story. 
So, I have to understand that everything in my life has served its purpose in that moment, but knowing how to continue to make better choices for myself today is what is key. 
So, I think I turned to those coping mechanisms because I genuinely was in so much pain, but I didn't want to die, and I didn't know what else to do. 
And, yeah, I think I did the best that I could at times. And, now that I have other tools and other resources, I know how else to deal and how else to cope, so that I don't have to resort to those behaviors again. 
I didn't have a lot of people that I looked up to doing that for me in the public eye. And so, I felt very isolated and very alone at 12 and 13. 
And I would look at people in the media, and I would... I would just compare myself; not feel good enough, not feel fun enough, and wonder how it was that these people were living lives that seemed so perfect. 
But, yeah, I was in so much pain. And when I got into the spotlight, I was like, "Oh, it's not perfect here. 
Nobody has a perfect life. It just looks that way." And so, if I can break that facade for Hollywood, sorry Hollywood, but someone's got to do it. 
Because we're presenting unrealistic expectations to people by only presenting our best selves at all times. 
And I needed someone to say, I'm not perfect all the time, in order for me to accept that I'm not going to ever be perfect. 
And that's okay. 
Yes, absolutely! 
What this did for my worldview was it opened up my perception, you know, of that everyone has their own story, everyone's going through it. 
We don't know... not everything that we see is, is the way that it is. And, you know, for a long time people have... 
have thought they knew my story or thought they knew what happened in 2018. And I think they're, they're finding out that they didn't. 
And, so to show people that, like, you don't have the full picture all the time and, and that's okay, but just, like, go easy on others. 
Like, that was a big message. You know? I, I was wanting other people to go easier on me, but then I was, like, I need to go easier on others. 
So, if we don't all have the picture all the time, we have to understand that we don't know everything about everyone, and sometimes we have to wait until they tell us their story. 
I am really big into meditation. So, I do that daily and I've become very spiritual, and that has been a huge part of my journey. 
Yeah, I meditate and that... that supposedly has healing benefits, and I believe in them. So... 
I think we have to create conversations and also safe spaces for people to talk about what they're going through. 
If there's always a negative connotation to someone asking for help, or somebody being vulnerable, no one's going to ever ask for it. 
So, showing people that... that it's okay to ask for help is so important. 
Thank you so much. 
Thank you so much. That introduction was really overwhelming and, the most positive way, so thank you.
Hi, everyone. My people. It is an honor and a privilege to be here today at NAMI’s national day of action.
Looking out at all of you is so inspiring. It is great to see so many people dedicated to improving mental health and the lives of others.
Seeing people of awe ages from all over the country come together gives me so much hope that changes is possible.
Those of us here today know mental illness has no prejudice. It affects people of every race, age, gender, religion, and economic status.
It doesn’t discriminate between republicans or democrats either.
That’s why we are here today. We need to send a simple message to our nation’s leaders, mental health matters, and must be taken seriously.
It is time to act for mental health and pass comprehensive mental health bills this year. We’re here because groups like NAMI helped us understand that our voices really do matter.
Our stories really do matter. We have the power to make a difference, and we have the personal experience needed to be taken seriously.
We know what it means to have our lives, or the lives of people we love get off track because of mental illness.
We understand that mental illness is serious and can be absolutely devastating.
We also know mental illness can be treatable when we have access to appropriate, comprehensive care.
I know it is largely because of our personal experience with mental illness; each of us is here today.
As I learn more about my own illness and the experience of others, I realize how much we all have in common, even if mental illness has made a few headlines because of my career.
There is, there’s a number of ways in which I have been very lucky, yet, even with access to so much, my journey has not been an easy one by any means.
During my darkest times, I didn’t know why I was alive, and I definitely didn’t like myself.
I had very low periods that would so emotionally draining, that I couldn’t find the strength to crawl out of bed in the morning.
I was withdrawn, disconnected, and very angry. There were stretches of time where I felt nothing but shame.
I would medicate myself with drugs and alcohol, in an effort to feel normal. Not better, just normal.
I didn’t understand why somebody like me with all the resources and reasons in the world to be emotionally well; I couldn’t find happiness.
When I finally got diagnosed with a bipolar disorder, it was a relief in so many ways. It helped me to start make sense of my bipolar depression and all the harmful things I was doing to cope with it.
Getting the right diagnosis didn’t happen overnight. Through the process of being misdiagnosed and misunderstood, I learned how important it is to be open with your doctor, so you get to the root of what is going on as soon as possible.
The journey to living well with bipolar disorder is a process for me involved seeing a therapist, being honest with myself and others, following my treatment plan, and taking care of my victims.
It requires comprehensive care.
Living well with bipolar order takes work and doesn’t happen at once. There wasn’t one day when the light simply came on, I said, I’m cured, I’m better.
Sometimes the first, second, or even third medication we try isn’t one that works the best. But we owe it to ourselves to keep trying.
The reality is that you’re not a car who goes into the shop and gets fixed immediately. You need ongoing maintenance.
There will always be work left to do. I can only do the work now because I truly believe that I’m worth it, and today I’m so grateful for my life, and I want to preserve and protect it.
It is my personal mission to share with others of all ages people who are children, that are fans, people that don’t know my music at all, but hopefully my speech today can have some impact.
It is my mission to share this with the world and to let them know there is life on the other side of those dark times that seem so hopeless and helpless.
I want to show the world there is life, surprising, wonderful, and unexpected life after diagnosis.
I’m proud to say that I’m living proof that someone can live, love, and thrive with bipolar disorder if they get connected, with professional resources, and accept support as soon as possible.
That’s why I’m participating in the mental health listening and engagement tour, getting to meet people like you and learning more about the issues that face the mental health community, us.
I hope to do my part to make things a little easier for others and to reduce the shame associated with mental illness.
I want to do what I can to make things better for others by becoming the strongest and most informed mental health advocate that I can be.
Today we have a chance to make history with NAMI, an organization that has been the forefront of advancing mental health in this country for decades.
We’ve seen increased attention to our country’s broken mental health system over the past few years, but we’ve seen very little action.
Today our message is very clear; it is time for Congress to act for mental health by supporting the passage of a comprehensive mental health bill this year.
I understand that the details around comprehensive meant at that tall health care are complex. I’m not a policy expert, in any way, shape, or form.
I do know the basics of comprehensive care make good sense, common sense. Comprehensive care means that as a nation, we step up our efforts to prevent suicide, which is currently the second leading cause of death for young adults in the United States.
Comprehensive care means that if a man with mental illness gets diabetes or cancer, his doctors work together to determine what is the best approach for his mind and victims.
Comprehensive care also means that when a woman leaves as a psychiatric hospital, there’s a process in place to make sure she gets the care that she needs, so she didn’t end up back in jail, hospitals, or on the streets, or worst of all, even dead.
At the heart of it, comprehensive care means that our mental health systems reach people early, and far more often, fewer people fall through the cracks and suffer alone.
I’m so proud to be here with you today; together, as mental health advocates, we can make our voices heard.
Our shared message is simple, like you said, keep it simple. Support passage of a comprehensive mental health bill this year.
So go out there and make today count. Together we will make a difference as we act for mental health.
Don’t forget to tweet and post throughout the day. We all know that gets the word going. I’m about to right now, you know, not sitting on an important panel.
I’m so proud of this community today, and I want the entire world to know that I’m proud of everyone in here, and I’m also proud of myself for getting the help that I need, and you can have that too.
