I wasn't daunted, and am not daunted by the responsibilities that that role creates. It was a challenge, it is a challenge. 
Well, it took a long time to understand why people were so interested in me, but I assumed it was because my husband had done a lot of wonderful work leading up to our marriage and our relationship. 
Yes I do, on reflection. But then here was a situation which hadn't ever happened before in history, in the sense that the media were everywhere, and here was a fairy story that everybody wanted to work. 
I swam. We went to Alice Springs, to Australia, and we went and did a walkabout, and I said to my husband: `What do I do now?' 
Yes, I was very daunted because as far as I was concerned I was a fat, chubby, 20-year-old, 21-year-old, and I couldn't understand the level of interest. 
Very much so. But, the pressure on us both as a couple with the media was phenomenal, and misunderstood by a great many people. 
Well, they weren't on the right side to wave at me or to touch me. 
Yes - which I felt very uncomfortable with, and I felt it was unfair, because I wanted to share. 
No, not particularly, because with the media attention came a lot of jealousy, a great deal of complicated situations arose because of that. 
No, I was very confused by which area I should go into. Then I found myself being more and more involved with people who were rejected by society - with, I'd say, drug addicts, alcoholism, battered this, battered that - and I found an affinity there. 
No, no one sat me down with a piece of paper and said: `This is what is expected of you.' But there again, I'm lucky enough in the fact that I have found my role, and I'm very conscious of it, and I love being with people. 
I think so. I remember when I used to sit on hospital beds and hold people's hands, people used to be sort of shocked because they said they'd never seen this before, and to me it was quite a normal thing to do. 
Enormous relief. I felt the whole country was in labour with me. Enormous relief. 
Yes, I came from a family where there were four of us, so we had enormous fun there. 
Well, everybody was thrilled to bits. It had been quite a difficult pregnancy - I hadn't been very well throughout it - so by the time William arrived it was a great relief because it was all peaceful again, and I was well for a time. 
Yes, very much so. I never had had a depression in my life. 
I received a great deal of treatment, but I knew in myself that actually what I needed was space and time to adapt to all the different roles that had come my way. 
I knew I could do it, but I needed people to be patient and give me the space to do it. 
Well, it was a very short space of time: in the space of a year my whole life had changed, turned upside down, and it had its wonderful moments, but it also had challenging moments. 
And I could see where the rough edges needed to be smoothed. 
Well maybe I was the first person ever to be in this family who ever had a depression or was ever openly tearful. 
And obviously that was daunting, because if you've never seen it before how do you support it? 
Well, it gave everybody a wonderful new label - Diana's unstable and Diana's mentally unbalanced. And unfortunately that seems to have stuck on and off over the years. 
I think people used it and it stuck, yes. 
Mmm. When no one listens to you, or you feel no one's listening to you, all sorts of things start to happen. 
Well, I just hurt my arms and my legs; and I work in environments now where I see women doing similar things and I'm able to understand completely where they're coming from. 
Well, I didn't actually always do it in front of him. But obviously anyone who loves someone would be very concerned about it. 
No, but then not many people would have taken the time to see that. 
I felt compelled to perform. Well, when I say perform, I was compelled to go out and do my engagements and not let people down and support them and love them. 
Yes I did, yes I did. 
Yes, I did. I had bulimia for a number of years. And that's like a secret disease. 
Depends on the pressures going on. If I'd been on what I call an awayday, or I'd been up part of the country all day, I'd come home feeling pretty empty, because my engagements at that time would be to do with people dying, people very sick, people's marriage problems, and I'd come home and it would be very difficult to know how to comfort myself having been comforting lots of other people, so it would be a regular pattern to jump into the fridge. 
The cause was the situation where my husband and I had to keep everything together because we didn't want to disappoint the public, and yet obviously there was a lot of anxiety going on within our four walls. 
You could say the word subjected, but it was my escape mechanism, and it worked, for me, at that time. 
No. You, you have to know that when you have bulimia you're very ashamed of yourself and you hate yourself, so - and people think you're wasting food - so you don't discuss it with people. 
Oh yes, a number of times. 
Well, it was just, `I suppose you're going to waste that food later on?' And that was pressure in itself. 
And of course I would, because it was my release valve. 
A long time, a long time. But I'm free of it now. 
Mmm. A little bit more than that. 
Well, we were a newly-married couple, so obviously we had those pressures too, and we had the media, who were completely fascinated by everything we did. 
It made it very difficult, because for a situation where it was a couple working in the same job - we got out the same car, we shook the same hand, my husband did the speeches, I did the handshaking - so basically we were a married couple doing the same job, which is very difficult for anyone, and more so if you ve got all the attention on you. 
Not at all, no. 
No. I think we had a great deal of interest - we both liked people, both liked country life, both loved children, work in the cancer field, work in hospices. 
Well, I don't think I was allowed to have any. I think that I've always been the 18-year-old girl he got engaged to, so I don't think I've been given any credit for growth. 
And, my goodness, I've had to grow. 
Well anything good I ever did nobody ever said a thing, never said, `well done', or `was it OK?' But if I tripped up, which invariably I did, because I was new at the game, a ton of bricks came down on me. 
Well obviously there were lots of tears, and one could dive into the bulimia, into escape. 
Well, we had unique pressures put upon us, and we both tried our hardest to cover them up, but obviously it wasn't to be. 
Yes I was, but I wasn't in a position to do anything about it. 
Oh, a woman's instinct is a very good one. 
Well, I had, obviously I had knowledge of it. 
Well, from people who minded and cared about our marriage, yes. 
Pretty devastating. Rampant bulimia, if you can have rampant bulimia, and just a feeling of being no good at anything and being useless and hopeless and failed in every direction. 
With a husband who loved someone else, yes. 
Uh,uh. I didn't think that, I knew it. 
By the change of behavioural pattern in my husband; for all sorts of reasons that a woman's instinct produces; you just know. 
Well, people were - when I say people I mean friends, on my husband's side - were indicating that I was again unstable, sick, and should be put in a home of some sort in order to get better. 
I was almost an embarrassment. 
Well, there's no better way to dismantle a personality than to isolate it. 
Uh,uh, very much so. 
Well, there were three of us in this marriage, so it was a bit crowded. 
I think everybody was very anxious because they could see there were complications but didn't want to interfere, but were there, made it known that they were there if required. 
No, because again the media was very interested about our set-up, inverted commas; when we went abroad we had separate apartments, albeit we were on the same floor, so of course that was leaked, and that caused complications. 
Uh,uh. And we were a very good team in public; albeit what was going on in private, we were a good team. 
Well, that's their problem. I know what it felt like. 
I never met him, no. 
A lot of people saw the distress that my life was in, and they felt it was a supportive thing to help in the way that they did. 
Yes, I did. Yes, I did. 
I was at the end of my tether. I was desperate. 
I don't know. Maybe people have a better understanding, maybe there's a lot of women out there who suffer on the same level but in a different environment, who are unable to stand up for themselves because their self-esteem is cut into two. 
I think they were shocked and horrified and very disappointed. 
I think Mr Dimbleby's book was a shock to a lot of people and disappointment as well. 
Well, what had been hidden - or rather what we thought had been hidden - then became out in the open and was spoken about on a daily basis, and the pressure was for us to sort ourselves out in some way. 
Well, we struggled along. We did our engagements together. And in our private life it was obviously turbulent. 
Yes, slowly, yes. My husband and I, we discussed it very calmly. 
So we got the lawyers together, we discussed separation - obviously there were a lot of people to discuss it with: the Prime Minister, Her Majesty - and then it moved itself, so to speak. 
Deep, deep, profound sadness. Because we had struggled to keep it going, but obviously we'd both run out of steam. 
No. Not at all. I come from a divorced background, and I didn't want to go into that one again. 
We, I asked my husband if we could put the announcement out before the children came back from school for Christmas holidays because they were protected in the school they were at. 
Yes. I went down a week beforehand, and explained to them what was happening. 
I think the announcement had a huge effect on me and Charles, really, and the children were very much out of it, in the sense that they were tucked away at school. 
People's agendas changed overnight. I was now separated wife of the Prince of Wales, I was a problem, I was a liability , and how are we going to deal with her? 
This hasn't happened before. 
People around me, people in this environment, and ... 
People in my environment, yes, yes. 
Yes, very much so, uh,uh. 
By visits abroad being blocked, by things that had come naturally my way being stopped, letters going, that got lost, and various things. 
Yes. Everything changed after we separated, and life became very difficult then for me. 
Well, my husband's side were very busy stopping me. 
I felt very protective about James because he'd been a very good friend to me and was a very good friend to me, and I couldn't bear that his life was going to be messed up because he had the connection with me. 
Yes we did, absolutely we did. Yup, we did. 
Yes. I mean he is a very affectionate person. 
No, but it was done to harm me in a serious manner, and that was the first time I'd experienced what it was like to be outside the net, so to speak, and not be in the family. 
It was to make the public change their attitude towards me. 
I was reputed to have made 300 telephone calls in a very short space of time which, bearing in mind my lifestyle at that time, made me a very busy lady. 
I used to, yes, I had rung up, yes. 
I don't know. Over a period of six to nine months, a few times, but certainly not in an obsessive manner, no. 
Yes I did, absolutely, yeah. 
I was the separated wife of the Prince of Wales, I was a problem, fullstop. Never happened before, what do we do with her? 
She won't go quietly, that's the problem. I'll fight to the end, because I believe that I have a role to fulfil, and I've got two children to bring up. 
The pressure was intolerable then, and my job, my work was being affected. 
Well, I don't know. I mean, I did a lot of work, well, underground, without any media attention, so I never really stopped doing it. 
Well, the enemy was my husband's department, because I always got more publicity, my work was more, was discussed much more than him. 
I think it was out of fear, because here was a strong woman doing her bit, and where was she getting her strength from to continue? 
Well, I was totally unaware of the content of the book, and actually saw it on the news that night that it had come out, and my first concern was to the children, because they were able to understand what was coming out, and I wanted to protect them. 
Well, to be honest about a relationship with someone else, in his position - that's quite something. 
I went to the school and put it to William, particularly, that if you find someone you love in life you must hang on to it and look after it, and if you were lucky enough to find someone who loved you then one must protect it. 
Well, he's a child that's a deep thinker, and we don't know for a few years how it's gone in. But I put it in gently, without resentment or any anger. 
Mmm. I take full responsibility, I take some responsibility that our marriage went the way it did. I'll take half of it, but I won't take any more than that, because it takes two to get in this situation. 
Absolutely, we both made mistakes. 
He was a great friend of mine at a very difficult, yet another difficult time, and he was always there to support me, and I was absolutely devastated when this book appeared, because I trusted him, and because, again, I worried about the reaction on my children. 
Well, there was a lot of fantasy in that book, and it was very distressing for me that a friend of mine, who I had trusted, made money out of me. 
I really minded about that. 
Yes it did, yes. 
Yes, I adored him. Yes, I was in love with him. But I was very let down. 
Yes, I don't mind that actually. You know, people think that at the end of the day a man is the only answer. 
Actually, a fulfilling job is better for me. 
Well, I mean any gentleman that's been past my door, we've instantly been put together in the media and all hell's broken loose, so that's been very tough on the male friends I've had, and obviously from my point of view. 
No, I'm not really on my own. I've got wonderful friends, I've got my boys, I've got my work. 
I still to this day find the interest daunting and phenomenal, because I actually don't like being the centre of attention. 
I've never encouraged the media. There was a relationship which worked before, but now I can't tolerate it because it's become abusive and it's harassment. 
Well I am by the nature of my situation, yes, but I don't feel sorry for myself in any way. 
I'd like to be an ambassador for this country. I'd like to represent this country abroad. 
I've been in a privileged position for 15 years. I've got tremendous knowledge about people and how to communicate. 
I've learnt that, I've got it, and I want to use it. 
I think the British people need someone in public life to give affection, to make them feel important, to support them, to give them light in their dark tunnels. 
I know I can, I know I can, yes. 
No, I don't feel blame. I mean, once or twice I've heard people say to me that, you know, `Diana's out to destroy the monarchy', which has bewildered me, because why would I want to destroy something that is my children's future. 
They don't care. People don't care any more. They've been so force-fed with marital problems, whatever, whatever, whatever, that they're fed up. 
I understand that change is frightening for people, especially if there's nothing to go to. It's best to stay where you are. 
I understand that. 
Well, with William and Harry, for instance, I take them round homelessness projects, I ve taken William and Harry to people dying of Aids - albeit I told them it was cancer - I ve taken the children to all sorts of areas where I'm not sure anyone of that age in this family has been before. 
I want them to have an understanding of people's emotions, people's insecurities, people's distress, and people's hopes and dreams. 
I would like a monarchy that has more contact with its people - and I don't mean by riding round bicycles and things like that, but just having a more in-depth understanding. 
I don't want a divorce, but obviously we need clarity on a situation that has been of enormous discussion over the last three years in particular. 
I would obviously discuss it with him, but up to date neither of us has discussed this subject, though the rest of the world seems to have. 
No, it's not my wish. 
Why would it resolve matters? 
Yes, but what about the children? Our boys - that's what matters, isn't it? 
No, I don't, no. 
I'd like to be a queen of people's hearts, in people's hearts, but I don't see myself being Queen of this country. 
I don't think many people will want me to be Queen. 
Because I do things differently, because I don't go by a rule book, because I lead from the heart, not the head, and albeit that's got me into trouble in my work, I understand that. 
But someone's got to go out there and love people and show it. 
Yes, well not precluded me. I wouldn't say that. I just don't think I have as many supporters in that environment as I did. 
Uh,uh. They see me as a threat of some kind, and I'm here to do good: I'm not a destructive person. 
I think every strong woman in history has had to walk down a similar path, and I think it's the strength that causes the confusion and the fear. 
I don't think any of us know the answer to that. And obviously it's a question that's in everybody's head. 
But who knows, who knows what fate will produce, who knows what circumstances will provoke? 
There was always conflict on that subject with him when we discussed it, and I understood that conflict, because it's a very demanding role, being Prince of Wales, but it's an equally more demanding role being King. 
Well, then you have to see that William's very young at the moment, so do you want a burden like that to be put on his shoulders at such an age? 
So I can't answer that question. 
My wish is that my husband finds peace of mind, and from that follows others things, yes. 
Because we will have been separated three years this December, and the perception that has been given of me for the last three years has been very confusing, turbulent, and in some areas I'm sure many, many people doubt me. 
Uh,uh. The people that matter to me - the man on the street, yup, because that's what matters more than anything else. 
I don't sit here with resentment: I sit here with sadness because a marriage hasn't worked. 
