What's up, Atlanta? Thank you, Oprah, for having me. Thank you, guys. 
I love you, too. Thank you, mom. I would love to—I'd love to—where's Erik? 
Where's Erik? Erik, where are you, Erik? 
Come up here, brother. 
Erik. I just want to say what a pleasure it is. And you're such an inspiration.And thank you for being a fan. 
I'm honored that you're a fan. And backstage you look 20 years younger. Give me a hug. 
Absolutely. I had to say hello to you. 
That's one of those great moments. 
It has. It's been a challenging past couple of days. My father, he passed away on January 15 and we just buried him a few days ago. 
And it's—we all go through this, and we all go through this, our own process of grieving and regrets and all these things and emotions that we go through. 
And—but, again, it's the cycle of life. And it's beautiful. It's painful. 
It's incredible. It's all these things. And I will tell you this. 
In this process—I had a very complicated relationship with my dad. And it was really—there was a foundation of tough love with my father. 
And he wasn't a big "I love you" guy. And as complicated as it was, what gave me great satisfaction at the funeral was to see he—he was a great friend to so many guys. 
A challenged father. But a great friend to so many people. So he went quick. 
There wasn't a lot of suffering, thankfully, but— 
No, I did not. So, you know, that's the tricky thing I think as we all go through this and we all lose loved ones, I think what I've realized in the past couple of weeks is it's good to explore these feelings. 
I'm feeling a little guilty and I didn't get a chance to say the things I wanted to say. Or I wish he would have said the things to me— 
—As a father, now as a father of three daughters, the important critical things that anchor us that I didn't get from him. 
And it's okay to explore those feelings. But it's also very important to heal, to make sure that we come back to an anchoring foundation of—of gratitude. 
Gratitude for what I was able to have with him. 
You know. And so I didn't get a chance to say the things that I wanted to say to him. However, another thing that is important, too, is, you know, because in death, that's when we can spiral and think, well, I should have done this. 
Or I should have called. And I should have sent more pictures. But we've got to realize that the relationship that I had with my dad was a relationship that was—that was appropriate at that time. 
I felt that he was proud of me when I became successful in an industry that he had given his life to. 
So my father, for a lot of you guys who don't know, he was a professional wrestler. 
And my grandfather was a professional wrestler, too. And my dad, Rocky Johnson, was—I'm half black and half Samoan. 
The reason why I say this, my dad was a—a black man coming up in the '60s and '70s in a world of professional wrestling which in all—and a lot of the companies he wrestled at was all throughout the South. 
So he was a trailblazer in many ways because what he was able to do as a black man was wrestle. We lived here in Atlanta when I was a kid. 
What he was able to do was go to these small towns where it was an all-white wrestling business, an all-white audience, and at that time in the late '60s where racial tension and divide was still very strong, and the wounds were still there, but he was able to change behavior. 
The audience's behavior. So this all-white audience who would never cheer a black man, cheered him in these arenas. 
And he was actually—and he was—it's not like he was wrestling these other black men. He was wrestling these other white wrestlers. 
So in a trailblazing sense, he was a trailblazer. He did a lot of things that had never been done. But he also changed audience behavior, which is so hard. 
And the reason why I bring that up is because he was adamantly against me getting into the wrestling business. 
Because when I said to him, I want to get into the professional wrestling business. 
Because it's in my blood. And I felt like I had something to offer. But at that time, we were living in a small apartment in Tampa, Florida. 
And he said, look around. This is what I have. I don't have anything. 
And I don't want that for you. 
So I still had to follow my gut.OPRAH: Yeah. 
And my instinct. And I think years later, once I became successful as a wrestler, he was very, very proud. 
And then what he did, he would take—he would take credit for everything. 
"Of course I taught him everything I know." Yeah. 
I love that you said that. I feel like the day he died, that night I went to bed and I felt—I felt so, again, grateful and moved, like, emotionally, like mana and energy because I realized, like, oh, wow. 
I have a new relationship with you. 
In death I have a new relationship in spirit. I have a new relationship with you clean slate. No regrets. 
No pain. No anger. No complication. 
Just me and you. 
Okay. So mana, in Polynesian culture, we have a word called mana. And mana is a powerful word. 
It means spirit. Power. And so, for example, an example of mana is when we walk out and we walk on stage, the mana in this room is so palpable. 
We've got good mana here. And that's what it is. It's very powerful. 
It's a very powerful thing. 
Yes. Extremely scary. 
Um, I— I am. I'm not super strict. But discipline is important. 
And—but also, you know, I'll go back to my dad. My dad loved me with the small capacity with which he was capable of. 
And so I learned from that. And so with my daughters, I want to be as full and as present with the love that I give them. 
I want my daughters to know that I love them unconditionally. Truly unconditionally. Without condition. 
And I have a daughter who's 18 years old. Her name is Simone. Jasmine, who just turned four. 
Tiana, thank you, who is getting ready to turn two. And I am, as I told my 18-year-old daughter, Simone, I said, I love you. 
I'm gonna tell you I love you every day. I'm gonna text you I love you. 
Yes. Because I didn't get that. 
And I look at you. I love you. And I'm gonna text you. 
But I also told you, I'm unattached. You don't even have to text me back. Right? 
You can text me tomorrow, but it's okay. It's without condition. It's unconditional love. 
And I also want to teach my daughters the value of hard work. More importantly, I want to teach my daughters the value of being kind. 
And how important that is. 
It was definitely my work ethic. My dad was a man who—who, against the odds, made it. And—but he would get up at usually 5:00, 5:30 in the morning. 
And he would say, if I get up you're gonna get up, too. He would drag me to the gym: By the way, I'm five years old and he would drag me to the gym. 
And I wouldn't work out but he would make sure that I was there and I would be with him. And that was our time that we would spend together. 
But I would say my work ethic from my dad—my dad always said that regardless of what you do in life and where you go, respect is going to be given when it's earned, and you have to go out and earn it every single day.OPRAH: Yeah. 
So your dad taught you a lot. I wonder, what have your daughters taught you? 
My daughters taught me how to be, I think, more caring and more sensitive and more selfless. 
I was right there. 
I mean, right there. 
I was right there, yeah. Bring it on. I mean, this is our moment. 
It's the greatest thing that I have ever experienced in my life. And it gave me such a profound respect for my babies' mamas. 
I have two. I was once married and now I'm happily married. Lauren is back there. 
We've known each other for 13 years now. But I have—it is—has been the most profound experience of my life because also, too, you know, when you meet someone—as a man, you meet someone, you meet a woman, and this is gonna be the one. 
And you want to get married. And my first marriage didn't work out. But then the birth of a child and what that does and the—the aliens’ perspective just shifts and it gives me a new profound respect for, again, their moms. 
She did. Yes. Yes. 
We still are. So my first—my ex-wife, Dany, we—the marriage didn't work out. And it was just one of those things where it wasn't an ugly divorce. 
It was just—marriage wasn't in our cards. Great friends. Marriage wasn't in our cards. 
But we had—but we both had an appetite for business and to accomplish things. And we thought, well, what if we continued to do business together? 
And do you think we can? And it felt like it was—like we can make something happen. And we did. 
No, it doesn't have to be ugly. 
—and what that feeling— 
Oh, thank you. I do all right. Thank you. 
It's great for the ego. It's wonderful. I think that— 
Oh, sure. Very important. People I have around me and how important that is. 
Yes. She's called my wife. Yes. 
Yes. Lauren can tell me the truth. And by the way, this is the tricky thing, too, being in this position is we want to make sure we have people around us who are inspired to do well and reach for and continue to share our vision. 
But also at times, say, ‘Well, I'm not quite too sure if that's the right thing to do.’ So, look, I've had a wonderful career, especially coming from being evicted. 
And those titles are nice and everything is fine. But honestly, you know, the—I'm so grateful to be in the position I'm in. 
And I never take anything for granted. I try and—OPRAH: Aren't you glad that you were once evicted? 
Because it gives you such an appreciation for what you have now. 
It just gives such perspective. 
When we were 14 years old, we lived in Hawaii. And we lived in a small efficiency apartment. And we were—my mom and I came home and I'll never forget. 
The rent was $180 a week. 
And there was an eviction notice on the—on the door. And it was—this was the one—it was the final eviction notice. 
Like that's the one. My mom started crying. And I never forgot in that moment—it was a seminal moment for me because I felt like—probably about six months later I thought, I never want to be in this position again. 
What can I do? And this is at 14. So at 14 years old, I thought, well, the heroes in my life, Muhammad Ali, for example, professional wrestlers, they're all men who have worked hard with their hands and they've built their body. 
Ah, yes, that's what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna do what my dad taught me and these other heroes. I'm gonna go build my body so we're never evicted again. 
But being evicted, by the way, as you were saying, has not only given me not just great perspective, but also great gratitude, but also, and my team and my family, we laugh at it, but I feel this way. 
Like, well, you know, we're a month away from being evicted. I've got to go to work. Like I still have that in my head.OPRAH: You still have that. 
I still have that in my head, you know. But it keeps you grounded by the way. 
That's why the—the most this and the most that, again, it's wonderful. But the alternative is what I once was. 
So, for example, with our 18-year-old daughter, it was really important that we share those stories. 
Share those stories about being evicted. Her mom's parents were—were immigrants who came over from Cuba. 
It's important that we've always shared those stories. And also, we live—we try and keep it as simple as we possibly can. 
I live—we have a farm in Virginia. Happily to say I moved my family here to Atlanta. 
A place 35, 40 minutes away where it's very quiet. But also just making sure that we continue to instill in the babies and the kids the value of a dollar and what it means and the value of food and always saying how grateful we are and the things that we're grateful for. 
Especially at that young age. 
I never imagined this. I—at one time when I was a kid, I did feel in my heart and in my gut that I was—that I thought, oh, I think the world's gonna hear from me. 
I don't know how. But I do feel that way. But I never thought in my mind it was this level of success or fame, even. 
It was, I don't know how, but the world's gonna hear from me. So, you know, which is maybe why, you know, I—at times I can walk around and I can look at things like I'm a big kid. 
Like everything could—at times can be like I'm in Willie Wonka's chocolate factory. Where I'm really in awe of everything that's happening around me? 
OPRAH: What's the first thing you splurged on when you realized you had enough to splurge? 
Okay. So—all right. The first thing I splurged on. 
So when I was a kid, 14 years old, 13, 14 years old, in my mind, the—what it meant to be successful? 
It was a Rolex watch. 
Right. So there was such a valuable lesson out of this. So I thought for years, oh, wait, everyone—every successful man has a Rolex watch. 
It has diamonds in it. So when I finally was making a little bit of money, and this was in 1999, and I thought, okay—and this—by the way, I was still living in an apartment paying monthly rent. 
I was just renting. Horrible financial— 
This is what not to do. So I thought, this is it. I'm gonna splurge. 
And I went and I got myself a Rolex. And I wore it. At that time, I was wrestling. 
I wore it in the ring, not for a match, but I was doing an interview in the ring. And I wore it in the ring. 
And a melee broke out, which always happens in the wild world of professional wrestling. One of the wrestlers fell on the Rolex when it came off. 
It broke. Live TV. And you see me, oh, my gosh. 
My Rolex. And I'm supposed to be in the moment and wrestling these other guys. Oh, no. 
My Rolex. Like you can see on the tape I'm trying to get my Rolex. And somebody's, like, kicking me. 
And I was trying to get it. So I finally get my Rolex back. I go back stage and I look at it. 
I'm heartbroken now. This is my thing. And I go home that night and I remember—I remember immediately thinking, this is a sign. 
And I will—and I don't need it. And it wasn't right for me at that time. And I never got anything like that again. 
I do. I'm not a big bling guy or anything like that. And I—I always want to just make sure that—now the splurge is usually with property. 
Like we have two properties. That way— 
Yes. Yes, you do. 
And also our property is our anchor. It's where we become comfortable. So it's that and a few pickup trucks. 
Okay. So thank you for bringing that up. So this is—it was a turning point in my career. 
And it really allowed me to—to grow. And it really allowed me just to be me. And be anchored in with who I am. 
So when I first started wrestling, the idea was, well, why don't you call yourself Rocky 
—and your grandfather, Peter Maivia. I hated the name. And I thought, well, I just wanted to make my own way. 
And I wanted to be independent. I loved my family. But I don't want to do it like that. 
Because it feels like I'm trying to leverage their fame. The powers that be said, nope. That's your name. 
I was also told, well, when you go out and you wrestle, you have to smile. Do you have—I want you to smile big. 
This is in the WWE. 
The idea was I was a rookie in the wrestling business. I was a—what's called—in the wrestling business, there's a term called "baby face," which is a good guy. 
I was being groomed as a good guy wrestler. Young. The idea was, you're grateful. 
Grateful for the opportunity. So when you go out there, I want you to smile. You can't smile enough. 
And I thought, well, what if I lose? 
You've still got to smile. And it just didn't feel right. That just didn't sit right with me. 
So a few months later, the company made me the intercontinental champion. And then a month later, we go into the annual biggest event, it's like the Super Bowl of wrestling, WrestleMania. 
And it was WrestleMania 13. By the time I got to Chicago, WrestleMania, 16,000 people. In the middle of the ring, when I was in the ring, and I'm supposed to be a good guy and they're supposed to cheer me. 
16,000 people were chanting: Rocky sucks. 
Thank you for laughing. But it was— 
There's a reverb that happens in the arena. 
And when in unison— 
—not one person. You suck. 
Sixteen thousand. A was—I remember laying there in the ring and the referee said to me, don't listen to 'em. 
And it was crippling for me. 
But—so then at that time the powers that be thought, this isn't gonna work. And for whatever reason, people are not liking you and they're not connecting with you. 
And so in that moment, I—it was very defining because I asked then if I could just be myself. 
And if I could go out there. And if I can speak to the crowd and if I could just be myself and be authentic. 
And if I don't want to smile, I don't smile. If I want to laugh, I laugh. If I want to sing, I sing. 
Whatever it is, I just want to be me. Can I have that for one minute of live TV time? The powers that be at that time, Vince McMahon, said, you've got it. 
So on raw, live TV. I grabbed the microphone. And I said, I may be a lot of things. 
But sucks isn't one of 'em. And I said something to the effect of, basically, it's not a “this” thing. 
It's not a “that” thing. It's a “me-being-myself” thing. And before you know it, I guess the moral of the story is, the importance in the power of finding your identity and being true to who you are, even in that wild world of pro wrestling, it still applies to everyone in the room, and how powerful that can be. 
Because it was a true shift and click moment. And I never looked back. And I became, fortunately, the biggest draw that the business has ever seen.OPRAH: Wow. 
And didn't—isn't that the moment, really, that particular moment, the "you suck moment" turned into the moment of you becoming The Rock and no longer Rocky? 
So that's when it was Rocky Maivia. And I said, you know what? I'm not gonna be called that. 
We're gonna shorten it. I'll be called The Rock. And here we go. 
I do. So what that means is I still see every opportunity that I have as like a little crack in the wall, a little scratch, and I—it's almost as if, like, every opportunity represents—the scratch represents every opportunity. 
Therefore, the success on the other side of the scratch is the light. Scratching hard. Clawing. 
Digging. It's that mentality to really take advantage of every opportunity I have. 
I have today. Yes. In this—yes. 
This time in my life. 
Yes. Because there was a time where I wasn't quite too sure if I was confident enough as to the why and why it was happening and what am I doing? 
Because it wasn't very systematic. It wasn't—it felt like I had a big blueprint because there really wasn't a blueprint for me to follow when I came from wrestling to Hollywood. 
There wasn't, a, oh, look, just do it like that other black Samoan guy did it and you're gonna be great. 
Because at that time the biggest movie stars in the world were George Clooney. 
I did a movie called The Rundown, yes, where he walked by and said, "Have fun." And he was great in that. 
I think all of it is connected. You know, what I do love, I love any—whether it's acting or wrestling or producing or any of the other businesses or investments, it all just has to have a connective tissue to me. 
Yes. It's almost like a physical soap opera. And I always say with wrestling— 
Like a physical soap opera. Like physical theater. I always tell people, I say, you know, whenever I would win, it was very real. 
Like wrestling is very real because I was literally beating my opponent and it was very legit. But whenever I would lose, oh, it's fake. 
It's not real. That didn't happen. 
I was. I was the very first third generation wrestler in the history of wrestling. And I went on to have a pretty accomplished career. 
And what I'm also proud of is my first daughter, Simone, who is 18 years old, straight A student, she's at the University of Central Florida, she's training now to become a WWE superstar. 
She's working so hard. 
Yes. But let me give everybody context as to why I travel with a gym. It's just—it's very—it's hard—there we go. 
I do. Yes so the gym for me, and this physical activity for me, is my anchor. And I always—I would recommend that for all of you guys in the room is for us to find that anchor, whether it's hiking or biking or yoga or meditation or whatever it is. 
Because for me, the gym or just some sort of physical activity, it anchors my day and then it allows me to go on and work for the rest of the day. 
It's way more than just physicality. 
It's way more than just picking up a weight. It is my balance. It's my anchor. 
It's my spiritual anchor. Mental. Because what it allows me to do, it's the only time, for me, that—and we all need this, because on this treadmill of life there's no stop button.So it's so crazy. 
It just allows me to block out the noise and clear my head. Think about what I need to do or accomplish or think about the things I need to accomplish without the influx of information and people trying to tug at me and pull at me 
My workout today was I did chest and I did back. 
I did those things. I did the things like— 
There's a lot of cheese being delivered on that pizza right there. 
I did. I had a dream, and that dream was to play professional football. I fell in love with the game of football. 
Played at the University of Miami. We had a great——thank you. Great teams. 
We won a national championship. My goal was to play in the NFL. Again, because we didn't have a lot of money. 
So I wanted to be the first one to buy my parents a house. Buy myself a house. I never lived in a house until I was 29 years old. 
And the dream didn't come true. I didn't get drafted. I didn't get any offers. 
Nothing. I had to work up in Canada in the Canadian Football League. 
And when I was cut—thank you. When I was cut from there, when I was cut from there, I had—my dad had to come pick me up. 
And I'll never forget. We were on I-75. He lived in Tampa. 
Came to Miami. Got in his pickup truck. We drove up I-75. 
And I'm 23 years old. I am forced to move back in with my parents. Which I was—you know, because you want to tackle the world and have all these dreams. 
And none of it came true. And it was also hard because all my friends around me, those teammates, they were NFL stars and they became millionaires buying their parents a home. 
You know, that's the thing. You want to buy your mom a home. So I said, I wonder how much money I have. 
And I took out my wallet and I had a six—I'm sorry, I had a five, a one, and some change. And I rounded up to be optimistic. 
And I said, oh, I have seven bucks. And now everything, my production company, and all marketing, everything is Seven Bucks. 
We do. We have a special thing coming to Atlanta. It's called Athleticon. 
Yeah, thank you. 
It's great. Athleticon is—imagine if Oprah's 2020 Vision Tour and Comic-Con and a great fitness expo had a baby. 
So Athleticon is—we're bringing together the best of athletics and entertainment and wellness. And we're going to have it here in Atlanta and the city's been great and I can't wait. 
And it's gonna be at the end of—towards the end of the year. 
I saw it. Yes. 
Look, here's the thing. I've got—okay, we've got work to do. That was so funny. 
I saw that. But, yes, I think in the spirit of populating the human race and taking care of the human race, I just have to ask my wife Lauren. 
I'm sure she'll be down with that. 
Yes. It's completely changing. It's been a long time overdue. 
That's been a learning experience since my daughters were born. And that—but that continues to evolve. 
It's just—it's a continuously—it's a continued management attend to growth thing but also being acutely, I think, empathetic. 
That was a big thing, too, was just the power of empathy— 
—and really trying to be empathetic to my family and also people. But then also self-empathy, too, really helped me. 
I did learn that. It took time for me to learn that one because I had gone through—my first bout of depression I was 18 years old. 
After that I think I was 23. Then after that was when I got a divorce. So there had been a learning experience through that. 
Therapy really helped me. 
Once I understood the—once I understood that, number one, I'm not alone when it comes to mental struggle and that we all go through it. 
Because growing up, being in a house—like my dad was tough love. So sharing feelings and emotions, I didn't have that. 
So I held everything in. Plus I was an only child. And— 
I was the strong, silent type. 
Meanwhile, there was a lot of stuff happening going on in here. So I also—so for me to become the man that I am today, fortunately, one was, one, I'm not alone. 
But then the other side to that—that's like the A side. And the B side, and maybe the most—maybe the most important side is to communicate and talk and get it out and it's okay. 
Like your friend Brene Brown, who I love— 
—we talk about this. 
Yes. About being vulnerable and the power of being vulnerable is something we shy away from. Certainly men. 
Big men really don't cry. You have to be tough through it all. You have to play through the pain and things like that. 
But, you know, over the years, you realize that, A, it's unhealthy. And, B, it's just not me. I realized that me, and the—identifying who I am, and who I am is I need to talk about this. 
I need to talk about this. I need to talk about my issues. My fears. 
My depression. And it will be okay. And so now what I—what I—I—I'm—not only am I okay with it, but at times, I actually enjoy it. 
To be able to get it out. Especially publicly. And talk publicly, too, about it. 
And how important that is, too. Because, yeah, you just realize that it's— OPRAH: Do you feel the weight of your fame? 
I do. I really do. Now, especially as you get a little older, you know, you just feel it. 
Feel the pressure and the weight of everything. This is why it's so important to anchor at home and with the family. 
And good people around as well. 
I do. I'll tell you a funny story about this. And I was gonna show you the text. 
Is last night, I come home from work and my wife, Lauren, goes, are you excited about tomorrow? Oh, I can't wait. 
It's gonna be so good. And I said, you know, I know that Oprah's gonna ask me who my Gayle is. And she's sitting there. 
And I could just see her face kind of lights up a little and she's, like——shifting a little and she's, like, oh, I mean, who—who's your—who's your Gayle? 
And of course, for me, because I'm horrible that way. I'm, like, ooh, there's an opportunity. So I go, well, it's crazy, but I think when I was 15 I had this—my friend Nick— 
Oh, it was so good. And her face changed and then—okay. Okay. 
She's the sweetest woman. Okay. Okay. 
Okay, sure. I said, you know, because it was a really defining time in my life when I was 15 and Nick. 
And she's, like, sure. Sure. Sure. 
So, again, horrible. I leave, I go in the kitchen. I'm eating. 
I took a picture. I said, hey, why don't you come out and eat some of this food with me? She hits me right back. 
Bang, capital letters: "Nick is not your Gayle." 
He is not your Gayle. With 10 exclamation points. 
And I ran into the bedroom. I said, I'm kidding. You're my Gayle. 
So it would be my wife, Lauren. 
A hundred percent. And that's what our relationship is. And it reminds me—we just—we were there this past August and we are there and there was— 
I did. I wasn't—let me just—we knew we were getting married. But I was waiting for the right opportunity to actually get down on one knee. 
And so I wanted to wait. I wanted to go to Hawaii. I wanted it to be special. 
I didn't want to do it in my living room. So I kept telling her, I know we're planning the wedding. 
And I know we're going through all the process. I promise you I'm going to get down on one knee. So three days before, I said to her—we took the babies on a walk. 
I said, hey, let's take a walk. We went out to the cliff and we're just looking at the sunset, and I get down on one knee. 
She turns around. And I said, will you marry me? It was wonderful. 
It was beautiful. 
We got married—we got married very early. I've got to work out. That's the thing. 
I've got to—no. We got married—married very early because in Hawaii, you know, everybody was up who traveled in because of the time difference and—and also we had a very small wedding. 
I mean, maybe there were 10 adults. Ten people. That was it. 
We'd probably either be playing with the girls or—or fishing. I love doing that. Like on the properties we have. 
Like I love raising fish and bass and striped bass and things like that. I'm a real country boy at heart. 
So we do a lot of fishing. 
Remember that you're usually wrong. Number one. But I would say keywords remember: "Yes, honey, you're right." But, listen. 
I would say that it's—really listen. Become a really good listener. And it took me a long time to understand that and how important that was. 
Because when you become a good listener and you're really listening to your partner in this relationship of love and spirit as you talk about, then inherently, you become more empathetic. 
And when you become more empathetic, then you just understand your wife and your partner on a deeper level, on a greater level, and then there's a greater level of appreciation, too, as well. 
And then you make babies. Yeah.OPRAH: Then you make babies. Someone asked me this, yesterday. 
And I love this question. What still surprises you the most about people? 
I think the thing that surprises me the most about people, I don't know if it's a surprise. Maybe it just gives me great comfort, and I like it, it makes me feel good, is probably in our world today, there's such a magnification of—of negativity and pessimism. 
And it's always out there and it's around. But people are good. The majority of people, I feel, are good. 
In their hearts, they're good. 
That I still get wide-eyed at a lot of things that are very—like even though you've had the dance before and you've been around the block I get wide-eyed at things like this and little—I get wide-eyed at—at the little things. 
Like I really appreciate the little things. 
Myself? No. Tom Hanks. 
One hundred percent. 
Well, I do think there's a musical. I would still love to do a musical. That's the thing. 
I love music and maybe that—I did Moana for Disney, which we sang a little bit of that. Thank you for that. 
Thank you. That was fun. With Lin-Manuel Miranda. 
But, yeah, maybe a musical one day. 
I did. I mean, look, I've got to tell you, that ticket looks pretty good, Oprah and The Rock. 
As I would, yours. 
But I also find it very consistent. Like even throughout the year I'm trying to set goals, too, as well. 
The vision for me in 2020 is—well, now since the passing of my dad, it's shifted a little bit into just a greater appreciation for life. 
I want to talk about these little things and, like, really appreciating these little things. I mean, little things and really truly being in the moment, being present, and how important that is. 
And so even more present, because the other stuff, I feel, you know, the fame and the accolades and all that stuff is awesome. 
But that comes and goes. This kind of connection, this and what I have with my family, my daughters, and people like that means everything to me. 
This kind of connection, this and what I have with my family, my daughters, and people like that means everything to me. 
To create an amazing experience for people. And that's important to me. Because that's a—that's an opportunity that I have to give joy. 
And help, whether it's transform or a movie or a thing or whatever it is. Like the audience's experience, the audience experience is something that's deeply personal to me. 
And I think that goes back to when I was—so before the bright lights of the WWE, I was wrestling in a small wrestling company. 
We'd wrestle in flea markets and used car dealerships. You'd put a ring in the used car dealership in the parking lot. 
But the reason why I bring that—and state fairs. But there was an intimacy there. And even at that level it was always about, well, how can I send the audience home happy and make people feel good. 
And by the way, I also feel like if you're in a position to make people feel good, that is such a powerful thing. 
It's such a power in thing. 
That's when everything changed. It was like a shift and click moment for me—for me, when I realized there's great power in being myself, the same thing for all of us, but I do. 
I believe it's the most powerful thing that we can be. It's easier said than done. Because I struggled for a long time trying to figure out, well, what's my identity? 
And who am I? For example, when I got to Hollywood, the very first time I got to Hollywood in the early 2000s, I was told, again, well, if you want to be a star, then you—maybe you shouldn't talk about wrestling. 
Maybe you shouldn't go to the gym as much. Maybe you shouldn't raise your silly eyebrow. You know, there was a lot of things like that. 
And when you don't know, you buy into it. And so I said, okay, maybe—don't call yourself The Rock. Okay. 
So, again, I went through that entire process for years trying to figure out who I was. And then when you look back on my earlier career in films I was doing, they were good, but just not, you know—like, oh, that's how I like to see him because he's his true authentic self. 
Um—yeah, who sucks now, huh? 
One of those. Yes. It was—okay, so at this time when I felt like, okay, I really need to make a change in my career, I need to be me, and I want to have the kind of career that is a global career, and I said, I'm not quite too sure how we're gonna do it, but I need you to buy into the vision with me, and I'm willing to put in the work with my own two hands as I was telling my—my agency at that time in Hollywood. 
Which you know of. And they all looked at me like I had three heads. And they thought, well, we just don't—okay, sure. 
Sure, sure, sure. Kind of placating me. And then eventually I left them and then decided, you know what? 
My name is The Rock and I come from the world of professional wrestling and I look the way I look and I talk the way I talk and I love to workout. 
And you know what? This is who I'm gonna be. And then here I am today. 
So for those who said, we don't get it, kind of sweet revenge. 
I'm most grateful for life. I'm most grateful for an opportunity. I'm most grateful for my family. 
I'm most—gratitude is a big thing with me. I mean, it is truly my—my anchor. 
You, too, right? It's my anchor and I wake up with a heart full of gratitude. And even in death, and even when things don't go right, and even though I didn't make it to the NFL, me making it to the NFL was the best thing that never happened. 
Yes. Because it also gave me a great sense of gratitude to be here. So I would say that it would be—and also I want to tell you, and I'll tell you this, Oprah. 
And I want to tell you guys, like I—I was so excited to come here and do this with you and share a little bit of my story and background and any kind of wisdom that I have learned over the years to share with you guys. 
But I want you to know that especially this week of just, you know, laying my dad to rest, I needed this from you. 
And I thank you. Truly. Thank you. 
Thank you so much. I did. 
I love you back. I truly do. 
Thank you. I did. I needed this. 
And I needed this. I need the love and this mana. Because what I also realized is, and I felt it coming in, is that, you know, you go to rock concerts and things and events and wrestling matches and whatever. 
But, you know, when you come to this room and you have thousands, 12, 13, 15,000 people who have one intention, which is to be better and give so much love— 
—and receive so much love. 
It's a powerful thing. 
Yes. Well, I know you're a big tequila fan and we are. We started a spirits company. 
And tequila is the first expression. Tequila—like you, I'm a tequila lover. And I have a special surprise for you. 
I have a tequila surprise for you. And it's coming out. 
This tequila is called— 
So I thought—this is Teremana. It's gonna come out next month. I thought the occasion was appropriate, because not only we're tequila lovers, and not only was this an amazing day, but also it is an early birthday gift to you. 
And also this is the very—so none of this has ever been seen. This is the very first bottle ever of Teremana tequila. 
And it is going to you. And I'm gonna pour us just a sip. 
I will. Yes. And this is a sipping tequila. 
So we're not gonna— 
Thank you, Oprah. And cheers. 
Thank you. It means a lot. Thank you very much. 
I will. I promise. Thank you, guys. 
