What hate speech are you talking about? I mean, you use Twitter? 
Do you see a rise in hate speech? Just your personal anecdote, do you? I don’t. 
You see more hate speech personally? 
Content you don’t like, or hateful. Describe a hateful thing? 
So you think if it’s something is slightly sexist it should be banned? 
I’m just curious. I’m trying to understand what you mean by “hateful content.” And I’m asking for specific examples. 
And you just said that if something is slightly sexist, that’s hateful content. Does that mean that it should be banned? 
That’s why I’m asking for examples. Can you name one example? 
You can’t name a single example? 
You said you’ve seen more hateful content, but you can’t name a single example. Not even one. 
Then how could you see the hateful content? 
Then you must have at some point seen the For You hateful content. I’m asking for one example. 
And you can’t give a single one. 
Then I say, sir, that you don’t know what you’re talking about. 
Yes. Because you can’t give a single example of hateful content. Not even one tweet. 
And yet you claimed that the hateful content was high. That’s false. 
You just lied. 
Give me one example. 
You literally can’t give me one. 
People will say all sorts of nonsense. I’m literally asking for a single example and you can’t name one. 
Then how did you know? You literally said- 
You literally said you experienced more hateful content and then couldn’t name a single example. 
That’s absurd. 
Then how would you know if there’s hateful content? 
Has BBC changed the Covid misinformation? 
No, I’m talking about the BBC’s misinformation about Covid. 
Well, Covid is no longer an issue. Does the BBC hold itself at all responsible for misinformation regarding masking and side effects of vaccinations, and not reporting on that at all? 
Oh, you thought it wasn’t? 
I’m interviewing you too. 
You weren’t expecting that. 
I believe you can. 
Oh, hey Walter. Let’s invite Walter to speak. He may not wish to speak, but we can at least invite him. 
We’re clearly a well-oiled machine here. 
You’re in. Okay. 
Okay. I don’t see you listed as a speaker. 
I can hear you. 
He’s put you right next to me. 
Yeah, that’s true. Look, this whole thing only came together in a matter of hours. So… 
Yeah. It’s unique. 
Exactly. Wait, is my audio coming through? Just checking. 
Okay. And is James invited too? Well, it doesn’t really matter because- 
I don’t see you listed as a speaker but perhaps you will be. We’ll have to make sure that both mics are on at the same time though. 
Or we’ll get feedback. 
Wow. Okay. We’ve got 200,000 people listening. 
Yes. So I’ll keep us here I guess. 
Yeah, right. This is… 
It’s not top secret. 
Great. Fire away. 
I don’t know. I like spontaneity. And there’s a lot going on and it seems like… I actually do have a lot of respect for the BBC. 
Although I sometimes forget what the BBC stands for. What is it? Just kidding. 
Yes, I do. Yeah. So there’s a lot going on. 
So I thought this might be a good opportunity to answer some questions, and I guess maybe get some feedback too. 
What should we be doing different? I know the BBC, for example, is not thrilled about being labeled state-affiliated media. 
Yeah. So our goal is simply to be as truthful and accurate as possible. So I think we’re adjusting the label to be “publicly funded” which I think is perhaps not too objectionable? 
We’re trying to be accurate. 
Okay. So that would be accurate. If we use the same words that the BBC uses to describe itself, that presumably would be okay. 
I’m not asking you for a yes or no, since you’re not running BBC per se. It probably seems to pass a reasonable test. 
Yeah. Publicly funded. Basically we’re trying to be as accurate as possible. 
I sometimes sleep in the office. In the library. 
I’m not here five days a week. But there’s a library that nobody goes to on the seventh floor and there’s a couch there. 
So I sleep there sometimes. 
Yes. Whatever you want to talk about. 
Well, it’s not been boring. It’s been quite a rollercoaster. Things are going, I think reasonably well. 
We’re seeing some all-time highs in terms of total user time. So we passed 8 billion user minutes per day, which is a lot of user minutes. 
I mean, there have been a few outages, but not for very long. It’s currently working fine. 
At this point I think we’ve got a pretty good handle on what makes Twitter work. And we’re also doing it with two data centers instead of three. 
So we used to have three data centers. We shut down one of them. So we actually have roughly two-thirds of the prior compute capability. 
But we’ve made so many improvements to the core element. In some cases we improved the core algorithm by 80%. 
So the actual CPU usage or computer usage is dramatically less. 
Well, many of these people have predicted that Twitter will cease to function. Their predictions have not turned out to be true. 
Insert Mark Twain saying, “Rumors of my death are greatly exaggerated.” 
I mean we’re literally on Twitter right now. 
I mean it really is quite entertaining. I mean it’s like a soap opera. Because when I first made the offer, the response was like the board of Dr. 
Poison Pill. So they were like, “Hell no, you can’t buy Twitter. We’d rather die. 
We’re like chewing on cyanide before being bought.” That was their initial response. 
And then they said, “No, you must buy us, gun to the head. You have to buy us.” I’m like, “Are you the same people who said you’d rather die than be bought?” 
Yeah. No, no. The problem was that the publicly stated user numbers were in excess of the real user numbers. 
Yes, that was literally the issue. It’s like, let’s say you buy a warehouse full of goods and you were told that less than 5% of the goods in the warehouse are broken. 
But then you actually get the warehouse, you look into the warehouse and turns out actually 25% of the things are broken. 
You’d be like, “Huh, that’s not what you said.” 
Well, I kind of had to. 
Yes. That is the reason. 
Well not at that price. I think the analogy is pretty close. Let’s say there’s a warehouse full of goods. 
They say less than 5% of what’s in the warehouse is broken. Then you walk into warehouse and say, “Actually it’s 25%.” So you might still want to buy what’s in that warehouse, but probably at a lower price. 
You’re not buying the stuff that’s broken. 
It’s not super complicated. 
Oh, fair enough. 
Cue a whole bunch of court cases. 
Well, I thought, “Wow, this is a really nice office building.” And… 
Yes, very expensive office building, great decor. It’s a lovely place and definitely is spending money like it’s going out of fashion. 
Which is, it isn’t quite going out of fashion yet. 
Well that’s partly why it was a $3 billion loan rate. So in rough numbers, a normal year of Twitter would do, let’s say $4.5 billion in revenue and $4.5 billion in cost. 
I mean it was really kind of like a non-profit, they’d run it and roughly break even. 
But then the issue is that if you then add $1.5 billion in debt servicing and have a massive drop in revenue, which we did, which was partly cyclic and partly political concerns or whatever. 
I wouldn’t say “uncaring.” The issue is, the company’s either going to go bankrupt if we do not cut costs immediately. 
So this is not a caring / uncaring situation. It’s like if the whole ship sinks then nobody’s got a job. 
Okay. What would you do? 
No, I understand. You’ve got four months to live, 120 days. In 120 days you’re dead. 
So what do you want to do? 
I sold a lot of Tesla stock to close this deal. I did not want to sell the Tesla stock. 
I mean people were given three months of severance, in some cases more. But like I said, the companies need to be run on their own cognizance, and it’s not so easy for me to sell stock as you might think. 
Well, the people couldn’t parse the difference between I’m selling Tesla stock because I’ve lost faith in Tesla – which I haven’t. 
Or that it’s desperately needed for Twitter. 
I don’t know. He may or may not come back. But the point is that Twitter should be a town square that gives equal voice to the whole country. 
And ideally the whole world. It should not be a partisan politics. And the partisan politics that are the very far left of the spectrum – San Francisco, Berkeley politics -normally is quite niche. 
But Twitter effectively acted as a megaphone for very niche regional politics and megaphoned that to the world. 
Well, who’s to say that something is misinformation? Who is the arbiter of that? Is it the BBC? 
Yes. Who is the arbiter? 
Yeah. So I’m saying who is to say that one person’s misinformation is another person’s information? 
The point at which you say that this is… Who is starting to decide that? 
Yeah. So the point I’m trying to make is that BBC itself has at times published things that are false. 
Do you agree that that has occurred? 
Yes. Even if you aspire to be accurate, there are times where you will not be. 
I think in the grand scheme of things, the BBC does aspire to be accurate. 
Well, I generally… I’m often seen in that view, if the people in a given country are against a certain type of speech, they should talk to their elected representatives and pass a law to prevent it. 
So for example, you cannot advocate murdering someone. That’s illegal in the United States, everywhere really, I suspect. 
So there are limits to speech. 
I actually think there’s less these days because we’ve eliminated so many of the bots which were pushing scams and spam. 
And previously, previous management turned a blind eye to the bot because their bonuses were tied to user growth. 
And if your compensation’s tied to user growth, well, you’re not going to look too closely at some of the users. 
That’s part of the problem. So I think we’ve got less misinformation because we don’t have one problem that we used to do. 
And we also have given a lot of attention to community notes, which corrects, with community itself, corrects misinformation. 
It’s been very effective. 
What hate speech are you talking about? I mean, you use Twitter. 
Do you see a rise in hate speech? Just your personal anecdote, do you? I don’t. 
You see more hate speech personally? 
Content you don’t like or hateful? What do you mean? Describe a hateful thing? 
So you think if something as slightly sexist it should be banned? 
Is that what you’re saying? 
Well, I’m just curious. I’m trying to understand what you mean by hateful content. And I’m asking for specific examples, and you just said that if something is slightly sexist, that’s hateful content, does that mean that it should be banned? 
That’s why I’m asking for examples. Can you name one example? 
You can’t name a single example. 
You said you’ve seen more hateful content, but you can’t name a single example, not even one. 
Then how did you see the hateful content? 
Okay, then you must have at some point seen a before you hateful content. I’m asking for one example. 
And you can’t give us a single one. 
Then I say so that you don’t know what you’re talking about. 
Yes, because you can’t give me a single example of hateful content, not even one tweet. And yet you claimed that the hateful content was high. 
You just lied. 
Give me one example. 
You literally can’t name one. 
Look, people will say all sorts of nonsense. I’m literally asking for a single example, and you can’t name one. 
Then how do you know that- 
You literally said you experienced more hateful content, and then couldn’t name a single example. 
That’s absurd. 
Then how would you know there’s hateful content? 
Has BBC changed its COVID misinformation? 
No, I’m talking about the BBC’s misinformation about COVID. 
Well, COVID is no longer an issue. Does the BBC hold itself at all responsible for misinformation regarding masking and side effects of vaccinations and not reporting on that at all? 
And what about the fact that the BBC was put under pressure by the British government to change its editorial policy? 
Are you aware of that? 
Oh, you thought it wasn’t? 
You weren’t expecting that. 
I’m not aware of that particular situation. 
I don’t know about that, what exactly happened with some content situation in India. The rules in India for what can appear on social media are quite strict, and we can’t go beyond the laws of a country. 
No. Look, if we have a choice of either our people go to prison or we comply with the laws, we’ll comply with the laws. 
Same goes for the BBC. 
I’m not CEO anymore. 
No, my dog, Floki, is the CEO. 
He’s taken over. 
I don’t really use TikTok. I mean, one of the reasons that I emphasize that our goal here at Twitter is to maximize unregretted user minutes or unregretted user time is that I hear many people tell me they spent a lot of time on TikTok, but they regret the time spent. 
And that seems like, “Okay, well, we don’t want to have regretted time. We want the time to be unregretted, where you learned things, you were entertained, amused.” Frankly, I get more laughs out of Twitter than anything else, and many people tell me the same thing, so that’s a good sign. 
For TikTok itself, like I said, I just don’t know enough about what’s going on there. I can’t say I have a strong opinion on TikTok. 
I’m generally against banning things, so I’d probably not be in favor. I mean, it would help Twitter, I suppose, if TikTok was banned, because then people would spend more time on Twitter and less time on TikTok. 
But even if it would help Twitter, I would be generally against banning of things. 
Do I look uncomfortable? Actually, I do. I look uncomfortable. 
Yeah. I mean, Tesla’s got activities around the world and so does SpaceX. Once in a while those things do come into conflict, but it’s not like Twitter operates in China. 
It doesn’t. Twitter is banned in China. So certainly, I’ve received no communication whatsoever from the Chinese government with regard to Twitter. 
Not all, but most. You can see it for yourself on Twitter, even in the For You feed. 
I mean in the, sorry, Following. 
Not For You because it’s not, frankly. 
Total hate speech. 
Okay. Well, why don’t you use For You? What’s wrong with it? 
No, Twitter is… I’d say we’re roughly breakeven at this point. 
I mean, depending on how things go, if current trends continue, I think we could be profitable, or to be more precise, we could be cashflow positive this quarter if things keep going well. 
Possibly, yeah. 
I think almost all of them have either come back or said they’re going to come back. There are very few exceptions. 
I actually don’t know of anyone who said definitively they’re not coming back, but they’re all sort of trending towards coming back. 
Jump in, the water’s warm. It’s great. 
Yeah. Look, if Disney feels comfortable advertising their children’s movies and Apple feels comfortable advertising iPhones, those are good indicators that Twitter is a good place to advertise. 
Yeah, but I have to say I was wrong. He was wrong, I guess, because I was acquitted by the San Francisco jury unanimously. 
I think it was something that needed to be done. 
It’s been quite difficult. I’d say the pain level of Twitter has been extremely high. This hasn’t been some sort of party, so it’s been really quite a stressful situation for the last several months. 
Not an easy one, but apart from the pain… So it’s been quite painful, but I think at the end the day it should have been done. 
I think were there many mistakes made along the way? Of course, but all’s well that ends well. And so I feel like we’re headed to a good place. 
We’re roughly breakeven, I think we’re trending towards being cash flow positive very soon, literally in a matter of months. 
The advertisers are returning. I think the quality of recommended tweets has improved significantly, and we’ve taken a lot of feedback from people that have looked at the open source recommendation algorithm, and we’ve made a lot of improvements even since that was made open source and we’re going to keep doing that. 
So overall, I think the trend is very good. 
That was a stetted argument. 
Like some people around here. This is a dangerous type of work we’re in. 
Yeah, I mean, look, I’m been under constant attack. I mean, it’s not like I have a stone-cold heart or something like that. 
If you’re under constant criticism and attack and then that gets fed to you nonstop, including through Twitter, that is rough. 
Now, at the end of the day, I kind of think that if you do lose your feedback loop, that’s actually not good. 
So I think it is actually important to get negative feedback. I don’t turn replies off, and I actually got rid of… I removed my entire block list, so I don’t block anyone either. 
So I get a lot of negative feedback. 
It’s been good to get negative feedback. 
Yeah, I mean, if the media’s writing nonstop stories about why you’re a horrible person, it’s hurtful, obviously. 
I literally follow the BBC on Twitter. 
No, it is somewhat of a love-hate relationship, although it might be tilted a bit more towards the hate. 
But I think that this is sort of part and parcel of having a free media situation, which is that I do take part, in that the media is actually able to trash me on a regular basis in the United States and the UK and whatnot, whereas in a lot of other places, media cannot say mean things to powerful people. 
But I think it’s better that we have a situation where the media can say mean things to powerful people. 
I must confess to some delight in removing the verified batch from the New York Times. That was great. 
Anyway, they’re still alive and well, so they’re doing fine. 
Well, I think the media is the driver of misinformation much more than the media would like to admit that they are. 
Yeah. But you are sort of saying who knows best, the average citizen or someone who is a journalist? 
And I think in a lot of cases, it is the average citizen that knows more than the journalist. In fact, very often when I see an article about something that I know a lot about, and I read the article, and it’s like they get a lot wrong. 
And the best interpretation is there is someone who doesn’t really understand what’s going on in the industry, has only a few facts to play with, has to come up with an article. 
It’s going to be… It’s not going to hit the bullseye. 
Number will never leave me. 
Well, fortunately, it didn’t in the trial. 
Yes. We’re going to ask for a refund. 
I think it’s going to swim. 
Yeah, it’ll swim just fine. 
Well, I don’t think it’s necessarily a giant revenue stream. Even if you have a million people that are subscribed for, let’s say, a hundred dollars a year ish, that’s a hundred million dollars, and that’s a fairly small revenue stream relative to advertising. 
What we’re really trying to do here with verification is to massively raise the cost of disinformation and bots in general. 
So my prediction is that any social media company that does not insist on paid verification will simply be overwhelmed by advanced AI bots. 
I mean, ChatGPT is essentially a zillion instances of ChatGPT. How would you even know? 
No. The point is that you won’t be. 
Well, then that’s up to them if they… Can’t make them pay, it’s a small amount of money, so I don’t know what their problem is. 
But we’re going to treat everyone equally, so what we’re not going to do is say that there’s some anointed class of journalists who are the special ones, who get to tell everyone what they should think, that it should be up to the people what they think. 
And even if an article is completely accurate and comprehensive and everything, they’re still, in writing that article, the media is choosing the narrative. 
They’re deciding what to write an article about. 
Well, I take it back. It depends on who. I suppose if I was confident that they would rigorously pursue the truth, then I guess I would be glad to hand it off to someone else. 
I don’t care about the money, really, but I do want to have some source of truth that I can count on. 
And I hope that’s our aspiration with Twitter, is to have a source of truth that you can count on. But it’s also real time. 
It’s an immediate source of truth that you can count on and that gets more accurate with time as people comment on a particular thing. 
Who do you think that might be? 
No. But, well, you might still have an idea. 
Yeah, it’s a hard job. 
I already have. I keep telling you, I’m not the CEO of Twitter. My dog is the CEO of Twitter. 
It’s a great dog. 
It’s very alert, and it’s hard to get anything by him. 
He’s got a black turtleneck, what more do you need? 
I guess more Elizabeth Holmes. 
She’s got a husky voice and a black turtleneck. Problem solved. 
Not yet. Hopefully at some point. 
I did stand down. 
Why do you even need a CEO? You don’t really need a CEO. 
Yeah. Why can’t we be an  commune? 
Yeah. Was kind of bad, actually. 
Not yet. No, this place is nice and I kind of like this office actually. 
Yeah, we should do something about the crime. 
People are dying. 
We should take action. 
We tried to turn into a homeless shelter but building management group, well, the owner rejected it. 
Yeah, they won’t let us. 
We’re only using one of the buildings and so the other building could be a homeless shelter. 
Yeah. We would like to do it right now. 
By the building owner. 
No. In fact, they wouldn’t even let us take the W off the sign. 
We were quite- 
I don’t know. We could just let people stay there. It’s nice. 
They can bring their stuff, bring their tent and whatever. 
Yeah, if the building owner lets us, we will do it. 
In my whole life? 
Well, shutting down one of our service centers was quite difficult because it turns out there were, I thought the service centers were redundant, but there were in fact a lot of things that were hard coded to this one server center. 
And so when we shut it down and we actually, it was quite catastrophic. We lost a lot of functionality, which sort of really rushed to put it back. 
That was around late December, early January. 
Biggest crisis, yeah. 
I think we’re around 1,500 people at this point. And there was I think 7,800. 
I think it was around just under 8,000. We’re about 1,500 right now. 
Yeah. Not fun at all. It’s painful. 
It’s not physically possible to speak to that many people. 
It’s one of the hardest things, certainly. Yeah. 
Oh, people this . 
Have I shot myself under foot with tweets multiple times? Yes. 
I need bulletproof shoes at this point. 
I think I should not tweet after 3: 00 AM. 
Yeah. Well, maybe 2 AM. 
Yeah, something like that. 
I should. I shouldn’t, I shouldn’t. 
Well, I think those are two good rules. Yeah, don’t tweet if you’re wasted or really upset about something. 
Yeah. A good friend of mine actually had a good suggestion and it has helped, which is that if you’re going to tweet something that maybe it’s controversial, save it as a draft and look at it the next day and you see if you still want to tweet it. 
That has been a good rule of thumb. So I’ve got a bunch of things in my folder that I’m glad I didn’t say. 
What was… Hindsight’s 2020, so a bunch of decisions that could have been made better for sure. But as I said, alls well that ends well. 
I think it’s gone pretty well. So the grand scheme of things, I can’t complain. 
Maybe if this is something that people on the Twitter want to say. We could ask them. 
Wow. There’s 680,000 people listening. 
Let’s see, how do we see, okay. Let me see who… I’ll just look at my tweet and see what people are saying or what questions they have. 
Do you like the BBC? Do you like BBC? 
Can I interview you? 
Do you like BBC? 
Come on. Surely you like BBC. Come on. 
Okay. Well, I’m just trying to see if there’s like any good… There’s a lot of comments here. 
There’s so many. So anyway, it’s nice to be interviewed by the BBC. I have a lot of respect for the British Broadcasting Corporation. 
Oh, do we still say state media, whatever. It says government funded media currently as opposed to publicly funded media. 
Well, I guess probably we can make that change tomorrow if you’d like. 
Do you have any requests on a personal level or you can’t speak on a personal level? 
There’s like a lot of comments. Let’s see. I’m just literally looking at replies to the fact that I just . 
People generally seem to this interview far as I can tell. Very few negative comments, so generally positive. 
I’m scrolling as fast as I can to sort of see, I guess there’s some complaints about Twitter Spaces needing some improvement. 
Let’s fix Twitter Spaces is one of the comments. People like the fact that my dog Floki is the CEO. 
I’m really just scrolling as fast as I can here. 
I just want to say I like BBC. 
I do find it funny. 
No, I think that’s a big factor. 
First of all, we do have people  content moderation. It’s not like we don’t. 
Yeah, the censorship bureau was let go. I don’t think the sort of putting a thumb on the political scales on the far left has been let go because that’s not right. 
That’s not what you want for a public square. You’ve got to have equal treatment for people from across the political spectrum. 
Yeah. My father never owned a… So you’re thinking of an emerald mine. 
Yeah. I’d like to see a picture of the alleged emerald mine. 
No, but he never owned a emerald mine. This is total bullshit. 
First of all, do you think something like an emerald mine would have some sort of property register, there’d be like a picture of it? 
It’s not like you can say, “Oh, that’s my mine.” These things are hotly debated. If you’ve got something valuable, you have to have some property record, like a house. 
But much more important than a house. And yet there is no property record whatsoever. There is no picture of this mine whatsoever. 
It doesn’t exist. It’s fake. 
The Community Note may be referring to a thing where I went on a trip with my father to Zambia, but I never saw any mine or anything. 
So there’s no mine. 
If they’re referencing an article, then the article may not be wrong, which they’re still… Community Notes is not going to be perfect. 
The batting average of Community Notes I found to be extremely high. 
Really? Yes. Really. 
But look, the acid test is, people will use the system and find it to be a good source of truth or they don’t. 
And no system is going to be perfect in its pursuit of the truth. But I think we can be the best, the least inaccurate. 
That’s our goal. The least inaccurate. And I think we might be there already. 
If we’re not there, we’ll be there soon. 
Well, we have all time high usage, so I don’t think it has been. 
Yes. Well, they’re probably the same people who predicted that Twitter would cease to exist and their predictions have turned out to be false. 
No, I think it’s great. It’s way better. Better by a lot. 
I was looking for questions. You got any questions? 
Let’s hear from Doge Designer. Okay, so what do I do? 
Do I tap it again? 
Okay. How do you unmute? 
Okay. Doge Designer, if you unmute, you can talk. 
Let’s unmute Jason and David as well and us. Definitely Walter Isaacson if he does want to speak. 
Yeah, sure. We’ll get a few people going here. 
I know. It was so good, we keep going. 
Yeah, it’s true. 
Yeah, during this kind of transition period, we’re extra vigilant about impersonation. So I agree that over time if somebody has a trusted track record, they should be able to change their name and profile picture without losing the blue check. 
During this transition period, we want to be, just like I said, extra vigilant against impersonation. 
So that’s why we’re being so rigorous in this regard. 
Good. How’s it going? 
Yeah. Well, yeah, I would recommend adding the W for the SRTs. 
All right. Thank you. 
So let’s see. David or Jason, I don’t know if you guys can speak, you’re welcome to if you’d like. 
Look, it’s recorded. So it’s not like we don’t have to engage in guess work here, it’s recorded. 
I think if we keep people entertained then they’re going to, yeah. If we’re entertaining and informing people, then they’re going to stay on the platform obviously. 
If we bore people or it’s like somehow uninteresting, then they will leave. Yeah. 
Well, you’re getting favorable treatment right now. 
No. In fact, the algorithm is open sourced so you can see exactly what’s going on. 
Following is just who you follow. It’s not algorithm, it’s just- 
No, in following, you should see all the tweets of people that you follow. If not, there’s a bug in the system. 
When they tweet. 
Yeah. Following is literally the thing they say when they say it. There shouldn’t be any algorithm interaction there. 
So it’s hard to actually see. I definitely see some room for improvement from a functionality standpoint because when you have a really big spaces, it’s actually hard to even see who’s requesting to speak because there’s so many. 
Okay. It’s a long list. It’s a long list. 
What about him? 
What about him? 
Yeah, real realtime doxing of locations is not okay. 
No, it’s just realtime doxing is not allowed because- 
It’s against their will and you’re following them around, then yeah, that would be doxing. 
No, it wasn’t. He actually the thing- 
Is that’s actually not true. 
He was using non-public information combined with public information. 
No, it’s just realtime doxing is not allowed. 
Actually, no. It just was unevenly enforced. 
So there’s a no doxing rule. It was unevenly enforced. In fact, in general, part of the issue with the prior management of Twitter is they have all these rules, but they’d only enforce them against some people and not against others. 
Yes, where they are. 
If you can’t recognize them, then it’s not a thing. 
Okay. Do you want to leave? 
Yeah, maybe I will. 
Yeah, that sounds good. 
Oh, you’re welcome. 
Sounds good. Well, this has really given me a long list of future improvements that we need for spaces. 
That’s for sure. 
It’s pretty good, but a lot of things need to be improved. That’s for sure. 
No, not really. And I actually didn’t even have a burner account. I do have a second account at this point because I need to test the app before it goes out so it’s like a beta test account. 
But no, I don’t have a burner or anything like that. Yeah, never have had. 
Nope. Well, let’s see. Any key points anyone wants to make, otherwise, I’ll sign off in a few minutes. 
Well, it seems like everyone and their dog is buying GPUs at this point. It’s kind of getting to the point where you’re going to have to buy GPUs in a back alley. 
So there’s certainly a lot of people buying GPUs. Twitter and Tesla are certainly buying GPUs and we’re also working on Dojo. 
So I think there’s a lot of potential there with Dojo that people don’t realize. 
Yeah, at a certain point we need to move on from the Twitter files, but I think there’s a few things left, but generally I think there’s not a lot that I’m aware of that’s left. 
So it’s mostly just like, let’s just move on to the future. 
Yeah, like I said, my opinion is that any social media organization that does not insist on paid verification will be worthless because at this point, take Instagram for example, you can generate an infinite number of thirst pics using Midjourney and for very little. 
And at this point, modern AI can pass any human verification test. So the only solution that I can think of is to increase the cost of fake accounts. 
So if somebody’s paying on the order of $8 a month, that’s $100 a year, and they also need to get a credit card and a phone number from a reputable carrier. 
So then it’s much harder to create a million bots, whereas if you don’t require those things, it’s trivial, frankly, to create a million bots and they’ll all seem very human and will take very little computing effort to do so. 
So that’s why I think basically any social media that does not require paid verification will basically cease to be relevant. 
You  anything, it looks pretty real, including the voice. That can get the voice matched and the video matched. 
It’s really getting to the point where it’ll be quite easy to generate extremely realistic fake videos, images and so forth and voice. 
I saw a fake Joe Rogan interview and it really sounded like Joe Rogan’s voice. I sent it to Joe and he was like, “Whoa, this is crazy.” So yeah, I think verification is going to be extremely fundamental in the future. 
That’s why we’re so focused on it. 
Well, I think in the tweet, in the post, I think it would be advisable to say that this is not real if it is something that can be potentially misinterpreted. 
It was crazy how viral that picture of the Pope with the awesome jacket- 
Honestly, the best advertising that Balenciaga has ever gotten in their entire  which the Harry Potter Balenciaga demon Flying Fox one was genius. 
That was amazing. 
Yeah, it’s amazing. And actually, even the AI fashion is great. 
The AI fashion is incredible. So can we just print that somehow or make it, because it’s amazing. 
Well, I don’t really believe in patents actually because- 
But yeah, there’s really some amazing AI generator clothing. It’s really cool. And I really love that one with the Pope and that went viral. 
A lot of people thought that the Pope actually had that outfit, which is not totally out of the question because there’s a lot of amazing fashion in Italy. 
So it’s possible that some fashion house made a really epic coat for the Pope. But that was obviously AI generated. 
We’re headed into a weird world here. 
Where trying to figure out what’s real is super hard. 
Well he has stairway a few times on the stairwell, so that’s quite believable in that situation. So a bunch of things very close to the truth, it’s quite reasonable to expect that people would interpret that as possibly true. 
So yeah, I think just verification that an account is real, that material is real. What is real anymore is an extremely fundamental question. 
Yeah, so here at Twitter we’re going to be very focused on figuring out what’s real, and if it’s not real, then trying to address it. 
Yeah, if you want the realtime news, this is the best place is Twitter. And like I said, any given source of information is going to have some degree of inaccuracy, and we can just aspire to make that as small as possible and iterate towards being closer to the truth over time. 
That is our goal. 
Yeah, that’s a good goal. But we’re definitely not going to assert that everything you see on Twitter is true because it isn’t. 
… be very skeptically, any organization that claims to be completely truthful, because they’re not and so that very claim is false. 
So I think it’s important to reflect on what mistakes we’re making and try to make fewer of them in the future. 
There is something more to it. 
Like I said, my goal is to create X the everything app. That’s the goal. It’s what we’re working towards. 
Twitter is an accelerant to X the everything. 
Well, I guess you’ll have to stay tuned to find out. 
It’s very entertaining. I was thinking Twitter does make me miserable at times, but it actually makes me laugh as well. 
And I think if it’s entertaining and informative, then we’re doing a good job. 
Yeah, yeah. Totally. Exactly. 
Honestly, Twitter is troll heaven. 
It’s totally troll heaving on Twitter. And the thing is, I even get trolled and I’m like, God, why did I get trolled again? 
That was really dope. 
Yeah, totally. 
Oh, that’s the guy who I guess was accused of election interference or something, - 
vote or something. 
No- I think criminal is over the top there. I would agree with that that they went too far. If that’s the standard for throwing someone in prison, then there should be a lot of people in prison. 
Meanwhile, there’s like murders running free, so it’s crazy. 
Yeah. Really something needs to be done about the crime situation in San Francisco. It’s really . 
Yeah, literally. It’s like people think maybe you’re exaggerating. I’m like, no, you can just definitely come here any day of the week, including 10 in the morning or 2 in the afternoon. 
We’re not talking midnight stuff. Literally mid-morning driving into Twitter, it looks insane. So people can just come here and see it with their own eyes, it’s next level. 
It’s intense. You’re like, whoa. 
Outside Twitter? 
What are you doing, pointing camera at the sign or something? 
Really? Are you serious? 
Okay. Why? Because it sort of gives an ambiance or something? 
I know. Well, I suppose I have seen a few things where there’s people doing interviews with the Twitter sign in the background, and I guess that’s more interesting than just being in a studio or something. 
Okay, sure. Just shoot me a note. 
But the W is now a background color, so… 
Look, I held a pole and there was a strong yes on Titter, removing the W. 
No, look, I said I would appoint a new CEO and I did, and it’s my dog. I don’t know what people have against dogs? 
They’re fine. Dogs are great. 
Only dog haters would be opposed to making the dog a CEO. 
Yeah, the dog’s the CEO. What are you complaining about? It’s great dog. 
Yeah, he’s got great instincts. 
Anyway, I hope people have a good time on Twitter and learn things. And like I said, the acid test is under regretted user time, and if under regretted user time is growing, then we’re doing the right thing. 
All right, sounds good. Well, good talking guys. I’ll head back to work and thanks for all your feedback. 
Wow, 3 million? 
This is Elon Musk interviewing the BBC. 
Okay. Well, thanks for . 
You’re most welcome. All right, thanks. Signing off guys. 
