Would you like me to sit down? ... First of all, I plead innocent of all charges! 
Thank you dear, I love you too. Thank you. Okay. 
I think… I think it was a matter of not getting the building, the proper building. We had to wait our turn in order to get the building. 
Couldn't get a good building in fifteen years! No, all kidding aside, we had to wait our turn to get into the Garden, you know? 
Oh I like it you know, I enjoy it ... I just hope we put on a good show for everybody. 
I take vitamin E! No, I was only kidding. I just… embarrassed myself, man. 
I don't know dear. I just enjoy the business. I like what I'm doing. 
Oh I don't know what makes them think that, I got, you know, this gold belt and ... 
What are you doing woman? 
So am I, that's why I'm sitting down, man! 
No, I stooped using that greasy kids' stuff just like everybody else did, man. 
Man, I was tame compared to what they do now! Are you kidding? I didn't do anything but just jiggle, you know? 
Oh, I don't know. I really can't criticise anybody n the entertainment field. I think there's room for everybody and I hate to criticise another performer, you know? 
Well, the image is one thing and the human being is another, you know, so ... 
It's very hard to live up to an image, I'll put it that way. 
It's according to what you're talking about, I don't know. No, I don't know, I'd like to think so. 
Well, I've found that in the audiences we have, it's mixed. It's older people, younger people and the very young and all types of people you know, which is good. 
I just had a movie of the last tour that I did. It's the first live concert that we ever filmed, so that's my next project that's coming out. 
I just missed it. I missed the closeness of an audience, of a live audience. So just as soon as I got out of the movie contracts, I started to do live concerts again. 
I think so. There's so many places I haven't been yet. Like I've never played New York. 
I've never been to Britain either. 
I'd like to, yes sir. I'd like to very much. I'd like to go to Europe, I'd like to go to Japan and all those places. 
I've never been out of the country except in the service. 
Honey, I'd just sooner keep my own personal views about that to myself cause I'm just an entertainer and I'd rather not say. 
No, I can't even say that! 
Are you allowed to what dear? 
I don't know, that's a good question! Why is that Colonel? 
She said why did they film the show in Boston but they couldn't film it here? 
I just don't feel that it's time yet, you know? Maybe I will someday but not right now. 
No sir. I don't have any other aspirations in politics or anything of that nature. 
Yeah. I'd like to do something in the way of a movie script if I can find the right kind of property. 
In fact, we're looking for it now. You're talking about a non-singing type thing? Yeah, I'd like to do that. 
It's very difficult to find that type of song. It's hard to find good material nowadays for anybody, for all of us, you know. 
It's very hard to find any good hard rock songs. If I could find them I would do them. 
I don't know. There's a lot of people that I like…I got out of that one didn't I? 
No sir I'm not. I'm not involved in that at all, I'm just an entertainer. 
I don't really miss that much about it. I enjoy it just as much now, if not more than I did then. I would like to think that we've improved ourselves over the past fifteen years. 
That's what I mean. I mean musically and vocally and everything. I'd like to think that I've improved over the past fifteen years. 
Yeah, I'd love to go there. 
No, I've got used to it. I would kind of miss it if it didn't happen. If nobody saw me or nobody recognised me or whatever and ask for an autograph… it's part of the business and I accept it. 
I think I would miss it. 
It's possible you know, it's possible. I don't know! They have RCA Victor officials here, so I don't know. 
It's Now Or Never. You know O Sole Mio? 
That one. O Sole Mio was the largest selling and the next one to it was Don't Be Cruel. I think, then Hound Dog and Heartbreak Motel or whatever! 
I came in last night very late and had to go to bed, cause we're having a rehearsal now and I have to go back to the rehearsal after this press conference… unless you've got something better in mind? 
I don't think so. I think there's so many companies that everybody becomes independent. Once they have one hit record and they form their own companies and there's so many. 
And also the people who write them are starting to record their own songs and that's why I said it's more difficult to get good material. 
Yes, I'm a publishing firm but I'll take songs from anywhere or from any writer if they're good. It doesn't have to be in my company, it could be just completely an unknown person or anybody who writes a song. 
If they can get it to me and if its good, I'll do it. 
Probably so. Probably so, and being honest I would have to say, yeah. 
Honey, I'm really not aware of this particular suit that you're talking about so I can't answer you accurately, you know? 
I don't even know the details about it. I went to Hawaii to get a tan for… New York, yeah! So I'm not aware of it, really. 
I don't think so. If they're not heard and if they've got good material and they're good songwriters, I think they should be heard. 
I really can't sitting down! No, I can't do that. I'd just sooner save it for the show. 
As soon as the Colonel gets through talking, I'll talk to you. 
The belt is an award from the International for the attendance record. It's like a trophy but I wear it just to show off. 
Do I talk to my father? I have to, he handles all my personal affairs. 
I tried to tell him sooner but he wouldn't listen! 
All kidding aside, it happened very fast to all of us. My mother, and my father and all of us. You know, everything happened overnight and so we had to adjust to a lot of things really quickly. 
A lot of good things. 
It's a conscious thing, you know? I like to mix ‘em up. In other words, I like to do a song like Bridge Over Troubled Water or American Trilogy or something, then mix it up and do some rock'n'roll, do some of the hard rock stuff. 
No. I'm not in the least bit ashamed of Hound Dog or Heartbreak Hotel or whatever. 
No, not really. I've got too much energy. I don't think so. 
Not as long as I can. 
I think they're planning one now, they're talking about this one now. 
I can't…there's a lot of ‘em. I can't think of any off hand 
I've got to go back to rehearsals folks. Thank you very much. 
Yes, the theme song from my next motion picture will be out about the middle of next month. 
Jailhouse Rock. 
Very fine gentleman. 
Well, there's nobody who helps you out. They have a director and a producer. As far as the acting and as far as the singing and all, you're on the own. 
I mean, nobody tells you how to do that, you have to learn it yourself. 
Pretty bad. I mean, that's something you learn through experience. I think that maybe I might accomplish something at it through the years. 
In some scenes, I was pretty natural. And in others I was trying to act. And when you start trying to act, you're dead. 
Well, the boys have done a very fine job, the The Jordanaires have. But actually there's a lot of groups, you know, a lot of very fine groups that back different people up on their records. 
Well, uh, take for instance last night. We had a show in Vancouver. I didn't sleep any until about ten o'clock today. 
I just get all keyed up, and it's tough to relax. 
You just walk around. And swallow! Clench my fist. 
About $500, I think. 
No, it's a standard guitar. I have a leather cover over it. I had that made. 
Well, touring is the roughest part. It's really rough. Because, I mean, you're in a town and you do a show, you come off, you ride in a car, you go to the next town. 
Well, I think every performer likes to work to a live audience. 
Oh, it's terrific. It's really beautiful country up here. 
Yes, I was home. It was beautiful weather. 
Well, I have to prepare for a show that night. And therefore I have to rest -- and we have rehearsals in the afternoon. 
So I don't have much time. I'm actually pressed for time. It's not that I'm trying to avoid them, because that's certainly not it. 
It's just that I'm rushed for time and I have to make every moment count when I'm on the road. 
Actually, you're trying to trap me now. I don't know what to say. Next! 
I don't know. Like I said, I've been asked everything. If they're too rough, I just can't answer them. 
Well, let's face the facts. Anybody that's in the public eye, their life is never private. I mean, anything you do, the public knows about it. 
And that's the way it's always been, that's the way it'll always be. 
Africa. No, I don't know - there's a lot of places that I'd like to go. 
'Bout four years, actually. 
Yeah, that's the name of it. Actually, I wasn't known at all until Col. Parker started managing me, you see, and I got on RCA/Victor and on television. 
And then I started being known. 
Yes. Yes, I was known in certain sections, you know, but I wasn't known all over. 
No, they're no kin. 
He says he was the first one to play it, I don't know-. 
Yes, I would like to. 
I'd like to. . 
Well, I'll put it like this -- I'll never quit as long as I'm doing okay. 
Well, as long as you're pleasing the people, you'd be foolish to quit. 
I'd like to tell everybody how very much I appreciate them listening to my records and everything. And I'll do my best to continue to please them, and put out songs and movies that they like. 
Yes, I've been scratched and bitten and everything. 
I just accept it with a broad mind because actually they don't intend to hurt you. I mean, it's not that. 
They want pieces of you for souvenirs, is all. 
Well, I have no favorite place. The biggest crowd was in Dallas, Texas last year. 
Yes, I played the Cotton Bowl. I had 32,000 people there. 
That's a star sapphire. There's a girl gave to me in California. A crowd of people can hurt you and not even realize they're doing it. 
No, sir. I haven't. 
When I'm traveling around, I don't go anywhere. I just eat in the room. 
I haven't heard from them. I don't know. 
No, I haven't. 
Well, I don't know what to think about it. Just so I don't get involved in it. That's all I worry about. 
I think it's great. In fact, I like it better than any phase of the business other than public appearances? 
No, I'm not going to say that. 
I don't know. I guess Col. Parker could probably answer that if he's here. 
He's not here, is he? 
Well, the crowds- young people are pretty well the same all over the country, I've found out. 
No, sir, I don't think it's dying. I'm not saying that it won't die out, but I don't think it is right now. 
Well, at the time I started singing, Col. Tom Parker was managing Hank Snow. And that's how we got connected. 
I don't know why Hank and my name were linked together so much, because actually we wasn't connected in any way in business. 
I just worked on some of Hank's personal appearances. 
Yeah, Jimmy Rodgers Snow? 
Yes, quite a bit. 
No, I never went to school with him. 
No, sir, it's not. My first, I would say, would be spiritual music. 
Not exactly that. I mean, some of the old colored spirituals from years back. 
Well, I mean it would look pretty funny out there without one. Actually, I suppose you're talking about all the yelling and everything. 
Actually, it's good because it covers up my mistakes, you see. Whenever I hit a sour note, well nobody knows it but me. 
Anita Wood. She's a . 
She's a. Oh, incidentally, she won a beauty contest last night where she gets a seven-year contract with Paramount Pictures. 
She called me last night. 
Go back to driving a truck. 
No. I don't know what I'd do. That's counting your chickens before they hatch. 
Actually, I'd like to become, to learn a lot about acting. 
I have quite a few. 
And Yul Brenner, and Marlon Brando, oh quite a few of them. 
Yes, sir. I have contracts for about eight more. 
Well, I have no control over that. I have an agent-a manager that takes care of that. 
Well, I'm happier now in a lot of ways. And in some ways, I mean, I was having a lot of fun then, you know. 
I like movies better than I do tv work. If you goof in movies, you can just go back and take it over. 
In tv, you just goof. There's no going back and taking it over. 
Uh, well, I have quite a few things. I have two music firms. And then I have, like a said, a seven-year contract with Paramount Pictures whereas each year it amounts to more money. 
'I hate Elvis'. 
To be truthful, I really don't know. 
Yes, it is. In fact, I don't know who sells the 'I hate Elvis' buttons. 
He's a communist. 
No, I've never thought of it as being suggestive. That's just my way of expressing a song, that's all. 
No, sir, I can't. Because. 
To be truthful, I can't do ballad, really, as well as I can the other kind because I don't have the voice for it. 
Definitely yes. I mean, well, if disc jockeys didn't play it, the people couldn't hear it so they couldn't know what was happening, you know. 
I contribute it to a little bit of everything. I contribute it largely to the people that have accepted me, and then the disc jockeys, and the good handling that I've had, the management and everything. 
You talking about religious? Oh, I know practically every religious song that's ever been written. 
I think he's undoubtedly the finest voice out now. Especially on slow songs. I mean, I'm not saying that to make me look good. 
I actually think that. I mean, I thought that - I mean Boone was recording before I was and I bought his records even back then. 
You talking about any female vocalist? 
Yes. I would imagine it's just according to the songs they sing. In other words, your material can make you or break you. 
If you sing a good song, naturally it will sell. If you sing a bad one, it won't. 
Uh, Patti Paige and Kay Star. 
Don't Be Cruel. 
Uh. I don't know. 
Yes it is. I don't know. I supposed you're speaking of Pat Boone and a couple of others. 
No, sir, none whatsoever. None that I know of. 
They're in Memphis. They're at home. I talked to them this afternoon. 
Well, it's my life, you know. They don't say too much about it. 
No, I don't care. 
It will grow back. I mean, if was a case of cutting it off and never having any more, then I would grumble. 
Well, I'm stuck with them. I had 'em long - when I was old enough to grow them. When I was sixteen years old. 
It has its advantages, and disadvantages. 
Well that is the main thing. Naturally, you can't go places like other people. You can't go to ball games. 
You can't go to the local theatre and things like that. Like, back at home, whenever I want to see a movie, well I have the theatre manager show it to me after the theatre closes up at night. 
We have a fairgrounds there, and I rent the fairgrounds after it closes up sometimes. 
Well, in a lot of different ways. They're just like they've always been, I mean as far as being themselves. 
But it is kind of a strain on them, because, you know, people never leave them alone, to be truthful about it. 
Uh, yes sir, I would imagine. 
Well, it's just a case of get them or be got. You know? 
Somebody hitting me or trying to hit me. I mean, I can take all the, you know, I can take ridicule and slander, and I've been called names you know right to my face and everything - that I can take. 
But I've had a few guys who try to take a swing at me and naturally you can't just stand there, you've got to do something. 
That was taken at a park near my house. 
Yes, it's accurate. I'm just now realizing how extravagant it was. Because I have too many. 
I mean, nobody drives them. They sit up and they get stale. The tires go down on 'em. 
Actually, I have no need for them-I just went ape-I just went crazy when I-. 
I'll tell you what I did the other day. I have, I had, a German-made Messerschmit, a little car. And there's a guy  there in town who has been wanting that Messerschmit for the last year. 
And so, he owns a clothing store, one of the top clothing stores in Memphis. So I went up there the other day, and I told him, I said you've been wanting the car so bad, I said I'll make a deal with you. 
He said okay and I said you let me pick out all the clothes in here that I want and you can have the car. 
So I was up there for about two hours and a half, and the store was a wreck when I left. 
Serious music? 
Truthfully, I don't understand it. I'm not going to knock it. I'm just don't understand. 
Just like I don't understand jazz. 
Well, they're just like everybody else. They just got a lucky break in life. Just like other girls., 
Oh, that got started from a rumor. An article came out that I collected stuffed animals and I was swamped with them. 
Actually, I mean naturally I keep them because people give them to me, but I never even thought of collecting stuffed animals in my life. 
I keep them. I have them all over the walls, in the chairs, everywhere else. 
