First, I just wanted to say how wonderful I thought the film was and that you’re just my absolute hero. 
Ah, that’s really kind. Thank you. 
I think the best part of the film for me was that you got to see what obviously made you so extraordinary, but more importantly, ordinary, which shows that anyone can encourage change. 
And I just thought that was a wonderful message from the film. Do you have a sense of a tangible goal that you would like the Malala fund to reach within your lifetime? 
How does it feel to have your story shown on film and screen to thousands of young people today as part of the Into Film festival? 
That’s amazing. And I thought that the animation in the film was so beautiful and I loved the mythology behind it. 
And it just really, it was so beautifully done and so well told. And I completely agree with you. I think it’s great that people are watching the film and it’s wonderful, but it’s great that you want people to really do something and take action as well, and that this is about a movement, not just a film. 
I think it’s amazing that it’s going so far beyond that. 
Wow. I’m so moved to hear that. That’s absolutely amazing. 
And I agree with you. It’s become this really difficult word, but I think it’s wonderful when people do embrace it, because it should be synonymous with equality. 
They really, really have. So, that’s wonderful. Wow. 
I’m so moved to hear that. Well, it’s kind of a similar question, but what would you say to people who argue that religion and educating women are odds? 
I thought, again, it was so wonderful in the film to show how important your faith and your spirituality were in giving you strength to do the work that you do. 
I just thought that was such a wonderful part of the film, but what would you say to people that, you know, that use scripture to say that women shouldn’t be educated or that argue that educating women is a Western concept or a Western idea? 
That’s amazing. And yes, I completely. 
I can relate. I actually have brothers. There’s a lot of fighting that goes on, it’s not very peaceful. 
Yeah. Tough for the parents. I was wondering, are you excited to see Hillary Clinton, a woman running for president in the US? 
I agree with this. I agree with this. Very trivial question compared to some of the others about, I had to ask, that really, really bright pink color that you wear, it’s one of my absolute favorite colors and I see you wear that a lot, and I wondered if it was lucky or if it had any sort of special meaning to you. 
Is all pink, orange. 
Yeah. Must be a thing. I feel it’s nice because I get the impression that you’re someone who is generally sort of, you know, shy that is struggling with all of the attention that’s being thrust on her. 
But I thought it was wonderful that you have chosen this bright color, which meant that you wanted to be seen and, you know, and you wanted to spread your message in spite of that. 
And I thought that was wonderful. 
As a big book fan, I have to ask you, what was your last favorite book? Was there anything that you read in the last year that you just fell in love with? 
It’s a wonderful book. I’ve also read this book and it’s an amazing book. 
I was curious, what are the thing you found the strangest about England compared to Pakistan? What they all would be? 
Okay. I’m glad to hear that. I’m really glad to hear that because I know you have to deal with being famous. 
And I was going to ask you, what I sometimes get asked, which would be what you would do if you could be anonymous for a day. 
And then it sorts of, it stopped me dead in my tracks because I realized exactly what you would do. 
And it really struck me, you know, what you’ve sacrificed for your ideals and your dream and this movement. 
And it made me really emotional actually. And so, I just wanted to thank you again for being who you are and for being so brave. 
So, other than going home, is there anything that you liked the idea of doing, if you could be, if you had magical powers and you could be invisible for a day, what you would do? 
66 million girls is such a huge number. It’s such a massive number to think about that can’t go to school. 
So, those are my questions. I know that, very sweetly, we have questions from members of the audience, which is brilliant. 
So, I’ll stop taking up all of the time. Why is it important for girls and boys to be treated equally? 
And this is from Grace Dane at Mill Primary School in Leicester. 
Slightly agree. Which of your teachers inspired you the most? And this is from Delano, in Manchester. 
Okay. So, love and fear, both together. 
That’s good. If you could give us, 12-13-year old any advice, what would it be? And this is from Jake in Northern Ireland. 
Yeah. Now is the time. 
Ageism is a huge issue actually. And every voice feeling is important. Are you enjoying your education these days in your school in Birmingham? 
And this question’s from Elisa in Cheshire. 
Great choices. Very serious choices. Brilliant. 
How is education for girls in your country now? And that’s from Asher, in Enfield and Northeast London. 
What would you say to young people who do not like, enjoy or appreciate school? And this is for Ms. 
Skinner. She’s a teacher in Cardiff. 
I think it’s very easy to take for granted and it is actually a gift. What do your younger brothers think about your efforts? 
And this is from Artem in London. 
Well, that’s good. Sometimes, sometimes, that’s something. My brothers are the same, by the way. 
What were your feelings when you had to speak publicly for the first time in front of presidents and prime ministers and that’s from Merriam in Manchester. 
It’s great that you see it as something which isn’t, it’s personal obviously, but it’s so much bigger than that. 
And you use the power and the strength of that to really, you know, push away any nerves, which is great. 
How did you find the filmmaking process and what did you learn from it? It’s from Olivia in East Lothian. 
What do you plan to do next to further promote equality? And that’s from Mavis in Middlesex. 
Voices are important, speaking out and asking governments to do the right thing. Super, super, super important. 
Well, we’ve got through all of the questions that we’ve been sent, which is brilliant. So, maybe I will take this moment just to say, thank you. 
Again, the film is so wonderful, and your story is beyond inspiring. 
Yes, boys in the audience specifically, I work for a cause called He for She. If you haven’t signed up yet, then that would be wonderful. 
But we really need you as the next generation to extend a hand to the goals and the women in your life, and to include them and to make sure that they can live their lives without discrimination, and that they have access to the same opportunities that you do. 
And you’re in a unique position. 
Thank you, Malala. 
Does this mean you’re finally going to watch a Harry Potter film? 
Okay, so the other thing is to wait yet... 
I do, I do. I think um you know when you read a book, it's very sort of personal to you and you get to create it all in your imagination and then you get to see the film and it’s all good. 
Well it's ah, um, I guess it's what you guys would call ah, high school. So it's up until 18. 
Well, they fly on the brooms. They really don't run around on them. 
It's true. You know they actually do at Harvard and Yale, and a few of these universities, they actually have Quidditch teams. 
I didn't. I hadn't... 
I think, small mercies, they, they didn't. And so that was a safe... 
Do I know anything about Noah? 
Yes, well it's, I mean, the story in the Bible is only about two pages, and uh.. yeah, it's, I mean, you know, there's, there's.. 
the ark, and there's the animals that go two by two.. and.. 
Well, it's the Bible, they had to kind of.. a lot happens, and they had to try and.. you know.. 
squeeze it.. squeeze it down. 
When you say 'contacted', it makes it sound like you picked up the phone. 
Well, it's funny because, when I was growing up, I always saw the ark as this kind of, like, big ship, and it had a bow, and there were the sails and everything, and uh.. 
Darren Aronofsky's ark is kind of like this quite sinister, huge, coffin-like, very utilitarian, um.. 
I think because he wanted it to feel .. practical. He, you know, they weren't planning on actually sailing anywhere, they just needed to survive this mega flood. 
And also, um.. you know, they had to build this thing with their bare hands, with, you know, not that many, not that many materials. 
So he wanted it to feel, you know, authentic. 
So, we build the ark to scale. To the Biblical, exact measurements. 
Exactly the same size, and we built it in Long Island. 
Outdoors. But we had an indoor one, too. But the outdoor one was the really big one. 
Well, Ray Winstone claims that when you were flying into New York, you could actually see the ark from.. 
from the air.. in the air, from the airplane. I never saw that myself, but that's what he said. 
Uh.. no, it's all been dismantled now, we finished filming about, you know.. a year ago now. 
Yeah, it was right in the middle of our shoot, actually, that hurricane Sandy hit. And um.. yeah, it was just incredibly surreal, to be pretending that there was this big flood coming, and there was a big flood that came. 
It was.. it was a bit confusing. 
I mean.. you have a point. You have a point. 
No. He doesn't. 
Yes. So I'm, I give birth to twins. This is a spoiler, by the way, if you don't want to know this, you should.. 
.. but, yeah. I'm a new mother in the movie, and um.. 
yes. Yes. It's, I.. 
I give birth, and.. 
Well, women aren't really mentioned in Noah's story at all, so um.. Darren kind of had to kind of fill in some gaps, and uh, Ila is .. 
was one of those gaps.. she's my . 
No, she's not. So Naameh is Noah's wife, and Ila is his adopted daughter, um, in.. Darren's adaption. 
And, um.. yeah, there's no mention, really, of women, in the original story, so.. 
Well, I guess, you know, the focus was on Noah, you know, he was the one saving all the animals. He was kind of busy, there was a lot of.. 
stuff that needed to go into that, I guess. i don't know. 
I've never met the author. I don't know. 
It was a real...um... It was pretty interesting. I..I said to my costume media "ok I want a...really do this method. 
I want you to put in my pregnancy suit, I want you to make it weigh the same amount as it would as if I was carrying twins, and she said "ok, fine, we'll do that". 
And I came up to her the next day and I said " You can't be serious. This is... I'm exhausted. 
This is crazy." And she turned to me and said "yeah, that's just the weight of one child". And I was like "ok, ok, umm". 
And yeah, and I called my mother after the first day of shooting and I was just like "this is crazy" and she said "you don't get to complain, you only faked it". 
Ahaha it was intense. I have a whole new-found respect for women and motherhood and... 
Right, sure, ok. You get to build some muscle, right? 
You have personal experience with this. 
You don't want to gain more than that. 
Ok. Well I'll remember that for... for the future. 
You know, it's funny. I used to in the early Harry Potter films. I would get very nervous. 
I would kind of twist myself up like a pretzel in my seat and I'd bite my nails and everything and then um... 
I'm pretty sure it was Maggie Smith who said this to me, it was 10 years ago now so I, sometimes I struggle remembering, but uh... 
She said, you know, she basically said "how do you expect to get better if you don't watch your performances" and I said "well that's a good point" and yeah. 
She kind of just told me to get a grip and since then I have watched my performances. 
Yeah, it's tough. Yeah, you get embarrassed. 
I mean he's done pretty well for himself. I don't know. 
He's incredible as Noah. He is absolutely sensational as Noah, I have to say. 
That was the thing, I honestly couldn't think of anyone else who could do it as well as Russell because you need the physicality of a man who you think could build with his bare hands an ark, and Russell Crowe seems like the guy who I would hire for that job. 
Gosh, I think it's like two hours. 
Epic, it's epic. 
He's got to get all of the animals into the ark. He's got to build it first, yeah it's definitely two, definitely two hours. 
I don't quite understand what you're saying. 
Wow. This is breaking-- 
Yes so we made sure we had a girl turtle and a boy turtle. 
We made sure we had both of the sexes. Yes that was important. 
Oh this is a scene, Russell and I before the world flooded basically and we're kind of having a conversation about the end of the world might look like. 
You lull me into a false sense of security. Last I was here, he played my clip from my movie-- 
Aww, thank you. 
Today we are launching a campaign called for HeForShe. I am reaching out to you because we need your help.
We want to end gender inequality, and to do this, we need everyone involved. This is the first campaign of its kind at the UN.
We want to try to mobilize as many men and boys as possible to be advocates for change. And, we don’t just want to talk about it.
We want to try and make sure that it’s tangible. I was appointed as Goodwill Ambassador for UN Women six months ago.
And, the more I spoke about feminism, the more I realized that fighting for women’s rights has too often become synonymous with man-hating.
If there is one thing I know for certain, it is that this has to stop. For the record, feminism by definition is the belief that men and women should have equal rights and opportunities.
It is the theory of political, economic and social equality of the sexes. I started questioning gender-based assumptions a long time ago.
When I was 8, I was confused for being called bossy because I wanted to direct the plays that we would put on for our parents, but the boys were not.
When at 14, I started to be sexualized by certain elements of the media. When at 15, my girlfriends started dropping out of sports teams because they didn’t want to appear muscly.
When at 18, my male friends were unable to express their feelings. I decided that I was a feminist, and this seemed uncomplicated to me.
But my recent research has shown me that feminism has become an unpopular word. Women are choosing not to identify as feminists.
Apparently, I’m among the ranks of women whose expressions are seen as too strong, too aggressive, isolating, and anti-men.
Unattractive, even. Why has the word become such an uncomfortable one? I am from Britain, and I think it is right I am paid the same as my male counterparts.
I think it is right that I should be able to make decisions about my own body. I think it is right that women be involved on my behalf in the policies and decisions that will affect my life.
I think it is right that socially, I am afforded the same respect as men. But sadly, I can say that there is no one country in the world where all women can expect to see these rights.
No country in the world can yet say that they achieved gender equality. These rights, I consider to be human rights, but I am one of the lucky ones.
My life is a sheer privilege because my parents didn’t love me less because I was born a daughter. My school did not limit me because I was a girl.
My mentors didn't assume that I would go less far because I might give birth to a child one day. These influences were the gender equality ambassadors that made me who I am today.
They may not know it, but they are the inadvertent feminists that are changing the world today. We need more of those.
And if you still hate the word, it is not the word that is important. It’s the idea and the ambition behind it, because not all women have received the same rights I have.
In fact, statistically, very few have. In 1997, Hillary Clinton made a famous speech in Beijing about women’s rights.
Sadly, many of the things that she wanted to change are still true today. But what stood out for me the most was that less than thirty percent of the audience were male.
How can we effect change in the world when only half of it is invited or feel welcome to participate in the conversation?
Men, I would like to take this opportunity to extend your formal invitation. Gender equality is your issue, too.
Because to date, I’ve seen my father’s role as a parent being valued less by society, despite my need of his presence as a child, as much as my mother’s.
I’ve seen young men suffering from mental illness, unable to ask for help for fear it would make them less of a man.
In fact, in the UK, suicide is the biggest killer of men between 20 to 49, eclipsing road accidents, cancer and coronary heart disease.
I’ve seen men made fragile and insecure by a distorted sense of what constitutes male success. Men don’t have the benefits of equality, either.
We don’t often talk about men being imprisoned by gender stereotypes, but I can see that they are, and that when they are free, things will change for women as a natural consequence.
If men don’t have to be aggressive in order to be accepted, women won’t feel compelled to be submissive.
If men don’t have to control, women won’t have to be controlled. Both men and women should feel free to be sensitive.
Both men and women should feel free to be strong. It is time that we all perceive gender on a spectrum, instead of two sets of opposing ideals.
If we stop defining each other by what we are not, and start defining ourselves by who we are, we can all be freer, and this is what HeForShe is about.
It’s about freedom. I want men to take up this mantle so that their daughters, sisters, and mothers can be free from prejudice, but also so that their sons have permission to be vulnerable and human too, reclaim those parts of themselves they abandoned, and in doing so, be a more true and complete version of themselves.
You might be thinking, “Who is this Harry Potter girl, and what is she doing speaking at the UN?” And, it’s a really good question.
I’ve been asking myself the same thing. All I know is that I care about this problem, and I want to make it better.
And, having seen what I’ve seen, and given the chance, I feel it is my responsibility to say something.
Statesman Edmund Burke said, “All that is needed for the forces of evil to triumph is for good men and women to do nothing.” In my nervousness for this speech and in my moments of doubt, I told myself firmly, “If not me, who?
If not now, when?” If you have similar doubts when opportunities are presented to you, I hope those words will be helpful.
Because the reality is that if we do nothing, it will take seventy-five years, or for me to be nearly 100, before women can expect to be paid the same as men for the same work.
15.5 million girls will be married in the next 16 years as children. And at current rates, it won't be until 2086 before all rural African girls can have a secondary education.
If you believe in equality, you might be one of those inadvertent feminists that I spoke of earlier, and for this, I applaud you.
We are struggling for a uniting word, but the good news is, we have a uniting movement. It is called HeForShe.
I invite you to step forward, to be seen and to ask yourself, “If not me, who? If not now, when?” Thank you very, very much.
