My father has helped. It was a different transition. Mine was a transition of a guy who served eight years. 
He had an unbelievably difficult transition and yet he handled it with unbelievable class and dignity. 
He helped in this sense: I watched him carefully and how he moved on with his life—he didn’t linger, he didn’t have a sense of needing to hang on to the presidency. 
For me, I learned from him that when it’s over, it’s over. I view my time in politics as a chapter, not my life. 
I’m forever a former president and I understand that, but at this point in my post-presidency, I don’t want to be involved with politics. 
Secondly, I don’t want to interfere with my successor’s presidency. taught me  a dignified way to be a former president is that once you’re off the stage, you’re off the stage. 
So I learned a lot from him. 
I think it is. 
Well, first of all, it focuses your mind. When you’re writing about something that happened, it helps you transition to the present. 
Ironically enough, by focusing on your presidency, it helps you realize that you’re no longer the president. 
By reliving moments, it helps you stay focused on the moment. In other words, my book is very anecdotal and only I can tell people what it was like to meet with the widow of someone who lost their life in Afghanistan. 
Telling that story and typing it, in an interesting way, adds finality to the presidency. 
Well from a personal perspective, quitting drinking is a decision I felt good about. Running for president was a good decision. 
Marrying my wife was a good decision. Being a father and trying to love my daughters with unconditional love—those were all good decisions. 
I hope people say, “Wow. That’s what it was like and I have a better understanding of why President Bush made the decisions he made. 
I may still disagree with it.” 
My post-presidency is evolving. Laura and I will be very much involved with the Bush Center at Southern Methodist. 
I tell people that this is a way for us to be involved in policy and not in politics. I am a passionate person when it comes to freedom. 
I believe that we’re in an ideological struggle; I believe the only way to marginalize those who murder the innocent, to achieve our ideological objectives, is to spread democracy and freedom. 
I believe in the universality of freedom and therefore want to be involved in the freedom movement. 
And a good way to do so is starting the Institute at Southern Methodist. And we’ve started. 
George H. W. Bush. 
He’s been a classy guy in his post-presidency. When I called upon him and President Clinton to help in the Tsunami and Katrina, he said, “I’d love to, son.” He is gracious. 
And I’m not saying any of the former presidents aren’t gracious, I’m just saying, this man is gracious. 
But each of us will figure out our own way. I can only be—I can only give my life in a way that makes me comfortable and I am uncomfortable at this point in my post-presidency in going on Meet the Press or any of the morning talk shows. 
Well, there’s a lot that I want to accomplish. One, I believe in a core set of principles. I believe that freedom is a gift from an Almighty to every man, woman, and child; that is a principle that was important to me during my presidency and I think it’s an important principle. 
Markets are the best way to allocate resources. To whom much is given, much is required. All human life is precious. 
In other words, these are certain principles that need to be defended. The core areas are areas of interest. 
The programs will be built around those principles, just as the freedom movement is built around the principle of democracy and universality of freedom. 
One is to make sure that we stay focused on core principles. Secondly, I will be a recruiter of talent and someone who makes sure that the talent we recruit is appreciated. 
Thirdly, I will work on the fundraising side. I will be a part of the thought process about how to make sure that the platform we have developed is effective and innovative. 
This is a living institute. We’re just starting and we’ve got a wonderful guy named Jim Glassman who brought great credibility. 
When this thing first got started there were a lot of people who said it was just going to be a political training ground and we’ve made it into a place of solid intellectual thought based upon the principles that I have just described to you. 
Those principles will anchor the Institute. The programs will give us a chance to be more than just a think-tank; it will be a results-oriented programmatic place. 
It could be. I tell you, I would like to remembered as President as somebody who did not compromise principles in order to try to be loved or liked. 
So to the extent that the Center is going to remain focused on certain principles, maybe that reinforces something I’d like to be known as. 
It was a privilege to be president and it is a privilege to be a former president and I believe that I have got a chance to be a part of something that is influential—but not for my sake, but for the sake of people dying in Africa or people worried about a free society in their countries or people who wonder whether there will be a free market. 
I’m surprised that they’re surprised. 
Two factors. One, I believe strongly that to whom much is given, much is required—we are a blessed nation—and that the United States could affect suffering in a positive way. 
I saw a clearer way to be effective in living out that admonition. 
I don’t know. First of all there’s a filter. When people say, “I thought you were a lot shorter than you are”—I felt like they mischaracterized my dad’s administration. 
But I didn’t pay that much attention to it—I really didn’t. But what people did not understand—and they couldn’t understand it—is that I had watched his presidency in agony because of the mischaracterization of George Bush. 
Here’s the story. I would call him and mother would answer the phone and say, “Your father… I can’t believe he’s listening to all this stuff. 
George, you need to talk to your dad.” And I became the comforter. I’d say, “Hey, Dad. I’m doing great. 
I know it’s tough out there, but don’t worry about me.” 
I did and I think all presidents should take the long view of history. 
You know, I don’t when history will objectively judge my administration. I know this; I’m not going to be around to see it. 
And so I’m comfortable. I am comfortable knowing that I put my heart and soul into the presidency. I am comfortable that the principles that I articulated were never compromised. 
And I am honored to have served. I’m glad I ran. It is a huge honor to be able to be a two-term president. 
It was really a great experience. I’m fortunate to have been able to serve. And I think that’s enough. 
You know, Juan, I haven't been briefed by the Pentagon yet. One of the things I've learned is not to react to first reports off the battlefield. 
I will tell you, though, that this fight is an indication of what is taking place, and that is the Iraqis are beginning to take the lead, whether it be this fight that you've just reported on where the Iraqis went in with American help to do in some extremists that were trying to stop the advance of their democracy, or the report that there's militant Shia had been captured or killed. 
In other words, one of the things that I expect to see is the Iraqis take the lead and show the American people that they're willing to the hard work necessary to secure their democracy, and our job is to help them. 
Well, I think it's an indication that there are murderers who will kill innocent people to stop the advance of a form of government that is the opposite of what they believe. 
You know, we can debate terms, but what can't be debated is the fact that Iraq is violent, and the violence is caused by Sunni Arabs like al-Qaida, who have made it clear that they want to create chaos and drive the United States out so they can have safe haven, and then they could launch attacks against America. 
No question the attack on the Golden Mosque of Samarra, which is a Shia holy site, caused Shia extremists to retaliate. 
Well, there's a lot of strong opinions about it. My attitude is – my feeling to the Senate echoes what Joe Lieberman said the other day – Senator Joe Lieberman – and that is it is ironic that the Senate would vote 81 to nothing to send a general into Iraq who believes he needs more troops to do the job and then send a contradictory message. 
The legislatures will – legislators will do what they feel like they've got to do, and, you know, we want to work with them as best we can to make it clear what the stakes of failure will be, and also make it clear to them that I think they have a responsibility to make sure our troops have what they need to do the missions. 
Oh, I don't think so. I think that the vice president is a person reflecting a half-glass-full mentality, and that is he's been able to look at – as have I, and I hope other Americans have – the fact that the tyrant was removed, 12 million people voted, there is an Iraqi constitution in place that is a model for – and unique for the Middle East. 
Well, we both agree that something needed to change. In other words, when I made the decision to change the strategy in Iraq with a focus on Baghdad – in other words, reinforcing our troops, he fully understands that needed to happen and supported it. 
Well, one way to – and one of the things I have found here in Washington amongst those who were skeptical about whether the Iraqis will do what it takes to secure their own freedom, is to remind them of what would happen if there's failure. 
In other words, there would be chaos. If we did not work to secure Baghdad and help the Iraqis to secure Baghdad, the country could evolve into a chaotic situation, and out of that chaos would emerge an emboldened enemy. 
Yeah. Well, I'm – you know, I'm hopeful that the decision I have made is going to yield enough results so that the Iraqi government is able to take more of the responsibility. 
Listen, they want the responsibility. You've heard their prime minister say, we're ready to go. And in my judgment, and more importantly, the judgment of the military folks, they're not quite ready to go. 
And therefore, it is in our interest to help them with an additional 21,000 troops, particularly in Baghdad, to help bring this violence down and to deal with these radicals, whether they be Sunni radicals or Shia radicals. 
Well, I would say to Ryan, I put it in place on the advice of a lot of smart people, particularly the military people who think it will work, and let us go into this aspect of the Iraqi strategy feeling it will work. 
But I will also assure Ryan that we're constantly adjusting to conditions on the ground. 
And let me also say to Ryan, thanks for serving. I mean, one of the amazing things about our country is that we have people who volunteer to go. 
And one of the things I look for is whether or not we're able to recruit and retain, and we are. And it's a remarkable country, Juan, where people are saying I want to serve. 
And I appreciate that soldier, and I hope this message gets to him that not only do I appreciate him, but a lot of Americans appreciate him. 
If Iran escalates its military action in Iraq to the detriment of our troops and/or innocent Iraqi people, we will respond firmly. 
We – it makes common sense for the commander-in-chief to say to our troops and the Iraqi people and the Iraqi government that we will help you defend yourself from people that want to sow discord and harm. 
And so we will do what it takes to protect our troops. 
I have no intent upon incur—going into Iran. I mean, this is the kind of thing that happens in Washington. 
People ascribe, you know, motives to me beyond a simple statement – of course we'll protect our troops. 
I don't know how anybody can then say, well, protecting the troops means that we're going to invade Iran. 
If that's what he's talking about, there's – I mean, we will protect our interests in Iraq. That's what the American people expect us to do. 
That's definitely what our troops want to do, and that's what the families of our troops want us to do. 
And if we find the Iranians are moving weapons that will end up harming American troops, we'll deal with it. 
Well, I gave a speech that I thought was necessary to give. On the other hand, I had been talking a lot about Katrina and about the fact that I worked with the Congress to get about $110 billion sent down to both Mississippi and Louisiana to help them on their reconstruction efforts. 
Obviously, there is more work to be done. But to take the housing issue, for example, we have sent money down to the Louisiana folks, Louisiana Recovery Authority, to fund their plan. 
And the money is there and the money is available. And now it's up to the folks down there to get this plan implemented so people can start rebuilding their houses. 
Absolutely, and it's a serious challenge. And one of the things that I am proud of is this administration has done a lot on advancing new technologies that will enable us to do two things – strengthen our economy, and at the same time, be better stewards of the environment. 
In 2002, I talked about an energy efficiency standard, which says new technologies will enable us to grow our economy, and at the same time, improve the environment, and we're meeting certain standards that I set for the country. 
Yeah. Well, that was an oversight then. I mean, I'm not trying to needle. 
Look, I went into the hall saying we can work together and I was very sincere about it. I didn't even know I did it. 
And that I did, I didn't mean to be putting fingernails on the board, I meant to be saying why don't we show the American people we can actually work together? 
There is a lot of politics in Washington – in my judgment, needless politics. And it's almost like, if George Bush is for it, we're against it, and I – and if he's against it, we're for it. 
And the American people don't like that. 
No, really what it is, it's a rewriting of the tax code. We've got a tax code today that says if you get your insurance from a large employer, for example, it's part of your – it's a non-taxable event. 
And yet if you're an individual, like Juan Williams out there as an independent contractor, and you buy your own health insurance, you're at a tax disadvantage. 
And so I'm asking the Congress to reform the tax code to treat everybody fairly. And in my judgment, such a plan will encourage and enable more individuals to be able to buy health insurance, which will help us deal with the uninsured. 
The budget is going to be balanced by keeping taxes low. In other words, we're not going to raise taxes. 
And as a result of keeping taxes low, the economy is doing just fine, and when the economy is doing well, it yields a certain level of tax revenues that we can live with. 
And then making sure that we constrain federal spending, and you do that by setting priorities. And our priority has got to be this global war on terror and supporting our troops, and protecting the homeland, and that is what our budget will say, and we can balance the budget within five years. 
And that is going to be – that is good for the country. And in so doing, we are dealing with the short-term deficits, but we have also got to deal with the long-term deficits inherent in, for example, programs like Social Security and Medicare. 
Because the United States Congress that was controlled by Republicans exercised spending restraint. 
Now, I didn't particularly like – the size of the pie was what I requested. It's some of the pieces of the pie that I didn't particularly care for, but that is why the president needs a line-item veto, and that is why Congress has got to reform the earmark process. 
What the American people need to understand is that sometimes special projects get put into bills without ever having seen the light of the day. 
In other words, they don't get voted on; they just show up, and we need transparency in the earmark process, and expose the process to hearings and votes so that the American people will know that any project was fully heard on the floor of the House and the Senate. 
Well, you know, Juan, my hope is that we see improvement in Baghdad. My vision is dealing with the problems at hand. 
I have got a lot on my agenda and believe we are going to get a lot done. At home, we want the economy to remain strong, and we want our children educated. 
That is why I'm pushing for a reauthorization of the No Child Left Behind Act. And abroad, I'm not only working with a great team to deal with Iraq, but we're dealing with Iran, Middle Eastern peace, North Korea. 
I mean, there is a lot of issues we are dealing with. 
No question that there is a certain skepticism about intelligence. We all thought that that – that there were weapons of mass destruction in Iraq, and "we all" being not only the administration, but members from both political parties in the Congress. 
The previous administration felt that the intelligence indicated there was weapons of mass destruction. 
The international community – in other words, I just want you to know that there was a universal belief that Saddam Hussein had weapons of mass destruction including critics of Iraq, like the French, who voted for 1441 in the Security Council. 
Well, I think they understand the lessons of Iraq. And you know, we put the Silverman Robb Commission together, and wanted to make – look, the president needs the best intelligence. 
This is a war against a group of killers that still want to come and kill us, that is going to require accurate intelligence to give us the data necessary to act to protect Americans before the attack. 
And therefore we are all pulling for good intelligence. 
Well, I'm going to have to keep working with them and explain that my notion is to – is to put in place a consulting-type group that will be able to talk about the war on terror in general. 
In other words, I don't want – I think that a lot of these folks aren't happy we're in Iraq to begin with, and I understand that, and then they are – they don't believe we are going to succeed in Iraq, and I understand that too. 
I think what some may be afraid of is I'm trying to get them into an Iraq-type situation where they are forced to say something they don't want to say. 
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, and that may be part of the issue. My purpose really is to – listen, we want to consult in Iraq, and we will continue to do so, and we will be very much involved with members of Congress, don't get me wrong. 
But the greater purpose is to help this country succeed in the ideological struggle that we're going to be in today and tomorrow and the next day. 
Juan, thank you, buddy. Glad you're here. 
You know, the country responded in such a powerful way. And I think it helped her a lot to know that so many people really loved her husband. 
And he'll go down in history as a great president. KING: The other night we were talking concerning that. 
There seems to be a lack of civility in America, angry people, talk radios's angry, people are angry, people hate you, hate other candidates. 
It eased for a week during the Reagan funeral. What do you make of this? What's going on in America? 
I think there may be handfuls of people that are very emotional, but I think by far the vast majority of Americans are, you know, are -- want to know whether they're going to be able to work, and whether or not the government is doing its job of protecting the country... 
I think it's pretty loud, but they certainly don't represent the majority of Americans. 
Not really. I think my most important mission is to let the people know what I want to do for the next four years. 
These are very serious times that we live in. I've got a lot of explanations to give on decisions I have made. 
So I spend most of my time explaining why I have made some very difficult decisions and why I know that those decisions will make the country a safer place, or a better place. 
Not at all. Listen... 
There's a chattering class of kind of, you know, professional politicians who get on the airwaves and they kind of feel like it's their duty to stir things up. 
But the American people are -- they're focused on their families, and they're focused on their work. 
And they're interested in, you know, how government can help secure this country during these dangerous times. 
But I just don't see it. When I travel the country, and I've been traveling a lot, there are thousands of people who come out and wave, and they are -- you know, they respect the presidency. 
Sometimes they like the president, but I have this -- I don't have a sense that there's a lot of anger. 
Oh, absolutely. 
You know, I think it is an issue, because he views it as honorable service, and so do I. I mean... 
Well, I say they ought to get rid of all those 527s, independent expenditures that have flooded the airwaves. 
Well, I haven't seen the ad, but what I do condemn is these unregulated, soft-money expenditures by very wealthy people, and they've said some bad things about me. 
I guess they're saying bad things about him. And what I think we ought to do is not have them on the air. 
I think there ought to be full disclosure. The campaign funding law I signed I thought was going to get rid of that. 
But evidently the Federal Election Commission had a different view. 
Look, the senator ought to be proud of his record. 
Yes, he is. Senator Kerry is justifiably proud of his record in Vietnam and he should be. His noble service -- the question is... 
The question is: Who can best lead the country in a time of war? That's really what the debate ought to be about. 
And I think it's me. Because I understand the stakes. 
Well, it can be won by spreading freedom. It can be won by, if the United States continues to lead the world and encourage those who long for freedom to seek freedom, and to work with governments to put institutions in place that allow women to have rights and honor human dignity and human rights. 
Yes, we can. And in the short-term, we will secure our country by never relenting in our desire to bring people to justice. 
It's best that we bring them to justice overseas so they don't hit us here at home. 
Well, first, it's painful to know that a young American has lost his or her life in combat. It's painful because I know how broken-hearted their loved ones are. 
We have met with their loved ones a lot. 
Well, you shouldn't. These are private moments. These aren't moments to be publicized. 
These are moments between me and Laura and their families. And I assure them, when I meet with them, that their loved one will not have died in vain. 
Well, I had just been told by Andrew Card that America was under attack. And I was collecting my thoughts. 
And I was sitting with a bunch of young kids, and I made the decision there that we would let this part of the program finish, and then I would calmly stand up and thank the teacher and thank the children and go take care of business. 
Oh, I think it's easy to second-guess a... 
What is relevant is whether or not I understand and understood then the stakes. And I recognized that we were at war. 
And I made a determination that we would do everything we could to bring those killers to justice and to protect the American people. 
That is my most solemn duty. 
Well, there's been a lot of hard moments in my life. 
Yes, it was -- trying to understand exactly what it meant. But there have been a lot of hard of moments. 
It was hard to go to the ground zero on September the 14th, 2001, and see those workers and police men and women and the firefighters who had been searching the rubble looking for their loved ones. 
That was a hard moment. 
Well, I just wanted to make sure that it was done the right way. I felt like that -- one of my concerns was that it would usurp the Congress' need to fully investigate. 
I thought it was a great report. I read it. 
Well, we have already implemented a lot of their recommendations. And the other day I announced that we would have a national intelligence director. 
Well, I want to work with Congress on that. The issue of the budget is probably the most interesting issue. 
And Congress itself has got to get its house in order on the budget. There is a lot of different jurisdictions involved with intelligence... 
Yes, absolutely. There's no need to have a position if that person doesn't have the capacity to make important decisions. 
The person should not be in the Cabinet and will not be in the Cabinet. 
Well, because I think you want this person to be independent from the administration to a certain extent, separate from the administration is a better way to put it, not independent... 
You bet. Not independent in the sense that the person can't be fired. I think the president ought to have the right to name and nominate, with the consent of the Senate, and have the ability to fire the person. 
Well, we haven't really started thinking about... 
You know, as I say, you're catching me totally fresh. I haven't really thought about a person to fill the job, because the job doesn't exist yet. 
We have to first get it through the Congress. And, frankly, my attention has been focused on naming somebody to run the CIA. 
And I found a very good man in Porter Goss, nominated a good man from Florida who I think will do a great job. 
You know, breeze is an interesting word. I expect him to be nominated. I would certainly hope people wouldn't hold up his nomination, because he's a very capable individual. 
Well, let me -- there's 30 nations now involved in Iraq. And I know their leaders well. I've thanked them on behalf of the American people for serving alongside our troops. 
I think to say we've gone it alone really does denigrate the contributions of other countries. 
I think it's very important. I think the election is important for a lot of reasons. 
Absolutely, there is, particularly on how to fight and win a war, on taxes, on a lot of issues and... 
But we'll see. You are speculating here in August. 
I know but I mean, you know... 
But give us a chance to kick down the stretch. It really is early... 
Yes, exactly. It's early in the campaign in a certain sense. I mean, a lot of people want to be on vacation. 
You and I follow this closely, of course, but a lot of folks are vacationing and they will start to focus again... 
I guess the polls don't say that. But I think there are some people that can be persuaded to change their opinion. 
I run into both. And when you say, "run in," the president generally doesn't run into anybody. I mean, we're driving... 
A lot of public forums. A lot of bus trips. And we see people express their opinions. 
The great thing about our country is they're free to do so. And by far the vast majority of people who come out to wave are doing so in a friendly fashion. 
Well, we thought we'd find stockpiles. The whole world thought we'd find stockpiles, including, evidently, the French government, which voted in the United Nations Security Council to say to Saddam: Disclose, disarm, or face serious consequences. 
Absolutely. We made the right decision. 
No. Listen, some things happened that were hard to predict. And some things didn't happen that we thought were going to happen. 
For example, we thought they'd blow up the oil fields. We though there'd be mass starvation, refugees. 
I'm taking the rap, too, of course. 
Absolutely. That's what elections are about. The American people can go in that voting booth and decide whether or not... 
No, I didn't say that. Now, let's be careful about that. 
No, the sign said, "Mission accomplished." It didn't say the battle was over. It said, "Mission accomplished." And I was talking to sailors and a pilot who had been on an extended tour -- I think, maybe the longest in a long period of time. 
They were both -- this carrier was both in Afghanistan and in Iraq. 
People make a big deal out of it. It was not a mistake to go to the carrier. 
So many so upset, you mean, the Baathists, why are they radical Baathists? Well, they are upset because they are not in power. 
You mean, to have him in the governing council initially? 
Oh, oh, yes. Well, we'll see. I mean, he came with a... 
You know, I don't want to prejudge the facts. But I do know that Chalabi came with a... 
That's all right. 
That's the only word I pronounce better than you. 
By the Iraqis... 
... in a fair way. I really don't. 
"See you later." Yes. They are not going to. But it's their country. 
We said we'd pass sovereignty. And we did. And Prime Minister Allawi is in charge. 
And I have spoken to him several times. And he has thanked me. And he wanted me to thank the American people for the security we are providing. 
You know, look, look, here's the problem with timeframes. My opponent said we will substantially reduce troops in six months. 
That says to the enemy: Wait for six months and one day. Or it says to the Iraqis, the Americans aren't serious. 
And it's very important for us not to be setting timetables. 
Well, here's the decision I made. As Laura said, there had been no federal dollars given to embryonic stem cell research. 
I decided that there were existing lines which could provide promising potential discovery. As a matter of fact, there's 22 active lines now which has led to over a couple of hundred projects being explored off those lines. 
That's the big debate, Larry, and this country has got to be very careful on destroying life to save life. 
And it's a debate that needs to move forward in a very careful way. And I listen very carefully to ethicists who impressed me about being cautious and respecting human life, I guess, is the best way to put it. 
And that's one issue, embryonic stem cell. 
These are embryos that represent life and the fundamental question, as a society, is: Does society continue to take life, destroy life? 
Her dad had Alzheimer's. 
I think my position is very reasonable. And you know, you say, well, why is it framed the way it is? 
Because it's a political season. Things happen -- people say things in politics in order to try to create division I guess. 
And but to say that we have banned embryonic stem cell research is simply not the truth. 
No, they had already been established prior to when I needed to make a decision. 
Yes. New ones, that's right. These had already existed. 
And it's more than 22 stem cell lines. 
I do think it's important for us to promote a culture of life in America. I think it's very important. 
I think a society which promotes a culture of life is a compassionate society and a decent society. 
There are a lot of dilemmas... 
That's the whole point. They're not easy issues, but if you believe that the job is to promote a culture of life in society, the issues become more clear. 
Not much of it. 
I may -- when asked, I profess my faith. 
You can't separate your faith from your life. I make decisions on what I think is best for the country but my faith is important to me and a lot of times my faith comes up because I thank people for their prayers and I mean people from all religions. 
But, no, I think the church ought to be separate from the state, the state separate from the church but I don't see how you can separate your faith as a person and my faith is an integral part of my life. 
No, of course not. I see it as people who love freedom against those who prevent others from being free and I say that it a lot when asked about religion that the greatest thing about America is you can practice your faith, or have no faith at all and you're equally an American. 
And if you choose to -- if you believe in the Almighty, you can -- you're equally an American. If you're a Jew, Christian or Muslim or Hindi or whatever. 
It is one of the great traits and traditions of our country, where people can worship the way you see fit. 
And that is not the case in parts of the world. 
Take Afghanistan: Not only could you not worship freely, but if you didn't worship according to the Taliban, you were whipped publicly. 
For example, if you were a woman, if you weren't in lockstep with these dictators and tyrants, that you would be brutalized. 
And America stands in stark contrast to that. We're the opposite end of that spectrum. 
Well, because I'm worried that the laws on the books that basically define marriage as between a man -- not basically, do define marriage between a man and a woman will be ruled unconstitutional, and then judges will make the decision as to the definition of marriage. 
And I think it's too important an issue for judges to make that decision. And I think that one way to guarantee that traditional marriage is defined as between a man and a woman is through the constitutional process... 
Well, listen, I... 
Absolutely. But it's an important debate, Larry, and it's a debate that the people need to be involved with, and not courts. 
And that's what you're beginning to see. There was a decision here in California, it was a court decision. 
In other words, it's -- and it ruled that marriages in San Francisco were illegal according to California law. 
But the point is that this ought to be decided by people, and I just happen to believe and know that if you believe that traditional marriage ought to be the law of the land, that the way to guarantee that is through the constitutional process. 
Well, you can do that through the legal process. You know, people have said to me, well, if you're gay, you can't inherit because -- and you don't get the exemption from income tax. 
Well, my answer there is get rid of the inheritance tax forever, the death tax, which I'm trying to do. 
And there are ways to make sure gays have got rights. And you can do so in the law. 
Yes. Listen, the guy asked me a question. He said, "what about getting rid of the entire income tax system for an alternative?" I said it's an interesting idea. 
My point to him was was that we ought to explore ways to simplify the tax code. 
No, I said it was an interesting idea. This is politics. People put words in your mouth. 
People shouldn't worry about me raising taxes. I'm the guy that cut taxes. I worked with Congress... 
Well, it's an option that some people think is a viable option. I just said it's an interesting idea. 
I do think we ought to look at ways to simplify the tax code. The tax code is way too complicated but let me just make this clear so everybody understands. 
I'm the guy that believes in reducing taxes and keeping them low. It's the other fellow that says he's going to raise taxes and I think it'll be a mistake to raise taxes now. 
The economy is getting better and raising taxes now on people would slow the economy down. 
Sure. I'll be glad to answer it. The answer is yes. 
Absolutely. The world is safer. What we have done -- think about this. 
Libya is no longer a threat, Pakistan is an ally on the war on terror, Saudi is after Al Qaeda, there are 15 million people that once live in tyranny are now living in societies which are heading toward democracies, the world is getting safer. 
First of all, I said that here's a man who when he lived in this house, was enthusiastic about his job. 
He loved every day. And I think I captured him well. He did. 
He loved the presidency. And I said... 
You bet. And I said, when he takes on a task, he believes in it. He throws his whole body and soul into it. 
And that also captured the spirit of the man. 
I am, hopefully as a reelected president. 
I think Laura ought to be an issue. 
Because it shows what good judgment I have. 
Married out of my league. Married above myself. I'm really proud of Laura. 
She's a really good... 
I'm sure we have. There will be debates. I don't think you have to worry about that. 
I'll be there to debate. 
Well, I don't have -- frankly, to be honest with you, I don't have any idea what the dates are. But I'm confident we'll have the debates. 
There will be debates. 
They're always key. I mean, that gives it -- people will tune in and see how we handle the questions and the pressure and the give and take. 
And I look forward to them. 
And they're important occasions. They are part of the process. 
I do. I want to do it for four more years. It's been remarkable experience. 
As I said before, these are historic times, and it's been an honor to be a part of that. 
The bitterness inside Washington. It's different than I thought. Certainly wasn't that case in Austin, Texas, when I was the governor. 
Oh, I don't, you know, I don't pay... 
I just don't pay that much attention to it. 
No, I've got too much on my mind to worry about me. 
You know, really, I'm serious about it. I've got too much to do, and too much to worry about. I mean, we are under threat, and I've got a duty to protect our country. 
We've got troops in harm's way in both Afghanistan and Iraq. I have a duty to see to it that they got the equipment needed to do their jobs, and to explain to the American people, to rally a coalition. 
Yes, they are great. 
Nothing better than being out on the trail with your daughters. 
You would know. 
Thank you, sir. 
