Ah. Pretty, pretty bad. I didn't do so good with retirement, so yeah. 
You know, when you have passion for something, when you love something, when you truly love something and that's all you been doing for the majority of your life... 
Got to figure, I started writing when I was nine, and then for the last ten years I made an album a year, like every eight months. 
And in between that I was making sound tracks and different people's albums and guest appearing and all this. 
So, when you're doing that amount of work in such a short period, it's like... what are you going to do? 
Yes, it sounded great, yes. 
No, like I said, it was just the passion for the music. Because I had more than enough to do between Def Jam and the Nets and Roc-A-Wear. 
I don't know why I add more work to my day, but it's all good. 
Well, yeah. But I've always had dual responsibilities. On my first album I was the executive producer. 
So, I was never afforded the luxury of just being an artist and just saying 'I don't want to do it' and just shutting down. 
You know, that artist thing! So I've never had that luxury, I've always had to you know, wear two hats. 
I always had dual responsibility, so...it's second nature! But with Def Jam it's a different monster because it is the most important hip hop label ever. 
You know, it's huge. You have different artists' career in your hands, who you didn't sign, who are superstars on their own. 
So that dynamic is a little different for me, you know...but it is what it is. 
You mean, I am a control freak now? No I am not! Haha! 
It is just... um...it all stems from my passion. My passion is music, you know, and music influences culture, influences lifestyle, which leads me to Roc-A-Wear. 
I was forced to be an entrepreneur, so that led me to be CEO of Roc-A-Fella records, which lead to Def Jam. 
Well, the Rolling Stones had to take like five songs out of their set, so I'm in good company! I don't feel so bad, I feel like a rock and roll star! 
It's actually an honor to be next to the Rolling Stones. 
Of course, that's how they speak to one another. 
Don't believe any of that. 
Like I said, when I came into the music I was forced to be a CEO, I was forced to be an entrepreneur, I was forced to...because I was looking for a deal. 
I didn't have this grand scheme of starting a record company and then morphing into a clothing empire. 
I didn't have this five year plan, and this 10 year plan, these business plans that people write up for themselves, I wanted a deal, I looked everywhere, I looked into every single record company for a deal. 
I wanted a recording contract. And when I couldn't get a deal, it was like either quit or you know make your own company. 
I don't think that in that time people didn't understand. My first album was mainly dealing with street issues and it was "coded," it was called "Reasonable Doubt." So the things I was talking about...I was talking about in slang, and it was something that people in the music business was not really privy to. 
They didn't understand totally what I was saying, or what I was taking about. 
No, not this far. I thought I would have an album out in, you know, maybe enough money to buy a house for my mom, and things like that. 
You know, every little boy's dream is to buy a house for your mom, get a car, and you know, have a successful career. 
I didn't know it would go into so many different areas. There's no way to dream about that. 
Well, I don't want to make it sound like...especially since I've been exposed to so many different areas in Africa just recently. 
..I don't want to make it sounds like everyday was like, you know this 50/50 chance of survival just going to school. 
It wasn't that difficult, I had great days too. But it was a tough urban neighborhood. 
Everyday. If you're on the other side of the law, any day it could happen to you. That's what you have to realize, you know what I'm saying? 
You have to realize that any day, any day, any day...every single day you know, you had a chance of going to jail. 
But the sad part about it is when it gets normal to you. When you start getting used to it and it is not on your mind as much. 
That's when it's dangerous. 
For a second. For a second, it was just like normal life, it was like everyday life. And then you know you reach benchmarks in your life. 
You become 18, 21, 25 you know those benchmarks when you start looking at your life and what you're doing at the time. 
So by the time I was 21 years old I was like, I can't do this. This is a dead end! This leads to either jail or the graveyard. 
There's no other way around it. You're playing percentages and the longer you are out there, and like I said, any day something can happen to you. 
I don't think it was fame on my part that caused you know us to go our separate ways. Like I've been famous since...I was famous before I came into the music business, I was famous. 
Not on the level that I am now, but you know I was a ghetto celebrity. So I've always been famous, I never wanted to be famous. 
If you look at my career and you look at the span of my work and the things I have done, as far as to garner fame, you'll see that I have turned down more interviews than I do. 
Or I turn down more things than I do. 
I guess, growing up I guess I was a little lazy, I didn't know I could do or take on so much and still be focused, and have like a laser-like focus and take care of what I am doing. 
I guess, you know, I don't know how this article came about and why rap came up, but I guess the president made some disparaging remarks about... 
Well, if you read his quotes....I mean anything other than you know we appreciate you know the light that hip hop has given us without compensation is a slap in the face because you know we didn't say anything bad about Cristal, or do anything. 
All we did was we found the product that we liked and we talked about it, and be bought it in huge numbers and that's it. 
So, whether you've been led...you're a grown man! We're all grown up and whether the interview was being led that way, you can either say no comment or if you feel that way about hip hop or...say something nice! 
Well, it all started out from my going out on world tour. When I was coming out on tour, I wanted to go to the neighborhoods and experience different cultures. 
And you know I was saying at myself, well I can't go there and not do anything in some of these neighbourhoods. 
I know some of these neighbourhoods are in need. And when I was looking for a cause to take up, water was the first one. 
It just was Number One on the list, you know. You need that every day, for just every day basic needs. 
In the beginning, as a kid, it made me closed because I never wanted to feel that feeling again. So I would shut people out. 
I mean, not to the fact where I was rude about it, but I wouldn't let anyone get so close to me that they can bring those feelings about again. 
But you know when I finally got to ...to see him and we made up and everything, it was a free-ing thing, it was a liberating experience. 
Amazingly strong woman! Like, very, very, very strong, incredibly strong, incredibly determined and focused. 
If she had any problem, we didn't know about it. The way she went about it was, we didn't feel the effect of it. 
So, she was just an incredibly strong woman. 
Well, you got to figure the neighborhood that you're coming from. Like once you sign a record deal, it's not like you cross a line, and be like 'okay I am out of it, you can't touch me any more!' you know. 
It's part of what happens now, it's what's being sensationalized on the news. We're all to blame, right? 
We're all, we're all somewhat at fault because when people shed a light on it, people get bright ideas. 
"Wow! You know, this guy got into a fight in a bar and his record debut number one? You know, that's the way to go! 
So, it has to stop, but you know sadly it's part of the marketing plan now. 
Haha! No comments, ha ha! 
You have to have a part of yourself that you keep to yourself, you know. You put so much out there, you put so much of yourself into your music, your passion, in everything! 
So much goes into your music, you need some type of refuge. 
No, that's part of it, you know. That comes with the job. The good far out-weighs the bad, so I am not, by no means, complaining. 
No, I be okay. I can keep the lights on! Hahaha 
That's the great thing about hip hop, you know. When you're in a position to stretch the job, you have to do it. 
You have to do certain things that doesn't sound hip hop. Or else it's just going to stay the small thing, you know. 
You need it to grow. You need it to expand, you need it to go...it's limitless because it is the music of this generation. 
I don't want to get into that. I've done that already. I've made that mistake so I don't want to get into that, setting dates, saying it, you know. 
It will come a time when it'll be like...it's been 6 years and he hasn't put out an album what's going on? 
Then you'll know it's official. But I won't speak about it again. 
Well I had a - I grew up in the Marcy Projects in Brooklyn, and my mom and pop had an extensive record collection. 
So Michael Jackson and Stevie Wonder, and all those sounds and souls - and Motown etc., etc. - filled the house. 
So I was very familiar with the song when Kanye bought me the sample. It was just such an interesting and fresh take on it that I immediately was drawn to it. 
Ah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's like an abbreviation - you know, H to the Izzo, like for Hova. It's a spelling, and it was like this - I guess it's a form of pig Latin. 
It's a language that we used like a slang. H to the izz-O, v to the izz-A is basically spelling Hova. 
J. Hova, which is a nickname that, you know, they gave me because it was like -one time, I was recording in the studio and I wasn't writing, and one of my friends was like, man, this is like, how you doing that, man? 
God must really love you. It's like a religious experience, man. And then he was like, J-hova. 
And then, you know, it started out as a joke, and then it just stuck. 
As most nicknames do, right? 
Yeah, I guess there's a bright side to everything, right? 
Yeah, just so, you know, if I was focusing on music, you know, I wouldn't be - you know, running the streets all wild. 
So she tried to encourage me to pursue my dreams in music early on. And my first rhymes were pretty much, you know, very boastful and, you know, academic - but they were kind of advanced for a young kid. 
Like I put a piece of one of them and it was like, I'm the king of hip-hop/ Renewed like the Reebok/The key in the lock/With words so provocative/As long as I live. 
Yeah, well, yeah - between 9 and 11. Those were my first rhymes. 
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I found that in the dictionary. I had a sixth-grade teacher, Miss Louden, that was very pivotal to my hunger for wanting to know the English language and, you know, discover these words. 
And, you know, it was a tool in the music that - and the poetry that I chose to pursue. 
Yeah. You have these three columns of buildings, with four people on each floor, six floors, you know. 
So you had people to the left of you, right of you, on top and on the bottom of you. It's a very intense and stressful situation. 
Everyone is going through different things, and in between all that stress and angst and, you know, having to deal with one another in such close proximity, there's so much love. 
And there was playing in the johnny pump, and there was the ice cream man who - coming around. And there were all these games that we played. 
And then it would turn - suddenly, it just - violent, and there would be shootings at 12 in the afternoon on any given day. 
It was about '85, so I had to be - never earlier than that - so maybe about 12, 13 years old. 
Well, I think what it changed most was - you know, they have a saying: It takes a village to raise a child. 
It changed the authority figure because, you know, with crack cocaine, it was done so openly. And the people who were addicted to it - the fiends - had very little self-respect for their self. 
It was so highly addictive that they didn't care how they obtained it. And they carried that out in front of children, who were dealing at the time. 
So that relationship of that respect of, you know, I have to respect my elders and - you know, Uncle Tyrone's coming; he wasn't really your uncle, but he was the uncle for the neighborhood. 
And you know, that dynamic shifted, and it had - broke, forever. And it just changed everything from that point on. 
I'm sure she suspected, you know, as much, because it was so prevalent. What happened was, it was either you were using it or selling it, and that was pretty much the two options. 
I know there was - and that's a very blanket statement. I know it was a very small percentage that, you know, had nothing to do with drugs - maybe - in their household but, you know, the brother or sister, somebody - the uncle, the aunt - it was just so prevalent. 
You know, you could smell it in the hallways. You could see crack vials in the elevator, on the curb, you know, where the water flows; crack vials floating up and down like a river or something. 
It was just everywhere. 
Oh, not until later on. You know, at 14, 15 years old, you know, you're thinking about - to be honest with you, you're thinking about sneakers, or you're thinking about some sort of relief from all the pain you feeling. 
You're thinking about buying some food for the house. You're thinking about paying the extra light bill. 
So at that young age, you're not thinking about the destruction that you're causing your own community. 
Yeah, I tricked her. 
Yeah, it was her birthday. It was actually her birthday - December 4th is my birthday, which is the title of the song - and it was her birthday, September 17th, and I told her to meet me down at the studio, that we were going to go to lunch and - for her birthday. 
And she came down to the studio, and I just brought the track up. And I was like, I just want you to talk on it - because I knew if I told her, she'd get really nervous. 
So I just - I brought her down to the studio, and I just brought the track up and was like, I need you to talk on this. 
And she was like, what do you want me to say? And you know, the rest is history. 
Oh, just tell those stories that you told about me - about riding the bike when I was 4 and, you know, those sort of things. 
And she went in there and was - you know, we couldn't get off the mike after a minute 'cause she just kept talking. 
They say they never really miss you 'til you dead or you gone. So on that note, I'm leaving after this song. 
So you ain't gotta feel no way about Jay so long. But at least let me tell you why I'm this way, hold on. 
I was conceived by Gloria Carter and Adaness Reeves, who made love under the sycamore tree. Which makes me a more sicker emcee than my momma would claim, at 10 pounds when I was born I didn't give her no pain. 
I think it was a really strong album. I champion any form of creativity, and that was a genius idea - to do it. 
And it sparked so many others like it. There are other ones that - you know, it's really good - there are other ones that because of the blueprint that was set by him, that I think are a little better. 
But you know, him being the first and having the idea, I thought it was genius. 
No, I was actually honored that, you know, that someone took the time to mash those records up with Beatles records. 
I was honored to be on - you know, quote-unquote, the same song with the Beatles. 
Ah, well, yes, it wasn't very difficult. It was like - 
Yeah. I knew a friend who knew a friend and - you know, he made an introduction. And we had a conversation almost like a job interview, and it was almost these rules of how to do it, and how not to get high on your own supply, and how to be a man of principle and of your word, and dealing with people. 
And it was like this advice as if it was a Fortune 500 job, you know, except it was crack cocaine. 
Yeah, that - strangely enough, that movie about, you know, all this violence and gore was like, one of the biggest things to impact our generation, you know. 
Not everyone listened, you know. It's a very difficult thing to do. 
Yeah, yeah. I did, yes. 
Yeah, it's like, that's what "Decoded" is pretty much about. It breaks down some of the things that - you know, the origins of things and how they arrived - especially, you know, with the songs, of course, but also with our generation. 
Those things now, that seemed like merely fashion, you know, were purposeful at one time or another. 
Well, you know, if you had a big enough weapon and... 
Yeah, what happened was, I wrote so much in this book, I would sit at my table for hours and hours 'til my mother made me go to bed. 
And it was like this - this obsession with words and with writing. And as I got further away from that notebook - now as I was on the street and these ideas would come, I would run into the corner store, the Bodega, and grab like, a paper bag or just buy a juice, anything just to get a paper bag. 
And then I'd write the words on the paper bag and stuff these ideas in my pocket 'til I got back. And then I would transfer them into the notebook. 
And as I got further and further away home and from the notebook, I had to memorize these rhymes longer and longer and longer - and like, with any exercise, you know, once you train your brain to do that, it becomes a natural occurrence. 
No, I haven't since my first album. 
Yeah, yeah. I've lost plenty material; it's not the best way. I wouldn't advise it. 
I wouldn't advise it to anyone. I've lost a couple albums' worth of great material. Well, I thought they were great - when I couldn't remember them, you know. 
To think about how, you know, when you can't remember a word and it drives you crazy - like man, I've got to think about this, you know it's - it's the, it's the... 
so imagine, you know, forgetting an entire rhyme and then having to sit there and like, what? I said I was the greatest something... 
It was like, events that would happen over the years. You know, I went to a guy by the name of Clark Kent. 
I made a couple of demos with him, and then I would leave - back into the streets, you know. My cousin stopped speaking to me; he thought I was wasting my talent. 
And I was like, one foot in and one foot out. I always had in the back of my mind that I would be back in the streets, for some reason; I guess I didn't have 100 percent belief in what I was doing. 
Then finally I just said, man, I'm just going to give this music a try. I'm going to give it 100 percent, and just forget everything that I'm doing, you know. 
And here we are. 
Well, I don't know if you really have a concrete number of how much money you were making. Sometimes it was really good, and it was fantastic. 
I mean, I did pretty well, which made it more difficult for me because at the time, people in the street were making more than rappers, you know. 
I didn't - not until the big deals of Master P and Puff - deal with Badboy, with Arista Records, were people getting really big deals. 
To say the least. 
Well, what happened was, my sister's name is Andrea Carter, and we call her Annie for short. So when the TV version of the play - you know, it came on and it was like, there's a story called "Annie." I was immediately drawn to it; of course, it was my sister's name - like, what is this about? 
So you know, I watched it and I was, you know, I was immediately drawn to that story and, you know, those words - instead of treated, we get tricked; instead of kisses, we get kicked - it immediately resonated with me. 
Check the bass line out, uh-huh. Here we go. Bounce with it. 
Uh-huh uh-huh uh-huh, yeah. Let it bump, yo. 
From standing on the corners bopping, to driving some of the hottest cars New York has ever seen. Were dropping some of the hottest verses rap has ever heard. 
From the dope spot, with the smoke Glock fleeing the murder scene. You know me well. From nightmares of a lonely cell, my only hell but since when y'all  know me to fail? 
Yeah. Well, I mean, we got the rights already, so this will be a bit late. So - because I exaggerated a touch, you know. 
And it's typical, when you have to clear a song, you have to send it - a sampled song - you send it to the original writers, and they grant you permission, and you pay a fee for that permission. 
I didn't want you to put the whole thing out there. I was trying to, you know, I could... 
Yeah, it was, you know, it was a bad lie for a good reason. 
No. But someone just reached out like the other day, and said that he wants to speak with me, so Im going to reach out to him. 
I mean, just the other day, so - which is really cool. I was in the house trying to - I went looking at a house on the Upper East Side, and I saw this plaque on the wall. 
And Im like, wait a minute, that's my plaque. And I guess it was his house. This is a couple years back; I have to share that with him. 
No. No. The plaque for the record, you know, our... 
It was like, a lot of times platinum, though. But, yeah, that. 
Yes. Please. Please. 
Yeah, I kind of discuss that in the book as well. Like when you come into - inside the music business and you're coming from these rough neighborhoods, you know, as soon as you sign a record deal it's not like freeze tag, like everything stops - like no, I'm a rapper now. 
You know, you still have friends; you still have old problems that you've been through. 
A record executive. Yeah. 
Exactly. And he was a friend of mine. 
By the way. It was just, you know, a friend. We had a tussle. 
He went home. He didnt... 
Well, it was a fight that got out of hand. Let's just say that. 
Right? And he, you know, he went home without - he didnt take - they didn't give him aspirin, anything. 
He went home the same night, you know. They sensationalized it like he was in the hospital in critical or something. 
It's very tragic but if you put it in context, you could see why and how some of these things happened because if you go through these neighborhoods and places that we grew up in, it's happening. 
You know, it's not reported on the news. You know, for every Biggie Smalls and Tupac, there's a million other kids that lose their lives to senseless violence in the hood all the time, and it's not on TV. 
A lot of these albums are made when, you know, artists are pretty young - 17, 18 years old - so they've never really had any real relationships. 
And if you come, you know, in the neighborhoods we're in, you know, we have low self-esteem ourselves. 
You know, and then the women and - well, the girls, they have low self-esteem as well. 
Yeah, as well, yes. 
Of course, yeah. 
I mean, a song on my first album was "Ain't No " - I guess ya'll can bleep that out. You know, and it was like, this careless relationship. 
And then that went to "Big Pimpin in '99. And on that same album was a song called "Song Cry," and then "Song Cry" became "Bonnie & Clyde" on 2004, which became "Venus vs. 
Mars" on my last album. So there's a steady growth in the conversations - that's being had as it pertains to women, you know, as I grew. 
Yeah. I have a great explanation for that. 
Well, a lot a times in hip-hop - like in rock 'n' roll, you'll have bands who tour the world. They get in vans and they tour the world, and they do rinky-dink clubs. 
And they get bottles thrown at them and, you know, until they hone their craft, until they become, you know, rock stars. 
That's, that's what - yeah, they want, that's what we want you to believe. 
But the reality is, and no one else will admit to this - well, maybe they will - is youre on stage in front of - now with summer jams and things like that, people are getting put on stage in front of 50,000 people with a record that's a radio hit, and they've never performed before. 
It's going to be a disaster nine times out of 10. 
Exactly. I kind of went through a rock 'n' roll stage. You know, I kind of was doing parties and learning to perform. 
The first show I ever did, I just forgot the words. I stood there, and I tried to pass the mic to Damon Dash, who I co-founded Roc-A-Fella with. 
I gave him the mic - like, here. He was like man, I don't rap. 
I just didn't know what to do. I was like, in shock. 
Yeah. I just told you, when the first time I performed I was... 
I forgot the words. 
I didn't do it my last show, at Yankee Stadium. No. But yeah, but my earlier shows, yes. 
Well, it's based on a generational story as well. There is a higher thing. Like, there was a time where there was a lot of activity going on, on the turnpike - from New York headed south - because there were a lot of drugs going back and forth. 
And so the state troopers at that time just blanketed every single car, anybody that was of color. And it was this term, driving while black. 
And people were getting pulled over for absolutely no reason, you know, other than their color. So I just had to set the scene up. 
It's the second verse, the... 
Yeah. And that was my... 
And that was the writer in me being provocative, because that's what rap should be as well, you know, at times. 
That was really directed to all the people who hear buzzwords in rap music - they hear bitch or ho or something - and immediately dismiss everything else that, you know, takes place. 
And everything has to be put in context. And when you put it in context, you realize that I wasn't calling any female, besides the female dog, a bitch on this song. 
Yeah, that was to lead the listener down the wrong path if you were looking for that sort of thing. 
The year is '94 and in my trunk is raw in my rear view mirror is the mother  law. I got two choices ya'll, pull over the car or bounce on the double put the pedal to the floor. 
Now I ain't trying to see no highway chase with Jake. Plus I got a few dollars I can fight the case. 
So I pull over to the side of the road. I heard, son do you know why I'm stopping you for? 'Cause I'm young and I'm black and my hats real low. 
Do I look like a mind reader, sir? I don't know. 
Well, if you can get it in nine minutes. 
Yeah. It was - I guess it was far away on another call, and the cop tried to hold us. He really had no probable cause, no reason to hold us, so he just said man, get out of here. 
And as we left, about 10 minutes up the ride, we see this car, sirens blaring, screeching down. And we look on the side and we see Canine Unit, and we just all - just a little sigh of relief, like huh, that was close. 
Yeah, if canine would've came - would've smelled it, and we would've been finished. It would've... 
You know, first I find it strange, like everyone else should, that one of his lowest points was somebody talking about him. 
He's the president. You know, people should insult him a lot. That's part of the job description. 
People are not going to be happy with what you do. And when certain events happened, like Katrina, and then you see people, you know, on the roof and they are people of color, for the most part, and there's "help" on the roof, and this is happening in America on TV - and then you see the commander-in-chief, you know, just drive by on a, you know - in a plane, which I explain in, you know, in the book, and on this song called "Minority Report," you know, we were all angry. 
It didn't feel like a natural disaster. It felt like something that was happening directly to blacks. 
And it immediately brought us back to those images of people getting beaten with, sprayed with hoses, and beaten on the bridge at Selma. 
And all these emotions, you know, were going on inside of us. 
If Kanye apologized then - I mean, you know, he said it so, you know, that's how he felt. But what he said was how everyone felt. 
Speaking of Bush, you know, he's left the worst eight years of our life and in order to judge Obama, you have to judge what happened before. 
You have to judge when he inherited. I think a lot of people would like to forget, you know, what we were coming out of, and what was left on the desk for the incoming president. 
I think he's had so many challenges and, you know, I applaud his effort and, you know, where he's going. 
Of course, it's not 100 percent but, you know, you got - we have to take into context what he's inherited, and what he's working with. 
He's working from - in the negative. And if you think that he can fix eight years' worth of damage - well, more, but eight years' worth of damage in two years, then I don't know. 
I don't know if that's even realistic. 
I had a great time. thank you. 
Yeah. Yeah, Im up at Brooklyn. Now I'm down in Tribeca, right next to De Niro, but Ill be hood forever. 
Im the new Sinatra, and since I made it here, I can make it anywhere. Yeah, they love me everywhere. 
I used to cop in Harlem. All of my Dominicanos, right there up on Broadway. Brought me back to that McDonalds, took it to my stash spot, 560 Stage Street. 
Catch me in the kitchen like a Simmons whipping pastry. Cruising down 8th Street. Off white Lexus, driving so slow but BK is from Texas... 
