It's good to see you. 
yeah, I'm a little sick, I'm a little drunk 
Your producer made me do two shots of tequila. 
Two shots of tequila and a beer, but the beer was my decision. 
Yeah no I'm good, I got-I got, I just went to the doctor today I got a chest X-ray... 
...of my lungs and discovered that my breasts are uneven  that was all I saw. 
I was like standing there with these doctors and they're like looking at my lungs and I was just like-I couldn't-It felt like an elephant in the room. 
And I was like, "are my breasts uneven?" And they were just kinda like, stifled and uncomfortable-obviously. 
And so then I kept thinking, well I'm gonna dig myself out of this hole by bringing it up again. So then he's like "Well our radiologist will get back to you about, you know, your lungs." And I was like, "And my breasts." And he was just like "Uh, bye". 
It wasn't, until the X-ray. I think, I just hope that know one will see my breasts in that Xray. 
I hope I'm never seen in that light. 
ah yeah, famous people are everywhere. 
Um well I was sitting with my family and Bradly and David and everybody, but Adele was in the table that was, it was the next table over and I had such a high fever I felt like I couldn't move and I saw Adele and there was nobody in the way and she was sitting in the table BY herself and I was sitting, my dad was sitting next to me here and I just reached my arm out and went . 
My Dad was like "Whoah Jen what's the matter?" And I was like "That's Adele". 
Yeah I didn't come over with a hundred 3D *ughagh* I'm sorry! 
Well, I wonder how many people infected me. 
Like, who infected me? 
Yeah, someone should do that! 
It's good to see you 
yeah I'm a little sick, i'm a little drunk 
Your producer made me do two shots of tequila 
Two shots of tequila and a beer but the beer was my decision 
yeah, no I'm good, I got... I just went to the doctor today, I got a chest X-ray, of my lungs and discovered that my breasts are uneven, um.. 
That was...that was all that I saw, I think my lungs are fine... 
I was...I was like standing there with these doctors and they're were like looking at my lungs and then I was just like, I couldn't... 
I felt like an elephant in the room, then I was like "are my breasts uneven" and they were just kind of like stifled and uncomfortable obviously and then so I kept thinking "well I'm going to dig myself out of this hole by bringing it up again" so his like "alright well our radiologist will get back to you about, you know, your lungs” and I was like “and my breasts” and he was just like “well bye” 
It wasn’t until the X-ray, I think I just… I just hope no one will ever see my breasts in an X-ray, yes 
yeah I hope I’m never seen in that light haha… 
thank you!.... thank you! 
Oh yes! Famous people are  everywhere 
Umm well I was sitting with my family and Bradley and David, everybody but…but Adele was in the table that was… it was right… it was the next table over and I had such a high fever and I couldn’t… I felt like I couldn’t move and I saw Adele and there was nobody in the way and she was sitting on the table by herself and I… I was sitting… my dad was sitting next to me here and I just reached my arm out and went heheh…. 
and my dad goes like “wow Jen! What’s the matter?” and I was like  “that’s Adele”…. “that’s Adele right there” 
I couldn’t say anything 
Yeah I didn’t come over with a hundred“ I’m sorry” 
Well how many people were infecting me? 
No no…. Who infected me? 
Yeah someone should do that 
Cause who knows, really? 
Well yeah then you’d be in fights with a lot of people 
It’s like a totally plausible reason to get mad at somebody “you gave me walking pneumonia… I don’t even know what to say” 
You’re in big trouble 
Uh well… the Hollywood foreign press 
yes I’ve been shaking a lot of those hands 
My mom’s here in the audience 
Where… Oh hey! Sorry, Oh my god you gave her a microphone that’s worse than giving me one 
I’m sorry but I really didn’t want to drink though… they, they… I was nervous and they were like drink this… 
I don’t know… I don’t know 
She’s going to kill me 
No they’re not 
I agree no… I think she’s right 
You saw her break the news about the a… Hunger Games a couple of years ago, at the Oscars 
She um… yeah I had just… I wasn’t even officially really offered the role yet or maybe secretly offered the… where it was very under wraps and don’t bring it up don’t do anything and I see my mother surrounded by reporters well my favourite book is the Hunger Games! 
Wink!... and I was like “she did it” 
She’s gone and done it 
That’s a given! 
I… well I’ve never really had a problem with getting tickets for my family, which is weird because I think that’s like a… a big struggle with everything, normally you only get plus one but I… I think they’re in the mafia or something. 
They… I’ve never had a problem getting my family tickets 
There’s something going on… yeah 
Oh good!... Oh Ok so everyone’s lying 
It’s so easy! Yeah! 
She’s weeping all over the place 
No never I’m just like “stop crying woman!” 
My dad and I both like react differently on camera, we both… my dad and I turned into compulsive red necks and my mother just turns into like the weeping willow… 
It’s great we’re a totally normal family, I’m drunk she’s crying 
I hope to God not no… no I’m not 
No David and I our biggest problem… we’re the same person so neither of us can pay attention for more than three seconds so if it weren’t for Bradley we would never have gotten anything done 
No but Brad… but David’s thing was he would… he would always be really close like we were doing a diner scene and he was literally… he was in… laying down in the booth right next to me like three inches away and I’m talking and doing this scene and I just hear him start to go “Oh God!”… “Oh I hate this”… “Oh it’s so bad” and I’m finally just like “Do you want me to do something else?” he’s like “Yes anything” 
Yeah I guess so, yeah 
Yeah but… but it works… I guess it’s 
… no they don’t 
Oh my God… yeah… I would… anything 
I haven’t… no I’ve started this new… it’s like my only superstition of not preparing anything to say cause when I start… when I… the first… it feels cocky, to just like… 
yeah it’s just like “argh that seems presumptuous I not going to do it” then we start like get in the car and I’m like everyone asking me like “are you… do you have anything prepared?” I’m like “stop” like cause it just stresses me out. 
I don’t react that way cause I’m not normally on two shots of tequila… normally… 
Oh God… that’s sad yeah, well I don’t won’t to be that person so I just 
Yeah it’s a terrible feeling… yeah… yeah… yeah… that’s why you just go into everything thinking like “I’m a loser” and then… and then… and then it’s like “whooh I got a nice surprise!” yeah 
No because fortunately those people are glaring at me, while I’m… while I’m there 
so I can… I can just look around and… and… and see… yeah, exactly they’re all right there so it’s easy to remember 
I was told to take a man to a hotel. They said he was an enemy of the state. 
Instead, they cut his throat. 
There were a lot of things about this that kind of scared me. And she was being put in physical situations that I was uncomfortable with, just me, as a human. 
Yes, me personally. And that was actually really good for me to kind of put myself in a place, not as my character, to go to someplace that I wasn't going to go. 
And I felt stronger afterwards. 
In my country, if you don't matter to the men in power, you do not matter. 
Why? Are we going to become friends? 
Once I read the script, I knew that I had to do it. And then the only thing that was really holding me back was just the — I haven't really been wanting to be seen in a sexual way. 
I have just always just been kind of uncomfortable with that. 
Her entire story is people trying to use her and take advantage of her and try to train her to use her body to get ahead. 
And she — she gets ahead by using her mind. I find it empowering. 
My point of view on that essay was really just my own mentality on the whole thing. You know, why did I not feel like I deserved to be paid equally? 
I was more interested in that. 
And then I asked women. 
I felt like it was important to show support, because that's how all of these people who have suffered abuse felt comfortable coming forward, was because of this outpouring of support. 
A young actor or a less experienced actor doesn't have the same opportunity, the same power to say no. 
So, it creates… 
Whether it's pay or harassment, yes. They want to work. And so they don't have the same power to walk away from a job, so they don't have the same negotiating power. 
It's really lovely. Very nice. ... 
It took a few years to adjust. I didn't really realize how angry and distorted I felt. For, like, probably a solid three years. 
It had nothing to do with Hunger Games…. It had to do with the thing that came with Hunger Games. I still felt entitled to a certain life that I just wasn't allowed to have . 
I felt like I had the right to say, "I don't want to be photographed right now, I don't want people outside my house right now, I don't want my nephews in People." I felt so much anger of "Why can't I just do my job?" And then you just get used to it—and it just is. 
Yes. Three months. "Oh, it's my three months off. 
You can't photograph me." I would love to be able to control being photographed. Then I wouldn't have a new headline out today that I wore the same jeans three days in a row. 
I was like, "First of all, yes, I did. Second of all, f--k you, yes, I did."  But I hate the "movie star blues." We are so lucky, and I love my life. 
I wouldn't take any of it back for anything. So I don't like complaining about it. 
Yeah. I'm addicted to work. And acting. 
I don't know how to describe it—reading a script is like a map. it's on set, finding that character, feeling the emotions, getting that adrenaline—it is such a rush. 
Developing a character is the only thing in the world I feel 100 percent confident in, that I understand. 
I still have that feeling from being a teenager: "I'm good at this, and I like this." So I want to keep doing it, because it makes me feel good about myself. 
Joy's lovely. Both Joys are lovely. My Joy  and  Joy. 
I have Joy Mangano hangers all over my closet. They're brilliant. I have her steamer too. 
No, I don't. I'm not gonna bullsh-t; I don't do my own mopping. 
That was what was exciting about the story when David pitched it to me. It's all four seasons of success—before, when you don't believe in yourself; when you do believe in yourself, and nobody else does; and then all of the awful things that come afterward. 
And I liked the beginning, when she wants more than what life has bestowed onto her. She has this frustration that's not very likable, to lie next to your children and say, "I feel like I'm in a prison." But it's true. 
Everybody has this idea: You have children, and your entire life is complete. That's how I imagine it. 
I imagine I'll have children and then my whole life will just seem complete. 
But you can have children and love them with all your heart and soul, and love your family, and it's still OK to have a fire in you. 
That doesn't have anything to do with your family. That has to do with you. She has a gift…and she can't shut it up. 
No. It was the opposite. I grew up in Kentucky, so nobody was like, "You're gonna be a movie star."  There just wasn't a possibility. 
And then, when I told my parents when I was 14 that I wanted to move to New York and become an actress, they were like, "Well, no. 
Obviously." And I just wouldn't shut up about it. I had already saved up babysitting money. So I was like, "I'm going." 
I've always been a real stickler with money. I wouldn't buy things from the concession stand. I never knew what I was saving for until New York hit my mind. 
And then I was like, "That's what I've been saving for…. I'm going." And they were like, "Well, we don't want her to die."  my brother came with me…. 
But they were like, "You can try it for the summer, and then you have to come back and finish school." 
Yeah. My mom always says she…wanted me to fail so that I could come home, because not failing meant me being in New York. 
She lost a daughter, really, at 14. I mean, she's very proud of me. She got on board when she saw how happy it made me. 
Because I knew. Emma Stone and I—we stayed up until, like, six in the morning talking about it the other night. 
We both were just like, "I just knew." 
My cousin and I were talking last night about what we wanted to do with our dead bodies. And I'm like, "I want my ashes scattered on Lake Cumberland." And when I said it out loud, I was like, "Wow. 
You really are still rooted in your redneck ."  But basically it's a certain grit. Everything's very family oriented. 
Nobody knows or cares about designers. I care! But I didn't used to. 
Pretty recently. I think I had to take control.… It was like, if I don't start getting an opinion, I'm just gonna be like a puppet that's being dressed by everybody else. 
"Slutty power lesbian." That is literally what I say to a stylist. I don't know if that's offensive— 
Well, first of all, Dior is its own house that's very feminine and beautiful; this past press tour every dress was just phenomenal. 
So you don't see me as a slutty power lesbian on the red carpet a lot, because I'm embodying the Dior woman, which is an honor.… But  I've got tits and an ass. 
And there are things that are made for skinny people—like a lot of embroidery, or it covers a lot—and those make me look fat. 
I have to show the lumps. If you have boobs, you have to show, like, "These are boobs. This isn't cellulite."  Not that there's anything wrong with that. 
Yeah, we broke that record, and I didn't even realize. As women we don't know we're at a deficit because we have vaginas. 
It wasn't until they had a headline like, "Even though she's a woman!" And I was like, "Oh. I didn't know to be looking out for that."  "How did this wittle vagina manage that? 
I carried a whooole movie."  "How did I do it, getting a period once a month?" 
We had to take a week off every month.… I had to go to my red tent in the desert and wait it out. … I think there was this studio mentality for a long time that women and girls can relate to a male hero, but boys and men can't relate to a female hero. 
But that's simply not true. And so we've fortunately proved that. 
It was so personal that it was scary.… I keep going back and forth on being opinionated. I completely agree when there are actors who say, "Actors should stay out of politics. 
We're not politicians."  my business is based on everybody buying tickets and seeing my movie.… It's not smart, businesswise, to be opinionated. 
But then what's the point in having a voice at all if I'm not going to use it for what I truly believe in? 
Of course. And the women's pay gap is a real thing that a lot of people don't know about. It hasn't been in our consciousness; it wasn't in mine. 
I don't think it was Sony's fault . I don't think it was anybody's fault. I wanted to open up about how my mentality got in my way. 
Because Sony's a business. You're not gonna give somebody more money if they don't ask for it. They've got to fit a million movie stars into one movie. 
They're trying to realistically make this happen. You know,  my agent was like, "God, I feel like I look like a terrible agent." Well, no, because you have to do everything I say. 
And I said, "Settle." 'Cause I just wanted to do the movie; it wasn't about money to me at the time. 
But all the actors were doing that. None of us were getting our  quotes. But the difference in who was getting a little less, and a lot less, than their quote was very vast. 
And I wanted to write about how I got in my own way. 'Cause I assume that in negotiating, the men were tough as balls. 
If I was quiet, it would have seemed like I was ashamed. And I wasn't ashamed; I was enraged. Not once have I felt like I "learned a lesson." I didn't do anything wrong! 
Even I've defended myself by saying I was in a relationship with a wonderful man for five years. But even if I wasn't, even if I  went on a date with a guy—it doesn't matter what the situation is. 
It's your body. And you can do whatever you want. 
We finished our first draft today. We gave birth today! 
Four months. Four months. I saw Trainwreck in July, and I emailed her. 
I just knew: "This bitch needs to write a movie for me." 
Well, I didn't know "with" at first. I emailed her and was like, "Write something for us." I've never done anything like that before. 
The next day she wrote back with a story line, which is unheard of. And now it's complete, and it's good! 
But it's definitely not a politically correct film. …Amy's the most empathetic person I've ever met in my life. 
When she came over this morning, she was crying. She had just…seen the news about the shooting at Planned Parenthood. 
It's so awful…. It isn't an attack on abortions; it's an attack on women. Because Planned Parenthood is so much more . 
My mom was really religious with me when I was young. She's not so much anymore. And I wouldn't have been able to get birth control if it weren't for Planned P. 
I wouldn't have been able to get condoms and birth control and all these things I needed as a normal teenager who was growing up in a Jesus house. 
Yes, I did. And now  I am a successful woman who has not had a pregnancy. 
Thank you. But seriously. What harm comes from supplying people with birth control, condoms, Pap smears, and cancer screenings? 
It's back. I'm officially a virgin. 
No, it's that I'm picky. I feel a spark very, very rarely. And it's really only about spark for me. 
Not really anything else. You should see some of the people I find attractive. You'd be shocked. 
I gave Larry David my number. And he never called. 
Which makes him even more attractive. I love that he didn't call me. It makes him so much hotter. 
Yes! I masturbated to it. Joking. 
Obviously didn't. 
I'll love him from afar. I don't, like, date a lot. I don't meet a lot of guys who I want to go on a date with. 
I'll find a guy attractive maybe once a year. But I'm not a lonely person. Me not dating someone is not a lack of anything in any way. 
I feel completely fulfilled. Yes, when I spark with someone, it's exciting, but I definitely don't need that. 
I love Emma. She cracks me up; she's so "theater." She's so adorable. And Adele and I met, like, a year or so ago. 
Adele and I are a bit harsher; Emma's never had a bad thought about anybody in her life. It's so weird; I don't like new people. 
But these two women—and Amy—they're really lovely. And they're so normal. I feel like I'm hanging out with my friends—my friends that don't give a f--k about what I do. 
Amy and I have a life plan—we were with Diane Sawyer in Martha's Vineyard for Thanksgiving. Not to brag. 
Diane politely threw it out, and then we're sitting at the dinner table with her family, like, "We shouldn't be here." Anyway, Amy's always wanted to live on Martha's Vineyard, and we saw this house, and we're like, "This is where we're gonna Grey Gardens, and we're gonna grow old and crazy together." That's our life plan. 
I've wanted it for a long time. My first director was a female director, at 16, Lori Petty . I got bit by the same bug that bit me with acting. 
I've tried to absorb every director I've worked with like a sponge. I've been making notes for seven years. 
Yeah. But I'm a little meaner. Chris Pratt is always in a good mood. 
We laugh all day…. He's like a chocolate Santa. He's just like if a dog came to life and was like, "I'm a great actor with a perfect face." And he's got the most lovely family. 
When I met Anna , I was like, "Go f--k yourselves." I mean that in the nicest possible way. They're like a Nicholas Sparks novel—just like, "Ewww! 
But I want it!" But he's also a great actor. 
He's an amazing actor and is making this movie a lot better. 
I think I think pretty cruelly. Never act on it. 
I spilled milk this morning. Last night I spilled red wine all over the rug. All I want to be able to do is just walk from one place to another without falling! 
It's so annoying, honestly. And now I've gone from the charming, like, "Oh my God, whoops, I fell"—now it really pisses me off. 
'Cause it's embarrassing now. So now I fall, and I'm like, "Stop looking at me! Don't take a picture!" 
That's why it's embarrassing! That's why I want to be able to stop doing it. When I fell the second year at the Oscars, I was just like, "F--k." 'Cause I would think the same exact thing. 
I know it looks like a gag. It's really, really not. 
No, because then that's more exposure—that's just more me. I want less me. I want people to have less me. 
But they do! They don't know that they do. But when they get more me, they'll hate me. 
If they don't already. 
I don't feel like I'm misunderstood. I feel like I'm over-paid-attention-to. I'm not trying to be a GIF. 
I'm not trying to be a picked-up-on-Twitter quote. All I'm trying to do is act. And I have to promote these movies. 
And I am, at the end of the day, I guess, a f--king lunatic. So if you record what I'm saying, it's gonna be goofy. 
What do I do? What do I do? I'm just a girl, sitting in front of the world and asking them to forgive her for speaking. 
It hasn’t been that many years, but they’ve been intense years. I had the chance to work with amazing directors and just as many amazing actors.
I’ve realized the ultimate dream of any actress: be on top as a young actress, and in a short time.
Now, my dream is to slack a little!
I don’t have a clear-cut idea: I’d just like not to have to work for a little while, be on the fringe, on the outskirts of Hollywood, hopefully driving around in a minivan .
Different directors gave their personal view to Katniss’ story. Gary Ross began the work, and Francis Lawrence carried it on.
Francis gave a dark turn to the series, as he focused on the characters’ psychology. There are emotional and charged-up sequences which alternate with an in-depth analysis of characters’ behavior.
The last two movies are a lot darker: it’s all grey, even in color. Katniss and her companions are suffering from PTSD.
After Catching Fire they have to find themselves again and regain their strength.
I’d say all the scenes with Julianne Moore, who plays President Alma Coin. She and Katniss are two strong and determined women.
They have a similar vision of the world, but their ideas about the way to change it are completely different.
Katniss is, with no self-consciousness, a threat to President Coin. I think that their relationship is very interesting and intense.
Truth to be told, in the first part of Mockingjay, Katniss doesn’t have to go back to the Hunger Games, so she didn’t have a lot of stunts or fight scenes.
Katniss has to adjust to life in District 13. She isn’t looking very good, and isn’t very healthy or strong.
The first chapter will focus on my character more emotionally than physically.
That’s another story! It will be an action movie, because it’s focused on the final war. There are a lot more stunts, violence, fights and gunshots.
We shot it back-to-back with the first part, even though it will come out next year  but I had the time to train between shoots.
I wouldn’t say professional, but don’t try to break into my house!
Sure. I don’t have much time to train, except for when I train for the movies, but learning how to shoot better is always a goal!
Maybe I’ll take some additional lessons with my trainer for the series .
I committed to become an actress in five years. Otherwise I would have been a nurse. Or a doctor.
I don’t know I have any secrets . I love my job and that makes me really happy. But acting is a small part of me, I’d say more or less 3%.
Now I know! It is at my mom’s! I wanted to hide it, but she said we had to show it off, keep it in plain sight.
I didn’t agree because every time somebody came over, it just seemed like I wanted them to see it. So we compromised: the Oscar is at my parents’ house.
They keep it on the piano.
I wouldn’t say different approaches. Sometimes it helps me to think about how another actor would play my character.
Watching yourself from the outside is an essential key for every actor. I usually think about my character played by a particualr person in my everyday life, a man whose name I wouldn’t tell you even if you tortured me.
It surely is the most revolting thing I ever learned. I think I am the only actress alive who knows how to skin a squirrel.
But I am happy I know how to do it, it could come useful later in life. You never know…
