Just for every reason you just said, very intriguing. 
Well, it was a -- it was just a different part than usually comes my way so I was -- I was intrigued with the script. 
It was so fantastic and the cast, of course, and Michael Hostrum  and it was just something I hadn't done before. 
Oh, yes, completely but you know that's the thing you always -- you always wait for. It doesn't happen all the time where someone actually thinks this would be interesting to take this person, this personality and put them in this part. 
Yes, usually but it's -- I feel very fortunate that that's -- I've had some opportunities. 
Well, she hadn't even -- it was just a very bizarre sort of quirk moment where we were on -- we were out in Italy and they were shooting a movie "Ocean's 12" gang and she just said out of the blue, I had just gotten the script delivered and I saw Clive's name and I hadn't even read it yet and she just sort of out of the blue 20 minutes later says "Has anybody worked with Clive Owen"? 
And I just went wow that's weird. Well I just got a script. And she just said, "You have to. 
You just have to" because he... 
I just told her that I did. 
And she said, "Well, if you have an opportunity, if that can happen, you have to do it because he's unbelievable" and she was right. 
Well, I was nervous, you know, going in just because of those reasons but Clive, Michael, everyone involved was -- I just, I mean that was gone in moments. 
I just felt very safe, very comfortable and it was all very, handled very, you know, well. 
Yes, absolutely, don't you think, isn't it? 
You know, comedy, when they say comedy is -- you know it's... 
...good comedy is just being -- you have to say it with, you know, believe it with every ounce of your body and that's the only way comedy is really good. 
You wanted me to take them down so I'm taking them down, okay? Rachel, Rachel! I'm OK. 
Oh, sure, yes but I think it's really... 
It's hard but I think if they approached it not as a different animal than drama they would -- it would be easier. 
Oh, yes. Oh, my God that's our friend! It's naked Ron . 
I don't know. It won't take long, trust me. He's known. 
KING: You know him when you see him, you know. 
Yes, I guess it's -- I don't know. I mean it rolls off my tongue, rolls off a lot of people I know's tongue, you know, but I know what you mean. 
I don't think it would go into the thinking. Well, I'm sure there are some but, you know, it's not like my -- my intention here is -- my goal is I want to be a star and I want to have that lifestyle of, you know, whatever that involves. 
I guess so. I guess so. 
I was four years old and I was on the swing and then all of a sudden my hair got tangled in the chain and to get me out my mom had to -- had to cut a big chunk of my hair and it was uneven for weeks. 
I feel very lucky. I mean I don't know, you know, I just feel lucky to be able to do things other than that character, you know, other than Rachel to be able to sort of move on into films and be accepted. 
KING: Well, "Derailed" is really moving on. We'll be right back with Jennifer Aniston and Clive Owen. 
The movie opens Friday. Don't go away. 
Oh, I'm drinking you under the bar mister. 
Yes and I bet I can do it in three drinks. 
Oh, it's not really gambling when you never lose. 
Yes, the Weinstein Company. 
I do like Harvey. 
I had never done -- worked with the company before so... 
That's what I hear. 
Oh, yes, absolutely. It gets so boring you know just to do the same thing over and over again. 
No, "Friends" actually never got boring because that was sort of a group of people that had... 
That worked and there was nothing boring about that. 
Oh, my God, Ross no, hang up the phone. Give me the phone. Give me the phone. 
Give me the phone. 
And the writers were so determined never to get lazy, you know, that it's easy for a show that was that successful to sort of sit back and rest on your laurels and not really -- but they just kept every year to year up until the tenth season they kept pulling out good stuff. 
I was. Everybody, all of us were, sure. 
Yes, I did and I had done a lot of failed television shows, I sort of thought that's what I did. KING: You were a failed television actress? 
Yes, you know, you do six episodes of this and then you go, all right, well that was a good year, go on to the next one, you know. 
The very first thing I did was a Bob's Big Boy commercial. 
That was the very first on camera thing, yes. 
I was the competition. I wasn't even the Bob's Big Boy. I was the bad, I was the, you know... 
That was the only commercial I ever got. I could never get a commercial to save my life and it was... 
I would actually. I haven't been asked that. 
Yes, it absolutely was, same kind of but it was like opening night every Friday night. 
Butterflies and the audience and feeding off that energy is great. 
I would, yes, if it was -- if I felt I could do it well. 
You know Chicago is in my future though. 
Sure. I don't know. 
Yes, you got to go do your, you know, go to work. 
No, not really. I mean, you know, it's great to get to go to work but, you know, I -- I don't find myself escaping into my characters if that's what you mean. 
No, no I don't do that. 
I go to -- my characters? 
If I ever become that person please do something with me. 
Yes, you know, it's -- you have to be in the moment, you're in the moment. I mean I'm not going to say that it's -- it's devoid of any emotion. 
Well they're -- they're uncomfortable. 
They're very uncomfortable. They're technical. They're, you know, there's people -- it is. 
There's all these people watching you and unless that's -- you're in to that kind of stuff, you know, which I'm sure there are those types too but, you know, it's just it's not. 
It's just uncomfortable. 
You know I like you. I can't deny that but my heart belongs to Nick, OK? 
Thank you. OK, good night. 
Miguel Arteta. 
I hate my job. 
I hate everybody here. I hate Gwen. I don't know what the hell she's so happy about. 
I'm starting to understand why maniacs go out there and get shotguns and shoot everybody to pieces. 
Yes, I did, yes. 
Sure. Don't we all have pain, my gosh? Everybody has pain. 
No that's true. 
It's what you would imagine it to be. It's not great. 
It's a bitch. It's not great, no. 
But I chose it. I also wouldn't trade it in for the world what I get to do for that. I mean just because of that. 
I have, yes, well... 
Yes. Yes, you -- well, I'll always take them head on if they -- they cross lines anyway but when they really go too far, you know. 
I don't really think any, private life none but it's somehow got through the cracks and it's just -- it's just OK. 
No. I think we do our job. We go to work. 
We give them a movie, a television show, theater, you know. You buy your tickets. You go and see our work, if we're on the red carpet, we're at a premier, we're, you know, at a public event but when it's your backyard, when it's at your home, when it's... 
Yes. But it's also -- there's nobody sort of stopping it or corralling it in any way so it's kind of just a free for all. 
That's true. KING: And a critic of his best work that's fair game but he didn't -- whatever else he gave you was of his own volition, do you agree with that? 
I don't read them. I just don't read them. 
Yes, but like I said it's toxic. I don't want to -- I want no part of it and it's the only way you can really go through, walk through anything like that with any kind of dignity is to just not succumb to that crap. 
Oh, yes, always. 
Oh, Larry, let's not talk about this, come on. 
I really -- well, I understand but I'd rather not. 
No, I know but I've talked about it. I think we've -- I've covered this. You know, I -- I because it's so behind me. 
It's just not -- it's my past. I'm in a, you know, I'm here in a great place. I'm very happy. 
I wear it with a badge of honor. Nothing I'm embarrassed about truthfully. It's life. 
Mine just happened to be played out in front of everybody but that's I guess, do you know what I mean? 
And I think, like I said... 
No, I don't. No, I read somewhere where somebody said something that they said "I have no regrets. I just have great experiences" and I do. 
That's been and that means hard, fun, you know, every kind. 
Yes, it's great. 
Yes, we love him. He's great. 
He's a national treasure. 
I'm not talking about it. I'm not talking about it. 
Because it's none of your -- I don't mean to say that. It sounds harsh to say it's none of your business but it's -- I've learned my -- you know you learn your lessons. 
You said he's a national treasure. He's a great actor. He's fantastic to work with. 
Becoming major? 
I don't know. When he's sitting on this desk you can ask him that question. 
But you know what everybody knows what comes along with this business. You know if you've had any time in it at all you know what comes with the dinner. 
He's a, you know, everybody, they're all big boys and big girls. Everybody knows what they're getting into. 
You mean the career, he's had it. I mean he lives -- he's been in this business a long time. 
Yes, that's true, because it is. 
Because there are so many actors who are brilliant that should be working and they don't. 
Are you here for couples' bowling? 
Don't you think you and I should discuss something first? 
Gary , this is couple's bowling, and since you and I are no longer a couple, I think you should leave. 
They don't want you here either, Gary. 
Oh, in finance, every day is a busy day. 
Well, if you consider death threats angry. 
That bastard. Do you want me to yell at him for you? Come on. 
Give me his number and I'll crank call him. Some people just don't know how to appreciate what they've got. 
Thank God Des Moines got it. 
It is exciting. 
Always. It's weird. 
Nobody should ever be that large, truthfully. 
It's in a movie. Yes you can. I'm just laughing. 
I'm laughing at something else. 
It's finished and it was great. 
Yes. It's comedy, but it's says some emotional -- a lot of emotional turns. 
I think you're just a little embarrassed that Richard kicked your ass. 
Instantly, yes. He's a great guy. 
Not that. It's not that complicated. 
It's a couple that breaks up that, you know, sort of in the heat of a fight, they break up. And neither of them -- they both refuse to leave the condo that they live in. 
And so they... 
I don't know what you're talking about. 
It's a bummer. It's just sort of one of those... 
Yes. And something editing -- anything. It can be just -- it doesn't always -- you know, the alchemy isn't always there, you know. 
It just -- sometimes it is, sometimes it isn't. And you just do you -- you know, that's the thing. It's like you said, if there was a formula, we would all be guaranteed great movies. 
Yes, if you package it, but you can't. And that's sort of the fun of it, the sort of experiment, you know. 
The grand experiment. Sometimes you have to be on board to have all of it. 
I've been living my life, OK? I've been in good relationships and I've been in  and I've moved a lot and I've been happy and I've been sad and I've been lonely and that's what I've been doing, which is a lot more than I can say for some freak who thinks he's going to the get the Ebola virus from a bowl of mixed nuts. 
Oh trust me. That is so far beyond common sense, Ruben. 
I think I do. I mean, come on, it's starting to get really dangerous. 
They chase you in cars, they'll run red lights, they drive on sidewalks. There are people, there's people. 
They just want a photograph so they can make a buck. 
None. None, as far as I can tell. 
Yes. Ridiculous, isn't it? It's silly. 
Yes, absolutely. 
Part of the job. Even walking in and out of here. 
I'm on the clock. We're on the clock, we're working right now. I think when you're off the clock, you should be off the clock. 
You don't follow them to their private events and to their children's schools and to their family or friends' funerals or whatever. 
I mean, it's just -- come on, it's common sense. 
I think it's romantic. 
... you didn't, but you had the carrot... 
Oh, yes. Absolutely. 
Some people don't. I do, it's a lot of work. 
Are you trying to talk me out of it? Oh my god. Ever, ever, rule your life. 
Oh, I would kill them. Are you kidding me? 
I'll take them down. 
We knew there was something special. 
You're the only person I knew who lived here in the city. 
I was kind of hoping that wouldn't be an issue. 
I had never been a part of a show that went past a certain amount of episodes. But, there was definitely... 
How many of "Friends"? 
How many shows? Oh, years, we did 10 years. 
Oh, I got it, Ross. DAVID SCHWIMMER, ACTOR: You had no right to tell me you ever had feelings for me. 
Hey, I was doing great before I found out about you. You think it's easy for me to see you with Julie? 
I didn't know then. 
The chemistry and good writing and hard work. 
All three. No one getting lazy and the actors just loving each other, working well together. Just sort of, again, lightning in a bottle. 
Friends will always remain friends. 
I had it. Oh, I can't believe this. 
I have it, I have it, I have it! OK, I can't find it, but I remember that I was in seat 32c, because that's my bra size. 
OK, fine, but you know what? If I was in 36d, we would not be having this problem! 
Of course. There are definitely those days. But, you know, again, it didn't feel like a job. 
We were really having fun. We really had fun. So just like anything, it's -- it's an ebb and a flow. 
Oh, we didn't hear anything about that. 
The ending, you know, it was hard. It was -- it was emotional. 
I have to get on the plane. 
I think they're waiting for me, Ross. I can't do this right now. I am sorry. 
It was time. It was just done. It was done. 
There was nothing really -- you know, put mama to bed. I think she had enough. 
If it was -- you know, I don't -- I don't want to say never, but I just don't think I could ever top "Friends," what I -- the time I had and the quality of that show. 
That just doesn't come along very often. 
I do love you. 
OK, good, this is where I want to be. I don't want to mess this up again. 
Vincent Cassel. 
Oh, incredible. 
Oh, I've never seen a moon that big. 
And isn't it beautiful? 
It's a trifle. It's got all of these layers. First, there is a layer of lady fingers. 
Then, a layer of jam. Then, custard -- which I made from scratch! Then cranberries, more lady fingers, then beef sauteed with peas and onions, more custard, and then bananas, and then I just put some whipped cream on top. 
How did you feel when you saw all the Brady Bunch get back together? Wasn't that just a little weird? 
I mean, I don't think so. I don't think that's in our future. 
I'm thinking about it. 
Oh, God. You know, I have to say, my favorite episodes are usually our Thanksgiving episodes. I can't pick one, but I loved our Thanksgiving episodes. 
You can just unlock the door. 
You know what? I don't want to be with them either, but it's Thanksgiving, and we should not want to be together together! 
There's a lot of them. Let's see, who would I like to work with? Oh my gosh. 
I'd love to work with -- I hate that question, Larry. I can't think that fast. 
There's too many people. 
No, you're not. 
What are the chances of that? 
Come on. That's weird. 
There was a little quirk. 
I'm working with her! No, I am not. I would love to work with Julia. 
I think I would really love it. And I think she's fantastic. 
I just did, yes. 
No, she's in "Rumor Has It." 
She plays my grandmother. 
She looks terrific. 
No, I don't think so. I mean, again, never say never, but I don't think so. 
I know, and I think that's fantastic. I just, for me personally, I'd like to share that with... 
... someone, yeah. 
I know. We're having some fun. 
