I don't want my kids to experience me as a novelty. I want my kids to know me as dad. 
He was a wonderful man. You know? He'd give you anything. 
No. I'm just not very good at it, you know. Never have been very good at it. 
I don't know. There's a -- you know, there's a strange thing, you know. I'm OK when I'm a character. 
If I'm playing a character, I can do, you know, virtually anything in front of a camera. But if I'm just me, I feel, you know, exposed and sort of, you know, it feels awkward. 
Yes, I do. I do because I'm fascinated with people. I mean, I'm fascinated -- I like to watch people. 
And that's the one sort of thing, you know, as an actor in terms of job necessity is the ability to be able to watch people, to observe, to be the observer. 
As a journalist, you know, to observe. And it's one of my favorite things, to sort of pick apart, you know, various traits. 
That becomes the problem. 
Yes. Exactly. No, that becomes the problem. 
You become the focus of others. So, therefore, your ability to observe is tainted. You know it's a little bit -- yes. 
It changes quite radically. 
I'd moved to Los Angeles in 1983 and was living here playing -- you know, playing music. And we did a couple of good gigs. 
You know, the band and stuff. And we went on the road for a little bit. And that was all fine. 
But, I mean, in terms of making a living, it was pretty straight -- you know pretty close to the bone there. 
No, not really, no. No. And so I met his agent. 
She sent me to read for a part. And got a call back and then they hired me for the gig. You know that was the first "Nightmare on Elm Street." That was 1984? 
Three or four. 
It was just a gig. You know I just thought, well, this will get me through, you know, until, you know, the music picks up or whatever. 
You know. So I just -- you know, the first two or three, four films to me were just, you know, a lark. 
You know, just -- 
In retrospect, no, you know. In retrospect, no. Because it's -- I suppose had that become my bread and butter, as they say, you know, the main gig, I would have probably fallen out of love with it on some level. 
And I still to this day, you know, have the -- the same love, you know, first love feeling for music as I did when I was 12. 
All the time, yes. Constantly. Still, yes. 
I'm still reacting, you know. I'm still sort of dealing with it. I don't think it's anything you ever get used to, you know. 
I could never -- for many years I could never sort of put my name in the same sort of category as the word "famous" or anything like that. 
And I just found it very uncomfortable. So it's weird. 
I suppose, like, for example when you're doing something organized like a photo shoot, essentially amid the faux pas of, you know -- there was a piece in "Vanity Fair" where I should have used the word "violated." However, you know, in my -- in my lack of vocabulary in the moment I used another word, which I've, you know, apologized for radically. 
And it's not any different than the year before, or the year before that. 
I truly don't understand. I think it must be just this kind of -- I don't know. It just feels like this kind of gluttonous, horrific sport. 
It's like sport. It's like hunting or something. 
Yes. I try to avoid, you know, any and all, you know, press or -- especially that nature. You know, just to -- yes. 
I don't want my kids to experience me as a novelty. I want my kids to know me as dad, you know. And already, you know, if they have access to the Internet or whatever, I mean they understand what the deal is. 
But I don't want them to have to live through and experience that kind of attack, you know. 
I don't go out very much, you know. I stay at home a lot. Or when you go out to eat, you know, you've got to -- it becomes a strategic sort of plan. 
OK, we're going in the back. We're going to walk through the slippery kitchen and we're going to go into the private room or, you know, that kind of thing. 
It's -- you know, I suppose it's what I -- it's the card I drew. So I'll deal with it. That's fine. 
But you know it doesn't mean that every single moment you have to be sort of OK with it. I certainly am not one of those guys and would -- you know, can't stand the idea of, you know, one of those guys who whines about, you know, how horrible success is. 
I had been essentially known within the confines of Hollywood as the -- you know, as box office poison. 
You know basically I'd built a career on 20 years of failures. 
Yes. He's absolutely right, yes. 
Very lucky, yes. 
Somebody hands you the ball and you run, you know. And then if you get hit, you get hit, or maybe you make it through, you never know. 
But, I mean, I just know that somebody handed me the ball at a certain point. And I was hungry enough to keep running. 
And I'm still running. So -- 
I don't. No. I don't. 
I don't like to watch myself. I think, you know, I maintain a hunger, but not an ambition. You know, I -- I'm very happy to explore all possibilities of a character and really, you know, dive into the role. 
You know to the point where Disney wanted to -- wanted to fire me. 
They couldn't understand what I was doing. You know? They didn't understand the character. 
They were actually contemplating subtitling the film, you know. 
You will always remember this as the day that you almost caught Captain Jack. What are you doing? You burned all the food, the shade, the rum. 
Why is the rum gone? 
Don't regret any of it, no. No. Everything that I turned down was -- it was -- weirdly, it was more important what I turned down than what I accepted in terms of films. 
Yes. "Pirates" was a complete accident, you know? I mean prior -- 
Well, prior to "Pirates of the Caribbean," you know, the first one in 2003, that was -- I mean I had been essentially known within the confines of Hollywood as the -- you know, as box office poison, you know what I'm saying? 
You know basically had built a career on 20 years of failures. 
Hugely. I had no idea. 
You know, it depends. 
Not yet, you know. Not yet for me. I mean, maybe -- maybe to the masses. 
I don't know. Maybe. I don't know. 
I still feel like in terms of character, Captain Jack is one that I'd like to explore. 
Yes. Because he's -- because he's fun, you know. It's his fun. 
It's a license to be totally and utterly irreverent and get away with it. 
I suppose he'll have to. 
Probably the most important film that I've ever done, just in terms of the -- the transition for me, you know, from basically at the time, you know, being known as having come up the ranks as a TV actor, essentially, in the minds of Hollywood. 
"Scissorhands" was the one that sort of put me on the road that I wanted to be on. So for me that one's -- yes, that's probably the most important of all. 
A gas. You know, I mean, just a gas. Again, one of those things where you get a call from Tim and he says what do you think about this? 
And you just -- you just start to travel, you know. 
Just finished. 
Well, I had watched it as a kid, you know. Religiously. I remember sprinting home from school to see it. 
Didn't want to miss, like, a minute of it. Ironically, you know, Tim had gone through the same experience. 
You know running home from school. And then back when we were doing Sweeney, we were doing "Sweeney Todd" a couple of years ago, it -- one day we're just sitting there talking, and I said, you know, we should do a vampire movie sometime. 
Absolutely fun. Yes. Really fun. 
He says, I'm nuts, but he's really -- like, he's certifiably nuts. 
We got along like a house on fire. You know. Instantly. 
There's a dangerous element. You never know what to expect from him. 
I realized that this was the voice of truth. He was without question I mean, I think the most important nonfiction writer of the 20th century. 
It's a very strange thing the state of Arkansas presented to them. Essentially, you know, to say, OK. 
All you have to do is say that we have the evidence to convict you again, and -- but we'll do time served and you're out. 
Admitting guilt, maintaining your innocence. So it's a very -- you know, it's a really floppy piece of ground to stand on. 
Because I -- I knew immediately, you know, when I -- when I first started to get, you know, kind of familiarize myself with the case, I knew instantly that they were innocent. 
I knew instantly that they were wrongfully accused. And the more research I did and the more people I spoke to, it was absolutely apparent. 
Oh, yes, yes. A lot of people. 
There was that kind of thing. Yes. But I just knew. 
I just knew, you know. I -- it was just -- it was ugly and -- and a raw deal from the get-go. Back in '93. 
And you're thinking of these three kids, you know, one, Damien Echols on death row for 18 years. Ten years in isolation. 
You know, for a crime that he did not commit. 
I mean, it would be wonderful. I don't -- I think he's probably got a few other things on his mind at the moment. 
But, yes, yes. What I'm hoping is that the investigation will continue outside the courthouse right now and we will be able to prove the real killers. 
Yes. Although when you're working with Pacino, you know he's great. I mean in that moment, you know, of course you lock in, as he said. 
You lock in and you're in the scene and stuff like that. But you know, as soon as cut comes, you go, Jesus Christ, man. 
Wow. He's monumental. 
He might be right. But he's -- I mean, he's really -- I mean he says I'm nuts but he's really -- he's like certifiably nuts. 
And one of the funniest human beings I've ever known in my life. 
Yes. "The Brave," yes. 
I was sort of rushed to take it to the Cannes Film Festival. Took it there. And then -- 
It was kind of praised. The first night was really wonderful, you know. I mean you had Bertolucci there and Antonioni and Kustavitza  and all these filmmakers that I really admired and have admired for years, you know, saying bravo, bravo. 
And then, you know, and then the next day the American press just absolutely lambasted, you know, me and the film saying it's the -- you know we haven't seen a weirder group of people since Bunel and, you know, and all these kind of strange things. 
Yes, I didn't shelve it. You know I owned the North American rights. And I just thought, you know what? 
I mean, what's the point? You know? 
Yes. Maybe. I tell you why. 
For one reason only. It's certainly not a perfect film. What I will say about that film and what I will say about Marlon in particular, it's one of the best performances he's given since "Last Tango." It's one of the performances where he dug down deep and gave of himself so monumentally. 
No. He didn't care. No, he was fine. 
Yes. He was fine with it. 
Yes. Very much. That was the first. 
That's when we met and we got along like a house on fire, you know, instantly. And that's where we got very -- we got close doing "Don Juan." 
Well, Marlon early on, I mean, Marlon reinvented -- Marlon reinvented acting. He revolutionized acting. 
He made it -- it was not about behavior in a sense as it was just about being in a moment. And he was a dangerous element. 
I mean, he was a dangerous element. He remained a dangerous element. 
Oh, yes. All the way through, man. Until, you know, his last -- his last breath. 
You know, he was -- he was a dangerous element. You never knew what to expect from him. 
He came down over all of us. You know we were covered in Hunter's ashes. It was something that I knew that had to be done and we got it done, yes. 
I said, hey, I made this painting of you. You know? And he's, you paint? 
It took a little while. And you know, years, years happened. And then Hunter made his exit, you know. 
So he never got to -- 
Yes. Absolutely. Yes. 
For sure. No, this was -- this was fulfilling a commitment to hunter. This was absolutely a major promise, we are going to produce this thing together. 
And I even so far as to have -- you know I mean Hunter had his chair on set every day with his name on it. 
He had his script there with his name on it. He had -- there was a bottle of Chivas there every day. 
A highball glass filled with rocks. And we'd bang in the Chivas. We had his Dunhills, we had his cigarette filters. 
I think so, yes. 
He was without question, I mean, I think the most important nonfiction writer of the -- of the 20th century. 
It was -- KING: From a cannon? 
Yes. Built a cannon. He -- it was his last request. 
You know? And it was something that we'd talked about here and there. But I knew that that's what he wanted. 
And I knew that that had to be done at whatever, you know -- at whatever cost. So I met with some -- you know, some kind of architectural wizards and stuff. 
And we built -- we devised a cannon of 153 feet in the shape of the gonzo fist that would shoot Hunter into the stratosphere. 
Oh, boy. It was huge. 
He came down all over all of us. You know we were covered in Hunter's ashes. But the idea also is to take Hunter -- you know, his ashes and then mix that in with gun powder, there was something so poetic about that. 
You know it's something so kind of symmetrical about Hunter becoming basically large bullets. 
That he would have loved. So I mean it was -- again, it was something that I knew that had to be done and we got it done, yes. 
I haven't changed. I'm still exactly the guy that used to pump gas, you know. I'm still the guy that was a mechanic for a minute, you know. 
I'm still exactly. I just happen to have a weird -- weirder job at the moment. 
Yes. We got the budget down. 
Yes. There is a part of me. There is a part of me that wants to do it, you know. 
Yes, yes. There is a part of me that wants to do it. But at the same time, you know, I -- I suppose the reason to do it is because it just scares the absolute, you know -- 
Yes. You don't have the protection of cut. But also you just walk out there and suddenly just go -- line. 
You know, I mean -- I'm up. What's the line, you know? That would be a real drag. 
It was one -- one conversation with Marlon where he said -- he asked me how many movies I did a year. 
And at the time I said, I don't know, maybe three or something. He says, too much, kid. That's too much. 
We only have so many faces in our pockets, you know. I said, OK, I get it. He said, why don't you play Hamlet? 
You should play Hamlet. 
Yes. Every time. Me? 
Well, I don't know -- throughout life, and many things, but I mean certainly, you know, losing Marlon, you know, took me down. 
Losing Hunter took me down. Because, you know that these -- these friends, these mentors, these teachers, these father figures, you know, these -- someone who you really -- it was amazing to be accepted by them and to -- and to be loved by them. 
And suddenly they're gone, you know. Yes. Those are pretty down times. 
I have faith in my kids. 
Sure. I mean, I've been very -- like I said, very, very lucky, you know, in a sense that, you know, I mean, how ironic is it that, you know, as I said you get -- 
I was pumping gas, most definitely. Printing T-shirts and selling ink pens, and you know anything and everything. 
Yes. And then the fact that you have a 20-year career of failures and then you do a pirate movie and that buys you an island is pretty -- the irony of that is pretty good. 
Yes, yes. Oh, yes. You know, there was a guy who I worked with many years ago. 
And we were talking about success and money and all that stuff. And he told me this one thing. He said, you know, money doesn't change anybody. 
Money reveals them, you know. Same thing with success. 
As Marlon said, he had -- Marlon had the best definition of acting that exists, you know. It's a strange job for a grown man. 
And that's it. 
It's a strange job for a grown man. Right? 
I think it's totally -- I think it's totally right, yes. It's lying. It is lying. 
Why wouldn't it be? You can make it lying. You can make it not lying. 
You know it's -- you can find your own truth. But it's still a lie. You know what I mean? 
You're going to go to the craft service table. You're not Henry VIII, man. You're not going to have some Fritos or whatever, man. 
Right. You know? He's not going to eat a giant chicken leg and chuck it somewhere and start screaming "wench". 
Right? You know? And that's not -- 
I don't. I don't look at my films. But what I do is -- the strange thing is what happens at a certain point, it's kind of like that thing Marlon said about being observed and having been the observer. 
You get to a place at a certain point where you're more comfortable in front of a camera doing, behaving, living in front of a camera than you are in normal life. 
That is to say, like, out at a restaurant or something like that. You know, the camera becomes sort of just part of the -- 
But you know what I mean? 
It's just there and that's part of it and that's it. 
Kids are great. So fun. As you know, they just grow up so fast. 
It's just shocking. 
Yes, they're OK with it, you know. Yes. I mean they're sort of used to it by now, you know. 
When I come home with a new one they're like oh, yes, that's good. Nice one, dad. 
No. I mean, thank god. You know, early days, you know, they tried to sort of slop me into those things but now not so much. 
You know I think they kind of -- after almost 14 years of Vanessa and two kids I think they kind of -- 
I had met her before. But very briefly. And then it was '98 when I went to do this film with Roman Polanski in Paris. 
I was in the hotel lobby sort of getting my messages. And I turned around and was walking back towards my room and then I saw -- I saw across the room, I saw this back, this sort of skin of this back and this neck attached to it. 
The kids are great. So fun. 
Yes, yes. We basically try and spend -- spend sort of half and half. But with the kiddies in school we do a lot here. 
The kids are great, you know, they just -- as you know they just grow up so fast. It's just shocking. 
My sister, yes. Christy is my best friend in the world. She's always kept me alive since I was a little kid. 
Well, unfortunately I have a tendency, you know, especially these days now when -- you know the way the work is coming, I work a lot. 
And I probably work too much. If I could change that, I'd love to be able -- 
-- to spend more time. Yes, you can. But once you've committed to certain things. 
Well, I need to have the brain occupied for sure. You know, the brain canopy occupied at all times. 
Otherwise I will go sideways. 
Like a journal. You know. 
Basically, yes. It started when I was 17 I got my first tattoo. And every single one means something and they all -- 
Yes. They're OK with it, you know. Yes, I mean they're sort of used to it by now. 
You know? When I come home with a new one they're like, oh, yes, that's good. Nice one, dad. 
It's still up and running. They -- 
I was told -- you know I was always told it was Cherokee growing up and stuff. It may be Cherokee. It may be Creek. 
I don't know exactly, you know? 
There is a script. There's a very funny, good script. 
There's humor. Yes. There's a boat load of humor. 
KING: Does Tonto get to say kimosabe? 
It going to be Army Harmer. Looks like it's going to all come together in January. 
Yes. We got the budget down, yes. 
I think -- what I like about Tonto is the idea that this character who's thought of as the sidekick, you know, it was the thing that bugged me always about "The Lone Ranger" is why is the Indian the sidekick? 
Why does he have to go get you that thing? Why does he -- 
Right. And I couldn't stand that always. And my approach to Tonto is that he's this sort of -- there's sort of a crazy like a fox stoicism to Tonto, you know, that -- that Tonto probably believes that the Lone Ranger is his slave, his sidekick. 
So he's like, go get me the thing. No, no, no. 
You go get it. You go. 
You're the one dressed in the funny outfit. You do it. 
Yes. There's certainly elements of that, yes, for sure. You remember it well. 
Not for Tonto. KING: I see, he doesn't get -- 
Not for Tonto, no. 
Will I do my own Tonto makeup? 
I think it's a little more than that. I think -- 
I'll tell you what, I'll send you a picture of it. 
I've done some tests. I'll send you a picture of it. Because it's -- it's a little -- it's a little different than that. 
What I like about Tonto, what I feel good about in terms of Tonto is that I feel like he's, you know, when I -- when I came up with Captain Jack, I thought, OK. 
I've really arrived at something, you know, different here, you know. And Tonto feels right on par with Captain Jack. 
It feels like another Captain Jack to me. 
It's something, yes, something we're developing. With Seuss's widow, you know. Guisele's widow. 
And it's a very exciting possibility. Because it's a sort of combination of live action and -- 
Not "Cat in the Hat" so much but the characters. The characters will certainly have a role. 
Thank you. What a pleasure. What an honor. 
That was fine really, yes. 
