You know, I've -- I've done a lot of cool things. I got to, you know, present at the Grammys, present at the VMAs. 
I performed for the president of the United States. So I got to do a lot of cool stuff. 
Yes, definitely. I didn't really hear a lot of -- a lot of loud pitched screaming when I performed for Obama. 
I like performing. Overall, I -- I like to just perform for my fans and, you know, deal with the entertainment. 
That's what I love to do the best. 
Yes, I guess. I just have someone that I -- you know, my fans are amazing. They're -- they're always really responsive on Twitter and Facebook. 
And, you know, I just have the greatest fans in the world. 
No, I think, you know, my fans are really supportive. I'm really glad that I have really devoted fans. 
And, you know, I guess they do what they -- they've got to do. 
I think that, you know, I'm -- I definitely -- I don't get to see my fam -- my friends as much as I'd like to. 
But, you know, I -- I still get to travel the world and do -- do what I like to do. So, I mean I wouldn't change it for the world. 
I -- I don't go to a school. I have a tutor that travels with me and stuff. So, you know, yes. 
I still do school. 
My favorite subjects are probably like English. And then I - - I don't really like math. 
You know, being in the music -- music business sometimes can be a little shady. There's a lot of people that try to get, you know, get inside and, you know, try to mess things up. 
But, you know, you've just got to keep your family close and -- and, you know, remain humble and that's -- you know, you'll -- you'll go -- you'll go far. 
I thought it was great. While I’m walking down the street, I constantly have people coming up to me saying that they loved the roast and that it was awesome, so I feel like there was a great reaction. 
Thank you. And thank you so much for doing that for me. 
Oh, of course. But, overall, it was fun because I knew a lot of the people on the panel. It was all in good fun. 
No, I don’t remember where. 
I always looked really young. I matured pretty late. 
It was awesome. We got to see a lot of great people. 
I didn’t have a date. But I got to talk to Anna Wintour for quite a few minutes. We talked about fashion, and I thanked her for inviting me, because you have to be invited to the event. 
I know they use a pretty small list, so to be in that room with a lot of awesome people … 
It was Balmain. And, actually, I guess I did have a date. It wasn’t a girl; my date was Olivier , who’s the designer at Balmain. 
Well, I would have. 
I grew up in a really rural town, Stratford, Ontario, with 30,000 people. There’s a big festival thrown in the town. 
A lot of people travel from all over the world to see it, and growing up, I actually used to busk on the street. 
I’d play my guitar, sing, and people would throw money in the case. That was really fun, and I actually got enough money to bring my mom to Florida to go to Disney World, because I always wanted to go but we never had enough money. 
Growing up, I played a lot of sports. I played hockey and basketball and soccer. 
Honestly, it was never something that I was going to do for a living. At 13 you’re not even thinking about that, you know? 
I was just playing for fun and uploading videos on YouTube because I wanted to show my family. That’s when Scooter found me. 
I listened to a lot of Michael Jackson growing up. A lot of Boyz II Men. I loved Mariah Carey. 
Just big vocalists. I was always that kid who just wore whatever and did whatever. And my mom always supported that. 
So I always looked up to Michael because he was never afraid to just be himself, never tried to be anything that he wasn’t. 
He kind of stalked me, basically. He got in touch with a lot of people in Stratford because he couldn’t get in touch with me. 
My mom’s last name is Mallette, and my last name is Bieber, so he contacted my great aunt, who I’d never met before. 
He contacted the school board. My mom was getting all these messages saying, “This guy named Scooter is trying to get in touch with you.” After a while, it got kind of creepy to my mom, so she finally gave him a call to tell him to stop calling. 
She ended up talking to him for about two hours. They kept in touch, and we eventually made a trip out to Atlanta to see what he’s about and to see what kind of connections he could get. 
No, I never really dreamed of it. I didn’t know about anything like that. So when Scooter was contacting us, I started to think, like, “Wow, this could actually be my life. 
I could actually do this for a living and make music and travel the world.” So that’s when I started getting excited. 
And when I moved down to Atlanta, I met Usher … 
No, I finished high school with a 4.0 GPA. 
I did. I moved from Stratford to Atlanta, and I met Usher pretty much right away. And that’s the relationship that got me the platform, really, to do everything. 
When he signed me, he called all the radio stations with me and got them to believe in me. We worked with a lot of great people from the start. 
Tricky  and The-Dream actually wrote “Baby,” and they wrote a lot of big hits like “Single Ladies” by Beyoncé. 
So it was cool to be able to work with them right from the jump. We released that as the first single, and, like you said, it went platinum. 
I think it’s in Stratford, at my grandma’s house, if I’m not mistaken. 
Yeah, her whole basement is full of plaques and stuff. We’ve been doing that since before I was famous. 
Just, like, when I would win track and field and stuff at school. 
Probably private jet. That’s the quickest and most comfortable. 
I don’t own a jet, but I rent jets in my spare time. 
I’ve flown before, yeah. When I was going to Coachella, actually, I took a plane out. 
It was pretty scary, but it was fun. 
I do love cars. I’ve got a Ferrari. 
It’s red. And then I have an Audi R8, which is matte black. I have a Range Rover. 
I have a Mercedes-Maybach. 
I ride in the back. 
It’s so nice. It’s the smoothest ride I’ve ever been in. 
I actually own a piece of West Coast Customs. It’s a car company out here that does up really nice cars. 
So I keep a lot of them in the shop on display when I’m not using them. Just to help out the business. 
I’ve always loved doing up my cars, so being able to just take my car in at any time and tell them what to do, and not have to pay for it because I own the company, is pretty cool. 
A lot of tech investments. 
A lot of different tech investments, but not a lot I can speak on because we want to kind of keep that private. 
Just the fact that there’s such a big return. We’ve got someone who’s very smart in that world who helps us figure out what’s going to blow up and … I don’t know, I just like tech. 
Actually, I helped start an app called Shots. It’s a selfie app, and basically it’s an anti-bullying app. 
You can post pictures and there’s no comments or dislikes; you can just like the photo and follow your friends. 
A bunch of celebrities are on there, and it’s a really safe platform. It’s one of the fastest-growing apps right now. 
I’ve been on Twitter since the beginning, and on Instagram. I actually just started a Snapchat, so I’ve been kind of addicted to that recently. 
I wish I was involved with that one in the beginning. 
The new album’s going really well. I’m working a lot with Skrillex and Diplo and this guy named Poo Bear, who’s an incredible writer. 
We’ve just been getting our groove. You kind of go through a period where you’re in there and nothing comes and nothing comes, and then, finally, it’s like bang-bang-bang—you get them all in a row. 
I’m at a place where I’m really happy and I’m ready to share my music. 
Not on the album. But when I’m on tour, we have backup singers and backup dancers. 
I mean, all the instruments. We’ve got bass, we’ve got drums and guitar and keyboard. 
Yeah—of course. I play drums and guitar. My best instrument is definitely drums, so I’m featured a lot on the album drumming. 
It’s pretty futuristic as well. Skrillex is on a really new wave and has found a way to take my vocals and mix them and play with them and pitch it up to make it higher with these cool effects that sound really futuristic. 
We have a really good chemistry. 
I actually don’t know. I’m really not worried about when it’s finished, I just want it to be perfect, so we’re taking our time with it. 
I’ve been working with Kanye West and Rick Rubin. We’ve gone in with a bunch of different people. I’m just trying to get the best sound and have it be consistent and make sense with what I’m going through in my life right now. 
Yeah, because it’s basic. Kids can bang on anything. When you start putting a guitar in front of them at a young age, they can get confused—there’s so many strings, and you’ve got to put your fingers in certain places. 
Drums are a great first instrument. 
It’s just very personal. People will be able to really get in to where my heart is. It’s about my journey in life—stuff that I’ve been through. 
Maybe I can teach a lesson, certain things that are inspiring. 
I think I’m going to go to Ibiza. 
Yeah, I got a boat. And I’ll go down there for about a week and just get some inspiration. 
I love grilled salmon, mashed potatoes. 
I’ve been really eating healthy lately, so grilled salmon and a lot of steak and chicken breasts and stuff. 
I haven’t. I haven’t been introduced to that stuff yet. 
I cook breakfast, and that’s pretty much it. 
For myself or if I have a girl. I made breakfast for my little brother the other day, some eggs, pancakes, and bacon. 
My love? My love today is my little brother. He’s staying with me for the next week. 
So he’s my love right now. 
No girlfriend at the moment, no. I’m single. 
I think so, too. I’m a pretty lucky guy. 
In different ways. I care about different things now. I think I was competitive in a different way, where I just kind of focused on probably some wrong things, and now I’m just focused on winning and doing the best I can.
Growing up, I literally got my identity through being good at stuff. I always wanted to be the best because I felt like that’s how I got my self-worth.
It actually did me good in the long run because now I can go skateboard and have fun. I was the only person in my school who was skateboarding and on the basketball team.
I think that also got me in trouble when I was young, because people don’t like when people are good at stuff.
They just hate on it, and that has a lot to do with my hate in general. You see a dude who’s successful and he’s doing what he loves and people don’t take too well to that sometimes.
I’d probably be the same way if I was in Canada, seeing this kid driving around in all these fancy cars and shit.
For sure. I’ll hear songs on the radio, and I’m not really a fan of what’s going on right now in music.
I’ll hear it and go, “Ugh, why is this being played so much right now?” I have such great music that I want to share with the world.
It’s his creative input. I’ll play a song, and he’ll be like, “Man this reminds me of like...a blacklight sunset,” or something.
He’ll try to paint these pictures for you. It’s not the average way. He doesn’t just come in and say, “This sounds good; this sounds bad.” He’ll be like, “This is this because the world needs this.” He comes from a whole different point of view.
I’ve done probably three or four albums that I haven’t released yet. I’ve gotten all of these different modes, and try to dive into different ideas, and I finally came up with something that was pretty genius.
I have these collaborations with Skrillex and Diplo, like “Where Are U Now” that just took off. This is their first top 10 record.
It just shows that we’re breaking barriers in the EDM world. I think people have been trying to do it for a while, making dance music, like Usher and all of those people, but I don’t think it’s been done in the right way.
Well, I uh...I golf a lot. I wanted to golf today. It’s pretty good—I’m not great or anything.
I enjoy it. Also, I can drink now. So I have a few drinks every now and then.
With Floyd, he’s just an image. I think he may not do the best job at being humble, but that’s not his job.
I mean, it’s good to see people that are just humble and cool and down-to-earth and chill, but he’s trying to get pay-per-view numbers.
He’s saying wild stuff just for attention. When people can just stop being stupid—sorry to say that—but when people can stop reading into it so much and just look at the fact that he’s doing this for entertainment....
He’s in a one-man sport. I’m in a one-man thing, too, but I have so many people that help me do this.
Also, you go through a point where—I don’t know if he’s gotten this or not—but for me I went through a point of doing it for myself and doing everything in the industry for myself and I was unhappy because being able to do stuff for others is the biggest gift of all.
I was robbing myself by not enjoying the moments where I should’ve been enjoying them and doing stuff for other people.
I forgot what I was about, what my mom raised me to be. I veered off, and I got tainted. I came into the music industry at 13.
I was trying to trust people and they’d break my heart at 15. You have your perceptions of people. There are awesome people who are the lovely, amazing, joyful kind.
But I only saw people who are shitty and were taking advantage of me. When you have that perspective, the way you act changes.
I was basically like, Fuck everybody. Then I started doing my own thing. I got into a little bit of trouble—nothing that other 20-year-olds don’t get into—just rebelling a little bit.
Now, being 21, I’m coming into my own and around some pretty cool people who are not afraid to tell me what’s real.
I was doing anything. I was doing so many things that I shouldn’t even be on the planet still. I think that it was by the grace of God.
The whole time,  Scooter  always made sure I was safe and made sure situations didn’t escalate.
He’d fix every situation. It almost wasn’t good, because I’d be like, any time I wanna do something, Scooter is gonna take care of it.
It backfired a few times. It’s been a cool journey, an awesome learning experience. I wouldn’t take back anything.
I wouldn’t do anything over again. I would do it all the same way. I’m not going to say I’m sorry for the things that I’ve done because I think that it allows me to tell a story.
If I would’ve came into the industry at a young age and never had any failures, people would’ve been like, Who is this kid?
He’s not relatable. Now, I went through my shit, I came out on the other side, and I’m going to show you it gets better.
I think that was a statement, too. The police, they just wanted press; they wanted attention. I never was speeding; I never was drag racing.
Everything that comes out of Miami was “Justin with his dad drag racing.” First of all, my dad wasn’t even with me.
He pulled up after because he heard I got pulled over, so he came to see if I was OK. The cop supposedly wanted to be famous for arresting celebrities, and someone had heard him say that prior to that.
I wasn’t drinking. I blew the thing and I had 0.01. I might have had a beer earlier in the day or something.
I was like, “Officer, what’s going on? What did I do?” And he was like, “Put your hands on the hood!” I was like, what?
I lifted my hands and I was like, “What do you mean, what’s going on?” He was like, “I told you, put your hands on the hood!
Now you’re under arrest for resisting arrest!” I felt it, dude. I was just like, Oh they’re trying to get me right now at any cost.
I went in, and I’m telling you that 24 hours sucked. It was really cold. That was the worst part about it.
It’s freezing; it’s uncomfortable; there are people in there you just don’t want to be around. I had people who were yelling at me.
They were saying, “Bieber! We fuck with you, bro! We love you!
Aye! Keep your head up, bro!” It was kind of funny to hear that, especially from cats in jail.
I’ve learned to counter balance. I don’t have to be a super proper, stiff guy. I can still have fun with stuff.
Sometimes it might look like I’m being a little arrogant; sometimes I’m playing around and having fun.
I think the deposition was a little too much. I’m trying to encourage people, and I don’t think that that’s the right attitude to have.
I was also frustrated. I was in a weird place. It was annoying.
I just felt like I didn’t owe the guy anything. I was just going to mess with every question he had.
I got him, too. He was so frustrated. An hour of him just being like, I don’t know what to do or say.
Honestly, I think the pissing in the bucket wasn’t as big as people made it seem. Just because, dude, think about it.
Imagine, you hear that fucking Ozzy Osbourne pisses backstage. Immediately, “Oh, he’s a freaking rock star!” As soon as I do it, “He’s being a brat.” Dude, what is bratty about pissing in a bucket?
I had to go piss—we all have to pee. The bathroom was like on the other side, and the dude in the club was like, “Just pee here.” He told me I could and it wasn’t like I was being disrespectful.
I feel like that was pretty ostracizing—bigger than it should’ve been.
Yeah, and it’s not even their fault. It wasn’t like I was cutting them off like, this person’s toxic.
I could be around that person and not do that stuff because the stuff I do is not who I am. What I really want people to see in this next chapter is not Justin Bieber the artist.
I want people to start seeing me and feel like they can connect with me. I’ve made myself so unrelatable the past year with all the stuff that I was doing.
Not even bad stuff sometimes, just outrageous stuff. Like, you got a monkey, what are you doing?
I could say it over and over again, I’m changing and doing this with my life, but unless they start seeing something tangible like, “Oh he’s helping this person; he would’ve never said something like this a year ago; he would’ve never taken responsibility for something like that a year ago, but now he’s actually being a man about it and understanding commitment, understanding the value of time, understanding the value of people....” When you get famous, you get people that will encourage whatever you do.
You’ll do something and they’ll be like, “That was dope, Justin!” When you’re young especially, you don’t know who’s bullshitting you.
I’m gonna make sure that I don’t have people around me who make me look like an idiot. You don’t understand—that’s a normal thing for human beings, but I never had that in my life.
I didn’t even have that with my parents. I think they just didn’t know how. We never built the right relationships.
Now I’m having real relationships where it’s two ways. I didn’t understand how that works because the way people would interact with me was always so weird and it was never completely 100 percent genuine.
Don’t fall in love. No, I’m just kidding. I learned a lot.
I moved in with my girlfriend when I was 18. Started my own life with her. It was a marriage kind of thing.
Living with a girl, it was just too much at that age. But we were so in love. Nothing else mattered.
We were all about each other. But when it’s like that and you get your value from that, people will always disappoint you.
Your girl or your dude, they’re always going to disappoint you. Your full identity can’t be in that person.
My identity was in her. Her identity was in me. When stuff would happen, I would lose my freakin’ mind, and she would lose her mind, and we would fight so hard because we were so invested in each other.
Love is a choice. Love is not a feeling. People have made it seem in movies that it’s this fairy tale.
That’s not what love is. You’re not gonna want to love your girl sometimes but you’re gonna choose to love her.
That’s something in life that I had to figure out. I can’t lean on people. I got to lean on God.
I gotta trust in him through all my situations. Then, hopefully, my other relationships will flourish around me.
But if I’m gonna be so invested in you, if you die, or something happens to you, I’m gonna be so destroyed, I won’t be able to go on.
If I can love you and know that I’m not who I am because you’re being nice to me, but that I love you and I think you’re an incredible person but you’re just as broken as I am on the inside.
We’re all just trying to figure it out.
Yeah. You get scarred from certain things. Even like—I’m kind of seeing this girl, right?
I’m shy about doing or saying certain things, and then I say it and it’s not even a problem. And I’ll remember when I couldn’t....
You’re just scarred and you don’t do something because in your last relationship they’d freak out, but  just like, “What are you talking about?”
Yeah, I think so. That’s what I wanna get out to the world more. I’m tired of putting on a mask and a show for these people.
I’m just gonna be myself and if they don’t like it, they don’t like it. I move on. I can just trust that God got this under control.
That’s where I’m at. I’m the type of dude who always wants to figure it out. Science makes a lot of sense.
Then I start thinking—wait, the “big bang.” For a “big bang” to create all this is more wild to think about than thinking about there being a God.
Imagine putting a bunch of gold into a box, shaking up the box, and out comes a Rolex. It’s so preposterous once people start saying it.
At this point, my faith has gotten me to where I am. My faith has brought me to a whole other level.
I love talking about my faith. I think that with Christians, they’ve left such a bad taste in people’s mouths.
Just like, overly pushy with the subject, overly churchy and religious.
Some people are bad communicators. They find something that works so well for them and they wanna share it, but they don’t know how to share it so they’re kind of pushy.
There’s a lot of really weird stuff going on at churches. You ever flicked on a channel and a late-night church show is on?
Sometimes it’s like, “You better do this or you gon’ die and you gon’ burn in hell!” And you’re like, I don’t want anything to do with this.
I’m the same way. I’m not religious. I, personally, love Jesus and that was my salvation.
I want to share what I’m going through and what I’m feeling and I think it shouldn’t be ostracized.
I think that everybody should get their chance to share what they’re doing or where their journey is headed, whether they’re straight or gay or what they believe in.
We’re in a place now in 2015 where people have gotta be open-minded. I actually feel better and more free now that I know what I can do and what I can’t do.
My voice, I’m not gonna let it not be heard anymore. I’m gonna use my voice for a reason. I think that people, as soon as they start hearing me saying I’m a Christian, they’re like, “Whoa Justin, back up, take a step back.” Also, I do not want to shove this down anyone’s throat.
I just wanna honestly live like Jesus. Not be Jesus—I could never—I don’t want that to come across weird.
He created a pretty awesome template of how to love people and how to be gracious and kind. If you believe it, he died for our sins.
Sometimes when I don’t feel like doing something, but I know it’s right, I remember, I’m pretty sure Jesus didn’t feel like going to the cross and dying so that we don’t have to feel what we should have to feel.
What Jesus did when he came to the cross was basically say, “You don’t have to feel any of that stuff.” We could take out all of our insecurities, we could take away all of the hurt, all the pain, all the fear, all the trauma.
That doesn’t need to be there. So all this healing that you’re trying to do, it’s unnecessary. We have the greatest healer of all and his name is Jesus Christ.
And he really heals. This is it. It’s time that we all share our voice.
Whatever you believe. Share it. I’m at a point where I’m not going to hold this in.
