Oh yeah. That was good. That suit was like, I would’ve worn something different if I could look back right now. 
I could still do a suit, I just wouldn’t have done that exact lapel situation 
I thought it was good. I thought it was what I was supposed to do at that time. If I see something, if I see an opportunity, I’m gonna go for it. 
You know what I’m saying – We’re all gonna die one day 
So live like that. Live like you could die tomorrow. Go for it. 
Those steps have been the, you know, the platforms that allowed me to make it this far 
Oh, thank you very much. Yeah, I feel I was able to start making exactly what was in my mind again, not having to speak with the textures of the time. 
Cause, you know, Cruel Summer is definitely Kanye West, and there’s something weird and kind of off about “Mercy,” like when it has the high-pitched, that type of sound. 
It sounds like art still a little bit, even thought it obviously was a radio smash 
Yeah. I’m not trying to regurgitate myself. I showed – showed people that I understand how to make perfect. 
Dark Fantasy could be considered to be perfect. I know how to make perfect. But that’s not what I’m here to do. 
I’m here to crack the pavement and make new grounds, you know, sonically and society, culturally 
I just think that I’m a production person, I’m a product guy, I’m a producer. So if I’m working on a John Legend album, I’m gonna try to give John Legend the best home for him to stay in. 
And I’m gonna try to push Pusha T — no pun intended once again, this keeps happening to me — to make the thing that represents what I like about his music the most. 
And then for me as Kanye West, I gotta fuck shit up. Ah-ha-ha! 
Nah. This is me going to the studio with Thomas and Guy-Manuel, who’s Daft Punk. They had a synthesizer the size of that wall right there. 
This is just one session right here. This beat was originally like 14 minutes long, and that part in the beginning was something we completely just distorted, and I ended up making that the intro 
Nah, it’s just what I felt, like it should be 
And you know, originally “Blood on the Leaves” was supposed to be first 
Which, psychologically, I know would have changed certain Yeezus naysayers about the album. It wasn’t that time for me. 
I – I – I didn’t want to come up there and perform. A lot of times, music can be presented as a service position. 
But I wanted to take a more aggressive approach with music 
That’s how life is. It’s like a car crash. You could just be driving, and just out of nowhere it happens 
Well, I didn’t reduce it. Rick Rubin reduced it. He’s not a producer, he’s a reducer. 
Yeah. It’s just the way I was consuming information in my life at the time. Negative information to positive information, from the Internet, just going to the Louvre, going to furniture exhibits and understanding that, trying to open up and do interviews with this, learning more about architecture. 
Taking one thousand meetings, attempting to get backing to do clothing and different things like that. 
Like, getting no headway whatsoever. It was just that level of frustration. This is what frustration fucking sounds like 
Now let’s take people who have issues with me as Kanye West. They classify my motivational speeches as rants – like “Why is he saying that? 
Why is he doing that?” Well I’ve reached a point in my life where my Truman Show boat has hit the painting. 
And I’ve got to a point that Michael Jackson did not break down. I have reached the glass ceiling – as a creative person, as a celebrity 
Remember how funny that was? Do you think there would be a Givenchy in the hood if it wasn’t for that South Park photo. 
But no one thinks about that – no one thinks about the names I got called for wearing tight jeans 
I’m saying y’all had all that, but I brought real rap back. I’m going to do dope things. And I wanna take this opportunity to speak to something, because I go to Hypebeast sometimes to look it up, the new things that’re coming out. 
And every time my name goes up, there’s a series of people who write just negative comments – they wanna joke around and say, “Why is he still trying? 
Why is he doing this?” Why is he – they like diss me as a person for trying. Now mind you, I’ve brought 10 years of product that has added to humanity 
You know, and now, what they don’t realize when I say “Hey this is Pusha T, this is what it is” I have to remind Pusha T that he’s Pusha T. 
Because the radio, if they’re not playing a song of his that has an R&B hook on it or works at a certain level of trap tempo and plays in , it’s like we forget about that Clipse album that meant everything 
It’s been like that for a minute, Hedi Slimane! It’s been like that for a minute. We the real rock stars, and I’m the biggest of all of ’em. 
I’m the number one rock star on the planet 
We are the real rock stars, and I’m the biggest of all of them. I’m the number one rock star on the planet 
So what I want to explain to everybody out there, it’s like, I make music I can do it, but I shouldn’t be limited to only one place of creativity. 
And it’s literally only like one or two or three reasons why I haven’t been able to break that down 
This is the thing you guys don’t understand. You guys don’t understand. You guys don’t understand that I did the Yeezus and they eBay-ed it for $90,000 
And people wanted them bad as whatever, right? But I didn’t get a call from Nike the next day. You guys don’t understand that I’ve met with companies and they say, “What we’re trying to figure out is how we can control you and control that”. 
If you’re a architect, if you’re a world builder, if you have all these ideas and you’re Gaudi, and you want to build buildings, if you don’t ever get that out, what’s going to happen? 
I don’t think you’re really hearing what I’m saying 
As a creative… 
For you to have done something to the level of the Yeezus and not be able to create more and you cannot – you cannot create that on your own, with no support, with no backing. 
So when I say “clean water was only served to the fairer skinned” what I’m saying is we’re making products with chitlins. 
T-SHIRTS! That’s the most we can make! T-shirts. 
We could have our best perspective on t-shirts. But if it’s anything else, your Truman Show boat is hitting the wall 
And then, it doesn’t get mentioned in the interview and a week later they do an interview with George Lucas and Steven Spielberg and they’re talking about what the next frontier of theatre will be and how it’ll be higher priced tickets and it will be something that’s surrounding you and blah blah blah, but maybe it’s in the goggles, I said, “Wait a second, I just only did the interview to tell people that I invented it. 
I always felt like I could do anything. That’s the main thing people are controlled by, thoughts, their perception of themselves. 
They’re slowed down by their perception of themselves. If you’re taught you can’t do anything you won’t do anything. 
I was taught I could do everything, and I’m Kanye West, aged 36. So just watch the next ten years 
One thing I want to express to people also, people think a lot of my motivation is very like megalomaniac, and self-oriented. 
To the contrary completely I just want to help, from day one, I just wanted to help 
A little bit but no number one records, no Kanye West, blah blah right. So then I was going back at forth, with the company I’m in touring right now. 
And I said I want to perform in the round and then creatively we just couldn’t find it, so I said put me against the corner like how we did in Watch the Throne, well just do that instead. 
They said, well you know we just can’t technically do it, because why, technically why. Why can’t you do it? 
They said, look if you do that you are going to be in breach of contract, right. So basically meaning like if I didn’t sell the tickets, I would go into debt 
So they pushed me – my back against the ropes, right and I said I’ll take that chance. I’ll take that chance right. 
So pre-order 9,000 the first day in Chicago doubling Watch the Throne, four pre-orders in one day. That made the people stood up said, we like what Kanye is saying. 
We like New Slaves 
Yeah, but not through radio 
No I’m not pin-pointing just you, I’m talking about the overall radio, there is no, “Get Lucky” on the album, and perhaps you know it’s just because that just wasn’t the song, and maybe it could be that, but it sounds like there’s hits on that album to me. 
But it sounds like this hits that is distracted by the statements “fuck you and your corporation, ya’ll niggas can’t control me” on the first single 
I never described it as an album for the radio hits 
Pause that, pause that. That song is a hit song, minus the line, “fuck you and your corporation, ya’ll niggas can’t control me” on your first single 
But you ain’t hearing what I am saying 
That song is a hit record minus, “fuck you and your corporation, ya’ll niggas can’t control me, said on your first single. 
Because if you can’t control me then you can’t control him, then you can’t control him, then you can’t control him, and then the information age starts, where it occurs while I was talking about starts where Steve Jobs has left as starts. 
Steve Jobs made the internet usable. This is the information age, we barely scratched the surface 
There is things that are moving. The entire music industry was hit by a fucking glacier by the internet and Sean Parker, just like that glacier up in there, and Steve was like no, no, wait a second, come on, give him a little time. 
There won’t be any music, if you just give it away like that. You know what I’m saying, but shit it’s changing. 
People are going to look at this interview and say, “Hey, I understand what he’s talking about.” “People are going to look at this interview and say, ‘I don’t like Kanye. 
Look, he looks mad. I don’t like his teeth.’ They’re going to say, ‘Why doesn’t he just focus on music? 
I liked him as music.’ They’re going to say, ‘Hey, I want the old Kanye, blah blah blah.’ But one thing they will do, they will play this interview in five years. 
They will play this interview in ten years and say, he called that, he called that, he called that, he said that was going to happen, that was going to change 
Yeah. I’m a postmodernist, as best as a career. I’m a futurist, mentally 
It’s the biggest part. It’s our earth. Like you remember like, that you see future movies and everything was in the sky, like it moved to the sky 
That’s the Internet 
That’s what it is. That’s our sky 
That’s our future sky. We kind of thought we knew it was in its flying cars. We didn’t get flying cars, but we can send movies like in two seconds 
This record is just the codes of that. Go listen to all my music. It’s the codes of self esteem. 
It’s the codes of who you are? If you’re a Kanye West fan, you are not a fan of me. You’re a fan of yourself. 
You will believe in yourself. I’m just the expresso. I’m just the shot in the morning to get you going, to make you believe that you could overcome that situation that you are dealing with all the time 
Yeah, it’s like family time. Yeah, it’s what Kim gave me 
She gave me everything. She gave me a family. She gave me a support system. 
She was in a powerful enough situation, where she could love me without asking me for money, which is really hard for me to find 
You know, I can’t pinpoint that I don’t have the answer right on me. I got to think about a little bit and give you a really good answer 
I’ve got a lock and loaded amount of information that I like to express on a very wide scale that I’ll give you. 
But if you ask me a question like that I’ll go back and think of it maybe I’ll have an answer for you in a couple of days 
Yeah. When you get other outlets, you can relax and give other outlets more breathing room, meaning like, okay. 
When I did the Coachella performance, I had 30 dancers on stage, modern performance artists and I had this lift, and I had the Roman wall and I had like the Celine shirt and above all this types. 
So when Jay told me to watch it, I always say I didn’t want to use dancers of course. And I said, that’s fine, because I was doing a fashion show in Paris. 
So I still had 30 girls on the stage, but you know, I still had these elements of the emotion 
Um, what I’m saying is it’s about what I want to make it about. This is my world 
Yeah. So then I would have to separate my world, but still get to my world out to the fact that I had a fashion show. 
You see I’m saying, so it’s like right now, people could say oh, he is frustrated, He is that. He is that. 
No, all I need is the breakthrough. The joint venture for of my clothing, same as Stella McCartney has, same as – I can name so many people. 
They have joint ventures of backing to be able to express themselves that way. Okay, bam! 
Well, be helping me 
I’ve dedicated the past 10 years of my life to this. I spent 80% of my time working on this, and 20% of my time working on music. 
Why do you think this song Niggas In Paris is called Niggas In Paris, because Niggas was in Paris, because I had a office and a small courtyard across the street from Colette, where I couldn’t even find a good pattern cutter. 
That’s why we were in Paris 
I’m not trying to get into that world. I’m trying to make a higher level of product for the real world because people say life is unfair and unless you’re Kanye West, you know, this pretty girl that dates this soccer player, or your parents had money, you don’t get to wear Versace all the time. 
And you hear it, we love Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace, Versace. We love Versace. Versace is the greatest designer of all time. 
We love Versace. But unless you set a point or you rap so good, and knock down so many doors to produce so much shit, that you was able to actually get Dame Dash to give you a record deal because he was a producer, not because he liked your raps because he was a producer 
You still feel like the greatest version of you… 
…when you have those Nikes on, right? But you can have on a ZARA pant, right? 
And a girl walks in with the Celine version, and you feel like shit. That is the problem. That is the problem 
But I’m talking about, I’m talkin’ about us, the new slaves, the people who love fashion. I’m talking about us, you know? 
Because I’m a slave to it. I love it 
I love it since age five, when my mama brought me to a discount fur spot. And she asked me what I like? 
Everything I liked was too expensive for us. That’s five years old. I went to my grandfather’s funeral like three weeks back, and my cousin that works with me, stood up and he told the story about you know, how his mother was a tailor, so he won best dress. 
I worn best dress in the high school too. A bunch of people in the lineage and my family worn best dress. 
But his mother was a tailor right? His mother was a tailor, a black, an African-American tailor 
Remember, remember how that girl in there, the people that was raising here were… 
Yeah, she was the glitch 
You telling me they don’t look at me like I’m the motherfucking glitch? You telling me people don’t look at Kanye West like the Glitch? 
Right now. And she was on the side of the video game, the whole time! It’s in my code. 
It’s in my code 
Yeah, they broke Vanellope’s car! 
Vanellope Von Schweetz, they broke her car! 
Yeah, 100%. But I’m doing it for everyone. I’m doing it for the people who don’t appreciate it because they’ll appreciate it later, and of course, I’m doing it for the people who appreciate it. 
If no one appreciate it, I know, there is couple of people up there to appreciate it 
So and thank you very much. And then people will say your voice was so strong, why are you so focused on just clothing or why would you focus on just that award show or why will you focus on that? 
The same reason why I sat there and focused on that Otis beat 
You’re walking down the street without a headphones, it’s like, ‘Oh what’s up? How you are doing today? 
No headphones today? Cool! No music today’. 
What you did, you know. No shoes? ‘Look, man. 
What’s going on? 
You’re having problems with the family?’ 
Wear your socks, at least 
Sandals with socks. Keep it gangster 
Yeah, exactly. But not for black dudes, though. No flip-flops for black dudes. 
I don’t care where you at. I don’t care where you at. No flip-flop for black dudes. 
Wear some hot-ass Jordans on a beach 
What about you? 
What points do you think I’m hard on myself? 
Oh no, I don’t expect to be understood at all 
Like I don’t expect to be – I think that there’s people who are wired by their parents to understand what I’m saying 
And there’s people who are wired by their parents to reject what I’m saying, but that doesn’t mean that after I make what I’m saying, that they won’t use it, because they will 
It’s the only way I can do it at this point. I can’t do it by myself, I can’t, like I won’t, it is – I have no interest in sitting down in the studio by myself and making a track. 
When I made ‘Overnight Celebrity,’ which is great, like; I sat down there by myself and made it. And there’s people like, ‘Yeah, that’s the answer, make the music by yourself again ‘Ye, we want the old ‘Ye.’ But – No, I don’t feel like doing that 
I want to utilize the best resources that we have and have a conversation, as you see I would rather have a conversation 
Yeah around it – but Dark Fantasy though. When we sowed that fabric so tight you know like for eight, nine months Pete Rock, and No I.D., and Q-tip everyone coming down to Hawaii, Nicki Minaj, Rick Ross, we like textured – and Jeff Bhasker we created those textures collectively, you know like I would be eating breakfast with Ross in the morning, and just come up with a line and stuff and we all go play ball and Naz would come out there and play ball with me and Common and stuff, come up with another line, then go there and then Virgil will have a idea we say that and  has a idea and like these are really great people that came together to make that and where I – and I learned that process a bit from working on , because its that communal process a lot of times 
Hey how about us as a people, we can’t do it on our own 
We have to understand that we’re not each other’s enemy. We have to stop discriminating against each other due to class and due to race and due to location or financial position. 
We have to say “wow that is the best version, lets use it, lets bring it, lets bring it to light, lets move forward, lets push forward as a civilization” because we are so jacked up on our own egos and so misguided by mainstream marketing, we don’t know what the fuck is real, we would be out again to a fight, this quick for the dumbest reason, definitely something that’s like racially, there is a gender set, you know its like, you know which is like we are pitted against each other, we are mentally not in a place to be accepting, to not be jealous and that – part of that jealousy and that frustration that goes across an entire globe is due to some of these other high corporation level limitations, everybody is being served a nasty lunch food. 
Like you know you heard the word minimalism a lot on this project 
Even this is like,  you gave us what you need, may not be what you want, give us what we need to proceed 
Yeah, because we don’t have the education 
To know what to want 
We don’t know what to want, this is what I was telling that writer in NW  I’m learning what I want, this is the reason why I’m working at five architects in a time, but that time that I’m spending in a bad apartment, I can’t get that back, and that education that I could get from working on it is priceless, and there is very few people that are in the position to educate themselves as much as I can educate myself. 
For me its constant information intake, I hang around architects mostly 
Yeah, it all parallels, its like you know synesthesia seeing sounds, it all parallels. People will tell you this business inst like this business, it’s the same people every where you go, the same type of guy you might meet in Hollywood, you might meet that same type of character in fashion, you might meet that same type of character in music 
Okay, for me first of all Dopeness is what I like the most, Dopeness – People who want to make things as dope as possible and by default make money from it 
Yeah and obviously like publishing, like because publishing, like because they’re selling our image. 
And they’re selling it in a bad way, and if — 
In a bad way, a bad way and I’m not getting paid for it 
So it’s like the dopeness which makes the money, I want the dopeness and the money 
I’m changing things for my daughter. I’m going to tell my daughter, by the time she understands what it was, Man, me and your mother were in a completely different situation than you’re in. 
At that time, Paparazzi wasn’t legal, people could take pictures, people could climb over your fence, people could do that you wouldn’t even get paid for it. 
You see all these checks that you’re getting at age six, because people taking your picture? You don’t have to worry about thing, a thing ever again just because people want to take your picture, like and I made that happen, Lowe. 
That’s what I’m going to tell her 
Yeah I don’t diss records 
Yeah its 100%, its 100%. I’m just looking forward to the opportunity to speak to this brother as much as possible. 
That – those conversations is going to be more than everything I even say it right here. Because that he is one of our future messengers and I’m going to give him them jewels 
Daft had the drums, and I then just took the reck and I just started, both this song, ‘I Am a God’ and this song were made after Hedi Slimane didn’t let me into his first Saint Laurent show, but it wasn’t that – he wanted me to go, but he just told me I couldn’t go to any other shows other than that 
And I was like, wait a second. I can’t go? You’re not telling no editor they can’t go to any of these shows. 
I’m not your boy you can control me in some way. So I made – off of that, I went into the studio with the producers that made the music for his show and made ‘I Am a God’ and ‘Black Skinhead.’ 
That was my reaction 
I’m 100% a part of it, I’m 100% in it, and 100% I want to over come it, sometimes I’m the communicator of it, some times I’m the maker of it, some times I’m the consumer of it, I’m in it, I’m in the game. 
But for me – yeah I say I am a New Slave, you could be a slave to a lot of things 
Not since Pac right? 
