Absolutely. I was part of developing the screenplay. So, I’ve been with the project from the ground up. 
What we were trying to do with Henry’s Crime was to make this kind of existential, romantic-comedy, caper movie. 
Yeah. About 7 years ago I decided to try and develop my own material, and here we are in 2010. Making this film in 2009, while having a script, trying to raise the money, and go independently. 
To me, it was not out of circumstances, but trying to have another way of performing and getting material. 
In this “new environment” you don’t have domestic distribution. That’s part of what being an independent movie is. 
Sometimes you can get picked up by Sony, or Fox Searchlight. Sometimes, they make films, but not all the time. 
I don’t know, to me, it’s just another way to make a movie. 
Yeah. Takes are good. Like on Henry’s Crime sometimes you get two or three takes. 
Yeah, where you might get twelve if you want. You know, you’re boarded differently  The amount of page count that you have to do a day is different. 
But there is never enough time and there is never enough money. It’s circumstance. For me, the most takes I’ve ever had have been in action sequences in the Matrix films where you are just trying to get what I call “super perfect” and we had a chance to do that. 
To me, you just really have to know. Like with Henry’s Crime, you have to really kind of know. We rehearsed theater stuff trying to get the blocking with the plays. 
We went in on the weekends to try and get that right. You just prepare. Do you sometimes want more takes? 
Yeah. But then sometimes the process is that you’re not supposed to have takes. It gets a little zen out there. 
Well, we had the financing with me. We didn’t really have any real financing issues because of the scale of the film. 
We didn’t have to go cast another movie star. We were lucky that James Caan responded to the material and Vera loved the script. 
So that was great. They’re such excellent actors and I thought they enjoyed the roles. I mean, when was the last time you saw James Caan do a comedy like that? 
He’s funny, right? 
There’s a sequence in the film where Henry says to Max that he can’t go forward with the plan. That he can’t do it and leave the girl. 
He has this great moment where he’s like “Look. You ask me to help you, I’m going to help you.” and looking at him I was just like “Yeah. 
That’s James Caan right there. He’s a movie star!” It’s admiration and it’s gratitude. 
Yeah, except they don’t let anybody come visit me on the shoots. Well, we had some table reads and James was really cool about coming to my house and doing a table reading of the script. 
He’s an old school guy. He does whatever it takes. 
Yeah! It was awesome! 
Are you talking about time or are you talking about…? 
If it’s a role that has been offered to me, or any project, it’s about the “why?” of making it. If there is an answer to that “why?”, then I’ll go forward with just trying to do the script work that Chris is talking about. 
I try to understand who I am, who the other characters are, and what’s my place in the story. You have different obligations as an actor sometimes. 
If you look at my performance in Something’s Got to Give, my role there is that I’m basically not the lead singer and I’m not the chorus. 
But I have to do something, I have to bridge the relationship to the whole film and to these characters. 
I have to play my part, which is a different kind of thing than what I have to do in The Day the Earth Stood Still, or to go way back, The Devil’s Advocate. 
It’s a different kind of presence and presentation. I also try to familiarize myself with whatever the character does. 
You know, if there is some kind of job or if there is some kind of headspace. What are the emotional parameters and concerns? 
Basically, it’s “What are they thinking? What are they feeling? What are they doing?” And then you try to figure out as much as you can and after someone says “action” you’re going to know what’s going to happen. 
I haven’t heard anything back. They turned in the script and it was very expensive. I don’t know if they’re going to…it would cost, like, half a billion dollars to make that script. 
So, I don’t know where it’s at right now. 
We are hopefully going to make 47 Ronin. 
I think it’s a creeping express train. Which means that they’ve done pre-production, we’re still working on the script, they’re done pre-viz, and they’re doing location scouting. 
It’s ready to go. It’s a bullet train in waiting. 
Passengers is a spaceship in waiting. 
Two days in and it’s going great. 
Yeah. It takes place over 24 hours. You follow this character named John. 
It’s basically the relationship between him and two call girls. He’s the driver and he ends up stealing a video camera and hanging with them in an apartment. 
It’s kind of about the interpersonal dynamics of this family. 
Yeah. Absolutely. I’ve been working with a writer named Mark Hyman on a project called It’s Not Me It’s You. 
It’s kind of a romantic-comedy. I’m working with a writer named Kristen Gore on another project called Psyched about two psychics who fall in love. 
I’m working on this film but it’s all with my partner Stephen Hamel who is doing our production company, Company Films. 
So, there’s other stuff trying to get done. 
Lana  thought you were perfect for the role. 
If we’re gonna compare them, they both were original ideas with visionary filmmakers. 
Um, I never got that kind of direction. 
Attention to detail, worldbuilding, and having ideas as nourishment in your entertainment. That exists in John Wick 4 too—the idea of freedom, the idea of choice with rules and consequences. 
How are you trying to break out of the system? John Wick has got a cool thing because everyone is bad. 
They’re bad people. But they’re also super moral and ethical. Well, not even ethical, but there’s a code. 
You root for John Wick. 
We’ve developed our own playground. 
Yeah, we did. We went out with your agenda of action as part of storytelling. And character. 
That was the fundamental base. 
When you watch John Wick action scenes, it feels different. There’s so much choreography. It’s out on the edge. 
I think the principle, the ideas behind an independent currency, are amazing. These are amazing tools for exchanges and distribution of resources. 
So to pooh-pooh crypto, or the volatility of cryptocurrency, it’s only going to make it better in terms of how it’s safeguarded. 
I’m interested in the storytelling of humans and their interactions with technologies. 
Yeah, digitally. I don’t mind if someone takes a blink out during an edit. But early on, in the early 2000s, or it might have been the ’90s, I had a performance changed. 
They added a tear to my face, and I was just like, “Huh?!” It was like, I don’t even have to be here. 
What’s frustrating about that is you lose your agency. When you give a performance in a film, you know you’re going to be edited, but you’re participating in that. 
If you go into deepfake land, it has none of your points of view. That’s scary. It’s going to be interesting to see how humans deal with these technologies. 
They’re having such cultural, sociological impacts, and the species is being studied. There’s so much “data” on behaviors now. 
Technologies are finding places in our education, in our medicine, in our entertainment, in our politics, and how we war and how we work. 
They started making decisions for you. It became our world. 
It’s this sensorium. It’s spectacle. And it’s a system of control and manipulation. 
We’re on our knees looking at cave walls and seeing the projections, and we’re not having the chance to look behind us. 
Or to the side. I’m sorry to go on here, Chad. 
It’s also a fascination—it seems for us, the animals on the planet, like, How do we defeat death? How do we change the weather? 
How do we replace nature? 
The people who are paying you for your art would rather not pay you. They’re actively seeking a way around you, because artists are tricky. 
Humans are messy. 
People in power don’t want that, you know? So that’s not your lifetime, that’s like your next birthday. 
And before then, they’re going to challenge how much they pay you. So everyone’s gonna be an independent worker. 
Look at all the independence you have! Let’s not have unions. 
That’s cool. See how long that lasts. Fingers crossed. 
Which is cool, because that’s what artists do, right? We take our influences and we synthesize them. 
But what’s the intention behind that synthesis? 
It’s something my partner, Alexandra Grant, is really interested in, so I’m kind of riding her coattails. 
I helped set up the launch. We’re trying to take this technology that people are interested in and give opportunities to artists with different viewpoints. 
It’s like they’ve created more land. There’s more land for sale. It’s wealth creation and it’s opportunity. 
It’s dreams, right? And immersion. I think the power of cinema—part of it is its novelty, but also its scale. 
You see a close-up of a wonderful performance with emotions and storytelling that touch you. Whether it’s horror or action or comedy, you’re seeing a face that’s, you know, 20 feet tall. 
Yeah. You’re, like, there. The intimacy of that. 
I met Chad in 1998 on the first Matrix and then met Dave on the second two. We continued to stay in touch and work together. 
Chad and Dave started an action design company, a stunt company, of sorts. Then they started doing second unit directing, and after that they started developing some stories. 
I had met with them about a few stories before, so I sent them the script as soon as I got it with hopes they would at least do the action. 
I was secretly hoping, though, that they would direct it. Then they shared with me and our producer, Basil Iwanyk, and they all together just had a great take on it and vision for the film, not only in terms of the action, but the world that they created. 
I mean, for me that’s the fun of it. He’s a mythical assassin, so he has to have a certain kind of efficiency that I liked. 
And the guys, the directors, are all very detail oriented and focus on specific techniques, so if that’s the kind of thing you’re looking for – how does he have time to reload, the judo, some of the transitions into Ju-jitsu. 
Even if you’re a car person, there’s some cool and specific stuff going on. And I had some great teachers. 
They set me up with some great instructors. We worked ahead of time for about three months, and we were still learning as we went along. 
I love to learn. I love when character can be… what is it that Harrison Ford says? “Physical acting!”  But you take that physicality and put that back into the character, 
Well, we had about 40-some-odd days to film the picture and we probably shot about 18 days that were action days. 
I’ll just say this: there’s an Australian company called iCool, and they make these tubs that chill water. 
I had one of those in my apartment. It was set at 17 degrees Celsius. During the action stuff I would be sitting in that when I got done and almost never come out just to try and recuperate. 
Yeah. The directors knew that they always wanted to shoot in New York because the film is based in New York, and they knew they wanted long takes and not a lot of cutting, and they wanted me to do as much as I physically could. 
I was, like, “YES!,” but then to make that work to bring character and action together in the right mix, time sometimes becomes one of the things that gets sacrificed. 
It definitely was “action improv,” yeah. But that’s where the directors’ experience comes in and knowing who to play off of and hiring the right people for the job. 
A couple of these guys I had worked with before. Daniel Bernhardt, who I do the renovation fight with and who throws me over the balcony, played one of the Smiths in that Matrix fight, so we already had a fighting history. 
It’s just shorthand and trust. We could work things out fast, but it’s intense. It’s a high wire act to a certain extent because you only have so much time. 
But that’s what gives the film both its formalism and grace – because he’s good at what he does – and this improvisational immediacy that I think really comes off the screen in different ways. 
John has to register in the middle of a fight, “Oh, fuck! That’s happening!” 
Thank you so much for being here, Laurence Fish and for your kind, gracious, over the top words.
Your support, your love… It has been an honor and a privilege to have the chance to work with you and I am so grateful for your friendship, mentorship, spirit, soul and wisdom that you share with me.
I am so grateful. Thank you, man. You are amazing!
You are the best of the best. Laurence Fishburne.
To the TCL, the Chinese Theater… It is a great honor to be here and to be invited to this remarkable, historical, magical place.
To be included amongst all of the incredible artists who have made their mark here over the past ninety-two years, to be a part of this Hollywood tradition started by Sid Grauman all those years ago and which continues to this day.
I thank you. I thank you very much.
To Lionsgate, I thank you for your support and the opportunity to be here. Thank you Joe and to all involved at Lionsgate.
I am very grateful.
And to be on the forecourt, in the front of this legendary movie palace with John Wick? With John Wick?
That is so — You swore! – F*cking awesome! I mean, I love John Wick!
Man, I love John Wick.
And to you, the director and our visionary of the film, Chad Stahelski — To you, Ian — Where are you?
Lance… Laurence… Halle — Where are you, Mark? Mark. Asia — To the producers — Basil, Erica.
Thank you. To David, the co-director of the first John Wick.
The only way I am here is working with artists and people such as yourselves. I am not here without working with such talented, beautiful artists and people.
The only way I am standing here is to have worked with such beautiful, wonderful artists in the past.
I have been a part of some films that have been embraced and I am very grateful. They have changed my life.
They have given me life. They have provided life. And I am very grateful to the people who have enjoyed these films.
Without your support, I am not standing here. Actually most of the people who are standing or sitting here are not here without your support.
I started acting when I was fifteen-years-old in Toronto, Canada and I traveled in my first car when I was twenty years old across the country to Los Angeles, California… to Hollywood – with a dream.
That dream! A dream I share with – I am sure – so many here and probably with most, if not all, of the artists memorialized and celebrated in this remarkable place.
The dream! To be in pictures. To be in movies.
To be in films. To be in cinema… but first, I had to get an agent or a manager, and in my case it was a manager – Erwin Stoff.
Erwin, without all of your belief and support and without all of what you did for me, I would not be here.
Literally – I would not be here! So, thank you. I am forever grateful.
And then, Erwin introduced me to an agent. Not just any agent, but a spectacular agent and a person Hildy Gottlieb.
Hildy, I thank you for believing in me and giving that kid a chance, an opportunity for opportunity.
I will be forever grateful.
And I’d like to thank my agents who are here today. Meredith… Where are you, Meredith? Meredith?
Where are you? Hello, Meredith. Chris and Keith – Thank you for being here and for all that you do for me and for helping me to continue to have a career.
And to my agents in the past – Kevin, Jimmy and Patrick – I thank you. I thank you very much.
I want to thank my stepfather Paul Aaron, who as a director shared with me his world of the theater and film, who inspired him to dream and train as an actor and provided the opportunity to get in that car and have a safe place to land, to start.
I want to thank all of the artists, teachers, agents and friends I had the opportunity to work with and to learn with in Toronto, especially Rose Dubin, who oversaw the theater program at the JCC where she created what was a haven for young artists to learn.
It’s where I had the chance to play Mercutio at sixteen and where I was seen by an agent and so started my professional career and my love of Shakespeare.
I want to thank my friends who are here today. Claire, where are you? Josh, Robert, Janie, Alexandra, Cheryl.
Cheryl? Hello, Cheryl. Cheryl — I love you.
I love you all. Thank you.
And I want to thank my mom! Who, when I said to her, when I was fifteen — “Is it okay if I am an actor?” She said, “Do whatever you want to do, darling”… and so it began!
I love movies. Gosh, I love movies! I love watching them and I love making them.
It is an honor to be here today to celebrate – in this Hollywood hallowed ground – pictures, movies, films, cinema!
With all of the artists who have made their mark here of the past, the present and the future and with you.
Now let’s go play in some cement.
I guess it starts with the script and the character but also what the story is. Who is involved with it matters too and it all comes down to personal taste.
For this, I really liked the character of John Wick and I really liked the tone as well where it’s this real world aspect mixed in with this underworld of criminals.
I like the rules and the code; it just had something fresh about it.
Yeah! I liked that aspect and it’s nice to lay a rich, full-blooded character and I liked the emotion of John.
I loved that opening where we see John’s grief and how it turns into a kind of determination. So it was a really fun role to play and to have a lot to chew on.
It’s kind of what you look forward to; the film’s an action movie but it feels like it has a lot of soul to it and also has a lot of fun.
Yeah, the world very much lends itself to that and I think the way we watch stories now we consider that aspect.
It’s cool because it excites curiosity, like we’re curious about these other people and these other places which shows how well they’re realized.
The writer I know had some interests in what happened to John Wick but when making the film we didn’t really go into it.
We’d speak more about the “impossible mission” that Michael Nyqvist’s character spoke about. “So I gave him the impossible mission.” *laughs* We were always like well what WAS that; this 3 day battle, so we would speak more about that.
In terms of exploring it further, I mean I’d love to play the part again but it’s up to the audience…
The directors wanted to do long takes with me doing as much as I possibly could and I was like “YES!” because it brings character and action together and I think that’s a really enjoyable mix.
For this I had to go through 3 months of training with the different techniques. On The Matrix movies I would be fighting hundreds of Agent Smiths and I’d be training with the stunt men for 6 weeks.
I’d train from 9 in the morning until 5 in the afternoon. For this I got trained in certain moves like throws and how to be thrown so I gained what we call a “toolbox”.
I’d keep adding to that as I would be working with this Army Special Ops guy who’d be showing me different techniques and I’d be like “WHAT’S THAT?!?” So Wick does a whole different bunch of techniques.
He played a Smith in The Matrix so we have a fighting history so there’s this shorthand and trust where he’s like “OK so we’re gonna do this and then you’re gonna do this” and so on….
but it’s very much a high wire act because we only have a certain amount of time.
Oftentimes because we didn’t know the sets because we were on a kind of time crunch. I learned that fight scene with the female assassin two hours before we shot it so that scene in the nightclub, I was still learning my way around the set and it was actually pretty intense.
