Love the double kiss. 
I think being an entrepreneur is definitely a skill. 
Wait. Really? He's -- I -- I thought he was, like, one right behind me. 
A little bit. A little bit. 
And Oprah. That's, like, shocking. 
I mean, it's - 
It's all I care about. 
We need to double it. 
Let's see how many followers we can bring by one tweet. 
I would absolutely say that marketing is a skill. And I think that, you know, fashion as well. I mean, we -- we each -- each sister has been stylists at some point in our lives. 
We own, you know, three successful clothing stores. 
I think being an entrepreneur is definitely a skill. And if you ask me, like, what my job title is -- 
It changes. Sometimes I just write really random and say teacher. 
Something that I don't do. But -- 
Absolutely. I think that they see we girls in Hollywood, in Beverly Hills, there's this glitz and glam factor that they, kind of, like, want to vicariously live through. 
But when they get there, they see we are so normal. We've all had -- you know, it's like our dad used to make us -- as an attorney, he used to make us sign contracts for everything. 
So when we were 16 -- 
Everything. And so, when I -- 
And we -- yes. I signed a contract for everything. So when that did happen, he was a very strict parent to where we had to really, you know, take responsibilities for what we've signed. 
And I got a job, you know, at 16 working in a clothing store. And I think we've always worked. 
Fashionable. I mean, I -- I like to think we're very determined and hard-working. And I think our brand is a brand for the fans, for sure. 
Everything they ask us -- because I think I'm -- I know -- and my sisters were heavily involved in our blogs and our Twitter and our Facebooks. 
And every time they ask us for something, whether it's a lip gloss to a pair of shoes or a skin care product or a weight loss product, I try and give them that, what they're asking us. 
It is the best brief focus group. 
And it's honest. 
Or what outfit to wear. 
But I also use it, you know, for, like, business, like, my fragrance. I couldn't decide what color pink to use on the bottle. 
So I Twittered two pictures, and I said I want my fans to design my bottle. You choose the two colors. 
Yes. And so, that was the color of my fragrance bottle. 
Yes. MORGAN: -- what the correct one would be. 
Well, Kourtney is -- either she's a zero. 
And I'm, like, a four, six. And Khloe's -- you know, it's like we're all such different body types. 
She's -- Khloe's super tall. I'm kind of in the middle. She's really tiny. 
OK. I love it. 
Are these life-sized? 
Yes. Let's see -- 
That's a breastfeeding mom for you. 
I hated it, yes. There was -- I think -- it's so funny because, I think, a lot of the time there's a lot of plastic surgery rumors that swirl. 
And I'm the first one to be super-honest. And so, everyone was talking about -- ads saying that they must be, you know, fake. 
They are real. 
They're completely, 100 percent real. 
We're very honest. So -- 
No. I've tried botox before. 
Well, there's -- you know, I use Spanx and masking tape before. 
I Twittered a picture of myself at -- when I was 13 or 14 years old in a bikini. And I think everyone got the picture. 
You know what? I must say that I am pretty content. You know, I -- I definitely wear, you know, body shapers and stuff underneath clothes to, you know, make me feel more confident when I go out on a red carpet, for sure. 
And I think a lot of girls would be lying if they, you know, said they didn't. 
Yes. You have those all the time. 
When I -- when I'm a little heavier because my body is petite, I see -- go to, you know, my thighs or something. 
And that makes me feel uncomfortable. 
Fake it until you feel -- 
I think that when anything that kind of arises that you're not happy with, you know, whether you gain some weight, you hit the gym harder, or whether you aren't at a, you know, goal that you feel, you know, comfortable at at work, you try and work harder and get there. 
That's just, kind of, how we are. So, if there was something -- I think physically, we're pretty confident girls. 
And we do what we can to make ourselves feel the best inside, which, you know, could be on the outside as well for us. 
We're glamour girls. We love the hair. We love the makeup. 
That's who we are. 
He is pretty evil. 
What are you guys doing? 
We are taking it to a Kardashian level, which basically means that -- 
We're just opening up a clothing store, which is our store, Dash, that we -- we started one in L.A. 
And Kourtney and Khloe took Miami to open one up there. And now, we did New York, just to kind of expand our brand. 
And I let her think that, and I'm just very, like, passive. So, whatever. 
Whatever she wants. 
Kourtney could care -- I always say to everyone, Kourtney could care less about fame, about anything. 
That's fine. I'll -- I'll give it to her. 
That she pulled the baby out herself? 
Absolutely. I mean, I've been really private on -- on the show -- relationships. I only show very little bits and pieces. 
Exactly. Well, I think on the New York season, you'll definitely see a whole different side of me. 
A little. And I just -- 
Ryan is so easy to talk to. He just gets it. Like, he completely trusts us and our vision and we, you know, him the same. 
So, he's really hands-on. And he -- 
Yes. We get that a lot. 
Absolutely. There's a lot that we wouldn't do. 
How would you know when you're -- 
There's a lot that we wouldn't show. I mean, I'm really particular on what I show about, you know, any relationship that I may have. 
Or there are so many personal things. And what's so cool is our relationship with the show is from the start, they've always said we have, you know, the right to edit and to approve all the footage. 
And so far, there hasn't been anything that we've taken out. 
It was a very, you know, different atmosphere than what he -- you know, it wasn't his home. 
And you never know. If you change your mind or, you know, on the Kardashian Show, it might be better in his home family environment. 
She picks and chooses. 
I would never move in with anyone unless I was engaged or married. I think Kourtney and I -- 
No. Kourtney and I are definitely looking around. Kourtney's boyfriend is from New York, so he's here and they split time. 
So, we think it would be a good decision for our store and everything to look for a more permanent residence here in New York City and split the time between the two. 
Kourtney's here more than I am and I think it would be better, probably, to help out with the store more and, hopefully, start filming again -- to possibly have a place here in New York. 
I'm having a good time and he's a really good person. And I think this time around, you know, I've learned to be a little bit more low key and private. 
I think that the way that I am -- I'm such a hopeless romantic -- 
I like to believe and trust in anybody. And sometimes I think that's been my downfall. And that has been my issue, but yes. 
I think that I can still trust men. 
Absolutely. No, absolutely. I mean, there's this, you know, embarrassment and shame and so much that comes along with it. 
And I think that I was so lucky to find a boyfriend at that time in Reggie -- that we were together for four years -- and that was something that he really helped me through. 
He picked me up when I couldn't pick myself up. And he, you know, and that's what my family was for as well. 
Someone that, you know, family is an important value to them. Religion or faith is really important to me. 
I like tall. I like good teeth. Teeth and hygiene are important. 
Yes, and it just kind of happens that way. It's always like a -- I just don't know -- 
Yes, neither can I. 
Six-foot-nine. 
Five-foot-three. 
It's so fun, though. It 's like walking down the street and he, like, picks up my hand, and I feel like a little kid that used swings, you know? 
Oh, it's the best way to feel skinny. 
Tiny and skinny. 
Find a big, tall man. 
They're both really sarcastic people and they love to battle and say really rude, crazy things. 
That changed everything. 
Love Johnny Depp. 
Yes, I was going to say, Leo's pretty cute. 
I think I'd be lying if I said "no". You know, like, yeah, I'm going to reject him. 
Oh, I don't think so. Isn't he married or engaged or something? Or has a serious girlfriend. 
I'm fine, though. 
One day, I hope to get married, yes. 
I don't know. You know, I -- 
Yes, it's like, we just started dating. 
Chris and I have only been seen out, I think, two times together. And all of the sudden, we're on this full-on whirlwind romance. 
We're moving in, getting married -- 
No, no, no marriage in the works. 
Kourtney is the most practical. I think that she, you know, -- I've always kind of just gone for it and made the wrong decisions. 
Kourtney, like, really takes her time and, you know, -- Scott has stopped drinking for about a year. 
Maybe you just need to go for it. 
Yes, what would you do? 
She would, no. She's really weird. She'll be like -- it's so funny, because Scott, you know, he'll pull up in, like, a new Lamborghini. 
And I'll be like "oh my God, that's the coolest car ever, let's go on a ride". Kourtney will be like "This is so embarrassing. 
I'm never riding in that." 
I was on "Dancing with the Stars", and my partner was Mark Ballas, who was Bristol's partner. And he had, like, the most amazing things to say about her daughter. 
You know, I know she gets a lot of flack, so I -- I don't know, I just tend to -- I don't typically like to say anything if I don't really have an opinion either way, to be honest. 
I think he's doing a good job. 
But he was also very fun. Like, he had the good balance. He wasn't the strict parent that was -- that you were afraid of. 
He was, you know, very family oriented. 
Not so much me -- 
Yes, but I understood. I don't agree in therapy. I don't know why. 
Bruce has scars on his hands from Kourtney digging her nails into him. 
But they became really close, you know, later on, my dad and Bruce. And we would have fathers' days all together, eating breakfast at my mom's house. 
Then all the guys would go golfing and so -- 
I think he would have been extremely proud of us. And his, you know, brother and sister and, you know, dad and everyone lets us know that all the time. 
I mean, it's all, you know, everything that we do now, it's all bitter-sweet. We all wish our dad was there to watch it, whether it's, you know, her giving birth to Mason, or, you know, whether we buy our first home. 
And he always taught us so much about, like, credit. And just so many things that he taught us, you know, it's all kind of paid off. 
She had a really hard time talking to him at that time. 
Who says that? 
I don't know. How -- 
Combined, I would say, I don't talk dollars. 
No, I was just thinking about it and then I was like, you know what, I never talk money. How much I have or anything. 
I think it's -- 
I don't think it's ever appropriate to talk money. I don't know why. I've never been comfortable about it. 
I never think it's, like, good to boast, or -- 
Whatever it is, I give 10 percent away to the church. And that's what I was taught. 
Every year. Absolutely. 
Yes. I mean, I think, last year was probably -- 
There's a charity that I work with a lot that I donate money all the time. 
The Dream Foundation. 
And we have -- my mom has helped create a church. So we help fund that. And it's in Calabasas. 
I think that it definitely -- when people say -- I mean, I get the statement when they say "more money, more problems" -- I definitely get that. 
But I think that we have a great team of people that help us manage everything and, as long as we just give back and try and help out any organization that's close to our hearts -- 
We all try and make -- 
Kourtney is -- OK, Kourtney is the cheapest. I'll spend the most. 
Yes, I think we all go all out on holidays and get each other really nice gifts. 
I mean, my home. 
Yes. A watch that was, like -- 
Yes, but I got a really good deal on it. I traded two in for it. So, technically I was out of pocket about 50 or 60. 
I don't just go out and buy it. I will definitely have a goal list and I have, like, a personal goal list. 
Absolutely. And we always -- we put one that's like a crazy wish goal that we don't -- we know we will get there one day, but we don't think it'll be in the year, and we always get to it. 
MORGAN: When we come back, I want to talk to you both about ambition, about who you idolize, and about Twitter again. 
Like, we only take on projects that we love and are passionate about. 
I love women like Elizabeth Taylor and Sofia Loren and Ava Gardner. I mean, those are the kinds of women that I -- 
Yes, I think I'm about seven husbands and lots of jewels behind, but you never know. 
She's so amazing. 
She text messages me, like, she'll write a guy's name with a question mark. Is this true? 
I would say, it was probably something that I didn't realize at the time, like a family ski trip with my dad and my mom. 
A moment that involved my dad. But it's crazy how you probably don't realize it at the time, but it could be one of your best moments of your life. 
But something more simple, like that. 
Let's see how influential Twitter can be and you need to follow @PiersMorgan. 
Yes, absolutely. So now, all you need is shoes, fragrance -- 
Do you design them? 
But to have your own brand, you need your own -- 
Do you have a stylist? 
Absolutely. I'll put back on my styling hat. 
It would have to be Kiers. 
Indianapolis, we love you. Oh, my gosh! 
I don't want to date another football player. 
It was the best kiss ever, you guys. 
If we're together, you don't text other  whores. 
I really can't. I mean, it seems like yesterday we, you know, Ryan Seacrest and my mom came up with the idea. 
And I can't even believe that it's gotten to season five. 
It's pretty crazy. I mean, you know, you can send out like a little Twitter and people will show up places. 
Or you can just have dinner with a friend or say hello to someone in, you know, a store and people assume that you're dating them or -- it's crazy that -- you know, I love letting people in on my life. 
And I really feel so connected to all my fans. But it is funny when people, you know, they do assume that they know everything about you because, you know, we live our life so publicly. 
I think absolutely not. 
You know, from the start, we decided as a family if we're going to do this, we're going to show everything. 
We're going to be 100 percent real. And I think that's what's come across to the audience. And I think that's why, you know, our show has done so well, because people really can relate to at least one of our personalities on the show. 
But that's who we, I mean-- 
We have so much heart. We're an extremely close family. And I think if anything, the show is like the best therapy for us. 
It's actually brought us a lot closer together. Just when we think like we can't get any closer, you know, 'cause we're just always together. 
The show has actually just taught us so much about ourselves. And it kind of forces us to deal with whatever issue that we're going through, because for us to sit there and ignore each other, you know, all day with cameras on, we also know isn't really beneficial. 
So it just kind of forces us to really deal with our problems. 
And then sometimes we look back at things that we might not be so proud of, or arguments we had, and it like, you know, brings us back to that place where it's like, okay, we never want to get there again. 
We never want to go there. So it really is therapy for us. 
She is. You are. 
She's calm for sure. She doesn't-- 
Yes, she has no patience to tolerate anything, but she's very calm. Khloe tells it like it is, will say anything, but she's super sensitive and has a really good heart. 
Kourtney's the kind that'll just say anything to you, hoping that she gets that reaction out of you. 
And Bruce's scars on his hands from Kourtney's nails? 
Do you see these scars? 
He was the new guy in our life, and after my parents got a divorce, so it's understandable. Every kid goes through that. 
And to stick up for my dad at the time. 
Kourtney and I kind of, you know, were -- we were best friends growing up. So we're extremely close, a year and a half apart. 
So we moved in both with my dad. And-- 
But these ones-- 
They were fine. 
He is going through a phase where he just feels like, you know, being that irresponsible, 20-something-year-old sleeping in. 
We don't know. He's not answering his phone. 
Play video games at all hours of the night. 
Who am I seeing? You know, I think what's so cool about season five of "Keeping Up" is for the first time you'll really see me single. 
You'll see me -- you know, I think I've had the same boyfriend for the whole first four seasons. So you'll really see a different side of me. 
And I'm dating around. You know, I'm enjoying this time just to be selfish and focus on work. And I'm having a good time. 
And I've always, you know, gotten along with Scott. I think out of everyone, you know, Khloe, there's like really no reasoning with her. 
She has her opinion, she's firm on that, and we all respect it. But I think I've always been cool with Scott. 
Scott and I've had a different relationship that you probably haven't seen on the show. 
We've always hung out. And so I've always, you know, tried to be the mediator and listen to his side and Kourtney's side. 
And, so, yes, I've always liked Scott. 
And I really have to, like, you know, give it up to Kourtney for being so courageous. I mean, I couldn't show that, if that was going on in my relationship. 
I wouldn't be able to be so strong to watch the episodes back, hear everyone blogging about it and commenting in cover of cover of tabloid on stuff that they really dealt with months ago. 
Kourtney doesn't care what people think, so it's cool, I mean-- 
Mommy, no! Help! 
And we have the right to. And I think we have such a great relationship with our production company, Bunim Murray, that they've given us that power to be able to edit. 
But so far, we've not taken any content out because at the end of the day, I mean this is -- if a story's going to get out that we're nervous about putting it in the show, somehow it gets out to the tabloids anyway. 
And it's probably completely twisted. So why not be able -- this is like our way to tell our story through our own eyes. 
I don't know the last time that's happened. 
I love to make like scrapbooks and organize them. Such a neat freak, so I love everything totally organized on my free time. 
It's either like scrapbooking or-- 
you should see the one I made for my dog. It's amazing. 
I will, if you want me too. 
A scrapbooker? 
No. KRIS JENNER: No. 
She likes to ditch us all-- 
--and have some alone time. 
I feel like because I have a baby. But if he's with me, I could ditch my phone. 
It's refreshing sometimes. But not too long. 
This time it was a long time. 
Kendall and Kylie. 
I don't think it's risque. She's in a bikini. Like what do you want her to be in, like a gown from head to toe. 
I posted the pictures on my blog. I thought she looked beautiful. I think for her being 14, 5'10", she's gorgeous. 
But I don't think people expected her, you know, to be modeling in swimsuits. But that was a requirement from the modeling agency and she was -- you didn't even see anything. 
So I don't think it was risque at all. 
She had no idea that 
I think she looks beautiful, and she loves modeling. She loves it. 
What's going on here? 
She's legal. KARDASHIAN: Yeah. 
Yeah, I said I've always been really uptight, I'm not a drinker at all. I never have. So I made a promise to myself. 
I was just going to have a drink every once in a while when I turn 30. But I think the single life came a little bit before that. 
So I turned 30 this year, and I just -- I only have one White Russian, and I'll just get a little bit of a buzz and then I get really tired and fall asleep. 
It's the only drink that I can have. I love a White Russian. 
Because it has a little bit of vodka. That's the only like real alcohol I can have. And the Kaluha tastes like chocolate milk. 
I can have one, you know, loosen up a little bit and then that's it. I still am not the biggest drinker, so I would never -- 
See that's a misconception. I love all candy. 
absolutely. But what's so funny is I could stand -- I could literally be like full on making out with a white guy in the middle of the street and no one would even care, take a picture. 
And I could stand next to, you know, someone else and they would automatically take a picture. Soy think people -- you know, on "Keeping Up" season five, you'll definitely see all my dates and the different -- I'll mix it up a little bit. 
It's weird. Dating is just really awkward. I'm a relationship kind of girl. 
If I can just meet someone and fall right in love and be in a relationship, I would love to do that. 
But I think everything happens for a reason, and I think that right now I need to focus on work. And that's what I'm doing. 
I thought me for sure. 
Absolutely. I was married first. I was married when I was a teenager and -- 
No, it was like three years. It was three years. At 19 I got married. 
I was married for like three years. I loved the whole idea of marriage. I love being in a long-term relationship. 
I love having that best friend that, you know -- but so I've learned a lot. But I definitely want to get married. 
I thought I'd get married before them again. 
No, I used to think that a few years ago, but I never thought -- 
No, no, no, I just thought -- I'm doing a lot of things now that I never thought I would be doing. So it's a trade out. 
That's why I need to find the right person that accepts it all. Because then you can do -- if anything, if you have a strong partner with you, then it motivates you to be even better. 
So absolutely. I think that you can excel even more if you have someone that believes in you 100 percent. 
In Miami, for sure. 
Kourtney found out by looking on the Internet, and finding my marriage license and e-mailing it to my mom. 
My mom gave me 24 hours to tell my dad. So I did. 
I was young, so, you know, if anything, you have to take a lesson learned from every situation and, while all my friends were in college and drinking and getting wasted and partying, I was at home being a wife and cooking and -- KRIS JENNER: A teenage wife. 
But I learned so much from that experience that it totally shaped me to who I am today. 
What did you tell me? 
And it was. It really made me who I am today. 
No. It was -- you know, I was just young. That's all it was. 
So, you live and you learn and you move on. 
No brainer, yeah. 
I think my mom and I have the same ideas. We set out and we have these goals and we do these goal sheets and we make it all happen. 
Khloe loves it. She works really hard. She'll take the deals that my mom kind of -- 
And then Kourtney could care less. She's just along for the ride and she's the -- has to analyze everything. 
But I don't think -- Kourtney would be just as happy, you know, being a school teacher or whatever else she wanted to do. 
No. You work really hard. 
If you try with one of us, there's always another one right there to see what we don't see. 
Well, how do I frolic with the Bieb? It was tough to get his hair wet. That part was challenging. 
No, he's the cutest, most adorable kid and he's just a good person. That was a lot of fun that shoot. 
Justin Bieber has this swag to him. I'm serious. He has this -- he's charming. 
He has this swag. I can't explain it. 
If he were 18, I don't know. I don't know. That sounds really creepy. 
He would have to be legal. Let's just say that. 
Season four. Season five? Actually, season five is. 
I think you see me in a whole different way that I'm excited. 
Because it's mysterious, right? 
Kourtney used to brutalize me as a kid. 
