Thanks for having me 
It's a global marketing campaign that I'm doing for Adidas, to promote my second sneaker coming out, the KOBETWO, as well as the apparel for the sneakers. 
Yeah, those are the KOBETWO's that I'm wearing right now, 
I do. You see, what we try to do with the first pair of Kobe's is do something that's innovative, do something that's different. 
Now, with the KOBETWO's, were taking is a step beyond. But there very comfortable, I can't wait to start the season and try to fly in these things. 
Yeah, I moved to Italy when I was six years old. Myself, my two older sisters, my mother, my father. 
My father played professionally there for eight years, so it really helped me mature quickly, getting used to different cultures and different environments. 
Well my wife is a Spaniard, so she's teaching me how to speak Spanish. 
Well, I try to learn as I go along, but it's a tough language so I don't want to say something insulting and well….. 
It does, My parents actually got the name from a steak house named "Kobe Beef", that's the where the name originated. 
They used to go to it in Philly and I guess they looking on the menu one day and saw "Kobe Beef" and said, "you know what, that would be a good name for a son" 
No that's my name. 
I've been there once actually, 
They Loved it! I had the opportunity to taste Kobe Beef, I had never tasted it before, and it was pretty good. 
I found myself having to defend myself a lot, because growing up in Italy, a lot of kids said "Well, basket ball here is different from basketball in America. 
If you go back to America, you'll never make it there" 
They thought the American kids were so much better that for me to go to the united states and play, I would have no chance. 
So I would tell myself: " Ok, look, I'll sign an autograph for you, I'm gonna do it, I'm gonna make it, you'll see." 
It was different because in Italy, you would have mini soccer posts under the basket, so for me to go to a court and play basket ball, and suddenly here come 12 guys who want to play soccer. 
Now I have to play soccer. I'm not gonna ride my bike all the way home, I'm gonna stay and play soccer until after the game, then I'll play basketball. 
Definitely basket ball because I actually picked up a ball when I was two years old. 
KOBE He let me learn on my own, but I would constantly go to him for advice. 
Yeah, its amazing, because the game seems to transcend any language or cultural barriers that may be there. 
And its beautiful to see people reacting so enthusiastically to the game of basket ball. 
Absolutely, I think Communications and the marketing tools have improved so much, and I think this has allowed the NBA to expand on a global scale. 
I think so. If you look at the NBA now, you have a Chinese players playing for the Dallas Mavericks, What happens is through communication through Satellite TV, people can now see the how the NBA is played and they get a chance to learn from these players. 
As a result, you'll see a lot more of foreign players coming into the NBA now. 
I don't see why not. I mean, its just a game. No matter where your from, it doesn't matter. 
If you pick up a basket ball, and go on your driveway pr go to the play ground, and play basket ball. 
The more you play, the better you get. 
Yeah, but its more so your will power and your drive to improve. You know, if you want to be a NBA basket ball player, and you set yourself in the mind frame that your not going to be denied, and that's what you want to accomplish, then your going to accomplish it. 
Absolutely, I think what he's doing is that he's almost acting as a pioneer. I think kids now are going to look up to him and say "well, he did it and now I can do it". 
He's kind of laid the foundation for future kids. 
Well, the future is always bright, and he as a player has a lot of potential 
Yeah were playing 2 preseason games in Tokyo, our first two pre season games of the season. Well be playing against the Golden State Warriors, and were all looking forward to that. 
I don't know, maybe in the future. You never know. I mean, the game has expanded so much and the NBA has become so global. 
I know he's training very hard to come back, and if he does come back, I'll be very happy for him. I mean, he's playing a game that he loves to play, and he was the greatest of all time. 
Still is so, for him to come back would be a joy to the game 
It's Just about the love of the game, not just competing. It's a game that we all enjoy and we all love playing. 
There will never be a Michael Jordan. All I try to do is be Kobe KOBE and try to help the LA Lakers win another championship any way that I can.. 
I'm just a piece of the puzzle. 
heheheh… come on… not even close…Michael! 
I think Michael was able to compete in every part of the game. He was able to compete in every part of the game because of his size. 
You know, Michael was 6'6 so he was able to compete on rebounding the basket ball, defending every player on the court, scoring obviously, I think his leadership was unparalleled. 
I think when we talk about not only great competitor of the game, but also in general, Micheal has to be at the top of the list. 
Allan has so much talent, and he's only 26, so his upside is tremendous. 
Yeah, we played against them, but he played in only a couple minutes so I didn't get a chance to feel him out. 
Well, the people that I've talked to have said that he has an incredible amount of potential and he's very talented. 
There's no reason why he shouldn't be a success in the NBA if he continues to work hard. 
It's more about skills. Unless you say about strength, more about skills. 
Two hundred and ten pounds 
Well, uh, I can only speak for the Los Angeles Lakers, uh, the things that you hear us say are more strategic movements in the game. 
Phil prepares us so well for the games that I'll be on the floor, and we kind of talk about certain strategies, and what to do on this player, what to do on that player… 
I really don't talk too much trash. 
I think you have to look at Reggie Miller. I think he's been a trash talker since he's come into the NBA. 
Gary Paley, he likes to talk trash… 
Michael talks trash occasionally. 
Well you see the object of the game is to win, so if you're going to talk trash you might as well try to psyche your opponent out 
I actually just spoke to Shaq before I came out here on this trip, and Shaq's doing good. He's enjoying his summer vacation, but he's also dieting, and he's training 
Oh he's dieting. Yes. 
Because he wants to come back leaner. He want's to come back around 285 is his goal. He's around 310, so he's very serious about 
A lot of it was fabricated, for various reason. But whatever the case may be we managed to pull through that adversity and win another championship. 
Its like a family. Your going to have your arguments between family members. Its inevitable. 
But its what you do to come out of that. That's the key 
We did a pretty good job 
Oh absolutely, because we weren't playing to our potential, we weren't playing to our standards. I mean we knew that then, and realized that and we went about it as professionals and said "OK, we would have to turn that thing around." 
Hoosiers, its incredibly inspirational 
It was realistic alright, Anything can happen in the game of basketball. That's the beauty about it. 
Well, my favorite movie is "Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon". It was my favorite movie to the point where it became a ritual of mine during the NBA playoffs, before I would take my naps, I take my naps on game days, I would rent the movie and I would go to sleep to the movies. 
Does he really? I love the man in movies, it was terrific. 
The messages that they had in the movie were subtle, but inspirational. Certain things Lee Mu Bai would say. 
You know, Chow Yeung Fat's Character in Crouching Tiger. Things like "Real sharpness comes without effort." 
No, but that's what the Lakers played by 
Yeah, Absolutely. Being a Los Angeles Laker, that was our mentality in the playoffs. 
Ummm, Maybe about four times 
I use to be, I use to play video games all the time. 
But now not so much. 
Well I was a basketball video game expert. 
You can never get enough. 
No actually, Music was something that I took up as part-time, I enjoyed music… 
The game itself is a very rhythmic game, and I think that basketball players are just naturally drawn to music. 
No, actually, I recorded it, but its for my own entertainment 
Tyra Banks, it was fun to do it then, 
No, the best thing that came out of doing it was that I met my wife. Doing a little video, she was there, she was at the set, I met her there. 
Working hard playing basketball, when you come home, you gotta be super husband. CNN: Now how about Shaq, he did a lot of rap CD's maybe you'll do some rap with him someday, probably not… 
No, we joke around on the plane a lot, you know going home, he'll start rhyming, then I'll start rhyming, and well start having fun. 
Right now, I like this young lady by the name of Alicia Keys, She has this CD out called songs in A minor. 
I think she;s very talented and her work is exceptional 
No, I'm not really familiar with any Asian artists 
As far as temptations, they don't bother me one bit 
That's a shame to see, but personally, I love my wife so much, I respect her so much, that is a thing I would not consider doing. 
It takes mutual understanding. My wife, Vanessa, she gives up a lot obviously, because of my demanding schedule. 
But also, I have to give some in return. There has to be some give and take. 
Maybe, If you look at the Olympic that just took place, internation Competition is stepping up. 
Well, for various reasons 
One was that I was getting married, and two was phisically, because during the NBA finals, I turned my ankle pretty bad and I actually didn't start playing basketball until the middle of September, and it took my ankle a long time to heal so I woudn't be able to play. 
Absolutely, and its my dream too, and hopefully, for the next olympics coming up in greece, I'll be healthy enough to play 
Absolutely, I would love to represent my country 
It is, Yes, if I'm healthy and still ably to play the game, I would love to play in those olympics as well. 
Anything that I could change about the NBA…. I think right now, its all good. I think with the rule changes, allowing zone defenses, allowing any type of defense, I think that's good. 
But I would also like the NBA go back to the old rules, of Hand checking. It was more physical. 
You know, you really cant go after people, you cant be as aggressive as in the 80's, when Magic was playing, when Bird was playing, it was very physical. 
And guys would have to prepare themselves, really had to work hard at the game because nothing would come easy 
No…no.. nowhere close 
Magic Johnson, MichaEl Jordan, Oscar RobInson, Wilt Chamberlain, if we go by championship you have to go with Bill Russel, but Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, I mean, how can you leave Kareem of that list. 
There are so many great players, to pick 5! You cant lose. 
You can go either way, you can go Doctor J, you can go Larry Bird, You can go Jerry West, You can go Elgem Balor, You can go Bob petit, the list goes on and on. 
Absolutely, believe it or not, they still left some great players off the list. 
Yeah, my wife and I do a lot of travelling, just going off on vacation, not worrying about anything. 
We went to Mexico this summer, we love going to movies, we love bungee jumping 
Technically, yes. But after winning a championship, they give you a little bit of leeway. We would like to go skydiving, but I'll wait until my NBA career is over. 
It was fun, it was an adrenaline rush, we had a great time 
No, they actually have this whole setup, where they hook you up to a harness and they take you up, I forget how high we were, but we were extremely high, and you pull the chord yourself . 
It was actually me and my wife, strapped to this harness simultaneously pulled the harness and dropped down together. 
And here we were, swinging back and forth. 
Well were both kind of daredevils, we like doing things that are on the edge. 
I was never one to walk around with security guards to much, but after this past season, it has really gotten to the point where it has been very difficult to go out, to enjoy life. 
I've really had to hire a team of security and they've had to travel with me. 
No, because winning championships is what its all about. When its all said and done, nobody cares about how many points you've scored. 
They don't mean a thing. They don't mean a thing unless you got the ring. How's that sound 
All the other stuff is like icing on the cake. You win the championship, everything seems to fall in place. 
I would play for free. If they had a team on Mars, then I would play on mars. 
I’m ready to go. Alright. I feel… I feel a little underdressed. 
I just came from the basketball court, you know. 
Yeah, you know it’s…. it’s funny like for me the mentality is a really simple one in a sense that the confidence comes from preparation. 
You know, so when the game’s on a line, I’m not asking myself to do something that I haven’t done thousands of times before right, so when I prepare, I know what I’m capable of doing. 
I know what I’m comfortable doing, and I know what. I’m not comfortable doing alright, and so in those moments, if it looks like I’m ice cold or not nervous, it’s because I’ve done it thousands of times before, so it’s one more time. 
Well, I mean overall, you know the idea is a very simple one, and you know, the Mamba mentality simply means trying to be the best version of yourself. 
That’s what the mentality means. It means every day you know you’re trying to become better, and it’s a constant quest. 
It’s an infinite quest, so starting at the age of two when I first started playing the game and on and on and on, I always ask questions. 
I always try to get better every single day, learn more, learn more. 
Oh, dude, I was asking questions all the time. You’d be surprised, like some people like my kids at two could do a lot of things. 
Right. At two, I could dribble the basketball. I could shoot a basketball on the nerf hoop at the house and I would go to practice with my father. 
I would observe my father. I’d sit and watch games with him. 
Yeah, man, I guess you could say that. You know a lot of things I learned by just being around the game, so by the age of six, I was already strategizing versus other six-year-olds; you know at the age of six, I figured out that six-year-olds couldn’t dribble with their left hand, so I said okay. 
Well yeah, I would imagine six, so like I was playing these six-year-old kids, I would make them dribble with their left because I knew they couldn’t, so they dribble off their foot, I’d pick it up lay it up, do it again. 
Dribble off foot pick it up lay it up so at six-year-old I had 63 points. I remember mine… 
Yeah, but um… but yeah listen, I just constantly looked for things to learn from and very observant. 
Well, I mean, you know the passion came from the love for the game, you know I loved everything about it. 
Like the smell of the ball. 
Yes, the ball. You know the smell of like brand-new sneakers, and like the sound, the ball makes when it hits the ground. 
Yeah, the ball going through the net. Like all those things I love, and so the passion comes from that because once you have that love, you just want to be a part of this thing all the time. 
It was two. I was born, and I was born to play basketball you know what I mean, and I played a lot of different sports, but nothing brought me the sense of peace and escape, you know, that the game of basketball does. 
Yeah, when I need that escape, it’s there for me, right. When I need a friend, it’s there for me. You know when I need to vent and dunk… 
It’s there. So yeah, the game is absolutely everything for me. 
I think as parents, we try to put them in different things, try to expose them to as many things as possible, and then see if there’s one thing that connects with them because if it does, you don’t have to tell them to do it. 
You know, whether it’s writing or painting or drawing, you know, if they have that passion, you don’t have to tell them; they’ll go off and do it because it’s just fun. 
They’d rather do that did anything else so, but as parents, it’s our job to just expose them to as many things as possible and see which one they gravitate to the most. 
Yeah, we expose them to all kinds of it may. They play a lot of different sports, they do a lot of things creatively you know in writing, and things like that and designing and you just sit back, and you just watch which one they move to and then it’s our responsibility as parents to try to set them up for success as much as we possibly can. 
I want them to find whatever it is that they’re passionate about, like whatever they feel like their purpose is, and that’s what I want them to do. 
So, my youngest one she does, she wants to. She wants to play. She wants me to teach how to play this summer, and you know our eldest is really into volleyball, so and but we’ll see you know passions tend to change. 
Well yeah… yeah, my sister was a great volleyball player, so we have a teacher in the family. 
No, it doesn’t… it never leaves … it never leaves like I… you know the game was just a part of me, so it never leaves even now that I’m retired you know everything I’ve learned from the game of basketball I’ve carried it over into life. 
You know, like basketball helped me be a better person, a better friend, a better father… 
Because there are life lessons that are within the game like communications, like unselfishness, like attention to detail and empathy and compassion like all those things are in the game and as an athlete, if we are aware of those things it helps us become better human… human beings. 
Sure, I mean, you can apply; you know I was applying that even while I was playing just in life outside of the game and even more so now. 
You know, in building a business and all those things, you know, kind of culture you want to have, and all those things are directly learned from the game of basketball to me. 
I mean to me it just makes complete sense. 
Okay, so if, if your job is to try to be the best basketball player you can be. Right. To do that, you have to practice. 
You have to train, right. You want to train as much as you can as often as you can. So if you get up at ten in the morning, train at 11:00, right, 12:00, say 12:00; train at 12:00. 
Train for two hours, twelve to two you have to let your body recover; so you eat, recover whatever you get back out you train start training again at six; train from six to eight right and now you go home and shower, you eat dinner, you go to bed. 
You wake up and do it again. Right, those are two sessions. Right now, imagine you wake up at 3:00 you train at 4:00. 
You go 4:00 to 6:00 come home, breakfast, relax, so now you’re back at it again 9:00 to 11:00 right, relax, and now you’re back at it again 2:00 to 4:00, and now you’re back at it again you know 7:00 to 9:00, look how much more training I have done by simply starting at four right, and so now you do that and as the years go on the separation that you have with your competitors and your peers just grows larger and larger and larger and larger and larger, and by year five or six doesn’t matter what kind of work they’re doing a summer they’re never going to catch up because they’re five years behind so it makes sense to get up and start your day early because you can get more work in. 
No, it was just like you that for me, it was… it was just common-sense like I can; if I just start earlier, I can train more hours, and I know the other guys aren’t doing it because I know what their training schedule is. 
Right so I know if I do this consistently over time is…the gap is just going to widen and widen and widen and widen, and they won’t be able to get that back. 
So for me it was just common sense. I’m like thinking, how can I get an advantage? Oh, start earlier, yeah, let’s do that. 
Man, like in high school. We start; my first class on high school was 7:00…7:45, I usually get to the gym around 5:00 a.m., and I’d play before school, and then the school starts… 
My coach. My coach would show up, and we’d do all these basketball drills 
Just me, my coach, and sometimes it would just be me and the janitor who’s still there today, and then I play at lunchtime. 
I hooked him up with a few things, but I played during lunch and then practice after and then go home, do my schoolwork and then watch a bunch of game films and games on TV and study. 
Well, until recently, yeah, until recently, yeah, basketball dominated you know my entire life for more than 30 years. 
Well, I think it’s just no; it’s just a matter of what’s important to you. What’s important to you for whatever reason you know I felt like I didn’t feel good about myself if I wasn’t doing everything I could to be the best version of myself. 
If I felt like I left anything on a table, it would eat away at me; I wouldn’t be able to look myself in the mirror, right. 
So the reason why I can retire now and be completely comfortable about it because I know that I’ve done everything I could to be the best basketball player I could be and so that’s where it comes from for me; you can’t leave any stone unturned. 
