I really just didn’t think that I was going to receive a nomination. I don’t know. I didn’t set an alarm for it. 
I kind of just was like, at some point I will wake up, and then we will know. My phone exploded at some point and I looked at it and I just had like 50 messages and I was truly stunned by it. 
I have been doing this for a long time. I just never kind of imagined myself here. It’s blowing my mind, actually. 
So yeah, the morning was just incredibly surreal, and maybe what you would expect. I talked to my team. 
We all FaceTimed. I was in bed. I love them. 
We’ve worked together for a long time. This might be kind of boring, but my publicist is one of my very best friends and we’ve worked together since I was 13, 14, something like that. 
It’s the coolest thing when people look at you and go like, “I’m so happy for you!” It’s so unbelievably touching and moving. 
It’s crazy because I would love this movie anyway, and I’ve already gotten to push it so hard, so this is just unbelievable icing on the cake. 
I guess as somebody who’s been watching the Oscars forever and also the sort of lead-up, it looks really intense, it looks like people have to do a lot of work and it seems like people campaign and rally for this stuff. 
It seems like a really involved, intense process, and I never saw myself in it. I was always like, “Oh, I’m not cut out for that. 
Even if I want to, I can’t do that.” It has been so fun. I’ve gotten to spend so much time with the filmmaker, who I find to just be bottomlessly inspiring in life, even not on set, and Diana is fun to talk about. 
She’s a really good person, to put it very plainly, and I guess what has surprised me is… I get nervous a lot, that’s not news to anyone, whatever, but I’ve really just been able to have a great time. 
It’s been really nice. 
I think I’ll go . I think I might go to the Oscars this year. I’m looking forward to it. 
Sitting in that seat, I’ve been once, I presented one year. Sitting in those seats, it’s mind-boggling. 
Even not as a presenter, if I was just there watching the show, what an insane room to be in. I’m just excited to share that space, even if it renders me completely speechless, whether I’m onstage or off. 
I am looking forward to that energy. It’s a room full of people that I have just revered my whole life. 
So it’s such a trip. 
I was so impressed with how boldly committed the perspective of the script was because it’s such a rich and fascinating world, yet we really, really step into her shoes in a way that’s more intimate than I’ve seen. 
The way Pablo decided to shoot this movie, it feels like such a vicarious experience. The script was so precise but never particular. 
It didn’t try and dictate anything, it never tried to answer any questions. It was so well researched and so well dreamt of that when I kind of toured through all of my research, I found even though this is sort of imagined feeling, kind of a nightmare, kind of a dream, we don’t know her. 
We’ll never know her. The mystery of her is what makes you lean in. And ironically, she was a normal girl. 
She was a wonderful person. She just wanted so badly to touch people, and she did, but people couldn’t touch her. 
So the exchange isn’t there. It’s not reciprocal. It hurts. 
Before you learn how to do something, you have to really trust process, because you can’t learn to play an instrument immediately. 
So it’s like, to say yes to Pablo, I definitely want to try to do this, I don’t know that I can do that. 
I’ve never done it. I can’t hear it. I can’t visualize it. 
I had a really beautiful dialect coach named William Conacher, who was an extra set of eyes in many ways and an acting coach, like really was so observant. 
We examined her together so fully and then kind of ascribed things to the movie that would serve us. 
The things that we fell in love with most, you can’t do it all. However things affect you, that’s kind of what you have to go on. 
So if there were certain things I couldn’t do, I just didn’t. But certain things that felt really true to me or certain things that she did that affected me, ways that she spoke, ways that she moved or undulated in a way, if I was watching an interview and she did something in it and it got me, I’d be like, “We need to find a moment for that and try and get that feeling.” And her voice is just so particular. 
She has such an incredible way of speaking and it’s always different. And if I played her at a different time in her life, it would be different. 
It was bottomlessly fascinating. I would be so into doing another one. I want to play her again. 
I mean, not really. Like, no one’s going to do that, but yeah. 
Yeah, I don’t like to hide behind characters. I really like to get so far in, that what ends up happening feels personally revealing. 
So I guess maybe when I first put on the clothes, put on the wig, because we didn’t rehearse a lot, because both Pablo and I have this kind of sacred approach to the moment that things happen and it’s hard to touch before it’s time, but I couldn’t do that here. 
I had to rehearse. I really learned the lines word for word. They were so beautiful and they spun such a web. 
Everything had echoes and I didn’t want to mess any of it up because I loved reading it, and making it my own was kind of the only way in. 
I guess, you know what? There’s no way to not be yourself, even if you’re playing somebody else and in terms of outside optical perception or something, because obviously everyone knows her very well and loves her, I had to just turn down the noise and go, “You could totally fail, but you can’t not try to do this. 
You have to just do your very best, get to the end of it.” It felt like a gauntlet race, like a crazy marathon. 
Me and Pablo were just trudging. It was exhausting and sometimes just humiliating and enlivening. Every single day, I was just, like, whiplashed. 
Whether or not I got her right, that wasn’t necessarily the goal. It was almost like Pablo kind of suspended that from my mind, and he’s a great director because having said that, I also have such respect for getting it right, like I really would love to get it right, I just don’t think that’s really possible. 
So we’re having this glimpse into her psyche in this moment, because I don’t imagine that the royal family sits and eats Christmas dinner like that. 
I just think it felt like that for her at times. So the script is written in that way. It’s like an abstract kind of shrieking, long tone poem. 
But the way that Pablo pushed it and pushed it, how far he went, how long it is, we shot it and shot it and shot it, I was shocked by it. 
And I had little goals in my mind, and they were ambitious. He just took them and threw them so much further and I was like, “Whoa, I didn’t even know what I was up against necessarily when I read this last night and I prepared for it.” So that was a really, really enlightening moment to see how far he was pushing into surreality because I just didn’t know what the movie was yet. 
We were figuring it out. I hadn’t seen anything, and that made me understand completely. The way that he looks at women, he has such a tender perspective, and I felt that so much. 
The fact that he cares so much about how a woman might be feeling in a given tumultuous time, and he pays such credence to that in her life, it’s such an act of compassion. 
I just was so impressed with him. And any time was like, “Maybe this is indulgent. Maybe this is too much,” he was like, “No, it’s everything.” He cares about her. 
It was very contagious and yeah, I couldn’t speak more positively about that man as an artist. 
Well, I will be totally honest and say I didn’t have much of a relationship. I didn’t have many thoughts on this before I made this movie, and I don’t have them now. 
I don’t know. It’s good for some people. There is so much positivity to be gleaned from some aspects of it. 
There are people that really love the royal family. They’re real people. This movie is, as you say, it was like a horror movie because there are ghosts in it, because Diana is a ghost and she feels so pummeled by this environment. 
But obviously, watching the movie, because it’s so subjective, it’s really easy to get angry, but she also wanted to be the mother of the King of England. 
She wanted to raise a really beautiful… she wanted to raise the king, and did. Maybe because I played her and I feel so close to it, that makes me emotional in some way, but politically speaking, who knows, man. 
So I think the first gown I ever wore was to the SAG Awards years and years ago. I think I presented and I remember feeling like a dressed-up little kid. 
I remember being like, “This is crazy. This is silly.” And yeah, I haven’t been to very many awards ceremonies. 
That’s why I’m genuinely not saying like,  “Oh, I’m so shocked.” I’m, like, shocked. 
I really loved Portland. I had a really good time in Portland, it's a cool town. Um, but the weather is, annoying . 
Yeah I know, we had to jump around, every five minutes the weather changed. 
Yeah. I mean, we were on a platform, and we were also like on a cliff, which gave the illusion of being in a tree, like, really like, up at the top of the tree, even though, we weren't. 
Um, and there was like, a couple of days of being in a harness, attached to Rob. Uh... t was really cool that we didn't have to be on a green screen! 
I mean, most of this, you read the script and you're like, oh-kay, effects movie, green screen movie... 
but we didn't have the money to do that, we really pulled it off in person, so.. 
It really is. Yeah. Pressure points, armpits, it starts to kill. 
Ohmygod. I HATE tics! I can't... 
Yeah because of spiders and...tics and... bloodsucking creatures. 
No not at all. She's...in the beginning of the movie, as much as everybody says "Oh, she's an outsider, she doesn't really know how she fits in." She is perfectly fine with that! 
And she just really is like, fine with being solitary. SHe's not, like, searching for something in the beginning of the movie. 
It's a skewed balance, I mean. She helps him, he doesn't really help her. 
I know, I know. The second I signed on to the movie and I went back to LA from Pittsburgh, I was doing another movie when I auditioned for it. 
Catherine came to Pittsburgh and we worked for four hours in this room. Um. And then when I came back I was like "Oh wow, it's really everywhere." Like once you're aware of it, it just slaps you in the face, like, everywhere you go. 
Moved from Portland to Pittsburgh. 
You have been. But like in a reverse way. 
A movie called Adventureland. Greg Mottola who directed Superbad. It's his second movie. 
It's not like a broad comedy. It is funny at times but it's really sweet. It's more of like a "dramedy". 
Halloween. Last year. 
KS; Oh yeah. Yeah. Pittsburgh was fun too. 
Pittsburgh was like, like real ci..not a city but just like a town. Like living in an American town. 
It was kinda cool. I liked it. 
Uhm. I. I mean, like how similar are they? 
They're sorta the same. It's funny. It's a 500 page book condensed into an hour and a half or whatever the movie is. 
But there's nothing from the book, and I care about the book just as much as the rabid fans, that I feel like we didn't get to experience that and I'm really disappointed. 
It really is like all of the iconic scenes are in the movie. And the essence and the feeling is really, and really I mean I think, there. 
Uh yeah, absolutely. We had an entire day to do that scene. 
Yeah. Two takes later and it's like lunch, and then. Uhm, yeah. 
That was one of the scariest shoons...ah "shoons". I've been talking a lot. SCENES to shoot. 
It needed to be really specific, because vampires don't exist, right? And so you don't know what it feels like to be around one or to .. 
let alone have like that connection. So we wanted it to be really, really hard and it was really stressful to get it right, to have like the responsiveness be really specific and like acute and noticeable. 
Thank you for having me. 
Totally. I also just split a small edible with my girlfriend, which I don’t usually do. And then I thought, “Oh, fuck, I have to interview Rachel about her movies and her life,” and then I was like, “Step away from the journalist. 
Your job is to take that edible for this.” 
Nice. Microdosing mushrooms is a generation below me. I took an eighth when I probably weighed 80 pounds and just went, “Bleh.” And then maybe once or twice since then because it’s fun around a campfire. 
But there’s a cooler, whole new approach to drugs that seems therapeutic and nice. I think it’s better this way. 
Yeah. It’s too much of a risk. Some people love psychedelics. 
They’re not for me. Wait, so what the fuck? I couldn’t get two different apps to work in order to watch Bottoms, so I can ask you the most honest question—what is the movie about? 
The only thing I’ve heard is that you felt excited to make a movie about girls and queer people that was stupid and not have the characters win this moral high ground. 
It’s so weird to have to fight to do that. 
As god fucking intended. 
Baby Tár. That’s cool. I can’t wait to see it. 
It’s so weird. You can see the trajectory of the reaction to the #MeToo movement and how—I don’t want to be derogatory because I think these movies need to happen—but there’s this race to moral efficacy and superiority that people are obsessed with right now and it’s the most boring way to actually help and understand each other. 
Everything’s just—reality’s breaking. That’s why movies are either so good or so bad right now. I feel like we don’t really have the words for it. 
And considering vocabulary is also changing so fucking quickly—how old are you? You’re like 27. I’m 33, I love hanging out with you, and I love— 
Totally. But I’m trying to determine—you’re not an alien, but so many of them are. 
Yeah. One of the questions I was going to ask you to try and determine if you were an alien was, “Are you easily embarrassed?” Everyone that I know that was raised in the American Pie era is steeped in shame and obsessed with hair removal. 
How weird and cool. Are you working on anything right now? 
Do you like texting? 
I fucking love texting. It’s a lot of blue on my end and you better fucking love it. 
I can have a pretty rapid fire conversation and feel pretty connected and be like, “Are we having the same conversation? 
I think so.” And then look back and be like, “Wow, weird wordplay happened there.” I like having a record of it. 
“Hey, what’s up?” 
What is your sign? 
The first time we hung out was fun. Me and Dylan  were just talking about it. We were like, “Remember when she became our little friend that night?” Even though the neon—whatever. 
It doesn’t matter where we were. I was fucking wasted and I was like, “I fucking love you.” 
Exactly. Okay, so you’re writing this thing. How many projects have you done that you haven’t had a hand in developing or writing? 
For people that don’t know, she played a standup comedian, therefore she probably had to imbue her character with a little bit of her authentic voice. 
All of the above. I used to have a hard time creating a character and then believing it enough to play it because as a kiddo I was always just called to arms. 
The character would always be so fully outside of me, and created by someone else, that I was so scared of fucking it up or not doing the best. 
It’s about being a good student, that’s how kid actors are. I was always like, “If I made it up, it’s bullshit.” I had all these stupid rules for myself that I guess I needed then. 
As I’ve gotten older, I’m very down to be reckless as an actor. But if I were to ever develop something, which I’m starting to do—I’m going to make this movie  with Imogen . 
Honestly, you should be so proud of yourself. I don’t mean to sound like a loser, but the Virgo thing is really working in your fucking favor. 
Because you’ve already held on to so much and not let it slip. I’ve worked constantly as an actor but I’ve always needed an assignment. 
I was clearly punching the shit out of all the walls of the houses I was in, which was probably annoying for the owners of the houses, aka a lot of the directors I’ve worked with. 
I was always like, “I am just an actor.” But that’s not true. Sorry, not to cut you off. This is about you. 
Man. Wait. So, you’ve written stuff, but you haven’t directed a movie yet? 
But you’re writing this movie that you’re going to direct? 
Are you going to be in it? 
That is one thing about directing, is that you look like a fucking disgusting mess trash bag all the time. 
Literally. You’re just like, “I’m so thirsty, and I’ve never heard of ChapStick.” Everything is so outside of your body, which is such a different experience. 
Oh man. How about process? What does your favorite set look like? 
Because it’s really fucking important. It’s better to design that shit from the ground up. Every bit of the wheel should be totally cut into and reinvented. 
I feel scared of anything big lately. There’s a weird hierarchy that makes me uncomfortable. This is the most clichéd, rote, expected, and completely genuine thing, but I just want to make a Cassavetes movie. 
I want my first movie to be a student film, even if it takes three years. I’m also not going to make a movie for more than $5 million, because it makes me uncomfortable and they usually suck. 
But getting people to agree to do that is so hard. 
I know. You’re so funny. 
That’s so fun. 
I viscerally know that feeling and it’s kind of esoteric. You’re in your own extra-large coat that they bought you specifically for this movie so you can fit your wardrobe under it. 
It’s really infantilizing, too. You’re just like, “I’m here being preserved for my moment.” 
That’s so funny. What the fuck else? What are you going to have for dinner tonight? 
I haven’t had dinner yet. I’m probably going to have this chickpea masala thing that I made with some rice. 
I’m going to stay in tonight. I’m already in bed literally. 
Me and my girlfriend are also writing something right now, and my brain works so much better in the morning. 
What’s your relationship with sleep? Because mine is complicated. 
I cannot sleep when I’m working, unless it’s a couple weeks in. It’s very, very, very annoying to dream about the most useless cyclical things. 
You think you’re trying to prepare for the next day by having these thoughts, and then you realize that you’re lying there organizing blue paint swatches. 
You get up and you’re like, “You didn’t do shit, but toil in your bed with weird incommunicable ideas.” 
Yeah. I’d love to get a camera on my body too. I think I burn a lot of calories when I’m sleeping, because I think I just never stop moving. 
It’s so annoying. 
It used to be much worse. As I’m getting older, it’s getting better. And when I’m not working, I sleep pretty well. 
I also got curtains. Dylan moved in, and she was like, “What’s wrong with you? Why don’t you have curtains?” And I was like, “I don’t know. 
I don’t sleep.” And she’s like, “No fucking shit.” 
Yeah. Okay. Did the same person who did Shiva do Bottoms? 
And you guys are best friends. God, that’s so aspirational. It takes a long time to get to that point. 
You’re so lucky to be doing it young. 
Yeah. Design the shit out of your process. That’s the only way to enjoy it. 
Me and Dylan are working on a movie that she wrote and I’m starring in. It’s a stoner girl comedy, and it’s really fucking stupid. 
I think you’ll like it. But the reason I even thought of this is because our producer is our best friend. 
We’re starting a company. I’ve worked with so many people that I didn’t know and that I didn’t like for so long. 
It was definitely valuable, but also, fuck that. We should do a movie together. What the fuck? 
Yeah. I think you’re rad. I’m so happy to talk to you. 
Where do you live? 
Me too. Wait, what are your cross streets? Never mind. 
I told you I ate a fucking edible. 
That’s a good idea. 
Bye dude. Nice to talk to you. 
