Actually, well, I sent them hot chocolate yesterday and macaroons, and then today I had press all day and I felt bad because I usually would leave the hotel and I would go to say “hi” but I knew that I wouldn’t have time and they’d be waiting all day, so I just went down and I brought them some fresh cookies and flowers. 
Yes, there is. The little monsters are a community and it’s kind of nice that everywhere I go they create a little home for me. 
Yes, it could be anybody. 
I think so. Some of us wear the mask prouder than others. 
Yes. The album is about being able to be reborn over and over again throughout your life. 
In fact, sexuality is just one very small part of it and I think it’s so interesting to see the way people latch on to words. 
You say the word gay in a song and suddenly all the other words float away and the focus goes in just on one word. 
I’m happy that everyone focused on that word, though. It’s an important word to liberate. But the album is about rebirth in every sense. 
It’s about being able to be reborn over and over again until you find the identity inside of yourself that defines you best for who you are, that makes you feel the most like a champion of life. 
Oh yeah! Every day of my life, when I was little, my mother was like: “go brush your hair, you silly little girl!” 
Yes, because I would have split ends. I would never want to cut my hair; it was so long. So when I was asleep she’d cut my hair at night. 
The lyric is true. 
I don’t know. I suppose I’ll wait and see and perhaps it is patronising to some people. Some people don’t feel the need to be liberated and that’s OK. 
I just have a message and will fight to the death for it. I suppose, after all of the success and being so blessed with all the wonderful fans I have and being able to tour the world and make music that I love, I made a vow to myself that I would stand for something and not just lolly in the materialism of fame, but rather use my position to change the world if I could. 
Show business. 
How I love David Bowie. 
Having Ziggy hair? 
You think it’s acceptable now? 
Oh, certainly. But I think that it is also what makes him very different is I actually don’t identify myself as two separate people and I don’t view Lady Gaga, me, as the protector of Stefani. 
No. But I do see myself to be in an endless transformative state in the way that those performers you’ve mentioned were. 
I just am committed wholeheartedly to theatre with no intermission. 
Prime rib of America. 
I don’t care what other people think about my box. 
It’s all right. You can tell me about her. 
In relation to my political activism? 
Well, I’ll tell you why. I’ll tell you the reason. There’s a few different reasons. 
One of them relates directly to this mission statement of the album in that I was born this way and perhaps, yes, you all have an opinion about pop singers or public figures, that somehow we are part of this giant disingenuine  bubble, doesn’t give a fuck about the public and we only care about ourselves, and how could it be possible that a woman like me who loves theatre and loves fantasy and loves magic, how could it be possible that I could really mean what I’m saying? 
Now, if I could respond, not to her, but just to the idea of what you’re talking about, I would say that’s quite anti-feminism, isn’t it, to say that a woman based on the way that she wears her hair and her shoes would not be sincere. 
I’m more, however, concerned but excited to liberate the idea that I am more criticised for the authenticity of my political activism as based on a scale of one to 10 how queer I am. 
I think it’s also very interesting. I believe that the boundaries of love and acceptance can be pushed by anyone or anything that has revolutionary potential and I don’t give a God damn what you think about me or my box, I will do what I like with it. 
You’re so sweet! I love him, Adrian. 
But, you know, I don’t do that. 
Oh, all the time. 
I love imperfections. 
And people are imperfect in a perfect way. I always find it’s so interesting to have conversations about my work because in the past 10 minutes you’ve pointed out to me that some people find me to be artificial while others find me to be quite real with the world. 
Isn’t that interesting? 
No. I said that to Adrian the other day. Remember, Adrian? 
I said something like I most of the time think that it’s not what I’m saying that pisses people off, but that I have anything to say at all! 
I hate that. It is absolute nonsense. 
It’s absolute nonsense. What are you looking for? I’m sitting right here, I’ve got my legs spread with my feet up on the couch, what is it more than you want to see? 
It’s an interesting fight, the performance of my life, every day reminding people that the curtain has not closed and that if they don’t want to sit in the audience, that’s fine. 
I just want him to know that if he wants to wear his mask, he can wear it proudly. 
“Murder my Heart”. 
I don’t know. His voice is incredible. He’s a legend. 
I don’t know about . . . 
Thank you. That’s very nice. 
I think so. I don’t remember exactly when. 
Unbelievable. I also sing about artifice and the surreal and magic. That’s exactly what my new album is trying to combat and liberate at the same time, is the idea that I live halfway between reality and fantasy at all times because I choose to, and anyone can choose that, and I believe everybody has something so magical about themselves and why, as a society, are we so afraid of magic? 
Why is magic synonymous with artifice? Why is the fantastic synonymous with a lie? If art is a lie, then I will tell that lie every day until it’s fucking true. 
Pushing the boundaries, so unafraid and fearless and brave. 
Alexander McQueen wanted to burst the bubble of fashion. 
I was on my way to London to see him. 
What I was going to say to you, though, on a happier note, was when you were mentioning Oscar Wilde and talking about the mask and how it is a disservice to identity to say that we are compartmentalised as different masks as opposed to one ultimate and complex being, I would say that if I could describe myself as an artist in terms of theatrical philosophy, I would say that I am Brechtian. 
Because there is an element of fantasy, there is an element of theatre but you can see right through it. 
Yes. You can see right through it. You can see what’s going on. 
But for whatever reason, although you can see all the players behind the curtain, you can see them all changing, you can see them all coming out to do the play. 
It doesn’t ruin the integrity or the fantasy of the theatre and, in fact, it is an overarching statement about the corruption of the government and the need for transparency in government and society. 
So if you were to tell the world anything, tell them she is the Bertolt Brecht of pop music. 
It’s, “in the deepest hour of the night, ask yourself if you would have to die if you were forbidden to write. 
Look deep into your heart where the answer spreads its roots and ask yourself, muss ich schreiben, must I write? 
That’s a very big tattoo. 
Oh, that’s so nice 
It was a Nat King Cole. 
He’ll bite your head off! 
Of course there is. 
It is the details, but it is also . . . 
well, I’m quite disciplined in piano rehearsal, voice rehearsal, dance rehearsal, putting the show together, but then there’s this other element which is what you experienced, which not many people get to experience unless you’ve been to the Monster Ball with me, and that is that I am my best when I’m unafraid to be imperfect, and that is what Annabel’s was completely unrehearsed. 
I decided what I was going to play eight minutes before I went on stage and I just did it completely off the cuff with absolutely no rehearsal . 
Yes, she’s so cute. A perfect little face and a little body in the front row, singing “Born This Way”. 
Practice makes permanent! 
Oh, I like that better. 
You should have been the voice . 
I don’t know. A young designer. 
They don’t need to knock. I’m knocking down their doors. 
I love designers that have been around for a long time, but . . . 
I love Nicola Formichetti in the Haus of Gaga. He became the creative director and actually I won’t say who, but we’re resurrecting some archives that have been locked away in safes for like 20 years for the next video, which I’m very excited about. 
I love Balenciaga. I love old Versace . . 
I mean, I could go on and on but I really love to cultivate other people’s talents the way that they cultivate mine. 
I feel that my fans have cultivated my talent and they continue to nurture me. I mean, after Graham Norton, for example, which was yesterday . 
I’m sorry, two nights ago. So after Graham Norton I went to Annabel’s and I performed and then I went home and I watched the Graham Norton performance yesterday when it aired, and I watched it over and over and over and over and over . 
. . and I looked at all the parts that I liked and all the parts that I didn’t like and I said “OK, well this part maybe if your breath control is different. 
Here maybe you should try this . . . 
I study everything that I do to become better all the time at my craft. The beauty for me about being an artist is that the dream will never die because I’m not obsessed with material things and don’t care about the money and don’t care about the attention of the public but only the love of my fans. 
For me it’s about keeping the dream alive of how much more devoted, how much more honest, how much better of an artist can I become? 
That’s the only fear that I ever have, that the dream will die. 
Interviewing’s a bit more different for me. I don’t view interviewing as much of a performance. I mean, my whole life is in essence a performance but singing and dancing for television is an entirely different thing. 
The metaphor. Is it afterbirth or semen, question mark? 
I think so. Well, we did it in the music video similarly but with different colourings, but I always wanted to do it on TV and I thought Graham Norton was the perfect place to do it and it was beautiful. 
And it also gives me a chance to sing my pants off. If I’m in a fish tank it’s a lot easier than if I’m doing Laurieann Gibson’s fucking modern Alvin Ailey choreography. 
It went from a theatre tour to an arena tour. The only big things I’ve purchased are my dad’s heart valve and a Rolls Royce for my parents, for their anniversary. 
And that was only because my dad had a Lady Gaga licence plate on our old car and it was making me crazy because he was getting followed everywhere, so I bought him a new car. 
Other than that, I put everything in the show and I actually went bankrupt after the first extension of the Monster Ball. 
And it was funny because I didn’t know and I remember I called everybody and I said, “well, why is everybody saying that I have no money? 
This is ridiculous! I had five number one singles, the Monster Ball’s doing great,” and they said, “you’re $3m in debt”. 
So I got really lucky because I had a good show and Live Nation loved it so much and they said “we want to put you in arenas and we want to support you”, and then the fairytale of where we are now became the HBO special and the whole world got to see the Monster Ball. 
The meat dress. You saw the prime rib of America speech so you knew it was about equality but nobody else knew that . 
Everyone just saw pork. It wasn’t pork! It was prime rib and plain steak. 
In fact, you know, it does not annoy me at all. Do you know what does annoy me? When journalists try to make it look like it annoys me. 
Isn’t that right, Adrian? 
Because I genuinely love her so much. I think she is so amazing. She could never be replicated and, yes, I’m Italian, I’m from New York, and not for nothing, it’s not my fault that I kind of look like her, right? 
So, look, if anything it’s more annoying to me that people would insinuate that I don’t like to be compared to her. 
Yes, because she’s wonderful and inspiring and liberating, and she’s certainly inspired my album, as did David Bowie, as did Prince, as did Michael Jackson, as did Grace Jones, and I would never take that away. 
So there’s my mission statement, is if anything, thank you from the bottom of my heart for comparing me to these legendary people. 
I really want to. I’ve actually spoken to my manager about doing it for Christmas time. I thought that would be really sweet to do a Christmas release of Gaga, Gaga and the jazz standards. 
Ooooh! I love that 
Oh, she’s a genius. 
Oh you have no idea. Well, here’s what I will say. I’m quite pleased with the way that it’s all panned out because I knew that the first single would benefit from whatever hype, the excitement of the album coming out, and I said to myself, “well, let’s not waste all that hype with some dingy shallow message. 
Let’s put something really special, really powerful and beautiful, something about equality, something about freedom, something about being proud of who you are,” and what’s been so nice is not only to watch “Born This Way” be like . 
. . it was the fastest selling digital song in history, but to see it linger. 
It sort of like goes up and down the charts like a seesaw and it just won’t go away. It’s so sweet. 
Yes. It was meant to not be an afterthought, but to be a . . 
. here’s a taste of the album, buy the record, and by accident it just went straight to number one all over the world on iTunes and now it’s just doing so well and . 
Absolutely. A major power of rock. 
Well, that is part of also what the album was about. It’s marrying all of these genres and eclectic styles in a way that I am saying quite emphatically, “I am a woman of theatre, I’m a librarian of theatre and I love all different kinds of music and all different kinds of expressions”, and the album is epic in that way that it takes you on this journey through all different kinds of expressionism in music. 
They function as both. I wanted to make sure that the album wasn’t “here’s the balance, here’s the up tempos”. 
I wanted it to feel much more like I experienced music when I was young; when you listen to a Pink Floyd song and even though it’s slow, you’re dancing. 
No. There is Gaga in there but it’s not Gagament Hooker but it is in there. 
It’s also in “Bloody Mary”. Yes, there’s Gregorian monks chanting Gaga. 
That’s exactly what it . . . 
it’s a little bit like that. It’s also a bit like Iron Maiden having a song called “Iron Maiden” or Black Sabbath “Black Sabbath”. 
It’s very metal. 
It’s been wonderful. 
Thank you! I’ve had such a good time. This is my favourite interview today. 
Yes, of course. I was so surprised. I didn't even imagine that I would make the list at all. 
And I was so excited, and I am very blessed to have the wonderful fans that I do who voted for me. 
In the womb, Larry. In my mother's warm womb. 
Yes, at my birth. I guess you could say it's always been my destiny to be a performer. I used to perform even just in restaurants with my family or in the living room. 
Yes, well, I was a waitress for many years. And a bartender. And I was a go-go dancer briefly as well. 
I used to make a lot of money to pay for demos and flyers that I used to post up all around the NYU area on the lower east side to get people to come see my shows. 
No, I do not. I hope when I'm dead I'll be considered an icon, though. 
Who do I look up to? My mother. My grandmother. 
I love Princess Diana. So much. She has -- was an enormous influence on me when I was younger because my mother worshipped her so much. 
Yes. My mother was actually in musical theater when she was younger, and my dad was in a Bruce Springsteen cover band for many years. 
He was a real Jersey Shore boy. 
I'm OK, thank you, Larry. How are you? 
You know, lupus is in my family, and it is genetic. And it's so funny because my mother told me the other day that my fans were quite worried about me because they did talk about the fact that I was tested for lupus. 
Yes, I do. I -- you know, I -- 
It's something I -- well, I dream about it a lot. You know I -- I don't know. I suppose I could lie to you and not tell you the truth, but the truth is I do think about it. 
He is a wonderful -- he is a wonderful person. I wish I could be more like that. But, you know, I think part of my fascination with it as well as why it is in this show is that the show is a celebration of shame. 
The show is a rejection of insecurity. 
Feel like freaks. 
Like they're not wanted. 
You know, it's always very difficult because I don't necessarily like to talk about those very personal things that happened. 
But I guess I can speak about it now. 
And I suppose I believe there was some talk about us -- lots of the openers doing duets with Michael on stage. 
So -- but Michael's death was devastating for me regardless of whether or not I was supposed to go on tour with him. 
Well, some of the things I wear are obviously created for me by designers or they're recreations of archives of things worn in the '70s and in the '80s. 
But lots of the newer more original pieces, they're meant to be kind of a rejection of what people view about women. 
I suppose I'll just -- well, you'll have to wait, Larry. I'm not sure. 
I'm not interested in violence. Yes, I don't like violence. I hate violence. 
I don't like negativity. I don't like prejudice. I don't believe in hatred in music. 
So there are some things, I suppose. 
Well, of course people love to take sound bites from nice interviews that I give. But it saved my life I guess in -- just as in a transitional way in terms of where I was in the journey of my music. 
No, it wasn't. By the time that I had stopped doing it, it was ruining my life. So no, I kind of just threw it away, I guess. 
Yes. What's wrong with buying a few friends a beer? 
It's a wonderful pressure. It's the most amazing pressure. It's not like any other kind of pressure. 
It's not under pressure, it's not water pressure. It's not pressure cooker. 
Well, I wrote the album "The Fame Monster" which is the second album. And when I had finished, I realized that I had written each song about a particular fear that I had come across on my journey promoting the fame. 
I would be dead. 
No. I also would -- so much of what I do is hinged on show business. I believe so much in it -- people ask me, what do you dress like when you're alone? 
Do you ever just wear sweat pants or whatever they say. And I'm thinking that they -- the concept of show business is lost. 
Michael Jackson, when he was being wheeled out of the ambulance when he was burned, he held his glitter glove up high above his head to was to his fans, because he was show business. 
Well, I -- I -- I have -- since my childhood in school, and for a very long time, I used to always feel like such a freak. 
I didn't have very many friends in school. I had a few close friends. And I -- I wasn't a popular girl. 
And got made fun of every day and couldn't really relate to anyone and didn't want do dress like anyone else and liked different things. 
And I related to men more than I related to women. 
Well, yes, of course, but it's actually very interesting that you brought up the soldiers in Afghanistan, because I specifically didn't post that one when I saw it. 
I wanted to put that on my Twitter, but I got nervous about posting it on my Twitter, because I was not sure how it would be received by the other soldiers, or the other, you know, members of the Army or the administration. 
So I didn't post it. And then it's quite interesting that all these -- these Don't Ask Don't Tell is happening now, that it's happening, because in the Alejandro video, there is sort of this homoerotic military theme in the video. 
And it kind of makes perfect sense, doesn't it? 
But I -- I bring that up specifically because it makes me sad that I saw that video. And I thought it was so great. 
And I was so excited that over in Afghanistan they're fighting every day for us, and they're protecting us, and doing so much. 
And they were just having a little down time. And I had to think twice before I posted it, because I didn't want anything bad to happen. 
It will be released in just a few days. And I wanted to make sure that my fans had something nice and foreshadowing to watch tonight on LARRY KING. 
Well I think Madonna is great. She's been a wonderful friend and a very kind and supportive and amazing. 
And she's -- she's such an incredible woman. And, you know, I get compared to so many people. And we're compared to each other, whether we're blond, brunette, black, white, straight, gay. 
But on another level, it's kind of funny, because my mother actually looks sort of like -- like Madonna. 
And the older I've gotten, I look more and more like my mother. So sometimes I just want to say, it's not my fault that I look like her. 
I did. She is great. We had a blast. 
We were laughing. We're both quite militant about rehearsals. So we were driving everybody crazy, rehearsing over and over and over again. 
And SNL wanted us to go get ready for the show and we kept going. But she is so great. And of course the -- no bad comparison to Madonna. 
She's wonderful. And there can never be another. So I have to think of even more ways to annoy and shock everyone, because she's done everything. 
Well, I struggle. I struggle with my feelings about the church in particular. But I guess it's, quite honestly, completely separate, isn't it? 
religion and the church are two completely separate things. 
Do I believe in heaven? 
Or hell? I believe I will go to heaven, but I suppose could go either way, couldn't I? 
Well, I can speak for myself. My admiration for the gay community comes from an incredibly steadfast and joyful courage and very bravery that they have for one another, for their community. 
To -- to be gay and to live openly in this society is something that requires a tremendous amount of strength and steadfastness. 
And I admire that. And I envy it in so many ways, because it is something that I, as a woman, do not always wholeheartedly possess. 
I hope so. You know there's so many things since Don't Ask Don't Tell. Recently, I know they're working on repealing the -- the restrictions on blood donors from the gay community. 
And its just there's so many archaic things floating around in the government right now that are so misinformed and so wrong. 
And I -- it's very confusing. It's very confusing for young people, especially, you know, 14 year olds in high school who are getting sent home because they have tea shirts that say "gay" on it, as if "gay" is a curse word or somehow inappropriate. 
I deal with it just fine. I'm -- I'm looking for love just like everyone else, Larry. But right now, love is in the form of my fans. 
Love comes in many different forms. Right now, I'm passionately only serving them. 
Oh, Larry, you are so shady. 
Well, my next album -- it will not be coming out this Christmas, which I don't know if I was supposed to tell you, but I will tell you so my fans don't crucify me later. 
But I wanted to give it some time, because even though it's finished, I really want to give my fans what they deserve, which is for me to promote and travel the world and give the new music to them in the most perfect and accessible way that I can. 
Has an over-arching message. 
Do I enjoy fame? I enjoy my fans. My fans are something I could never trade or even dream of giving up. 
But there are many things that come with it that I perhaps do not enjoy. You know, at the end of the day, I would much rather not go to the Hollywood party. 
I would much rather go to the pub around the corner and buy everyone a drink. So -- 
So I just still do. And I can buy you a drink when I come see you in New York. 
Yes. We will. We will. 
The King and the lady. That sounds like a movie. 
