So how did we end up here? 
Think about it, Ariadne. How did you get here? Where are you right now? 
You're actually in the middle of the workshop right now. See, the thing is, this is your first lesson in shared dreaming. 
He was very passionate and very focused on creating this emotional, cathartic back story for Cobb. So that led us to really delve deep into his past because this story is set in the present, but there's obviously things from his past that keep coming about within the dreamscape that are sabotaging the mission. 
And we had to really create what that story was, and that led us to that led us to both just really creating this back story of his relationship with Mal and having, without giving away the ending, having almost lived a full life together. 
And there's this deeply rooted attachment that he has to her emotionally because of that. And he's been to places that people in the I guess the waking world haven't experienced yet. 
And all that stuff helped really shape not only the course of the character but the whole movie and, tonally, what happens at the end because, like I said, it does become this two-and-a-half-hour psychotherapy session. 
Very much so. You know, I use that word existential, but I've really never had conversations with other actors about scenes like I had on this film, in particular with Marion Cotillard, who is incredible to work with because not only is she an extremely talented actress, but she was really game for these types of sort of strange, philosophical conversations about ho to play a scene where I'm in essence talking to my own conscience, and she is a manifestation of my own trauma. 
And I'm face to face with that, but I'm also talking to another character in the film who is, in essence, my therapist within the dreamscape, and I'm talking to her about my nightmares. 
But when you look at the movie, it looks like two characters just talking and a third one listening, but it's this whole different set of rules and laws that apply within this insane world that Chris Nolan created. 
You know, strangely enough, I'm not a big dreamer at all. I remember... 
I have very vivid dreams, and, you know, while I'm in them, oftentimes I know that I'm dreaming, and I tell myself to remember some of these sequences when I wake up, and then I usually forget all of them. 
But I actually had one recently that was really interesting, and it's I guess because I've been talking about this damn movie so much, but doing all this publicity that I entered the dreamscape and really applied all the rules of "Inception" and all the ideas that Chris has in this movie to my dream. 
And I knew I was dreaming, but I also didn't know that I had done this film, or I was in a movie about the dreamscape. 
And I got to manipulate it from being a horrific nightmare into something quite positive. So that was a really interesting experience. 
I accepted the training. I absolutely accepted it. 
Well, certainly with these last two films, I've just been fascinated with the idea of a completely unreliable protagonist not only to the audience but to everyone around him. 
And the idea that somebody could be going on their own inner journey while they're simultaneously trying to figure out some sort of mystery or simultaneously trying to explore a world that they're unfamiliar with just fascinated the hell out of me. 
I've never really questioned why I'm drawn to a certain piece of material or if I've done a specific type of genre before. 
I always look at them as unique experiences because I believe as history unfolds, certain films will disappear, and certain ones will stand the test of time. 
And you never know which ones those are. And you've just got to go for the opportunities of films that you think might be memorable or might have an emotional impact on people. 
I do. You know, it's been interesting having worked in this industry for over 20 years now, being 35 and having started when I was, you know, 13, 14 years old. 
And I've gotten to go to far-off places in the world, have very unique, isolated, intense experiences for four or five months at a time, and then, kind of like a dream, those things disappear. 
You may see those people again, but it's never, ever going to be as intense as it was for that time period. 
And you are, in essence, kind of living other people's lives. And when you do that, and when you research these characters, and you want to become emotionally invested in them, you have to, in a way, try to channel their feelings and their emotional constraints. 
So it has been very much like my therapy because I get to go to places that I don't think I normally would in a lot of occurrences because my life has been pretty damned blessed thus far. 
I've been a pretty lucky man. 
Probably about seven years ago, when I picked up the novel. And I was kind of enveloped by his honesty of his debauchery. 
Yes, everything. I mean, there's nothing he didn't divulge about this incredibly hedonistic time period during his life. 
And if you're going to do a sort of portrait of this culture and put it up on screen, you want to start on a basis of somebody being very honest. 
And that's what I appreciated about the novel, and certainly after 2008 I became really obsessed with putting this up on screen. 
'Cause the world that we live in seems to be very surreal sometimes, you know. And certainly after the economic crash, the blatant corruption and this incessant need for more is a part of our culture. 
I see it all around me. 
Yeah. Absolutely. Well, he infused that attitude in all of us. 
More so than that, it was, you know, we had no moral compass. None of the characters really had, except for my first wife in the film, none of us have any sort of moral high ground. 
It's just about consuming as much as possible and feeding every primal urge and giving into the sort of reptilian part of our brain. 
I've never really done a film quite like this. I've worked with Marty ; this is my fifth movie with him now. 
But I kind of realized doing this film that plot is almost irrelevant to him. Truly. I mean, it-- 
He's all about character. And as you've seen in so many of his films in the past -- these masterpieces, "Taxi Driver" or "Raging Bull" -- the characterization of these people and approaching them in a way that is nonjudgmental, even if you're exploring the darker nature of who they are, is what he does. 
I think so. I think so many of his films are timeless. I know certainly for my generation, any time one of his films comes on -- a lot of films seem dated, but his central focus on the character, and the exploration of that character, and allowing the actor to have a certain amount of freedom in their portrayal of that, becomes timeless. 
His movies come and you just are sort of transfixed. 
To tell you the truth, no. I'm able to shut off pretty quickly. We didn't leave the set and continue to act like this. 
But there was a certain, you know, recklessness on set. We were all -- I mean, I could recount many different scenarios on set where it just became completely out of control, and he had to reel it in. 
Many months. Many months. 
I wanted to capture his attitude. You know, certainly he helped me with a lot of the Quaalude sequences  because I had no idea what the stuff was like. 
And he reenacted a lot of that for me. 
Yeah. He crawled around on the floor and -- 
Yeah, and showed me what it was like. It's sort of an investigative process. You have him recount a lot of these stories. 
And then he penetrates a little bit deeper and deeper. 
You know, he's a likable guy. He's actually a likable guy. I don't agree with anything that he did. 
Don't get me wrong. I think that, you know, I'm the first one to say I think a lot of his actions were deplorable. 
And he'll admit that. 
Well, look -- I mean, I think that there's a line that he started to cross. He came in there with the attitude of wanting to have the American dream. 
And so much of Marty's movies, and this movie is another one like that, is about the pursuit of the American dream, the corruption of that dream, and the sort of hustle that it takes to get there. 
And I think, slowly but surely, Jordan passed these lines of corruption and illegal activity. And then, pretty soon, he was way in over his head. 
Yeah. And so, they found a loophole and they essentially started selling these fraudulent penny stocks to very rich people and made an incredible amount of money. 
And then, I think all those people became dependent on him. And it almost became a little bit of a cult. 
And he continued to uphold that attitude and push further and further and further. And, of course, that compounded with the drug use, made it all the more insane. 
Yeah. Yeah. Well, those speeches really were -- 'cause they're insane speeches. 
I mean,  they're almost like out of "Gladiator" or "Braveheart." They're, like, a war cry to your troops, except they're completely twisted and encouraging  his soldiers to go out there and screw over as many people as possible. 
So they were insane. 
Even though I knew they were clapping for me and they were sort of paid to clap for me, I felt kind of what Jordan must have felt like. 
Like I was Bono or some sort of crazy rock star and they were cheering for me. And then, it became these wild monologues infused with greed. 
Yeah. Yeah. Well, certainly, "Gatsby" is a much more existential, well-thought-out story. 
This is kind of--  -- I mean, that was supposed to be the "Wolf of Wall Street" of its time. But it has many more layers to it, as far as a novel is concerned. 
But yes, I mean, that's what Gatsby did. And that's what's sort of in the undercurrent of it, is the fact that he went into the underworld to make his fortune to belong to the aristocracy of America, and belong. 
It's interesting, you know. I come from a completely different perspective. My whole generation of friends, ever since I became an actor, we admired the films from the '70s, the era when the director was God. 
They had artistic control. And of course, there's a few that rise to the top, and at the top of that list was Marty's work with Bob. 
That relationship with De Niro and Scorsese is legend. It's the greatest sort of cinematic relationship ever. 
Yeah. I remember my father taking me, I believe it was maybe to "Midnight Run," and saying, "You want to know what a great actor is? 
You want to watch a great actor, Leonardo?" I go, "Yeah. Yeah. Sure." "He's that guy right there." 
Yeah. It's just amazing. I mean, he is an encyclopedia. 
The man lives and breathes cinema. There's nothing that you can talk to him about that doesn't reflect-- 
-- and come back to movies. Even if he's talking about a moment where he, you know, had a walk in the park with his daughter, he'll talk about a Fellini film or a Polish film that  had a similar shot, and start talking about that movie. 
You know what I mean? 
Well, it's interesting. 'Cause after obsessively watching movies when I was 15 years old, and I spent about a year doing it, and then getting opportunities after "This Boy's Life" and "Gilbert Grape," I started to notice that a lot of the things I was being offered were just, frankly, not that great. 
They just didn't interest me. And I guess they weren't different enough. My father was a huge sort of catalyst in pushing me towards more interesting films at an early age -- things like "Total Eclipse," which not many people have seen, which is about the great poet Arthur Rimbaud. 
Very much so, yeah. 
Very, very rare. And that was my pitch to Marty on this one. Because we were supposed to do it, really, seven years ago. 
And I think he had a little bit of resistance about the distastefulness of the subject matter with the studio. 
I'd never seen a set that serious before. I'd come from television shows and commercials. But once De Niro sort of walked onto set, everyone was silent. 
And I was like, "What the hell's going on?" It was like  a ghost came into the room. But, you know, I realized the concentration that he put into this. 
And I think I was very just an instinctual actor at that time. And Michael Caton-Jones, who was the director, kind of laid some foundation for me, basically, "Shut up, kid, you know, when we're tryin' to be serious. 
And, you know, "Don't complain. Pain is temporary. Film is forever. 
You know, concentrate on the work. Prepare." 
I mean, I knew I had a hunger for it. And I had a thought process that I'd do anything to try to make this character realistic. 
I suppose I had a fearlessness as a young kid. I wasn't afraid to do anything, really. 
Well, a lot of ways. I came from doing independent movies that were different from what I was being offered. 
And then, this opportunity of "Titanic" came along, which I hesitated to do. I'd never really done a film like that. 
I-- I just didn't understand. I really didn't. 
It was surreal. It's still surreal. It's always surreal. 
That's why I think I've tried, at least, to -- not tried, but it's just subconscious. You just keep the people around you that you've known and you've grown up with who know you implicitly and that are always going to be honest with you as close as you possibly can. 
I've made a lot of new friends along the way. But, you know, it was helpful to have that sort of base point of people that I trusted around me. 
Yes. Yes. Absolutely. 
Exactly. Exactly. 
Lasse Hallstrom  gave a lot of the kids that were auditioning for that role a videotape. And a lot of what I did came from being able to do great impressions. 
I don't mean, like, comedic impressions. But I could imitate people very well. 
And, so, he gave me that videotape. And I watched that for about a week, every single day. And I came in and kind of did exactly what was on that videotape, of a kid that had a mental disability. 
And I said the lines like that. 
Yeah. I wrote all these things down. And I said, "I'm thinking of doing this one, this one, this one. 
And I can kind of show you." And he looked at me and he said, "Yeah. Go ahead. Do that." 
Yeah. It was a lot less pressure. He had to carry the story. 
He had to structure the story. And I was sort of allowed to do whatever the hell I wanted at any given moment, because that was the nature of the character. 
He was impulsive. I mean, I oftentimes, probably, I should have allowed the scene to  carry on the way it should've. 
But I just had a big plate of spaghetti and, you know, I did what my character was going to do with a big plate of spaghetti,  you know? 
And sometimes it would affect the scene. 
I did. I did. I mean, it was a shock to me. 
I remember really being terrified of the possibility of ever winning something like that when I heard the fact that there were billions of people, or a billion people that watch this -- that just terrified the hell out of me. 
Yeah. Really terrified me. So, I remember thinking, "God, I don't want to go up on stage and look like an idiot and stumble my words." But I remember being, you know, very honored and sort of very in shock and awe at the whole situation happening. 
It was one of the first screenings where I realized, "Oh, wait. People are responding to this movie." I didn't quite understand. 
I didn't quite understand. 
Sure. I mean, I'd never really thought about awards or ceremonies or anything like that. That just came out of left field. 
It'd be incredibly difficult to get it funded. You know, I've seen different ebbs and flows in the industry, even in my career. 
And I think about seven years ago, eight years ago, certain films were more easily financible than they are today. 
I mean, to me, the genre is irrelevant. I'll try anything. It's always just been about whether I feel like I can be of service to the character and whether it can be believable and whether I have a passion for it. 
And those things just haven't really aligned. But I don't put those films down. 
He did, actually. Yes. 
Well, I was actually with Ken Sunshine. I think it was a sort of post-"Titanic" period, saying, "Look, I want to try to do some good for the world. 
I've been blessed with a lot of fortune and I want to get involved in a philanthropic way and bring some attention to some issues." And I started getting involved in environmental issues. 
And it was really Al Gore that really -- we went to the White House and he brought out a chalkboard. 
-- drew planet Earth. And then, he drew our  atmosphere. And he started talking to me about climate change. 
And I was blown away. I'd never even heard anything about this. And, so, I read up on about it and studied on it more and started speaking about it, started speaking to different NGOs and the efforts that they were undertaking with it. 
Yeah. I mean, it was an inspiration for me to do "11th Hour" as well. But what's been interesting, too, is we talk about the ebbs and flows of the studio system. 
But an issue like climate change, which is going to affect everyone, and now there's a worldwide scientific consensus that manmade activity is contributing to climate changes -- like, as real as gravity now. 
Nobody can really argue with it. 
But it's not really a proper representation of scientific fact. I mean, you'd have one guy arguing with 100 people, you know? 
That is really the comparison. But when it's presented in the media, I think that oftentimes it becomes an argument. 
Yeah. I was really -- it started in my youth, really. Like I said, I wanted to be a marine biologist. 
I became fascinated with different species of animals that became extinct as a result of man. 
Yeah. Constantly. 
Yeah. And, so, I started to get involved with different NGOs. And then, I realized, wow, these places are shrinking. 
I mean, we are decimating these ancient forests around the world. Coral-reef systems are being bleached. 
There's shark finning, over-fishing, ocean acidification. I mean, the list goes on and on and on. And when it really clicked in is when I realized that only 2 percent of all philanthropy goes towards these issues. 
I love it. I absolutely love it. I mean, really, my plan now -- it's been a year since I finished this film. 
But I'm going to do another environmental documentary. And I want to focus on targeting a lot of these places. 
We did this great auction last year with Christie's where we raised a lot of money. And I'm going to go and target where a lot of those funds are allocated. 
But hey, I'd love to get some more support by any willing billionaires out there  that want to help me support this cause. 
Because it's been a grand hustle to try to get financial support for a lot of this stuff. 
Oh, I'm very happy right now. Yeah. Especially being a little bit older, too, you take it a little more easy. 
Things don't affect you the same way. 
Sure. Sure. Of course. 
I did. I had a lot of fun. 
Yeah. I think that comes with the territory, too, though. And the sort of microscope that was put on me, certainly after "Titanic" came out. 
Every activity that I did was sort of in the newspaper, which was silly. And I tried to avoid . But it was -- it was what it was. 
It's weird to say this because I keep saying this about a lot of different things. But I've known them for 20, 25 years now. 
They're still my closest friends. Yeah. 
It really isn't. It really isn't. I think, actually, in the beginning it was because we met at auditions. 
And we were both kids trying to sort of outdo each other. But then, you know,  became best friends as a result of that. 
He was up for "This Boy's Life" as well. And I remember saying to one another, "Whoever gets this role, we gotta push for the other person to get a role in the movie as well." So, he got a small part in that film. 
And then soon after that he did a short film. And from that, he sort of slowly built up to doing, you know, feature films, and then had a great career of his own. 
It's been really cool. 
I think everybody -- not everybody, but I think that, you know, eventually, when the time is right, absolutely. 
The great thing about my parents is that they don't really pressure me. They've always been like, "Look, you're gonna make your own decisions in life. 
We want you to lead an interesting life, however that is. And whatever decisions that you make, we're gonna be there to support you." So, no. 
There's not a lot of pressure. 
Does it seem boring? 
No. I've seen interesting marriages, and I've seen not interesting marriages. I've seen them both. 
But sure, I see that in my future. For sure. 
They're both difficult, I think. I mean, the auction that we did was sort of curated for six months. 
We got all kinds of different contemporary artists to donate their work, and then we created an atmosphere where people bid against each other. 
But they all knew it was going towards a great cause. 
I think the total was $38 million. 
Which was a huge success. And I want to continue to do that. I'd love to do more of that, but it's a very difficult thing to pull off. 
But we also wanted to make sure that all that money was really allocated not just to the NGO, not just straight to the different organizations, but to actually physically buy land. 
I certainly do. I really do. I think that it's a huge passion of mine. 
It really is. You know, when I think about my youth, I was most nostalgic about that, and it really came from being able to go to the Natural History Museum and watch an IMAX film about the rainforest. 
Yeah, I scuba dive a lot. 
Yeah, I've had a couple incidents diving. 
Yeah. There was a great white incident. And then, there was -- 
Well, I was cage diving. 
I've had a few, actually. Not with great whites, but a few diving incidents. One was with a great white where great white kind of jumped in my cage and started snapping a few feet away from me. 
That wasn't pleasant. And then, there was another incident where I ran out of air. There were two incidents where I ran out of air. 
'Cause I just got so overexcited and totally forgot about the buddy system and  just started following some fish. 
And then, it-- yeah. I wasn't very good with that. I'm a lot more careful now. 
Well, it's a top predator. There's 3,000 tigers left on this planet. It's one of the most beautiful species that have ever existed, number one. 
Number two, basically, it protects every species below it. 
Yeah. It's pretty astounding to think how much we've already decimated these areas. And as a result of the auction, we did three new parks in Nepal. 
We already established one and we create these sort of corridors in-between them. 
Sure it does, yeah. But one of my real goals in this lifetime is to hopefully make a big difference. 
I just really wish a lot of other people that had incredible wealth and incredible power out there focused on some of these issues, too. 
Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. 
They don't exactly see it as a human issue, which I think is a lot of the problem, even though a lot of indigenous tribes live in these environments. 
And, of course, it affects us long-term. I mean, what is the world without these wild animals still roaming on our planet? 
We share it with them. It's a sad, bizarre world to think that they're confined to just zoos as specimens that we look at. 
It's disheartening. 
I am completely open to doing a romantic comedy, but I will never do something just for the sake of doing a specific genre or because it’s the time or place to do a different type of movie.
I think that would be a huge mistake. Ultimately I read a script and I say, “Woah, I am emotionally engaged in this.” I never think about the subject matter, what it will be to popular culture, what it means historically – ultimately all that stuff passes and this movie will come out and it’s either good or it’s not.
So that’s the only way I know how to pick films, otherwise I am not connected to it.
That really depends on the role. It’s always this grand search in the industry to find good material.
Whenever there is good material they all jump on it and it’s like a food fight to get it made. That’s why so many things take years and years to develop because it all shows up on screen.
If there are holes in the story structure, if it’s not a compelling, moving narrative, that shows on screen and the movie fails.
It’s been director driven. I have to say that whatever decisions I make, I really do think that movie making is a director’s medium.
They are the people that ultimately shape the film and a director can take great material and turn it into garbage if they are not capable of making a good movie.
So that is why I have chosen to work with directors that I feel can transport themselves in the audience’s mind.
There are a lot of directors I’d still love to work with. Paul Thomas Anderson is someone I’d love to work with.
I think Alejandro González Iñárritu is very talented. Ang Lee is very talented. I mean, there are a lot of people.
There are many great directors out there.
A lot of it, that is for sure.  I can’t say that it isn’t the most dominant thing going on right now.
Look, the truth is that I always wanted to be an actor; it was always my dream and now is the time where I am really able to choose my own parts.
Yes, but I know a lot of actors who I grew up with in the industry – growing up in Los Angeles – that don’t get to do that.
I just keep imagining myself thirty years from now thinking, “Why didn’t you take advantage of all the opportunities you had?
Look at all the people you could have worked with, the roles you could have done. Go for it.” And that’s what I am thinking.
No, I don’t. Either they fit in in a natural way or they don’t. I never want to force anything but I do know that ultimately this is what I love doing and those other things will find a way to happen.
I really don’t remember. But I do remember loving to imitate my mother’s friends. I’d do little performances imitating them, making fun of them, making her laugh, making my grandparents laugh.
But I kind of am an energetic person. It seems calmer now, but you should have seen me when I was younger.
Whew! I would have been very difficult to be around, especially before I became a teenager. I don’t know how my mother dealt with me.
I was just running, constantly doing things. I am a lot calmer now, but I still have a lot of energy.
I could one day. But I happen to love acting, I happen to love doing movies. We are all shaped from these memories we have as young people and those were my earliest memories: wanting to be an actor, pushing my parents to take me out on auditions.
I didn’t even know you could get paid for it but I wanted to do it. When I found out you could get paid for it then I said, “Okay, this is what I really want to do.” I am getting to fulfill that so I am not going to do anything, for now anyway, to change that.
I sometimes have to look back and say, “Wow, this is amazing what has happened to me. I have been able to fulfill a lot of these dreams that I had when I was very young.” I would have never guessed that I would have gotten to have one tiny role in a Martin Scorsese film and to have done four now, it’s pretty amazing.
I have to say it’s a pretty amazing feeling. But at the same time it becomes addictive! So yes, my dreams have been surpassed.
