Yeah, I guess. I’m always on a crazy tear recording. 
It’s just life period. Life changes everyday. For me, I don’t write music. 
I don’t write it down. I just go from whatever comes up in my head and whatever rhymes with the next word. 
Therefore, I speak about whatever the subject may be. I speak on what I’m feeling and my music and my music and my creativity relies heavily on feeling and what I’m feeling and how I’m feeling and growth and maturity. 
Every day is a new day, so as far as creative place, that would be for an observer to say. So I guess, the things  has been hearing from when I got to LA, would suggest that I’m in a different space. 
But if you ask me what it was, I’d say yes, it was LA, it was the place. But I’d say that I don’t know too much about LA is that all I had to do when I was there is go home and then go back to the studio and then go home and then go back to the studio. 
So I guess the creative space I’m in is a quote-on-quote ‘zone.’ 
Yes, that’s what it feels like. I’d imagine that the creativity from here comes from a more relaxed standpoint or something like that. 
Whereas in LA, I have to be productive every single day. For me, I don’t think I stop to smell the roses or pay attention to where I’m at – the environment – but it’s the truth. 
Where you’re at does make a difference. I did one of the Carters overseas and that made a big difference. 
I did a lot of recording in Amsterdam. I guess like ‘Tez says, this is my very first time being in LA so much, I guess that difference comes out in the music. 
But like I said, if you ask me, the artist, I don’t stop to smell the roses, I’m just being me wherever I’m at. 
As far as creative, where I’m at right now, I never want to say this word, but, it’s easy. And it’s so easy that it’s complicated. 
Exactly. If not, what’s the reason to even do it. So like you said, I’m trying to always be new and try to outshine what I’ve done and be better than the last thing, but that’s just growth. 
As far as where I’m at, I’m just catching vibes, if the song doesn’t already have a subject already or if the song doesn’t bring something out of me, then just put the song on and watch me go and watch me make the most of whatever I do with it. 
This time around, the biggest difference is perfection. Me going back and back and wanting to re-touch this or that. 
I do little things from change the word ‘because’ to the word ‘but’ or change ‘is’ to ‘are.’ Things like that. 
I never gave a fuck about that type of shit. I always said before, if they don’t understand what I just said before, than they just don’t understand me. 
So with that, I always was like you’re from the south, this is your drawl, and if they don’t understand or get it, then you’re just misunderstood. 
I’ve settled with that, but for now, this time around, I want to be more understood. I want them to understand a lot more. 
Therefore, I don’t want to say I’m simplifying things because I never simplify shit, but even if it is difficult to understand me, I’m making it a lot easier to comprehend. 
As far as about myself, I don’t think that matters to the fans and listeners. I don’t think who I am, it don’t matter. 
I come from the era where music was music and that’s all you care about. You care about what you’re hearing, the art, the craft, you don’t dig any deeper into a person’s day to day. 
So as far the person or individual that I am, what they don’t understand about me doesn’t even matter. 
What they don’t understand about my music or my craft – whatever they think that they don’t understand, that’s on me because I made it too damn difficult for them to understand. 
Oh yeah. I know for a fact if you put ears to my shit, you’re going to hear my effort, my creativity. 
When I’m visualizing my music, I never try to make my music for the people or the crew that I’m always with to understand me. 
This isn’t for them, because they don’t understand anything that I say or anything that I do. So I always envision being on-stage with a million people in front of me who don’t know the fuck who I am or my history or music. 
Therefore, all they know is what I’m about to say and therefore, I better say something great. This time around, I’m trying to combine all my sides into one. 
It’s not about making, don’t forget, ‘let’s make this for the mixtape lovers,’ this one is for the rock lovers, this one is for the, nah, this one is for the Wayne lovers. 
Carter V is for the people that love me. Period. I love the mixtapes. 
I love every time you kill a feature. That’s who this album is for. There’s a little bit of everything om this motherfucker. 
It’s not, here’s a rock song, it’s not, boom, here’s Wayne doing his singing thing. It’s like, no, if he’s singing on this shit then he’s got a verse on this bitch too. 
And if he is singing then he’s talking some shit, and then, oh shit, that’s him on the guitar too. I mean, shit like that. 
I want the fan to be like, ‘that’s not surprising to me.” Because they’re a wayne fan and that’s what they expect their 2014-15 wayne to be like – again – the best. 
Nobody’s fucking with me. That’s what my music and my album will evolve as. I don’t want it to be like, rap is back. 
I want it to be like, this is not surprising me. You’re the best, okay we get it. We know. 
We know you’re the best. No one else could do half of what you’re doing. 
For them. For them. 
It does. It is very hard to stand behind and in front of this shit that I’m talking about. To keep going period. 
It is difficult. 
I don’t have a time limit because C5 wasn’t originally supposed to come out right now. 
No time exactly. What happened was that I didn’t know there was this type of demand for it. I didn’t start working on it until we all just sat down and said, they really want the Carter 5. 
I always do. I listen to 4, 3. All of them. 
I focus on the last ones – 4 and 3. And I always go back and listen to Carter 1 to see what the foundation was. 
I like to keep a consistency of some type of shit how the album is going. Therefore, if I ever wanted to sit down and listen to 1,2,3,4,5. 
It feels like I’m watching a movie from 1,2,3,4,5 and fortunately, it gets better not worse. 
Oh yeah yeah, we working with Fresh again. He got two joints on there. 
Mannie’s music, by me being who I am and having that history with him, it’s always going to bring out whatever it brings out of me creatively. 
By being for this project, it made it triple that of what it is. I went that much harder. Instead of getting just a Mannie beat and just… 
I’ve been skating since I got off tour. While I was recording the album, I was skating every day. I still do the same damn shit – still skating. 
SASRAF…S-A-S-R-A-F. Smoke and skate and rap and fuck. 
Watching some damn TV shit. This shit, I had flipped it to Fuse and early in the morning, they used to have a show called Camp Woodward and it’s about Woodward. 
If you know anything about skating, you know who Woodward is. They had a little kid on their named Alex Middler. 
His spirit is so fucking awesome and it’s so awesome that he made a nigga from the motherfucking streets pick up a skateboard and fall in love with it. 
He just love it. It’s like watching Tony Hawk but as a 9 year old. It was too contagious. 
He’s one of my close little homies now. Real cool. Shout out to Alex. 
His mom and dad too. I’ve been to his house and skated there. He was at the show in LA. 
That’s the reason why. Watching this little bigga, I was like damn, he’s having fun. He’s so happy. 
I don’t know man. I don’t people shun it, not skating, but me skating. To them it may sound stupid when I say it, but to me, it’s a calling. 
I watch TV all day and I don’t pick up a basketball or a football. I used to ride a bike, a BMX. I used to fuck with that heavy. 
But I didn’t go and pick up another bike even though I had magazine covers riding the BMX back in the day. 
I progress every day. It ain’t no different. Tonight I’m going, for there’s a 5 stair at this school we go to. 
Obviously. We have to stick it before 6 when the kids get back and the principal get in. But there’s a 5-stair over there and tonight I’m going to work on that pop shove it and the fakie on the five stair, and hopefully land that, if not, kill myself trying. 
That healed. I was four sliding and I went at it very lacksadasical and tired and I slipped out and hit my eye on the ramp. 
We going all the way. We definitely going to win our division. I don’t know how we’re going to do after that. 
I tried not to think about it. I did a whole bunch of shit that took me away from it, but I got through it. 
I’m sure it does, but in what way I’m not sure. It helps me. I know I need it. 
It’s not about being creative. I know I need it extra when I’m creating, but I need the weed period. 
It helps in a major way. 
I wasn’t there long enough, I didn’t do nothing like that, but the people in there, you know what I mean, everything changes you when you go through something like that. 
I don’t think I went in there and came out a different person. I know I went in there 138 and came out 152. 
That was the only change I knew in there. 
No, it was all fat. I didn’t work out one day in that bitch. 
Yeah, that was my studio time. That’s how I went to the studio, in my tablet. Because I don’t write, so that was how I recorded, writing my shit down. 
I don’t think that did too much. I don’t think I was at one of those points where I valued life or saw it differently. 
I just was like, ‘oh shit, what the fuck just happened. Okay, I’m okay.’ At the same time, I wasn’t aware of anything. 
It just happened and I woke up in the hospital. That’s what happened to me. The experience of it, I don’t remember anything. 
I just fell asleep and woke up in the hospital the next day. As far as valuing life more or less, I never go to that point. 
It never felt that drastic to me, but it felt like that in the news. It might have been the reality, but to me, I was just the guy in the hospital chilling. 
But I definitely respect every single person that came to see me and wrote me. For some people it really took a lot for them to get to me and a lot out of their busy ass schedules and agenda to check in on me and see if I’m alright in that motherfucker. 
To me, that made a difference — just knowing that motherfuckers gave a fuck about a nigga. You think that your regular fans and your regular family is the only motherfuckers that care about you until something like that happens – and then you’re like, oh shit, some of these motherfuckers that you just dap off and say what’s up to you, actually really give a fuck about you. 
If anything, that was bout it. Like I said, I don’t mean to sound bad, but it wasn’t no life changing thing. 
I shot myself when I was 12, so I’ve seen way worse. 
I had no goals then. If there were any goals, I had already succeeded by meeting Baby and him giving me a card and actually talking to me. 
At 12, I honestly was just getting in where I fit in and I was always ready for the call. That’s the best way to explain it; Wayne’s always ready and when it’s my turn, I make way more than the most of it. 
So therefore, when you’re ready when they call you and you make the most of your time when they call you, then they’re never going to stop calling you. 
No, I don’t. The George Bush song was simply strictly coming from a New Orleans native point of view. 
Just flat-out having Hurricane Katrina victim type shit. I don’t want to front, I’ve never been political. 
I’m just a regular street nigga that’s a little bit smarter than the rest. So when I talk about it, it may sound like I know what the hell I’m talking about. 
But I’m still a regular street nigga talking about the same shit that regular street niggas talk about it. 
Who got killed yesterday. Who got fucked today. That’s about it. 
Yeah, we was talking about the other day — me and the homies — we was talking about artists and I was saying how, exactly what you just said, well, when you write music, it’s so easy when you write music, it’s easy for you to write to a subject. 
What I mean by that, a person who writes a book – they can be 40 years old and write a kids book. Because if the book is about the tree that talks, then you can stick to the same subject. 
But see, I don’t write music, so I don’t have subjects. My music, I just start rapping – we find something within what I just said and we make a song and a subject out of it. 
So to answer your question – basically, me as I grow and things change, it’s kinda hard for me to continue to be a ‘street nigga’ when I’m so far away from it. 
But I got street niggas around me and I can’t be nobody but who I am. Therefore, it’s obvious to me, that no matter how far you go, you still going to be who the hell you are. 
So I’m still going to br able to make a good ass kids book. 
You know for some reason, my whole career, I’m an intimidating figure and have an intimidating presence. 
My whole career – whatever or whoever I’ve come across – I’ve come across that way. So fortunately, I never had that, man. 
I never had that. All the sways and swings and ways I turn, that’s all me. I never had nobody say, “Lollipop” is the way you need to go. 
All the songs need to be like that. I never had anyone be like “Shooter” is the way your songs should be. 
Rebirth is the way Lil Wayne should go. I never had nobody try to make me like this or that, or sway me this way. 
Everyone always let me do what I do and be who I be. I blame it on intimidation, they may blame it on creativity. 
They may say you’re so creative, we just let you do what the fuck you want to do. Because everything you create, I don’t want to say it’s great, but it’s definitely not bad. 
But it’s definitely hard to keep that inner child, but it’s not hard for me. From day one, I’ve always been doing what I want to do. 
The only time I was ever swayed to do something was when we were all the Hot Boys and I had to do what Baby said, we all had to wear white t-shirts and rap to a subject. 
That was when, I still didn’t write then, but that was when we had subjects – and Baby told us, this is a song about ‘Tuesdays and Thursday.’ 
Imagine me though, the only thing I know about Tuesdays and Thursdays is that they’re school days. My home work had to be turned in. 
So they had to explain that sit to me, 12 years old, Tuesdays and Thutsdays, what the fuck is a Tuesday and Thursday and they’re like, ‘oh, that’s when the police come in.’ I’m like man, if the police coming through my hood for Tuesday and Thursdays, it’s for truancy. 
So I used to have the make the most of that shit man. Man, let me just say what the fuck come to my mind because I don’t know what the fuck they talking about. 
But that was another cool thing about Baby and them, because they never made a nigga lie. At any given time, they could’ve been like, you gonna say this. 
They always told a nigga, Tuesdays and Thursday is when the police come, blasé blasé blah, they jump out, and I was like, yeah, I’ve seen them do it. 
But I never noticed the day that it happened though. But they let me be be and therefore, you had Juvenile’s view as an adult on “Tuesdays and Thursdays.” Someone really dealing with watching out for the police and you get a BG opinion who really out there selling it, so he knows exactly what they talking about, and then you got Turk, he live in the projects. 
His idea of a Tuesday and Thursday is crazy too because he’s seeing shit — and then you get a 12 year-olds point of view. 
So when we had big ass songs like “Fuck the World” and I had the biggest verse in there. Like ‘second verse, I don’t curse..’ Nut in this verse, that was cool because they never said, we want you to talk about this. 
It was like because this is a song called ‘Fuck the World.’ Juvie gonna talk about how bad the project system is and how people need rent money and all that. 
BG gonna talk about how bad the streets is and how niggas is getting killed. Turk is gonna talk about how these hoes is and what’s going on in his family. 
Me? All I can talk about it is what were talking about in class. I went to a damn good school so I talks about the politics. 
Yes, within the top 5. 
That was a gift. That was a damn good gift too. I just always felt like we’re being lied too. 
Science tells us the truth, so I was always into science. When reading was a subject, I liked it. Then it changed to English, I didn’t like it. 
You gotta be unforgettable. The only way to be unforgettable is to be consistent. And the only way to be consistent is to be good. 
If you have none of these things, then you have a shot, but it’s about it, and who remembers that shot and how loud was it. 
And as time goes on and away, the loudness of that shot fades, until one day you forget who shot the thing unless you’re consistent, good and unforgettable and they’re going to feel that every time that you shoot. 
When I first started doing it, you only did it if you wanted to be the best. There was no such thing as doing it to have a hot song. 
To do it to have a hot song was for the comedians – that was for those to have a funny song. 
Yeah, that’s how it was back then. Now, unfortunately, you don’t have to want to be the best these damn days – they doing it for popularity, for shows, for walk-throughs, for Instagram, for Twitter. 
They doing it to be known and not fort the future and not to be incredible or consistency or any of that. 
They doing it for someone to know. 
Yup. But you know. I’m right there still in it and dealing with it with them. 
2004. That was the day I stopped writing. Whatever day that was that I got confidence enough to know that I don’t need to write this shit no more. 
And that’s the day everything changed. I feel like even being the best rapper is limiting in a sense sometimes. 
It should be about being the best artist. I was sitting out in your living room and you had the paintings of Basquiat and Warhol. 
The images of Hendrix, Bob Marley, and the Nirvana baby, but no rappers. 
I mean, if anything, you already know who. It would be Biggie. Man, Biggie, that’s the best ever to do it. 
If there’s no thought in it, then you didn’t mean it. And if you didn’t mean it, then you can’t be blamed. 
And the only person who can judge you is God. It’s like being in court. If this person didn’t know what he was doing when he did it, then sometimes you walk. 
That’s what I get from it. 
I guess, like everyone else, as you get older, shit gets more real to you. Reality, bills and children and things like that. 
Things that you pray for don’t happen. And things that you pray don’t happen happen. Then you got people from where you coming from, and you gotta keep faith, so I guess that’s what you do. 
But I’ve never been a big ol’ religious guy. Obviously, I had to go to church when I was young with my grandmother and the day that I didn’t have to go to church anymore was the day that I stopped going. 
I’ve never been one of those. I pray every night. I pray every morning. 
I got a personal relationship with God and that’s about it. I keep my faith and pray for my kids and keep it moving. 
The drive. The drive and will and determination. I would say that definitely. 
And through success to maintain that drive and will and determination. 
Nobody gave it to me. Nobody said it was up for the taking. No one ever said that a nigga from New Olreans who was in a group called Hot Boys was going to take the title, but me. 
Nobody can fuck with me. And when I say nobody, I mean nobody. I didn’t mean niggas from New Orleans, I didn’t mean niggas from the South, I meant niggas period. 
Nobody can’t fuck with me. So every song I get on, I’m going to burn your fucking ass. 
A lot of it is work ethic. I get that from my mommy. She was a chef when I was growing up. 
That I’m the last of a dying breed. When I say that, I mean that, by it being all about my music. The only people really similar in that way — that I can think of — are Kanye and Beyonce. 
That’s all I am is music. That’s all I do and all I know. 366 days a year, this is all I do. 
25 hours a day. 8 days a week. That’s what I do. 
I come across people who still think, when they see, when they say I still go the studio. There’s bitches that’s like, ‘you couldn’t be in the studio that long,’ or they say, you just went to the studio, it’s like nah. 
They actually think that you take a day out of the week to not go or you pick a day out of the week to go. 
I want them to know that what they’re hearing is his life. He is what he is. And this is his life and what he breathes and I want them to know that. 
So as a buyer, you feel better about what you’re listening to or buying. And even if it ain’t that good to you, then you know that person tried their hardest and they’re going to keep trying. 
That’s the shit that I want them to get, if anything. That I live it. This isn’t something that I do. 
This is who I am. 
