Today there is talk of war everywhere. Everyone fears a war breaking out between the two countries.
If that happens it will be a calamity both for India and for Pakistan. India has written to the U.N.
because whenever there is a fear of conflict anywhere the U.N. is asked to promote a settlement and to stop fighting from breaking out.
India therefore wrote to the U. N. O.
however trivial the issue may appear to be, it could lead to a war between the two countries. It is a long memorandum and it has been cabled.
Pakistan's leaders Zafrullah Khan and Liaquat Ali Khan have since issued long statements. I would take leave to say that their argument does not appeal to me.
You may ask if I approve of the Union Government approaching the UNO I may say that I both approve and do not approve of what they did.
I approve of it, because after all what else are they to do? They are convinced that what they are doing is right.
If there are raids from outside the frontier of Kashmir, the obvious conclusion is that it must be with the connivance of Pakistan.
Pakistan can deny it. But the denial does not settle the matter. Kashmir has acceded the accession upon certain conditions.
If Pakistan harasses Kashmir and if Sheikh Abdullah who is the leader of Kashmir asks the Indian Union for help, the latter is bound to send help.
Such help therefore was sent to Kashmir. At the same time Pakistan is being requested to get out of Kashmir and to arrive at a settlement with India over the question through bilateral negotiations.
If no settlement can be reached in this way then a war is inevitable. It is to avoid the possibility of war that the Union Government has taken the step it did.
Whether they are right in doing so or not God alone knows. Whatever might have been the attitude of Pakistan, if I had my way I would have invited Pakistan's representatives to India and we could have met, discussed the matter and worked out some settlement.
They keep saying that they want an amicable settlement but they do nothing to create the conditions for such a settlement.
I shall therefore humbly say to the responsible leaders of Pakistan that though we are now two countries - which is a thing I never wanted - we should at least try to arrive at an agreement so that we could live as peaceful neighbors.
Let us grant for the sake of argument that all Indians are bad, but Pakistan at least is a new-born nation which has more ever come into being in the name of religion and it should at least keep itself clean.
But they themselves make no such claim. It is not their argument that Muslims have committed no atrocities in Pakistan.
I shall therefore suggest that it is now their duty, as far as possible, to arrive at an amicable understanding with India and live in harmony with her.
Mistakes were made on both sides. Of this o have no doubt. But this does not mean that we should persist in those mistakes, for then in the end we shall only destroy ourselves in a war and the whole of the sub-continent will pass into the hands of some third power.
That will be the worst imaginable fate for us. I shudder to think of it. Therefore the two Dominions should come together with God as witness and find a settlement.
The matter is now before the UNO. It cannot be withdrawn from there. But if India and Pakistan come to a settlement the big powers in the UNO will have to endorse that settlement.
They will not object to the settlement. They themselves can only say that they will do their best to see that the two countries arrive at an understanding through mutual discussions.
Let us pray to God is to grant that we may either learn to live in amity with each other or if we must light to let us fight to the very end.
That may be folly but sooner or later it will purify us. Now a few words about Delhi. I came to know of the incidents which took place last evening through Brijkishan.
I had gone to the Camp for the evening prayer. I came away after the prayer but he had stayed over to talk to the people in the Camp.
There are some Muslim houses at as little distance from the Camp. About four or five hundred inmates of the Camp mostly women and children but also some men - issued out of the Camp to take possession of the houses.
I am told they did not indulge in any kind of violence. Some of the houses were vacant. Some were occupied by the owners.
They tried to take possession even of the latter. The police were near at hand. They immediately went to the spot and brought the situation under control at about 9 O' clock according to the information I have.
The police have stayed on there. I understand they had to use tear gas. Tear gas does not kill but it can be pretty painful.
I am told that something has happened today again.
All I can say is that is a matter of great shame for us. Have not the refugees learnt even from their immense suffering that they have to exercise some restraint?
It is highly improper to go and occupy other people's houses. It is for the Government to find them shelter or whatever else their need.
Today the Government is our own. But if we defy our own Government and defy the police and forcibly occupy houses the Government is not likely to continue for long.
It is still worse that such things should happen in the capital city of India where there are so many ambassadors from all over the world.
Do we want to show them the spectacle of people occupying what-ever they can? It is all the more regrettable that women and children were used as a shield.
It is inhuman. It is like Muslim rulers keeping a herd of cows in the anguard of their armies to make sure that the Hindus would not fight.
It is uncivilized, barbaric behavior. It is still more barbaric to put women and children in front to provide against the police making a lathi charge.
It is abuse of womanhood. I must humbly ask all the refugees - women and children - not to behave in this way.
Let them settle down. If they don't, then apart from a war between Indian and Pakistan, we may kill ourselves in mutual strife.
We may lose Delhi and make ourselves the laughing-stock of the world. If we want to keep India a free country, we must stop the things that are at present going on.
In reply to the Welcome address read by Mr. G. A.
Natesan on behalf of the Indian South African League, at a meeting at the Victoria Public Hall, Madras, on the 21st April 1915, with Dr.
Sir Subramania Iyer in the Chair, Mr. Gandhi said -
Mr. Chairman and Friends, - On behalf of my wife and myself I am deeply grateful for the great honour this you here in Madras, and may I say, this Presidency, have done to us and the affection that has been lavished upon us in this great and enlightened - not benighted - Presidency.
If there is anything that we have deserved, as has been stated in this beautiful address, I can only say I lay it at the feet of my Master under whose inspiration I have been working all this time under exile in South Africa.
. In so far as the sentiments expressed in this address are merely prophetic. Sir, I accept them as a blessing and as a prayer from you and from this great meeting that both my wife and I myself may possess the power, the inclination, and the life to dedicate whatever we may develop in this sacred land of ours to the service of the Motherland.
. It is no wonder that we have come to Madras. As my Friend, Mr.
Natesan, will perhaps tell you, we have been overdue and we have neglected Madras. But we have done nothing of the kind.
We know that we had a corner in your hearts and we knew that you will not misjudge us if we did not hasten to Madras before going to the other presidencies and to other towns.
But, Sir, if one-tenth of the language that has been used in this address is deserved by us, what language do you propose to use for those who have lost their lives, and therefore finished their work on behalf of your suffering countrymen in South Africa?
What language do you propose to use for Magappan and Narayansawmy, lads of seventeen or eighteen years, who braved in simple faith all the trials, all the sufferings, and all the indignities for the sake of the honour of the Motherland .
What language do you propose to use with reference to Valliamma, that sweet girl of seventeen years who was discharged from Maritzburg prison, skin and bone suffering from fever to which she succumbed after about a month's time .
It was the Madrasis who of all the Indians were singled out by the great Divinity that rules over us for this great work.
Do you know that in the great city of Johannesburg, the Madarasis look on a Madrasis as dishonored if he has not passed through the jails once or twice during this terrible crisis that your countrymen in South Africa went through during these eight long years?
You have said that I inspired these great men and women, but I cannot accept that proposition. It was they, the simple-minded folk, who worked away in faith, never expecting the slightest reward, who inspired me, who kept me to the proper level , and who inspired me by their great sacrifice, by their great faith, by their great trust in the great God, to do the work that I was able to do.
. It is my misfortune that my wife and I have been obliged to work in the lime-light, and you have magnified out of all proportion (cries of 'No?
No?') this little work we have been able to do. Believe me, my dear friends, that if you consider, whether in India or in South Africa, it is possible for us, poor mortals-the same individuals, the same stuff of which you are made if you consider that it is possible for us to do anything whatsoever without your assistance and without your doing the same thing that we would be prepared to do, you are lost, and we are also lost, and our services will be in vain, I do not for one moment believe that the inspiration was given by us.
The inspiration was given by them to us, and we were able to be interpreters between the powers who called themselves the Governors and those men for whom redress was so necessary.
We were simply links between those two parties and nothing more. It was my duty, having received the education that was given to me by my parents to interpret what was going on in our midst to those simple folk, and they rose to the occasion.
They realised the might of religious force, and it was they who inspired us, and let them who have finished their work, and who have died for you and me, let them inspire you and us.
We are still living and who knows whether the devil will not possess us tomorrow and we shall not forsake the post of duty before any new danger that may face us, But these three have gone for ever.
An old man of 75 from the United Provinces, Harbart Singh, has also joined the majority and died in jail in South Africa; and he deserved the crown that you would seek to impose upon us.
These young men deserve all the adjectives that you have so affectionately, but blindly lavished upon us.
It was not only the Hindus who struggled, but there were Mohamedans, Parsis and Christians, and almost every part of India was represented in the struggled.
They realised the common danger, and they realised also what their destiny was an Indians, and it was they, and they alone, who matched the soul-forces against the physical forces.
In all probability this will be my last speech to you. Even if the Government allow me to march tomorrow morning, this will be my last speech on the sacred banks of the Sabarmati.
Possibly these may be the last words of my life here.
I have already told you yesterday what I had to say. Today I shall confine myself to what you should do after my companions and I are arrested.
The programme of the march to Jalalpur must be fulfilled as originally settled. The enlistment of the volunteers for this purpose should be confined to Gujarat only.
From what I have been and heard during the last fortnight, I am inclined to believe that the stream of civil resisters will flow unbroken.
But let there be not a semblance of breach of peace even after all of us have been arrested. We have resolved to utilize all our resources in the pursuit of an exclusively nonviolent struggle.
Let no one commit a wrong in anger. This is my hope and prayer. I wish these words of mine reached every nook and corner of the land.
My task shall be done if I perish and so do my comrades. It will then be for the Working Committee of the Congress to show you the way and it will be up to you to follow its lead.
So long as I have reached Jalalpur, let nothing be done in contravention to the authority vested in me by the Congress.
But once I am arrested, the whole responsibility shifts to the Congress. No one who believes in non-violence, as a creed, need, therefore, sit still.
My compact with the Congress ends as soon as I am arrested. In that case volunteers. Wherever possible, civil disobedience of salt should be started.
These laws can be violated in three ways. It is an offence to manufacture salt wherever there are facilities for doing so.
The possession and sale of contraband salt, which includes natural salt or salt earth, is also an offence.
The purchasers of such salt will be equally guilty. To carry away the natural salt deposits on the seashore is likewise violation of law.
So is the hawking of such salt. In short, you may choose any one or all of these devices to break the salt monopoly.
We are, however, not to be content with this alone. There is no ban by the Congress and wherever the local workers have self-confidence other suitable measures may be adopted.
I stress only one condition, namely, let our pledge of truth and nonviolence as the only means for the attainment of Swaraj be faithfully kept.
For the rest, every one has a free hand. But, than does not give a license to all and sundry to carry on their own responsibility.
Wherever there are local leaders, their orders should be obeyed by the people. Where there are no leaders and only a handful of men have faith in the programme, they may do what they can, if they have enough self-confidence.
They have a right, nay it is their duty, to do so. The history of the is full of instances of men who rose to leadership, by sheer force of self-confidence, bravery and tenacity.
We too, if we sincerely aspire to Swaraj and are impatient to attain it, should have similar self-confidence.
Our ranks will swell and our hearts strengthen, as the number of our arrests by the Government increases.
Much can be done in many other ways besides these. The Liquor and foreign cloth shops can be picketed.
We can refuse to pay taxes if we have the requisite strength. The lawyers can give up practice. The public can boycott the law courts by refraining from litigation.
Government servants can resign their posts. In the midst of the despair reigning all round people quake with fear of losing employment.
Such men are unfit for Swaraj. But why this despair? The number of Government servants in the country does not exceed a few hundred thousands.
What about the rest? Where are they to go? Even free India will not be able to accommodate a greater number of public servants.
A Collector then will not need the number of servants, he has got today. He will be his own servant.
Our starving millions can by no means afford this enormous expenditure. If, therefore, we are sensible enough, let us bid good-bye to Government employment, no matter if it is the post of a judge or a peon.
Let all who are co-operating with the Government in one way or another, be it by paying taxes, keeping titles, or sending children to official schools, etc.
withdraw their co-operation in all or as many watts as possible. Then there are women who can stand shoulder to shoulder with men in this struggle.
You may take it as my will. It was the message that I desired to impart to you before starting on the march or for the jail.
I wish that there should be no suspension or abandonment of the war that commences tomorrow morning or earlier, if I am arrested before that time.
I shall eagerly await the news that ten batches are ready as soon as my batch is arrested. I believe there are men in India to complete the work our begun by me.
I have faith in the righteousness of our cause and the purity of our weapons. And where the means are clean, there God is undoubtedly present with His blessings.
And where these three combine, there defeat is an impossibility. A Satyagrahi, whether free or incarcerated, is ever victorious.
He is vanquished only, when he forsakes truth and nonviolence and turns a deaf ear to the inner voice.
If, therefore, there is such a thing as defeat for even a Satyagrahi, he alone is the cause of it. God bless you all and keep off all obstacles from the path in the struggle that begins tomorrow.
Before you discuss the resolution, let me place before you one or two things, I want you to understand two things very clearly and to consider them from the same point of view from which I am placing them before you.
I ask you to consider it from my point of view, because if you approve of it, you will be enjoined to carry out all I say.
It will be a great responsibility. There are people who ask me whether I am the same man that I was in 1920, or whether there has been any change in me.
You are right in asking that question.
Let me, however, hasten to assure that I am the same Gandhi as I was in 1920. I have not changed in any fundamental respect.
I attach the same importance to nonviolence that I did then. If at all, my emphasis on it has grown stronger.
There is no real contradiction between the present resolution and my previous writings and utterances.
Occasions like the present do not occur in everybody's and but rarely in anybody's life. I want you to know and feel that there is nothing but purest Ahimsa in all that I am saying and doing today.
The draft resolution of the Working Committee is based on Ahimsa, the contemplated struggle similarly has its roots in Ahimsa.
If, therefore, there is any among you who has lost faith in Ahimsa or is wearied of it, let him not vote for this resolution.
Let me explain my position clearly. God has vouchsafed to me a priceless gift in the weapon of Ahimsa.
I and my Ahimsa are on our trail today. If in the present crisis, when the earth is being scorched by the flames of Hims2 and crying for deliverance, I failed to make use of the God given talent, God will not forgive me and I shall be judged unwrongly of the great gift.
I must act now. I may not hesitate and merely look on, when Russia and China are threatened.
Ours is not a drive for power, but purely a nonviolent fight for India's independence. In a violent struggle, a successful general has been often known to effect a military coup and to set up a dictatorship.
But under the Congress scheme of things, essentially nonviolent as it is, there can be no room for dictatorship.
A non-violent soldier of freedom will covet nothing for himself, he fights only for the freedom of his country.
The Congress is unconcerned as to who will rule, when freedom is attained. The power, when it comes, will belong to the people of India, and it will be for them to decide to whom it placed in the entrusted.
May be that the reins will be placed in the hands of the Parsis, for instance-as I would love to see happen-or they may be handed to some others whose names are not heard in the Congress today.
It will not be for you then to object saying, "This community is microscopic. That party did not play its due part in the freedom's struggle; why should it have all the power?" Ever since its inception the Congress has kept itself meticulously free of the communal taint.
It has thought always in terms of the whole nation and has acted accordingly... I know how imperfect our Ahimsa is and how far away we are still from the ideal, but in Ahimsa there is no final failure or defeat.
I have faith, therefore, that if, in spite of our shortcomings, the big thing does happen, it will be because God wanted to help us by crowning with success our silent, unremitting Sadhana1 for the last twenty-two years.
I believe that in the history of the world, there has not been a more genuinely democratic struggle for freedom than ours.
I read Carlyle's French Resolution while I was in prison, and Pandit Jawaharlal has told me something about the Russian revolution.
But it is my conviction that inasmuch as these struggles were fought with the weapon of violence they failed to realize the democratic ideal.
In the democracy which I have envisaged, a democracy established by nonviolence, there will be equal freedom for all.
Everybody will be his own master. It is to join a struggle for such democracy that I invite you today.
Once you realize this you will forget the differences between the Hindus and Muslims, and think of yourselves as Indians only, engaged in the common struggle for independence.
Then, there is the question of your attitude towards the British. I have noticed that there is hatred towards the British among the people.
The people say they are disgusted with their behaviour. The people make no distinction between British imperialism and the British people.
To them, the two are one This hatred would even make them welcome the Japanese. It is most dangerous.
It means that they will exchange one slavery for another. We must get rid of this feeling. Our quarrel is not with the British people, we fight their imperialism.
The proposal for the withdrawal of British power did not come out of anger. It came to enable India to play its due part at the present critical juncture It is not a happy position for a big country like India to be merely helping with money and material obtained willy-nilly from her while the United Nations are conducting the war.
We cannot evoke the true spirit of sacrifice and velour, so long as we are not free. I know the British Government will not be able to withhold freedom from us, when we have made enough self-sacrifice.
We must, therefore, purge ourselves of hatred. Speaking for myself, I can say that I have never felt any hatred.
As a matter of fact, I feel myself to be a greater friend of the British now than ever before. One reason is that they are today in distress.
My very friendship, therefore, demands that I should try to save them from their mistakes. As I view the situation, they are on the brink of an abyss.
It, therefore, becomes my duty to warn them of their danger even though it may, for the time being, anger them to the point of cutting off the friendly hand that is stretched out to help them.
People may laugh, nevertheless that is my claim. At a time when I may have to launch the biggest struggle of my life, I may not harbour hatred against anybody.
I congratulate you on the resolution that you have just passed. I also congratulate the three comrades on the courage they have shown in pressing their amendments to a division, even though they knew that there was an overwhelming majority in favour of the resolution, and I congratulate the thirteen friends who voted against the resolution.
In doing so, they had nothing to be ashamed of. For the last twenty years we have tried to learn not to lose courage even when we are in a hopeless minority and are laughed at.
We have learned to hold on to our beliefs in the confidence that we are in the right. It behaves us to cultivate this courage of conviction, for it ennobles man and raises his moral stature.
I was, therefore, glad to see that these friends had imbibed the principle which I have tried to follow for the last fifty years and more.
Having congratulated them on their courage, let me say that what they asked this Committee to accept through their amendments was not the correct representation of the situation.
These friends ought to have pondered over the appeal made to them by the Maulana to withdraw their amendments; they should have carefully followed the explanations given by Jawaharlal.
Had they done so, it would have been clear to them that the right which they now want the Congress to concede has already been conceded by the Congress.
Time was when every Mussalman claimed the whole of India as his motherland. During the years that the Ali brothers were with me, the assumption underlying all their talks and discussions was that India belonged as much to the Mussalmans as to the Hindus.
I can testify to the fact that this was their innermost conviction and nor a mask; I lived with them for years.
I spent days and nights in their company. And I make bold to say that their utterances were the honest expression of their beliefs.
I know there are some who say that I take things too readily at their face value, that I am gullible.
I do not think I am such a simpleton, nor am I so gullible as these friends take me to be. But their criticism does not hurt me.
I should prefer to be considered gullible rather deceitful.
What these Communist friends proposed through their amendments is nothing new. It has been repeated from thousands of platforms.
Thousands of Mussalmans have told me, that if Hindu-Muslim question was to be solved satisfactorily, it must be done in my lifetime.
I should feel flattered at this; but how can I agree to proposal which does not appeal to my reason?
Hindu-Muslim unity is not a new thing. Millions of Hindus and Mussalmans have sought after it. I consciously strove for its achievement from my boyhood.
While at school, I made it a point to cultivate the friendship of Muslims and Parsi co-students. I believed even at that tender age that the Hindus in India, if they wished to live in peace and amity with the other communities, should assiduously cultivate the virtue of neighbourliness.
It did not matter, I felt, if I made no special effort to cultivate the friendship with Hindus, but I must make friends with at least a few Mussalmans.
It was as counsel for a Mussalmans merchant that I went to South Africa. I made friends with other Mussalmans there, even with the opponents of my client, and gained a reputation for integrity and good faith.
I had among my friends and co-workers Muslims as well as Parsis. I captured their hearts and when I left finally for India, I left them sad and shedding tears of grief at the separation.
In India too I continued my efforts and left no stone unturned to achieve that unity. It was my life-long aspiration for it that made me offer my fullest co-operation to the Mussalmans in the Khilafat movement.
Muslims throughout the country accepted me as their true friend.
How then is it that I have now come to be regarded as so evil and detestable? Had I any axe to grind in supporting the Khilafat movement?
True, I did in my heart of hearts cherish a hope that it might enable me to save the cow. I am a worshipper of the cow.
I believe the cow and myself to be the creation of the same God, and I am prepared to sacrifice my life in order to save the cow.
But, whatever my philosophy of life and my ultimate hopes, I joined the movement in no spirit of bargain.
I co-operated in the struggle for the Khilafat solely on order to discharge my obligation to my neighbour who, I saw, was in distress.
The Ali brothers, had they been alive today, would have testified to the truth of this assertion. And so would many others bear me out in that it was not a bargain on my part for saving the cow.
The cow like the Khilafat. Stood on her own merits. As an honest man, a true neighbour and a faithful friend, it was incumbent on me to stand by the Mussalmans in the hour of their trial.
In those days, I shocked the Hindus by dinning time they have now got used to it. Maulana Bari told me, however, that through he would not allow me dine with him, lest some day he should be accused of a sinister motive.
And so, whenever I had occasion to stay with him, he called a Brahmana cook and made social arrangements for separate cooking.
Firangi ,Mahal, his residence, was an old-styled structure with limited accommodation; yet he cheerfully bore all hardships and carried out his resolve from which I could not dislodge him.
It was the spirit of courtesy, dignity and nobility that inspired us in those days. They respected one another's religious feelings, and considered it a privilege to do so.
Not a trace of suspicion lurked in anybody's heart. Where has all that dignity, that nobility of spirit, disappeared now?
I should ask all Mussalmans, including Quaid-I-Azam Jinnah, to recall those glorious days and to find out what has brought us to the present impasse.
Quaid-i-Azam Jinnah himself was at one time a Congressman. If today the Congress has incurred his wrath, it is because the canker of suspicion has entered his heart.
May God bless him with long life, but when I am gone, he will realize and admit that I had no designs on Mussalmans and that I had never betrayed their interests.
Where is the escape for me, if I injure their cause or betray their interests? My life is entirely at their disposal.
They are free to put an end to it, whenever they wish to do so. Assaults have been made on my life in the past, but God has spared me till now, and the assailants have repented for their action.
But if someone were to shoot me in the belief that he was getting rid of a rascal, he would kill not the real Gandhi, but the one that appeared to him a rascal.
To those who have been indulging in a campaign of a abuse and vilification I would say, "Islam enjoins you not to revile even an enemy.
The Prophet treated even enemies with kindness and tried to win them over by his fairness and generosity.
Are you followers of that Islam or of any other? If you are followers of the true Islam, does it behave you to distrust the words of one who makes a public declaration of his faith?
You may take it from me that one day you will regret the fact that you distrusted and killed one who was a true and devoted friend of yours." It cuts me to the quick to see that the more I appeal and the more the Maulana importunes, the more intense does the campaign of vilification grow.
To me, these abuses are like bullets. They can kill me, even as a bullet can put an end to my life.
You may kill me. That will not hurt me. But what of those who indulge in abusing?
They bring discredit to Islam. For the fair name of Islam, I appeal to you to resist this unceasing campaign of abuse and vilification.
Maulana Saheb is being made a target for the filthiest abuse. Why? Because he refuses to exert on me the pressure of his friendship.
He realizes that it is a misuse of friendship to seek up to compel a friend to accept as truth what he knows is an untruth.
To the Quaid-Azam I would say: Whatever is true and valid in the claim for Pakistan is already in your hands.
What is wrong and untenable is in nobody's gift, so that it can be made over to you. Even if someone were to succeed in imposing an untruth on others, he would not be able to enjoy for long the fruits of such a coercion.
God dislikes pride and keeps away from it. God would not tolerate a forcible imposition of an untruth.
The Quaid-Azam says that he is compelled to say bitter things but that he cannot help giving expression to his thoughts and his feelings.
Similarly I would say : "I consider myself a friend of Mussalmans. Why should I then not give expression to the things nearest to my heart, even at the cost of displeasing them?
How can I conceal my innermost thoughts from them? I should congratulate the Quaid-i-Azam on his frankness in giving expression to his thoughts and feelings, even if they sound bitter to his hearers.
But even so why should the Mussalmans sitting here be reviled, if they do not see eye to eye with him?
If millions of Mussalmans are with you can you not afford to ignore the handful of Mussalmans who may appear to you to be misguided?
Why should one with the following of several millions be afraid of a majority community, or of the minority being swamped by the majority?
How did the Prophet work among the Arabs and the Mussalmans? How did he propagate Islam? Did he say he would propagate Islam only when he commanded a majority?
I appeal to you for the sake of Islam to ponder over what I say. There is neither fair play nor justice in saying that the Congress must accept a thing, even if it does not believe in it and even if it goes counter to principles it holds dear.
Rajaji said:"I do not believe in Pakistan. But Mussalmans ask for it, Mr. Jinnah asks for it, and it has become an obsession with them.
Why not then say, "yes" to them just now? The same Mr. Jinnah will later on realize the disadvantages of Pakistan and will forgo the demand." I said : "It is not fair to accept as true a thing which I hold to be untrue, and ask others to do say in the belief that the demand will not be pressed when the time comes for settling in finally.
If I hold the demand to be just, I should concede it this very day. I should not agree to it merely in order to placate Jinnah Saheb.
Many friends have come and asked me to agree to it for the time being to placate Mr. Jinnah, disarm his suspicious and to see how he reacts to it.
But I cannot be party to a course of action with a false promise. At any rate, it is not my method."
The Congress as no sanction but the moral one for enforcing its decisions. It believes that true democracy can only be the outcome of non-violence.
The structure of a world federation can be raised only on a foundation of non-violence, and violence will have to be totally abjured from world affairs.
If this is true, the solution of Hindu-Muslim question, too, cannot be achieved by a resort to violence.
If the Hindus tyrannize over the Mussalmans, with what face will they talk of a world federation? It is for the same reason that I do not believe in the possibility of establishing world peace through violence as the English and American statesmen propose to do.
The Congress has agreed to submitting all the differences to an impartial international tribunal and to abide by its decisions.
If even this fairest of proposals is unacceptable, the only course that remains open is that of the sword, of violence.
How can I persuade myself to agree to an impossibility? To demand the vivisection of a living organism is to ask for its very life.
It is a call to war. The Congress cannot be party to such a fratricidal war. Those Hindus who, like Dr.
Moonje and Shri Savarkar, believe in the doctrine of the sword may seek to keep the Mussalmans under Hindus domination.
I do not represent that section. I represent the Congress. You want to kill the Congress which is the goose that lays golden eggs.
If you distrust the Congress, you may rest assured that there is to be perpetual war between the Hindus and the Mussalmans, and the country will be doomed to continue warfare and bloodshed.
If such warfare is to be our lot, I shall not live to witness it.
It is for that reason that I say to Jinnah Saheb, "You may take it from me that whatever in your demand for Pakistan accords with considerations of justice and equity is lying in your pocket; whatever in the demand is contrary to justice and equity you can take only by the sword and in no other manner."
There is much in my heart that I would like to pour out before this assembly. One thing which was uppermost in my heart I have already dealt with.
You may take it from me that it is with me a matter of life and death. If we Hindus and Mussalmans mean to achieve a heart unity, without the slightest mental reservation on the part of either, we must first unite in the effort to be free from the shackles of this empire.
If Pakistan after all is to be a portion of India, what objection can there be for Mussalmans against joining this struggle for India's freedom?
The Hindus and Mussalmans must, therefore, unite in the first instance on the issue of fighting for freedom.
Jinnah Saheb thinks the war will last long. I do not agree with him. If the war goes on for six months more, how shall we able to save China?
I, therefore, want freedom immediately, this very night, before dawn, if it can be had. Freedom cannot now wait for the realization of communal unity.
If that unity is not achieved, sacrifices necessary for it will have to be much greater than would have otherwise sufficed.
But the Congress must win freedom or be wiped out in the effort. And forget not that the freedom which the Congress is struggling to achieve will not be for the Congressmen alone but for all the forty cores of the Indian people.
Congressmen must for ever remain humble servants of the people.
The Quaid-i-Azam has said that the Muslim League is prepared to take over the rule from the Britishers if they are prepared to hand it over to the Muslim League, for the British took over the empire from the hands of the Muslims.
This, however, will be Muslim Raj. The offer made by Maulana Saheb and by me does not imply establishment of Muslim Raj or Muslim domination.
The Congress does not believe in the domination of any group or any community. It believes in democracy which includes in its orpit Muslims, Hindus, Christians, Parsis, Jews-every one of the communities inhabiting this vast country.
If Muslim Raj is invetable, then let it be; but how can we give it the stamp of our assent? How can we agree to the domination of one community over the others?
Millions of Mussalmans in this country come from Hindu stock. How can their homeland be any other than India?
My eldest son embraced Islam some years back. What would his homeland be-Porbandar or the Punjab? I ask the Mussalmans: "If India is not your homeland, what other country do you belong to?
In what separate homeland would you put my son who embraced Islam?" His mother wrote him a letter after his conversion, asking him if he had on embracing Islam given up drinking which Islam forbids to its follower.
To those who gloated over the conversion, she wrote to say: "I do not mind his becoming a Mussalmans, so much as his drinking.
Will you, as pious Mussalmans, tolerate his drinking even after his conversion? He has reduced himself to the state of a rake by drinking.
If you are going to make a man of him again, his conversion will have been turned to good account. You will, therefore, please see that he as a Mussalman abjures wine and woman.
If that change does not come about, his conversion goes in vain and our non-co-operation with him will have to continue."
India is without doubt the homeland of all the Mussalmans inhabiting this country. Every Mussalman should therefore co-operate in the fight for India's freedom.
The Congress does not belong to any one class or community; it belongs to the whole nation. It is open to Mussalmans to take possession of the Congress.
They can, if they like, swamp the Congress by their numbers, and can steer it along the course which appeals to them.
The Congress is fighting not on behalf of the Hindu but on behalf of the whole nation, including the minorities.
It would hurt me to hear of a single instance of a Mussalman being killed by a Congressman. In the coming revolution, Congressmen will sacrifice their lives in order to protect the Mussalman against a Hindu's attack and vice versa.
It is a part of their creed, and is one of the essentials of non-violence. You will be excepted on occasions like these not to lose your heads.
Every Congressman, whether a Hindu or a Mussalman, owes this duty to the organization to which will render a service to Islam.
Mutual trust is essential for success in the final nation-wide struggle that is to come.
I have said that much greater sacrifice will have to be made this time in the wake of our struggle because of the opposition from the Muslim League and from Englishmen.
You have seen the secret circular issued by Sir Frederick Puckle. It is a suicidal course that he has taken.
It contains an open incitement to organizations which crop up like mushrooms to combine to fight the Congress.
We have thus to deal with an empire whose ways are crooked. Ours is a straight path which we can tread even with our eyes closed.
That is the beauty of Satyagraha.
In Satyagraha, there is no place for fraud or falsehood, or any kind of untruth. Fraud and untruth today are stalking the world.
I cannot be a helpless witness to such a situation. I have traveled all over India as perhaps nobody in the present age has.
The voiceless millions of the land saw in me their friend and representative, and I identified myself with them to an extent it was possible for a human being to do.
I saw trust in their eyes, which I now want to turn to good account in fighting this empire upheld on untruth and violence.
However gigantic the preparations that the empire has made, we must get out of its clutches. How can I remain silent at this supreme hour and hide my light under the bushel?
Shall I ask the Japanese to tarry awhile? If today I sit quite and inactive, God will take me to task for not using up the treasure He had given me, in the midst of the conflagration that is enveloping the whole world.
Had the condition been different, I should have asked you to wait yet awhile. But the situation now has become intolerable, and the Congress has no other course left for it.
Nevertheless, the actual struggle does not commence this moment. You have only placed all your powers in my hands.
I will now wait upon the Viceroy and plead with him for the acceptance of the Congress demand. That process is likely to take two or three weeks.
What would you do in the meanwhile? What is the programme, for the interval, in which all can participate?
As you know, the spinning wheel is the first thing that occurs to me. I made the same answer to the Maulana.
He would have none of it, though he understood its import later. The fourteen fold constructive programme is, of course, there for you to carry out.
What more should you do? I will tell you. Every one of you should, from this moment onwards, consider yourself a free man or woman, and acts as if you are free and are no longer under the heel of this imperialism.
It is not a make-believe that I am suggesting to you. It is the very essence of freedom. The bond of the slave is snapped the moment he consider himself to be a free being.
He will plainly tell the master: "I was your bond slave till this moment, but I am a slave no longer.
You may kill me if you like, but if you keep me alive, I wish to tell you that if you release me from the bondage, of your own accord, I will ask for nothing more from you.
You used to feed and cloth me, though I could have provided food and clothing for myself by my labour.
I hitherto depended on you instead of on God, for food and raiment. But God has now inspired me with an urge for freedom and I am to day a free man, and will no longer depend on you."
You may take it from me that I am not going to strike a bargain with the Viceroy for ministries and the like.
I am not going to be satisfied with anything short of complete freedom. May be, he will propose the abolition of salt tax, the drink evil, etc.
But I will say, "Nothing less than freedom."
Here is a mantra, a short one, that I give you. You may imprint it on your hearts and let every breath of yours give expression to it.
The mantra is : 'Do or Die'. We shall either free India or die in the attempt; we shall not live to see the perpetuation of our slavery.
Every true Congressman or woman will join the struggle with an inflexible determination not to remain alive to see the country in bondage and slavery.
Let that be your pledge. Keep jails out of your consideration. If the Government keep me free, I will not put on the Government the strain of maintaining a large number of prisoners at a time, when it is in trouble.
Let every man and woman live every moment of his or her life hereafter in the consciousness that he or she eats or lives for achieving freedom and will die, if need be, to attain that goal.
Take a pledge, with God and your own conscience as witness, that you will no longer rest till freedom is achieved and will be prepared to lay down your lives in the attempt to achieve it.
He who loses his life will gain it; he who will seek to save it shall lose it. Freedom is not for the coward or the faint-hearted.
A word to the journalists. I congratulate you on the support you have hitherto given to the national demand.
I know the restrictions and handicaps under which you have to labour. But I would now ask you to snap the chains that bind you.
It should be the proud privilege of the newspapers to lead and set an example in laying down one's life for freedom.
You have the pen which the Government can't suppress. I know you have large properties in the form of printing presses, etc., and you would be afraid lest the Government should attach them.
I do not ask you to invite an attachment of the printing-press voluntarily. For myself, I would not suppress my pen, even if the press was to be attached.
As you know my press was attached in the past and returned later on. But I do not ask from you that final sacrifice.
I suggest a middle way. You should now wind up your standing committee, and you may declare that you will give up the pen only when India has won her freedom.
You may tell Sir Frederick Puckle that he can't except from you a command performance, that his press notes are full of untruth, and that you will refuse to publish them.
You will openly declare that you are wholeheartedly with the Congress. If you do this, you will have changed the atmosphere before the fight actually begins.
From the Princes I ask with all respect due to them a very small thing. I am a well-wisher of the Princes.
I was born in a State. My grandfather refused to salute with his right hand any Prince other than his own.
But he did not say to the Prince, as I fell he ought to have said, that even his own master could not compel him, his minister, to act against his conscience.
I have eaten the Prince's salt and I would not be false to it. As a faithful servant, it is my duty to warn the Princes that if they will act while I am still alive, the Princes may come to occupy an honourable place in free India.
In Jawaharlal's scheme of free India, no privileges or the privileged classes have a place. Jawaharlal considers all property to be State-owned.
He wants planned economy. He wants to reconstruct India according to plan. He likes to fly; I do not.
I have kept a place for the Princes and the Zamindars1 in India that I envisage. I would ask the Princes in all humility to enjoy through renunciation.
The Princes may renounce ownership over their properties and become their trustees in the true sense of the term.
I visualize God in the assemblage of people. The Princes may say to their people : "You are the owners and masters of the State and we are your servants." I would ask the Princes to become servants of the people and render to them an account of their own services.
The empire too bestows power on the Princes, but they should prefer to derive power from their own people; and if they want to indulge in some innocent pleasures, they may seek to do so as servants of the people.
I do not want the Princes to live as paupers. But I would ask them : "Do you want to remain slaves for all time?
Why should you, instead of paying homage to a foreign power, not accept the sovereignty of your own people?" You may write to the Political Department : "The people are now awake.
How are we to withstand an avalanche before which even the Large empire are crumbling? We, therefore, shall belong to the people from today onwards.
We shall sink or swim with them." Believe me, there is nothing unconstitutional in the course I am suggesting.
There are, so far as I know, no treaties enabling the empire to coerce the Princes. The people of the States will also declare that though they are the Princes' subjects, they arepart of the Indian nation and that they will accept the leadership of the Princes, if the latter cast their lot with the people, the latter will meet death bravely and unflinchingly, but will not go back on their word.
Nothing, however, should be done secretly. This is an open rebellion. In this struggle secrecy is a sin.
A free man would not engage in a secret movement. It is likely that when you gain freedom you will have a C.I.D.
of your own, in spite of my advice to the contrary. But in the present struggle, we have to work openly and to receive bullets on our chest, without taking to heels.
I have a word to say to Government servants also. They may not, if they like, resign their posts yet.
The late Justice Ranade did not resign his post, but he openly declared that he belonged to the Congress.
He said to the Government that though he was a judge, he was a Congressman and would openly attend the sessions of the Congress, but that at the same time he would not let his political views warp his impartiality on the bench.
He held Social Reform Conference in the very Pandal1 of the Congress. I would ask all the Government servants to follow in the footsteps of Ranade and to declare their allegiance to the Congress as an answer to the secret circular issued by Sir Frederick Puckle.
This is all that I ask of you just now. I will now write to the Viceroy. You will be able to read the correspondence not just now but when I publish it with the Viceroy's consent.
But you are free to aver that you support the demand to be put forth in my letter. A judge came to me and said : "We get secret circulars from high quarters.
What are we to do?" I replied, "If I were in your place, I would ignore the circulars. You may openly say to the Government : 'I have received your secret circular.
I am, however, with the Congress. Though I serve the Government for my livelihood, I am not going to obey these secret circulars or to employ underhand methods,'"
Soldiers too are covered by the present programme. I do not ask them just now to resign their posts and to leave the army.
The soldiers come to me, Jawaharlal and the Maulana and say : "We are wholly with you. We are tired of the Governmental tyranny." To these soldiers I would say : You may say to the Government, "Our hearts are with the Congress.
We are not going to leave our posts. We will serve you so long as we receive your salaries. We will obey your just orders, but will refuse to fire on our own people."
To those who lack the courage to do this much I have nothing to say. They will go their own way. But if you can do this much, you may take it from me that the whole atmosphere will be electrified.
Let the Government then shower bombs, if they like. But no power on earth will then be able to keep you in bondage any longer.
If the students want to join the struggle only to go back to their studies after a while, I would not invite them to it.
For the present, however, till the time that I frame a programme for the struggle, I would ask the students to say to their professors : "We belong to the Congress.
Do you belong to the Congress, or to the Government? If you belong to the Congress, you need not vacate your posts.
You will remain at your posts but teach us and lead us unto freedom." In all fights for freedom, the world over, the students have made very large contributions.
If in the interval that is left to us before the actual fight begins, you do even the little I have suggested to you, you will have changed the atmosphere and will have prepared the ground for the next step.
There is much I should et like to say. But my heart is heavy. I have already taken up much of your time.
I have yet to say a few words in English also. I thank you for the patience and attention with which you have listened to me even at this late hour.
It is just what true soldiers would do. For the last twenty-two years, I have controlled my speech and pen and have stored up my energy.
He is a true Brahmacharri1 who does not fritter away his energy. He will, therefore, always control his speech.
That has been my conscious effort all these years. But today the occasion has come when I had to unburden my heart before you.
I have done so, even though it meant putting a strain on your patience; and I do not regret having done it.
I have given you my message and through you I have delivered it to the whole of India.
