It's just uncomfortable and awkward. You know, I wouldn't want to see her doing that. 
Not -- not usually, unless it's a divorce settlement. 
No, no. I'm very fortunate and very blessed. Thank you. 
My golf game is crap. 
It really is. It's bad. And, you know, I am -- I was just working at such a pace that I really felt like, you know, I need to figure out ways to spend more time with my family. 
And, you know, being off on location is very difficult. And, you know, 50 is the new 40, so talk to me in 10 years. 
MORGAN: Do you feel like -- I mean, looking at you now, it's hard to remember the rapper, Marky Mark. 
There you are in your very immaculate suit, you know, the executive haircut -- all looking pretty grown-up, if you don't mind me saying. 
I have a large team that made me over -- 
No, I just, you know, I've just grown up. You know, I've been very fortunate -- 
Yes, in many ways. And certainly parenthood and -- and being a husband, you know, forces you to. 
And you made it back. Surprise. 
Well, you know, it -- it depends. You know, I always wanted to be one of the guys. So in order to be one of the guys and have that kind of respect, you had to do things that were, you know, a little bit more dangerous. 
But as soon as I ended up being incarcerated, I said, you know, this is not the life for me. 
Well, I had to make the choice personally. And then I had to focus on my faith. And my faith has really allowed me to overcome a lot of things, and hard work. 
You know, nothing comes easy, especially when you've got, you know, your back against the wall and you've got a lot going against you. 
Of course. Of course. And I was -- I was 17 at the time and I was probably about 5'3," 115 pounds and it was -- it was -- it was pretty scary. 
It did, but it's also very hard because now you're back into that environment and it's not like all of a sudden I could say -- well, I grew up in this bad place and I don't want to be around these guys anymore, so I'm going to move to California or I'm going to move to New York. 
You're still in the neighborhood, so it actually makes it more difficult because now you're not one of the guys. 
Well, that real life experience is so much more powerful, I think, in my job, especially as an actor, than anything, and also in my business approach. 
You know, I was always a hustler. I was always a multitasker. 
I'm not. I just make sure that my agent is. 
And my manager. I'd say yes all day long. I don't say no to anybody or anything. 
In -- in my beliefs, certainly, and in my -- in my position when it comes to certain things in my creativity, yes. 
But, you know, I'm -- you do me a favor, I'll do you a favor. I don't like asking for favors, I like giving favors. 
No. Absolutely not. You don't want them to. 
You have to -- you have to be able to that -- tap back into that, if need be. 
Especially now, being a father, four kids and two beautiful daughters. 
Yes. If I don't go to mass, necessarily, everyday, but I definitely go to the church every day. That's how I start my day. 
I like to get in there for about 15 to 20 minutes and say my prayers. And -- 
I pray to be a good servant to God, a father, a husband, a son, a friend, brother and uncle, a good neighbor, a good leader to those that look up to me and a good follower to those that are serving God and doing the right thing and people that it can look up to and, you know, try to emulate. 
You're going to have to talk me down who . 
It's not going away, Chris. 
Yes, his brother-in-law. 
Yes, which he actually -- my character actually loves the world. It's a thrill. But, you know, he has a wife and two children and his father is doing life in prison for smuggling. 
Yes. And I love it that people start asking me, especially journalists, saying, well, I wonder why I started finding myself rooting for you and you're also a criminal. 
I say, yes, but I'm not as bad as the other guys in the movie, so if you want to root for me. 
I mean, would you do anything to protect your family and yourself? 
You know, I -- I probably -- that would be probably the only reason why I'd ever go back to prison, if I had to do something to protect my family, you know, and there was no other -- there was no other means of doing it. 
It all depends on which part of my family. 
Well, my kids could care less and they hate it when, you know, people come up to us when we're in public and, you know, and the paparazzi and stuff like that. 
Well, my parents -- yes, my parents both worked two jobs and were never hardly home. So we were left to our own devices. 
And, you know, you go outside and trouble is everywhere. 
Yes. How did you hear about it? 
How did you hear about that? 
Well, I waited until we were kind of in the film and I kept talking to the director. I'm like, you know, these guys have been going on for seven years, they don't really have that kind of sex anymore, you know? 
Yes. I don't like doing it either. You know, it's part of my job. 
She knows that I'm very professional. 
Daniel Day-Lewis, Russell Crowe, Denzel Washington -- 
Well, I think there are very different -- 
-- kind of actors. You know, there are the kind of matinee idols, very, you know, beautiful actors. 
And then there are the kind of more real, gritty kind of guys that I identify with. 
It was bittersweet, you know? 
That was really the toned down version -- 
-- certainly of what my life used to be when I was young and crazy. 
That's why you need people around you that will keep you grounded. You know, people always say, why do you have your friends around? 
Like when I'm working on a movie, and I like to hire my friends. If we're going to hire somebody else to do the job, why don't I have somebody that I know and I trust, and has my best interests at heart? 
I want to play you. 
I don't know. I haven't really thought about it. 
One of the leading factors in a teen's future success, a high school diploma. Too bad, nearly one in three U.S. 
teens fails to graduate. That's one teen dropping nearly every 26 seconds. 
That's the reality. 
Well, it's -- it's extremely difficult. I mean, you know, you look at the economy and the way it is. 
When I -- when I was going to school, I knew how to read, write, add and subtract and I -- I basically said, what else do I need? 
I'm never going to be able to go to college. I'm not going to be able to afford to go to college. I'm not going to be able to get a scholarship. 
And I say the odds of you doing that are slim to none. 
So let's start with an education. Get an education so you have something to fall back on, because if I don't -- if I fail and my career ends tomorrow, I don't have anything else to fall back on, you know? 
I'm going to be sending my kids out to work. 
Yes. Yes. We have this kind of thing that we laugh about, you know, the last time I saw him that, you know, if somebody else comes up and says, you know -- you know, hey, Matt, I loved you in "The Bourne," I used to say thank you, you know? 
And then -- and then -- and then he says, God, you know, all the time, you know, with "The Fighter" and, you know, "The Perfect Storm" and this movie and that movie. 
But we both have a similar approach to our job. It's our job. You know, other than that, we want to kind of be left alone and, you know, be with our families. 
She's the most important person in my life. You know, she's my whole world, you know? And she's a wonderful mother, a wonderful wife. 
All of her focus is on the kids. She supports me in every single way. And, you know, we have a great thing going. 
A lot of different things. You know, I'm trying to build up my business, both in producing film and television and working on a lot of business outside of the entertainment industry. 
I always felt like the careers can be very short-lived. You don't know how long they're going to last. 
And I want to build something that it can have for my family. 
We're -- we're going to be in GNCs in the spring and then I think in the summer we'll be in select Mass stores. 
You know, we want people to live a healthy lifestyle, you know? 
I would probably choose not quitting school because that's when everything started to go downhill. That's when the drugs and the violence and all that stuff started to happen. 
So I would have to say that. 
Because if I -- I can't really pick one, other than that, because there was thousands that I should have -- thousands of things that I should have changed or -- 
Yes. No, I agree. It's just, you know, you asked me. 
It's a -- it's a tough question to ask somebody who's been through a lot. 
Blessed. Very blessed. I'm the luckiest guy in the world. 
And I'm happy. 
You know what, he was around long enough to see me turn it around. His proudest moment was when I got nominated for the Oscar for -- for "The Departed." And I called him and he goes, you know, you used to call me and tell me that, you know, you got this amount of money to make a movie and this amount of money, but now you can consider yourself a real actor. 
That's an accomplishment, because he used to watch the Academy Awards all the time as a kid. And he just loved movies. 
So he was so happy -- 
Yes. And he had came to the set of "The Departed" and met Jack. And it was a -- it was a thrill for him. 
Oh, it's my pleasure. 
Thank you. I appreciate it. 
Yes, for sure. 
It’s a process. That’s why I start my day by getting on my hands and my knees and starting a time of prayer and reading. 
I feel like I can go out there and conquer the world. 
I left school at an early age. I quit school at 13, ended up getting into a lot of trouble. I mean, incarcerated, tried as an adult at 16, 17. 
When I heard the jail doors close behind me, I started praying right away. 
We all make mistakes. God knows I’ve made many mistakes, but you have to keep moving forward. God is so good, so forgiving. 
You have to have faith in yourself and that you can turn the situation around. We’re always going to deal with heartache, and struggle, and loss, and failure, and disappointment, and those things, but having faith and knowing the big picture, I mean, even a hundred years is a very short time, so the idea and the promise of eternity in heaven is a very beautiful thing to me. 
Hey! I’m Mark Wahlberg. You guys know me. 
Let’s go talk to some animals. 
Hey, dog. How’s it goin’? I like your fur, that looks really great. 
So you’re a dog, right? What’s that all about? Okay, well it was great to meet you. 
Say hi to your mother for me, okay? Now I’m gonna talk to a donkey. 
Hey, donkey. What’s goin’ on? You’re a donkey, I like that. 
You eat apples, right? I produce Entourage. Okay, talk to you later, donkey. 
Now I’m gonna talk to a chicken. 
Hey, chicken. How’s it hangin’? A lot of people wanna eat you, but I just wanna talk to you, okay? 
We should do a film together, whaddya think? Hey, chicken, I’m not joking around, okay? This is the real thing, I mean this could be huge! 
All right, well, think about it. Say hi to your mother for me, alright? Now I’m gonna talk to a goat. 
Hey, goat. It’s good to see you. I like your beard. 
I had a beard like that in The Perfect Storm. Did you see that movie? Did ya, did ya see The Perfect Storm, goat? 
Say hi to your mother for me, okay? 
Because it's true. All right, I went in with our game plan. It wasn't working. 
So I went back to what I learned with Dicky. And I wouldn't have won without you, either, O'Keefe, OK? 
I mean, you know that. We worked hard. You got me ready. 
I'm the one fighting, OK? Not you, not you and not you. I know what I need. 
I want Dicky back, and I want you, Charlene, and I want O'Keefe. I want my family. What's wrong with that? 
You know what, it's not so much the way you look as far as your physique. It's the way you move, the way you punch, footwork, all of those things. 
You know, if you look at a lot of boxers, a lot of boxers don't look like bodybuilders, don't necessarily have a beach type of physique. 
You're not my manager anymore, and I'm not waiting for Dicky, OK? I'm not getting any younger. 
Well, if you make the real people, you'll realize that it's actually a tone down. It really is because that's why - you know, it was great for me seeing, you know, allowing the audience to see the real Dicky and Micky together. 
And - well, not only the dynamic between the two of them but also how big a personality Dicky is, as was Alice and Charlene and George and the rest of the sisters. 
Ma, it's a girl from the bar, Charlene. We've got to get rid of her. 
The great Mike Leigh. 
Mike Nichols, sorry. Wrong . 
Oh, yeah, she's the real deal. We probably duked it out a couple times when we were growing up. 
Well, there's so many similarities between my life and Micky's life, Alice and my mom, you know, not just the fact that they both had nine children. 
Both had - Micky and I both had the older brother, who was very much the apple of Mom's eye and could do no wrong. 
But, this is a true... 
Yeah. But this is a true story. I was talking to my mother on the way over here on the phone, and she was like, you know, next time, when you do an interview about me, can you just say how I was the best, not that I was a machine or that I was tough or that I kicked your ass or that I threw your friends out of the house? 
So now I can talk about how tough she was again. 
Oh, God. I remember her coming to LA with Father Flavin, who is my parish priest, who has baptized all of my children, buried all my relatives that have passed, married my wife and I, and, you know, he's been such a huge part of my life for a long time. 
We went to an event together. I think it was a premiere, actually. And my mom was like, you know, don't worry about me. 
I was like whoa, you said you were going to be OK. I mean, I sent you in the car, in a limousine home. 
But we laugh about that. 
Yeah. Sure. Tell the story. 
Oh God, you're right. 
Well, I like everything about working with David. But my favorite thing, going back to "Three Kings," you know, he's the writer-director, so obviously he's looking for something very specific. 
And my whole job and all I want to accomplish is making the director happy at the end of the day. 
Yeah, that was on "Three Kings." 
Well, you know, like crying for instance. There was a scene where I was supposed to be crying over my friend's body and, you know, there's many ways to cry: do you want the slow build, do you want the big bawling, what do you want to do? 
Yeah. And I also, I come from a background of, you know, you're worried about how you're being perceived, how, you know, being a musician, being a rapper, being from the street, got to be cool, got to be tough, that whole thing. 
Exactly. And I had that with "Boogie Nights," but this was different and David was, you know, he was just, you know, helped me overcome that. 
Oh, I hated that. 
