In those months when I was pregnant, all around the same time, so we have in tandem the conversation of, he won't be given security, he's not going to be given a title. 
And also, concerns and conversations about how dark his skin might be when he's born. 
There are several conversations. 
Potentially, and what that would mean or look like. 
I just didn't want to be alive anymore. And that was a very clear and real and frightening constant thought. 
We had to go to this event, and I remember him saying, I don't think you can go. And I said, I can't be left alone. 
Magic. It's pretty amazing. 
And also, concerns and conversations about how dark his skin might be when he's born. 
There are several -- there are several conversations -- 
The idea of our son not being safe and also the idea of the first member of color in this family not being titled in the same way that other grandchildren would be. 
But I knew that if I didn't say it, that I would do it. And I just didn't -- I just didn't want to be alive anymore. 
And that was a very clear and real and frightening constant thought. 
We do this time. I’ll wait for my husband to join us and we can share that with you. 
All of that’s correct. 
I’ve thought about this a lot. It was like having an out-of- body experience I was very present for. 
The night before, I slept through the night entirely, which is a bit of a miracle, and then woke up and started listening to Going To The Chapel, to make it fun and light and remind ourselves this was our day. 
We were both aware in advance of that this wasn’t our day, this was the day planned for the world. 
I would say I went into it naively because I didn’t grow up knowing much about the Royal Family. It wasn’t part of something that was part of conversation at home. 
It wasn’t something that we followed. My mum even said to me a couple of months ago, ‘Did Diana ever do an interview?’ Now I can say. 
‘Yes, a very famous one’, but my mum doesn’t know that. 
I didn’t do any research about what that would mean. 
No. I didn’t feel any need to, because everything I needed to know he was sharing with me. Everything we thought I needed to know, he was telling me. 
No. We thought a lot about what we thought it might be. I didn’t fully understand what the job was: What does it mean to be a working royal? 
What do you do? What does that mean? He and I were very aligned on our cause- driven work, that was part of our initial connection. 
But there was no way to understand what the day-to- day was going to be like, and it’s so different because I didn’t romanticise any element of it. 
But I think, as Americans especially, what you do know about the royals is what you read in fairytales, and you think is what you know about the royals. 
It’s easy to have an image that is so far from reality, and that’s what was so tricky over those past few years, when the perception and the reality are two different things and you’re being judged on the perception but you’re living the reality of it. 
There’s a complete misalignment and there’s no way to explain that to people. 
She was one of the first people I met. The real Queen. 
There wasn’t a huge formality the first time I met Her Majesty The Queen. We were going for lunch at Royal Lodge, which is where some other members of the family live, specifically Andrew and Fergie, and Eugenie and Beatrice would spend a lot of time there. 
Eugenie and I had known each other before I knew Harry, so that was comfortable and it turned out the Queen was finishing a church service in Windsor and so she was going to be at the house. 
Harry and I were in the car and he says, ‘OK, well my grandmother is there, you’re going to meet her’. 
‘OK, great’. I loved my grandmother, I used to take care of my grandmother. ‘Do you know how to curtsey?’ ‘What?’ ‘Do you know how to curtsey?’ I thought genuinely that’s what happens outside, that was part of the fanfare. 
I didn’t think that’s what happens inside. I go, ‘But it’s your grandmother’. He goes, ‘It’s the Queen!’ 
And that was really the first moment the penny dropped? 
No, we were in the car. Deeply, to show respect, I learned it very quickly right in front of the house. 
We practised and walked in. 
Yeah, and Fergie ran out and said, ‘Are you ready? Do you know how to curtsey? Oh, my goodness, you guys’. 
I practised very quickly and went in, and apparently, I did a very deep curtsey, and we just sat there and we chatted and it was lovely and easy and I think, thank God, I hadn’t known a lot about the family. 
Thank God, I hadn’t researched. I would have been so in my head about all of it. 
I had confused the idea. I grew up in LA, you see celebrities all the time. This is not the same but it’s very easy, especially as an American, to go, ‘These are famous people’. 
This is a completely different ball game. 
Yeah, Guy’s been — Guy’s been through everything with me. 
If Guy, I mean, I had him in Canada. I got him from a kill shelter in Kentucky. 
Well, you know, I just love rescuing. 
Whoop! You’re OK . . 
I think just being able to live authentically. 
Right? Like this kind of stuff. It’s so, it’s so basic, but it’s really fulfilling. 
Just getting back down to basics. I was thinking about it — even at our wedding, you know, three days before our wedding, we got married . 
No one knows that. But we called the Archbishop, and we just said, ‘Look, this thing, this spectacle is for the world, but we want our union between us’. 
So, like, the vows that we have framed in our room are just the two of us in our backyard with the Archbishop of Canterbury, and that was the piece that . 
Just the three of us. 
I hadn’t heard that. 
This I heard about. 
This was . . . 
that was . . . 
that was a turning point. 
The narrative with Kate — which didn’t happen — was really, really difficult and something that  . . 
. I think that’s when everything changed, really. 
No, no. The reverse happened. And I don’t say that to be disparaging to anyone, because it was a really hard week of the wedding. 
And she was upset about something, but she owned it, and she apologised. And she brought me flowers and a note, apologising. 
And she did what I would do if I knew that I hurt someone, right, to just take accountability for it. 
What was shocking was . . . 
what was that, six, seven months after our wedding? 
That the reverse of that would be out in the world. 
I would have never wanted that to come out about her ever, even though it had happened. I protected that from ever being out in the world. 
A few days before the wedding, she was upset about something pertaining — yes, the issue was correct — about flower-girl dresses, and it made me cry, and it really hurt my feelings. 
And I thought, in the context of everything else that was going on in those days leading to the wedding, that it didn’t make sense to not be just doing whatever everyone else was doing, which was trying to be supportive, knowing what was going on with my dad and whatnot. 
It wasn’t a confrontation, and I actually don’t think it’s fair to her to get into the details of that, because she apologised. 
And I’ve forgiven her. 
What was hard to get over was being blamed for something that not only I didn’t do but that happened to me. 
And the people who were part of our wedding going to our comms team and saying, ‘I know this didn’t happen.’ I don’t have to tell them what actually happened. 
But I can at least go on the record and say she didn’t make her cry. And they were all told the same . 
Everyone in the institution knew it wasn’t true. 
That’s a good question. 
I’m not sharing that piece about Kate in any way to be disparaging to her. I think it’s really important for people to understand the truth. 
But also I think, a lot of it, that was fed into by the media. And I would hope that she would have wanted that corrected, and maybe in the same way that the Palace wouldn’t let anybody else. 
Negate it, they wouldn’t let her, because she’s a good person. And I think so much of what I have seen play out is this idea of polarity, where if you love me, you don’t have to hate her. 
And if you love her, you don’t need to hate me. 
Oh, gosh, have I done it since we’ve been sitting down? 
What does it have to do with pride or vanity? 
OK, I hear you. 
I heard — OK, I heard about the avocado one. 
And fuelling murder, apparently. 
That’s a really loaded piece of toast. I mean . . 
. you have to laugh at a certain point, because it’s just ridiculous. 
I don’t know why. I can see now what layers were at play. 
And, again, they really seemed to want a narrative of a hero and a villain. 
I thought about it because they made me think about it. 
Right? But at the same time now, upon reflection, thank God all of those things were true. Thank God I had that life experience. 
Thank god I had known the value of working. My first job was when I was 13, at a frozen yoghurt shop called Humphrey Yogart. 
Bula! It is a great privilege to be with all of you today.
As a university graduate, I know the personal feeling of pride and excitement that comes with attending university.
From the moment you receive your acceptance letter, to the exams you spend countless late nights studying for, the lifelong friendships you make with your fellow alumni, and the moment you receive your diploma.
The journey of higher education is an incredible, impactful, and pivotal one.
I am also fully aware of the challenges of being able to afford this level of schooling for so many people around the world—myself included.
It was through scholarships, financial aid programs and work-study, where my earnings from a job on campus went directly towards my tuition, that I was able to attend university.
And, without question, it was worth every effort.
Everyone should be afforded the opportunity to receive the education they want, but more importantly the education they have the right to receive.
And for women and girls in developing countries, this is vital. Providing them with access to education is the key to economic and social development.
Because when girls are given the right tools to succeed, they can create incredible futures, not only for themselves but also for those around them.
While progress has been made in many areas across the Commonwealth, there is always scope to offer more opportunities to the next generation of young adults, and specifically to young women.
The Association of Commonwealth Universities, which Her Majesty the Queen is Patron of, supports universities to promote equality in their own institutions.
I am pleased to announce today that two new grants will be awarded to Fiji National University and the University of the South Pacific, allowing each of them to run workshops which empower their female staff.
This means that female faculty members are able to encourage others to follow in their footsteps and enter higher-education, and that more women become part of the decision-making process in academic institutions.
Grants like this ensure that women are provided with the training and skills to operate effectively in their roles, and those with leadership potential are given the opportunity to be heard and recognized at the most senior level.
It is wonderful to join you here today, and we look forward to learning more about your academic endeavors and the work you plan to do as future leaders and as change-makers!
My husband Harry and I wish you all the very best of luck as you continue your studies and work. Your efforts now will help to make a positive future for each of you and your communities at large.
Congratulations to you all!
Thank you for the leadership that has brought all of us here tonight. And to my friend Gloria for the inspiration that you are, for your mentorship, your sage advice, your extraordinarily cheeky sense of humor, and of course, for your incredible friendship: Thank you.
To this evening's other honorees: Congratulations and frankly, well deserved. Thank you for the important and meaningful work that you do.
And while I was familiar with most of your work before tonight, nothing could compare to the focus, the determination, the energy I feel from each of you—especially as we all bear witness to you standing in elegance and the power of your strength.
Now to Ms. Foundation, thank you for this truly special honor.
It's funny because as a young girl, I would come home and I'd settle in after a day of school. I'd pull up my TV tray with dinner and I would turn on my evening ritual of jeopardy and I would glance at the coffee table where I would see an array of things.
It could be the cat's collar, my homework, some mail that had just been brought in and some magazines.
The magazines said Ms. on them, and I remember them vividly because the pictures were different. There was a diversity that I hadn't seen as often, both of color and of age and the names were different.
There were congresswomen, there were astronauts. And the topics were different: from mothering to being a working mom to heavier topics such as domestic violence, the poverty line—unearthing its roots, where it comes from—and matters of equity.
And now when I say different in describing this Ms. Magazine on the coffee table of our home in Cloverdale, I mean, different from the covers of the magazines I would see at the grocery store checkout.
And I was, I was too young at the time to know what most of it meant.
But I also knew that to my mom, to my dear mom who I'm honored to have here with me tonight, I knew that the significance of these magazines was important.
I mean, it wasn't a one off. She had a subscription! And having these pages in our home, it signaled to me that there was just so much more than the dolled-up covers and the images that you would see on the grocery store covers.
It signaled to me that substance mattered.
The presence of Ms. Magazine was more than a tool that I inherently learned from. It was an invitation to pay very close attention to the fact that change is just one action away.
And these tenets have fueled Ms. Foundation's work for the last 50 years. Because of this foundation, so many of our youth have been instilled with self worth and limitless possibility no matter their race, their gender, their class, sexual orientation, disability or age.
The collective work of this foundation in pursuit of a world where everyone, truly everyone, is valued is just nothing short of awe inspiring.
So when I reflect on the time in my life, when I was young, the imprints that were etched in my mind, I can now connect the dots in a much better way to understand how I became a young feminist and evolved into a grown activist.
Ms. was formative in that cocooning: It piqued my curiosity and it became the chrysalis for the woman that I would become and that I am today.
I am a woman who remains inspired and driven by this organization, and by those around me.
You know, repetition is recognition, as they say. And the narrative on repeat that surrounded me allowed me to recognize that part of my greater value and purpose in life was to advocate for those who felt unheard, to stand up to injustice, and to be not afraid of saying what you know is true, and what is just, and what is right.
So whether your inspiration comes from a magazine on your coffee table, from your childhood, or an article that you read yesterday, an experience that you had today, maybe tonight even, or a moment that you will just walk right into tomorrow.
I suppose the point is, it's just never too late to start. You can be the visionary of your own life.
You can charter a path in which what you repeat in your daily acts of service, in kindness, in advocacy, in grace, and in fairness—that those become the very things that are recognized by the next wave of women, both young and old, who will also choose this moment to join the movement and make our vision for an equitable world reality.
Because while, as my dear friend Glo often reminds me, there is still so much work to be done. And let's be clear: I, as all of you in this room know, that she will continue to do that vital work while wearing her black leather pants and signature glasses.
She's also always reminded me that it's the community that we create in doing that work. It's this sisterhood, it's this togetherness, that's the joy in it as well.
Work doesn't have to be hard work and it doesn't feel like hard work when we do it together. So I am so proud this evening to stand with such visionaries and even prouder to stand shoulder to shoulder with this community.
Thank you all so much.
Hello! It is such privilege to meet all of you today and to start our visit, my first time in South Africa, here in Nyanga.
We have just spent some time seeing all the incredible work that the Justice Desk does and of course all of you amazing women and the men who are here helping you, Mbokodo, you are incredible and what you’re doing is so powerful, because you’re all powerful.
The work that’s being done here is to keep women and children safer, which is needed now more than ever.
This is an issue that’s been at the forefront of people’s minds here in South Africa, and of course across the globe, particularly over this past month.
Please know that my husband and I have been closely following what you’ve been experiencing here—as best we can from afar.
But now that we are with you, we are eager to learn and see first-hand the work that you’re doing, the vital work that you’re doing, and that everything that is being done on the ground is making the great change that you not only need but that you deserve.
You have welcomed us into this community, have been open and honest with us, both about the dangers women and children face, and about how you are addressing them.
The rights of women and girls is something that is very close to my heart, and the cause I have spent the majority of my life advocating for because I know that when women are empowered, the entire community flourishes.
So to be able to meet all of you today who are standing up for what’s right in the face of adversity, I applaud you.
We are encouraged to hear your President take the next steps to work towards preventing gender-based violence through education and necessary changes to reinforce the values of modern South Africa.
I do have to say I feel incredibly humbled to be in the presence of all of you as you stand firm in your core values of respect, dignity and equality.
I read a quote a few weeks ago and it resonated with me as I’ve been watching what’s been happening here and your active efforts.
Maya Angelou, the legendary poet and civil rights activist, once said: “Each time a woman stands up for herself, without knowing it, possibly without claiming it, she stands up for all women.”
Now I know it’s not easy and I know it must feel insurmountable at times, but your commitment to what is right gives all of us hope, especially your brothers and sisters here in your community who need you to continue to shine your light brightly.
Your commitment is inspiring, it is energizing and it is extraordinary. You must keep going, you must know that what you’re doing not only matters, it is vital because YOU are vital.
And just on one personal note, may I just say that while I am here with my husband as a member of the royal family, I want you to know that for me I am here with you as a mother, as a wife, as a woman, as a woman of color, and as your sister.
I am here with you and I am here FOR you and I thank you so much for showing my husband and I the spirit of Ubuntu and I look forward to our time over the next few days together.
Thank you so much for having us.
