Totally false. Before I would hurt a child, I would slit my wrists. I would never hurt a child It's totally false. 
I was outraged. I could never do something like that 
I've helped many, many, many children, thousands of children, cancer kids, leukemia kids. This is one of many. 
Because I wanted to have a place that I could create everything that I that I never had as a child. 
So, you see rides. You see animals. There's a movie theater. 
I was always on tour, traveling. You know? And — I never got a chance to do those things. 
So, I compensated for the loss by — I have a good — I mean, I can't go into a park. I can't go to Disneyland, as myself. 
I can't go out and walk down the street. There's crowds, and bumper to bumper cars. And so, I create my world behind my gates. 
Everything that I love is behind those gates. We have elephants, and giraffes, and crocodiles, and every kind of tigers and lions. 
And — and we have bus loads of kids, who don't get to see those things. They come up sick children, and enjoy it. 
They enjoy it in a pure, loving, fun way. It's people with the dirty mind that think like that. I don't think that way. 
That's not me. 
If they have a sick mind, yeah. And if they believe the trash they read in newspapers, yeah. And — and it's not — what — just cause — remember something. 
Just because it's in print doesn't mean it's the gospel. People write negatives things, cause they feel that's what sells. 
Good news to them, doesn't sell. 
I'll tell you exactly. When I first saw him, he was total bald—headed, white as snow from the chemotherapy, very bony, looked anorexic, no eyebrows, no eyelashes. 
And he was so weak, I would have to carry him from the house to the game room, or push him in a wheelchair, to try to give him a childhood, a life. 
Cause I felt bad. Because I never had that chance, too, as a child. You know? 
That the— and so, I know what it— it felt like in that way. Not being sick, but not having had a childhood. 
So, my heart go out to those children I feel their pain. 
He had never really climbed a tree. So, I had this tree that I have at Neverland. I call it, "My Giving Tree." Cause I like to write songs up there. 
I've written many songs up there. So, I said, "You have to climb a tree. That's part of boyhood. 
You just gotta do it." And — I helped him up. And once he went up — up the tree, we looked down on the branches. 
And it was so beautiful. It was magical. And he loved it. 
To give him a chance to have a life, you know? Because he was told he was going to die. They told him. 
They told his — his parents prepare for his funeral, that's how bad it was. And I put him on a program. 
I've helped many children doing this. I put him on a mental program. 
They did it to try and belittle me, to try and to take away my pride. But I went through the whole system with them. 
And at the end, I— I wanted the public to know that I was okay, even though I was hurting. 
They were supposed to go in, and just check fingerprints, and do the whole thing that they do when they take somebody in. 
They manhandled me very roughly. My shoulder is dislocated, literally. It's hurting me very badly. 
I'm in pain all the time. This is, see this arm? This is as far as I can reach it. 
Same with this side over here. 
Yeah. Yeah. At the police station. 
And what they did to me — if you — if you saw what they did to my arms — it was very bad what they did. 
It's very swollen. I don't wanna say. You'll see. 
With the handcuffs, the way they tied 'em too tight behind my back — 
Yeah. And putting it, they put it in a certain position, knowing that it's going to hurt, and affect my back. 
Now I can't move. I — I — it keeps me from sleeping at night. I can't sleep at night. 
Then one time, I asked to use the restroom. And they said, "Sure, it's right around the corner there." Once I went in the restroom, they locked me in there for like 45 minutes. 
There was doo doo, feces thrown all over the walls, the floor, the ceiling. And it stunk so bad. Then one of the policemen came by the window. 
And he made a sarcastic remark. He said, "Smell — does it smell good enough for you in there? How do you like the smell? 
Is it good?" And I just simply said, "It's alright. It's okay." So, I just sat there, and waited. 
Yeah, for 45 minutes. About 45 minutes. And then — then one cop would — come by, and say, "Oh, you'll be out in — in a second. 
You'll be out in a second." Then there would be another ten minutes added on, then another 15 minutes added on. 
They did this on purpose. 
My room is a complete wreck. My workers told me. They said, "Michael, don't go in your room." They were crying on the phone, my employees. 
They said, "If you saw your room, you would cry." I have stairs that go up to my bed. And they said, "You can't even get up the stairs. 
The room is totally trashed." And they had 80 policemen in this room, 80 policemen in one bedroom. That's really overdoing it. 
They took knives, and cut open my mattresses with knives. C — just cut everything open. 
A— I'm not sure what they took. They never gave me a list. 
Yes, they did. And then they, what they did was they made everybody that work at the property, they locked everybody out of the house. 
They had the whole house to themselves to do whatever they wanted. And — they totally took advantage. 
They went into areas they weren't supposed to go into — like my office. They didn't have search warrants for those places. 
And they totally took advantage. And the room is a total, total wreck, they told me. I don't think I wanna see it. 
I'm not ready to see it yet. 
I've been back there. But not in my bedroom. I won't live there ever again. 
I'll visit Neverland. It's a house now. It's not a home anymore. 
I'll only visit there. What time is it? Cause I'm hurting. 
You know what? I'm — I'm hurting. I have to go pretty soon anyway. 
Yeah. Okay. I don't feel good. 
Somewhere greed got in there, and somebody — I — I can't quite say. But it has to do with money. It's Michael Jackson. 
Look what we have here. We can get money out of this. That's exactly what happened. 
Because parents have power over children. They feel they have to do what their parents say. But the love of money is the root of all evil. 
And this is a sweet child. And to see him turn like this, this isn't him. This is not him. 
No. This is not him. No. 
I know his heart. 
I'm not allowed to talk on that — 
Yeah, I didn't like it. 
Of course. Of course. Why not? 
If you're gonna be a pedophile, if you're gonna be Jack the Ripper, if you're gonna be a murderer, it's not a good idea. 
That I'm not. That's how we were raised. And I met — I didn't sleep in the bed with the child. 
Even if I did, it's okay. I slept on the floor. I give the bed to the child. 
Well, I'm always more cautious. But I will never stop helping and loving people the way Jesus said to. 
He said, "Continue to love. Always love. Remember children. 
Imitate the children." Not childish, but childlike. 
Sure, if I know that person, trust them, and love them. That's happened many times with me when I was little. 
Ed, I — I know exactly what you're saying. 
Mmm, if I — if I knew the person personally. Cause I know how the press is, and how people can twist the truth, if I knew the person personally, absolutely yes. 
Absolutely. I wouldn't have a problem with it. 
How does what look? 
Know why? People think sex. They're thinking sex. 
My mind doesn't run that way. When I see children, I see the face of God. That's why I love them so much. 
That's what I see. 
Of course. Not for sex. No. 
Well, what's wrong with sharing your bed? I didn't say I slept in the bed. Even if I did sleep in the bed, it's okay. 
I am not going to do anything sexual to a child. It's not where my heart is. I would never do anything like that. 
That's not Michael Jackson. I'm sorry. That's someone else. 
What — what has it done to my career? 
I'm — my album — 
— album is number one all over the world. All over the world. America is the only one, because I — I don't wanna say too much. 
It's a conspiracy. Yeah. I'm getting tired. 
Well, I would tell them I love them very much. And I— I— they've learned about me, and know about me from a distance. 
But if you really want to know about me, there's a song I wrote, which is the most honest song I've ever written. 
It's the most autobiographical song I've ever written. It's called, "Childhood." They should listen to it. 
That's the one they really should listen to. And thank you for your support, the fans around the world. 
I love you with all my heart. I don't take any of it for granted. Any of it. 
And I love them dearly, all over the world. 
I met her first at a, my concert, in London. She was uhm very kind, very loving, very sweet. 
I wrote a song called “Dirty Diana”, and it’s not about “Lady Diana”, it’s about certain kinda girls that hang around concerts or clubs, they call em groupies. 
i’ve lived in that all my life, you see these girls and they do everything with the band and euh.. you know everything you can imagine. 
Yeah, of course. And she told me she was honored to meet me and… as as honored to meet you. 
uhm… I woke up and uhm… my doctor gave me the news. And i felt back down, in grief and i started to cry. 
I don’t wanna say that but i’ve done it before. 
They always have been euh… they… they go as far as the hiding into places, the little slider machine up under the toilet …tsk tsk tsk tsk tsk… you go Oh my god! 
They’ve done that. 
Eh… i’ve been doing it for years, many lobby’s i’ve never seen, the front door, never. 
To outrace them? 
They follow you, they chase us on the scooters 
Yeah, and i have to say the driver, i said slow down, i jump in, i said, you’re gonna kill us, i said slow down, i’ve done that many times, gonna kills us. 
When i approve of something, yes 
By doing that this is the time for this and this you should not do, you should not say he’s an animal, he’s a…, should not say he’s “Jacko”, I’m not a jacko, i’m Jackson! 
…yeah, “Wacko Jacko”, where’d that come from? Some English tabloid! 
There’s… No, there’s no mysterious behavior, there is a time when i give a concert, i’d like to sit…. 
with many people come can come and enjoy the show and there is a time where you wanna, you like to be in private where you put on your pajamas and go to sleep, cut off the light …tsk toeng… and lay down, that’s your private space. 
No… no… no…. mabey i like to live that way, i like to dress that way. I don’t want paperazzi, really, but if they come, be kind, write the right, kind thing to write. 
What you saw what happen to lady Diana, you tell me? There should be some boundaries, some kind of way. 
The star needs some space, give them a chance to relax, he has a heart, he’s human. 
In my heart i will say “Iove you Diana, shine and shine on forever, cause you are the true princess of the people”, and in words i did not say it, but i said it for three minutes and shown a big picture on all the jumbo trans screens and the sony big huge screens, and her picture was there, shining, and the crowd went banana’s. 
“Shiny and sparkly and splendidly bright, here one day, gone one night, gone to soon” 
Because, there was a race, there were some illegal pictures out, illegally somebody had taken pictures of a baby, for millions of dollars and said here’s Michael’s son. 
It wasn’t! So i took the pictures of the baby and said they’re forcing me to get his picture… There’s helicopters flying above us, flying over my house, flying over the hospital, machines at satellites all over the… even the hospital said, Michael we’ve had every kind of celebrity here, we’ve never had it like this. 
This is unbelievable. And so i said, here, take it, and i’d gave to money to charity. 
Yeah! Now they wanna do it again and don’t want… i don’t… maybe i don’t wanna show him to the world like that. 
I want him to have some space where he can go to school, i don’t want him to be called “Wacko Jacko”, that’s not nice. 
They called the father that, that isn’t nice, right? 
That’s the thing, that’s the idea, maybe you should come up with a plan to help me. 
There you go! Well they created that, who would ever think i would have a child one day that is… i have a heart, it’s hurting my heart, why pass it on to him? 
Well i’ll tell you this much, he… when he’s crying, to keep him from crying, you have to do one thing. 
I have to stand in front of him and dance. 
Yes, and he stops crying and his tears turns to laughter and he starts clapping and he smile 
Yeah, i do all kind of …. move, and then he stops crying. 
I do slot of dancing, yeah 
Hold on now, hold on, if you do go that way, expect this, expect that, expect this, expect that. 
I’d lay it all out, that you gonna get all this, and all this, and all of this, are you ready to do that? 
If he says: “Yeah i can’t wait!”, Go!, and do it better than i did it! 
Know what your in for 
