I'm doing awesome. Thanks, my friend. 
All the time, all the time. Yeah. It's pretty interesting that you said that. 
I look at that guy and say, what was going on? Who was happening there? You have no idea what was going on with my life back then with this guy. 
What was going on back then? 
I don't know. I had to grow up. I had an incident where I lost my daughter in some family accident at home and it was just a time to grow up and wake up. 
Pretty much, pretty much. Yeah. 
A freak accident on the treadmill. 
Four. KING: Were you home? 
No. I wasn't living with her mother at the time. I was in Las Vegas and they lived in Phoenix. 
And her mother called me and told me what happened. I rushed down there and it was already pretty much a done deal. 
I don't know. I don't know. It's a new stage. 
It's the beginning stage. So I don't know if I get over it or not. 
I don't know anything. I just know that we have to keep on living and being alive is for the living and being dead is for the dying. 
We have to continue living, you know. 
Pretty much, yeah. 
Never, ever. I wish I could -- I'm envious that he does it, but I wish I could. 
Periodically. Not I should have done this, but every now and then. 
From the president to the vice president. 
No, I went from the president to the vice president. 
I don't know, Larry. I wanted it I don't know if I was prepared for it but I know I wanted it. I was prepared to get it. 
I trained hard and worked hard, you know. 
No, because then I would have been obsolete. I would have just been like everyone else. 
Isn't that an awesome place? 
Yes, of course you know, it was a tough inner city, probably the toughest in America, the poorest city in America. 
And it's just a world of dog eat dog. Of course, it's where Murder Incorporated originated from. 
Until the day I die, yes. 
It's just who you are. There's something about Brooklyn people and it's interesting, because every one of us always feel different. 
For some reason if we feel like we're from Brooklyn, we will like we're the best. Don't you feel the same way, too? 
Yeah. People are going to know our name and know where we came from. You feel the same way too. 
Exactly, 100 percent. 
I would say so, yeah. 
Yeah, I do. And you know, it's going to be interesting because this new documentary series that I'm a part of, into the world of pigeon flying and bird racing, so you're going to see some of my friends that I grew up when I was a little kid and we grew up flying pigeons together when we were 10 and 11-years-old and we're still flying pigeons now. 
So it's ironic how we interact, it's not the Mike Tyson that you're used to seeing. It's not like Mike Tyson and his entourage, it's like get that f'ing bird, get this, watch out, move down. 
It's just really interesting. 
On the waterfront. 
I don't know. It's some -- I was probably 10 or 11- years-old. And I was flying some birds -- some friends of mine had skipped school and I had skipped school, too, because some guys were picking on me all the time so I didn't want to go to school. 
No. They were just so lazy. They had rotten birds. 
I don't know. I really wish I could tell you. It's like -- 
Birds in my house. Well, all together, I have birds everywhere that I journey, I have homes that I live, hang out, I have birds there. 
So all together I have probably around 2,500 birds. 
Well, in different places. I don't know. It's always a problem. 
Sometimes they fly 500 miles, you take them 500 miles and they come back. That's just the pigeon world. 
It's very difficult to explain to a person. 
I was with some friends of mine, I was just in school, must have been 10 or 9. Some guys came up to me and wanted to rip me off and I didn't have any money, so they said do you want to fly birds? 
And so I went to their coup and I was their little gopher chasing the birds from roof to roof and building to building. 
I didn't know. I thought it was cool having birds. And then as I got more and more educated in the birds, this is what I wanted to do. 
It's just like racing horses. 
Being in here put me in a confinement, put me in a situation to understand Islam, to become a Muslim and be proud of becoming a Muslim. 
I think I'm more in touch with Allah and I understand humble is the best quality. I've been brass, I've been braggadocios before and it got me in places that I didn't want to particularly be. 
I just want to be a humble man, live more of an easygoing life, I'm willing to live that life. 
I don't know if there's two Mike Tysons, but everyone knows, who cares who you are, the richest person in the world, the poorest person in the world, hard times fall upon everyone. 
And regardless of what kind of religion, you could be a Christian, a Muslim, a Jew, atheist, whatever you are, whoever we are, whatever we have with us, we bring our baggage to us, to our religion with us, regardless of who we are, we just have baggage that we have and we bring it with us. 
And until we work on the problem that is an inside job, we're going to still be reckless and continue to get into a lot of trouble. 
I don't know. I don't know if faith can help me. I have to help me. 
I have to help me. You know what I mean? God don't help anyone that doesn't help themselves. 
So I have to help me. 
I like to believe that because I was born an addict. My mother was an addict. So I am who I am. 
I love who I am and embrace who I am. And that's just who it is. 
Probably 18 months. 
I don't use that for no excuse because if I used that for an excuse, there's no way could I ever accomplish what I've accomplished, you know. 
You can't help who you are, what you are, but you can sure help your conduct. 
I have responsibilities in my life. I don't want to let my children down anymore. I don't want to let myself down, I don't want to let my wife down anymore. 
And I have a lot of things to do in a very short time. 
The guy that has the pigeons is the guy that nobody messes with. I don't know if that's what I wanted from the pigeon world or did I really get involve with the pigeons? 
I always knew the Italian guy or the Puerto Rican guy that had the pigeons in that neighborhood was the man. 
Thank you very much, Larry. 
I have no desire to ever think about going back to boxing. I don't miss boxing and I think really the best moment in my life was when I retired because I was too into that character, that "Iron Mike" guy. 
And that guy was pretty toxic for me at that particular time. He overstayed his welcome. He was finished and I was finished with him. 
I had to get away from him. He became his own entity and he became kind of creepy. So I had to get away from that. 
This is just a part of me that I just don't like and don't understand. So I like this guy, this is an awesome guy. 
That's my friend Mario. He also is one of the co-hosts on the show that we're having. 
Of course. They have bands and you have the bands identify them and everyone gets their team of birds, maybe 30 guys, 100 guys -- it depends. 
It depends on the duration, let's take them 1,000 miles, let's them 100 miles, let's take them 70 miles, it depends. 
I'm sure, yes. 
As soon as they come back, the bird gets in, you clock the time. You clock the time it gets in and you can't cheat because the time is on the computer and then we all wait until -- 
Sixty miles-an-hour. 
Yes, you can, this is big money. KING: How? 
But we're not doing it for money. We're doing it for bragging rights. 
It's one of the biggest sports in the world, yes, everyone does that. 
Different clubs bet each other. 
No, this was before Christ. 
Well, not really, but I'm sure you can get it out if you look deep enough. 
Not as much as they used to, no. How about you? 
I wish I could say that. 
No, I've held some, I haven't had any to hold lately, but I have held some before. 
Well, you know, it's funny you say that. In order to accomplish all of the goals that D'Amato put in front of me, I had to view myself greater than what I truly was. 
So I had to really get into a character, be this unstoppable, invincible monster, and that's just what it was. 
No, but I wanted to make him happy. He was like my father figure. I wanted to make him happy, I wanted to be the ferocious champion that was invincible. 
You know, Larry, when you're fighting, actually in the ring, in the ring you're talking about, right? 
I don't know. You practice it most of your life and then you accomplish it in the ring and you work for it. 
You anticipated it, you expected it. You don't get a big joy out of it. You expect it to happen. 
If it doesn't happen, then you have a disappointment moment. 
I don't think so, no. It was either him or me at that time. I could have all the admiration and respect for him, but it's either me or him at that time. 
Yeah, but we can't look at it like this. This is a job. No one put a gun to our heads and made us do this. 
This is a job. head. It's more of an art. 
If you're doing your art correctly, you're not going to get hurt. 
Yeah, yeah, I do basically two hours a day. So the treadmill or the bike, hour on the treadmill, hour on the bike, may walk two hours. 
And that's all I do, light weights. 
Sometimes, sometimes. 
I like being entertained. If it's MMA, if it's boxing, if it's a movie, I just want to be to be entertained. 
I want somebody to entertain me because that's what I like to do. I like to entertain people so I want to be entertained, too. 
So if I'm not being entertained, I don't go. There's not too many entertaining fighters, not too many entertaining heavyweights in the boxing world. 
They're good fighters, just not entertaining. People get the two confused, a guy being a confident fighter rather than being an exciting fighter. 
At one time I did, I knew a little bit, yes. 
Because that was my profession. I wanted to be the best at it so I wanted to know the whole history of their stuff. 
I was just crazy about this boxing stuff. 
I don't know. I just remember he fought good that night. He really fought good. 
Well, I could have been better trained, but the fact is he fought great. That really set off everything. 
Yes, yes, I did. 
When I couldn't hit him. 
Pretty much, yes. 
I'm pretty short, I'm 5'10." I'm not a tall person. 
Lewis, yes. Marciano. I just watched those guys and I said, man, I'm glad that I watched them before me, you know, I mean, because if I didn't have those guys to watch and study, there's no way I would have been successful in this stuff. 
I don't know. There's not much that I'm afraid of, basically in life, you know? Because when you think about it, the worst thing that ever happened to me, I lost -- I lost one of my kids. 
So what am I afraid of? 
Yes, tell me about it. So, no, I don't think I'm afraid of anything. 
Because I've lived for -- I've lived for probably 24 years -- 25 years. That's just so long. 
It's just who I am. It's where I'm -- you know what I mean? I know everybody there. 
It's just -- it's not -- like my home now. 
Yes, I'm used to that stuff. 
Yes, but that's OK. I can handle it. That's a Brooklyn kid. 
We can endure anything. 
I don't know. That's not up to me to decide, you know? Let the people vote and decide whether I should be in the Hall of Fame or not, you know? 
I don't know. I can't -- if I ever allow my will to run riot, I'll say -- I think I deserve to be a God, but I won't because I will never say that. 
But I just think, you know, I can't say anything, do I deserve anything, because, of course, everybody in their own belief want to be the best in the world at what their endeavors were. 
That's what they want to be. 
I don't know. I owe boxing a lot. So I don't really have nothing derogatory to say about it. 
Well, I don't want anything from it. 
Well, that's great, you know? But boxing -- I'm not bigger than boxing. You know what I mean? 
I wish I was. Not one individual fighter is bigger than boxing. You know what I mean? 
I'm afraid of tons of people, I guess. 
When I was a kid, yes. You know, it's easy to be bullied because you never fought before, and you don't if you're going to win. 
You don't have the confidence, you know? Confidence is everything. Confidence breeds success. 
Success breeds confidence. Without confidence, you just don't go nowhere. 
Yes, but I wasn't that successful. You know what I mean? They some of the stories make it like I was beating everybody up in the streets. 
No, I wasn't that successful. 
I don't know. It's just a different world from when I was a little kid. It's a different world. 
I don't know. People bully people because they were bullied. That's just the way it goes. 
The abuser becomes the abusee. And that's just how it goes, right? 
Well, I don't know. We don't know who we are. Some people don't understand themselves. 
How do we understand -- it's difficult to understand people in society now? People just don't want to get along. 
You ever think racism is at a all-time high. People -- 
Yes, but -- all right. That's awesome. But, you know, people want to feel different. 
You know what I mean? We have a black president, but people want to feel the change that he actually -- that we're fighting for. 
I don't know. Everyone always has something to be P'd off about, I guess. 
No, they live in Jersey City. 
Well, I knew him -- I knew his parents before he was born, and we flew pigeons ever since we were all little -- they were little -- 
It's -- basically, what he needs is a bone marrow transplant. Yes, he needs that because he has these horrific fevers that go over 105 every day. 
And there's no way he could stay home -- have to stay in the hospital. He's an awesome little kid. 
Yes, we had -- we had -- I believe a month ago we had a rally, and we had like 600 people came out, because it's very rare in the African-American and Spanish community that we get any donors. 
No, he's a Puerto Rican child. 
I don't understand. Well, we just hope that somebody's a match. 
Well, I believe we gave the producers the number. 
I accepted to expect the worst, OK? 
Whose law said that? 
Well, who controls the law of the United States? 
Yes, legislatures that have their own agenda. 
No. I was a real mean guy, Larry. 
Yes. I was mean back then, huh? 
I love you. You're foolish. Get out of here. 
I -- I'm a -- I'm insane. Come on, I don't know why it did this. My wife, Lakiha, and Wayne Brady got together and they put it -- put something into play and we did that. 
Well, I wanted to do it. I wanted to but I -- I had no idea that it would be so much work, those little dances moves, I almost had a heart attack. 
I realized I thought I was doing my little treadmill and I knew I wasn't in shape. I had to do -- start doing sprints, because I was just -- ooh, my feet felt like they were on fire and someone took a blowtorch -- 
I had a wonderful time. Yes. I'm pursuing an acting career. 
But I -- I enjoyed myself. 
Here's my favorite part coming up right now. 
One more time guys. 
No, we talked -- Phillips just called me and said, hey, let's do this. And I had no idea that this was going to be anything, like this was going to be a big movie and this stuff. 
Well, really, let's just do it. And I just wanted to do it. 
Part -- I don't know, maybe two weeks or so. 
Yes. And I just had an awesome -- I'm very grateful to be a part of the cast. I had an awesome cast to work with. 
They carried me well. And I had an awesome time. 
I thought it was an awesome movie. And I was back -- and helping. I feel -- you know, the same director did "Old School," which was an awesome movie, I thought. 
And I never had any idea that we would surpass that. 
Yes, I will, thank you. 
Well, I'm going to be doing my stuff. 
That's what I heard. 
I want to be a -- 
If possible, yes. I just want to have fun. I take myself too seriously and that's not fun. 
Well, I didn't -- I didn't have time to go to the premier but I -- I've got a lot of reviews and a lot of people gave me accolades and I'm just very grateful. 
Well, I'm -- I've been doing it for a long time, pretty much. And I'm just -- I just -- I'm just pretty grateful. 
I feel that -- I could have been going in a different direction right now. And I'm just pretty grateful. 
Allah has pretty blessed me, you know, with a lot of good blessings. 
Yes, the cast voted him off. I had -- you know, I haven't got -- I -- I -- 
Well, I could never vote anybody off of nothing or judge anyone, I'm -- 
-- trust me, you know, I don't -- 
I live in a big glass house, you know, and I beg that no one throws a pebble at it. 
I don't know. I -- 
Because I was a schmuck back then. I was just a young kid. I'm a schmuck, Larry, that's why. 
I don't know why I did it. 
I don't know, Larry. 
You give me advice, Larry. 
You give -- I want your advice. You have more -- 
I'm -- I know. Well, I should have had you as my adviser or something back then, you know. I mean you have more experience with women than I do and that matters. 
L.V. Airlines. It's an airline comp -- company -- 
Yes. Of course, you know -- 
Las Vegas is in an economical crisis and everything. And we're working so hard just to give back to the community, since I'm in a big community, in Las Vegas for 24 years. 
Pretty much. No, this is an ultra luxury airline. 
Ultra luxury air. You know what I mean, it's pretty much taken the place -- American planes have taken the place of like the Concorde, so to speak, you know? 
It flies from all over the country to Las Vegas. Yes. 
Well, I'm not aware of that right now. But I know it's going to be awesome. By -- next year it's going to come out and it's going to be a pretty awesome -- 
A little bit of both, yes. 
No, I'm very serious. 
No. Hey, I'm Mike Tyson. Come to Las Vegas and hang out with me. 
OK. And then we have -- 
We have a production company, me and my wife. I mean she invented this company, really. It's called Tyrannic. 
It produces movies. It's a production company. And we -- we have movies in the making and it's going to be pretty awesome. 
No, I don't regret anything. You know, there's nothing that I really regret, you know, because I'm just -- I'm living. 
I'm just happy to still be alive. You know, there's people that died with billions of dollars. They're not here no more. 
As long as you continue to live, something good it's going to happen. And, you know, we're going to all die anyway, of course, right? 
Yes, rehab was pretty awesome, for me. 
Yes, it was just a -- 
It was good for me. See and I'm -- I'm one of those guys, I needed a structure. I never -- I never really had a structure. 
That's why I've been successful in fighting, because I was structured there. I was -- I just believed this is what I should do and this is what I was born to do and all that ridiculous stuff. 
Well, thank you, Larry. I've been called worse. 
Yes. That's going to be awesome. There's going to be awesome. 
I'm going to -- 
February 1st. February 1st. 
It's a boy. It's a boy. It's a boy. 
No. No, I'm not going to do that to the poor kid. But -- 
Yes, that's going to be deep. I don't want to do that. But I don't know, I just want to -- I'm just looking forward to trying to do this stuff right. 
Of course, you know, you -- I want to do it right. I've been married -- this is my third marriage. I want to do it right. 
I want to do it right. 
No, it's nothing like being a committed father. You have to be committed and dedicated. This is going to be something new on me, to be totally committed and dedicated to this situation. 
What? KING: Why did you put those markings on your face? 
Because I liked this. This is what I wanted to do. When I saw the tattoo, I wanted to do it. 
But I just didn't find the right tattoo to do it with. 
Well, I -- yes, it did hurt a little. Yes. 
Because I want to, Larry. Because I wanted the tattoo, Larry. That's why I did it. 
Because I wanted the tattoo. 
Yes, pretty much. Yes. 
Well, if it did, I wouldn't be on this show. 
I don't know, everyone. 
And when they hit me, you know, please -- 
Yes, Ray Ruddock, a couple of guys, Holyfield. You're talking about when you were like whoa. When you get hit, it doesn't hurt anymore. 
It's just numb. You just hear the bell ringing -- bong. 
No. But of course you wouldn't know. If anybody had really been clocked -- of course, Larry, if someone got clocked, well, they'll tell you that you -- you don't feel anything. 
It's not like, oh, you're in a lot of pain. When you get clocked really good and you really get knocked out, you don't -- you don't feel a thing. 
Yes. You don't feel anything. 
Yes, you're welcome, Larry. 
