I'm Miley Cyrus, and I'm auditioning for the role of Zoey in "Hannah Montana." 
I'm Miley Cyrus. I'm with CED and I audition for the role of Zoey in Hannah Montana. And yes, it's your red sweater... 
Hey, I'm Miley Cyrus and I'm 12 years old. 
Oh, my gosh. I know. I'm an idiot. 
Only my three best friends. 
It's like the media is kind of like a mother. You know, it's like, you know, trying to let their young go or whatever and let them grow up. 
I feel like they are kind of having a hard time with that. 
I think the media always tries to kind of overdo it. It's really no one else's business how my parents raise me or how I'm being raised. 
OK. I'm about to lose it now. 
I'm going to jump out of a  plane. "Rolling Stone." 
What a landing. 
It's a strategic, hot mess. Right now, I'm in a point in my career where I can be exactly who I want to be, just go for what you want to do. 
If I owe anybody an apology, it's the people who make the bottom half of the shirts. 
Every time I do anything, I want the remember this is what separates me from everybody else. 
Feels like I just woke up. Like all this time, I've been asleep. 
Thank you. Thank you for having me, Lulu. 
Well, you know I was at - it was during Christmastime. And I was dressed as a reindeer. 
And I had, like, blinking earrings. And I had the antlers on. And, you know, my sweater was blinking and all that. 
And my mom was like... 
...When did you - yeah, she was like, when did you become, like, an 8-year-old? And I said, you know, I feel younger now. 
And she kind of said it in this way, too, where it was, like, I couldn't tell if it was a compliment or not. 
You know, and I was like, well, I just feel younger now. I feel, like, less like I have anything to prove. 
And I guess as I've gotten older, you know, what "Younger Now" says is even though it's not who I am, I'm not afraid of who I used to be. 
So embracing rather than running away from who you've been in the past. 
Even though it's not who I am, I'm not afraid of who I used to be. No one stays the same. 
Yeah. I mean, I think, you know, the way that I see myself now - everyone that I've been, whether you are thinking about Hannah Montana or the music I've made in the past, all of it's always been the truth. 
And so I think when people are saying the new Miley, the more honest Miley, it's - I've always been that. 
But I've been honest for who that person was then. You know, like, how "Younger Now" says change is a thing you can count on. 
I'm writing down my dreams, all I'd like to see, starting with the bees, or else they're going to die. 
There won't be no trees or air for us to breathe. I start feeling mad, but then I feel inspired. 
I wrote that song for Hillary Clinton. And that was - I had gone campaigning for her. And I was sitting in this line of really crazy traffic. 
And then I realized that I was in the middle of a funeral line. And I was behind a hearse. And all these people that I was looking at into their cars - they just looked so devastated. 
And it just made me start thinking about life and all the things that really, you know, matter and thinking about how much I always have loved nature. 
You know, it talks about the bees and saying that there might be a day where we won't, you know, have bees or blue skies or clear water or fish in the sea because of the way that we abuse the planet. 
We are meant for more. You're the handle on the door that opens up to change. I know it sounds so strange. 
We can make it out of hemp. 
How can we escape all the fear and all the hate? Is anyone watching us down here? 
I respect that. And I can't tell you that that's my intention. So I always feel, you know, apologetic and sympathetic, you know, and - to those who feel a way. 
But, you know, that's not my intention, so I can't say that I agree. 
Yeah, but I think that that's labeling. You know, it's like that kind of music. What does that mean? 
It's - I love music. I love all styles of music. I love, you know, Mike Will's music. 
I love Wayne Coyne's music. I love, you know, country music. I love Dolly's music. 
I love Leonard Cohen's music. I don't ever label music. I love it. 
It should be like sexuality. It should be like race. It should be like religion. 
I don't think about it when I think of something I like. I just like it, or I don't. 
That's so ridiculous. That's just the - I'm sorry. I empathize with people's feelings because, you know, opinions are a natural response in human beings. 
We all form opinions as we intake information. We judge it because that's the way we know not to cross the street when a car is  coming towards us. 
But besides that, that's so hurtful, actually, to take something that is good intention and not - like, that would make me a very, very sick  human - not just a woman but human. 
I think she - the best thing that she does is she's not afraid to laugh at herself. You know, you take seriously what matters. 
But Dolly - part of her entertainment is by - in a way, she pushed the boundaries for country music by looking the way that she does and saying the things that she says and being sexual in that way. 
I mean, there's no one that's been able to make country music sexual, you know, more than Dolly. 
Thank you so much for chatting with me. I liked it. 
Thank you very much. So, I've been sitting here long enough, I've been watching everybody read from these weird futuristic mirrors that are here.
These are feeding everyone their words. They're weird, and they make you look kind of like you're spacing out, which I already look like I'm doing, so I'm gonna not do that.
I'm gonna hold my paper, which I trust. Thank you. Do it!
So, thank you so much, Tyler, thank you. I am honored to have such a beautiful date tonight that speaks just as beautifully as they look.
Thank you so much. As Tyler mentioned, we met when I was shooting the Backyard Sessions for the launch of Happy Hippie, and I got the privilege to shoot this incredible subject for Happy Hippie's newest project, #InstaPride, which just launched yesterday, as Tyler just said, but I decided to get my plug in here since I'm in the room with people here that have so much money.
Even though you couldn't tell after that last bit. I'm just kidding. But tonight is just so cosmic—you guys, I haven't been drinking tonight because I had to speak, otherwise that bidding would have gotten...a lot more fun.
Anyway, getting the Inspiration Award tonight is an honor that is unbelievable. Seriously, I didn't believe it when they told me that I got it.
It seems just way too easy, and it seems that there is no way that I have done nearly enough to be standing here on the receiving end of this honor, but I'm thinking about tonight as not celebrating what me and Happy Hippie have already done but celebrating what we're going to do, what we plan on doing in the future.
Tonight is not a finish line for us, but it's a starting point. And I want to work every day to do something good for somebody else, so that might feel, not only isn't this honor has been wasted but my life and all of the influence that comes with it.
There are so many people around the world right now that deserve this recognition, and they've dedicated their lives to finding a cure for those living with HIV and AIDS and they use their voices to speak out against the brutal, unfair condemnation and abominable stigma that comes with this disease.
And by receiving this award tonight, I promise to continue to fight along with such industrious army for a cure for this epidemic.
Now, I'm not as short as Andy, so I'm gonna keep going, so just give me just a second. Granted, he got to go earlier, so all of us had drank a little bit less than my turn, but there have been too many families, friends, partners, and animals that have lost somebody that they cherish to this illness, somebody that they want to say, "I love you," to right now.
And so I want all of us to do that for them. On the count of three, I want everyone in this room to say, "We love you," to the men, women, and children throughout the world that have died or are currently fighting for their lives because of HIV and AIDS.
Alright, ready? On the count of three. We're all drunk enough to do this, right?
One, two, three: We love you! I think it's so beautiful to hear all of you guys say these words to, unfortunately, people in these situations that don't hear it nearly enough.
1.6 million young people are homeless each year, and 40% of homeless young people identify as LGBT.
This community is disproportionately affected by this disease, and discrimination can lead to homelessness, and once these young people are on the street, many young people find that exchanging sex for food, clothing, and shelter are their only chance for survival, putting them at a much greater risk for contracting HIV and AIDS.
An inspiration— I'm not gonna lie, when I got this award, I Googled what "inspiration" actually means because it just seems like it just couldn't be possible that I was getting the Inspiration Award, but it's something that makes us feel or do something, especially something creative.
And amfAR and their amazing team of researchers have used their inventiveness, their knowledge to help extend, improve and save the lives of countless people around the world with AIDS or who are vulnerable to the infection.
AmfAR has funded more than 3,300 grants to research teams around the world. In addition to research, amfAR's leadership also advances public policy—which is what Happy Hippie is trying to do—and has helped pass federal legislation to provide people living with HIV the access to care that they need and protect their dignity and their rights.
Now, my hero is not only an entertainer and an icon, but she is the founding international chairman of amfAR: Dame Elizabeth Taylor.
She said that with celebrity, comes responsibility, and she was an illustration of someone who committed to using their own power and fame to bring awareness to something so much greater than her own power and her own fame.
And when I found out that I was receiving this award, I thought about just dedicating this award to the admirable life of Elizabeth Taylor, but it was never about her.
She always dedicated the spotlight to those in need, and she was a pioneer and she spoke out against hypocrisy and discrimination—compassion and care in a revolutionary time.
For many Americans, it was Elizabeth Taylor who brought the issue of AIDS into the general mainstream.
She, with founding chairman Dr. Krim and a small group of physicians and scientists united to form the American Foundation for AIDS Research, amfAR.
Now, another woman who—even though she was unable to be with us tonight— amfAR and anyone who has experienced, as I like to call her, "The Stone," knows that long-time supporter and campaign chair Sharon Stone is definitely here with us in spirit here tonight and possibly under the tables pickpocketing you this very moment.
Now, I'm still not convinced it was the white wine last year that racked up my bill, but Sharon's braveness makes her one of amfAR's most effective spokespeople.
This is gonna make everyone in this room feel really cheap: At 2014's Cinema Against AIDS event, she helped raised a record of $35 million in a single evening, so don't be cheap tonight, people!
Sharon's watching, she's got nanny cameras, your name, your address, your banking information, all that good stuff.
Quickly, I'm gonna wrap it up because I know we're all ready to get the f--k out. Chairman of the board Mr.
Kenneth Cole—where are you?—thank you for having me. Thank you for honoring me tonight, and I look forward to what Happy Hippie can do in and for the future with you.
And everyone on Team Happy Hippie, the future is a blank canvas, and I am surrounded by artists as devoted and benevolent as you, I am honored.
And before I finish—I keep saying that, I swear I'm gonna shut the f--k up—but I just want to say a few final thank yous.
John Dempsey and everyone at MAC cosmetics, MAC AIDS, thank you so much for introducing me to amfAR and for using your immense brand for making such an impact on the future of HIV and AIDS and all those affected.
I've gotta be honest, as a little girl, it was not a dream of mine to be the face of a lipstick, but it was a dream of mine to change the world, so thank you very much.
And as John Lennon once said—I use this quote way too often—but he said that a dream you dream alone is only a dream, but a dream we dream together is a reality, so thank you for making this a reality.
My mom and dad, mostly my dad. I think this is the first time we've actually hung out outside of the house in maybe 15 years.
You look handsome, I'm happy to have you here. I just want to tell you how much I love you—I'm gonna f--king cry like a loser—I just want to tell my parents, I hope that this makes them proud and somehow makes up for all the s--t that I do.
You are two of the most selfless people, and you've taught me and all my siblings how important it is to be there for those who need us and how important it is to care about other people and their lives, so thank you for making me believe that.
People say that you don't choose your family, but I choose my family every time, and I'd think that even if you weren't my mom and dad.
I hope we'd still be in the room together looking for a cure, so thank you very much. One of my favorite quotes from another heroine of mine, Audrey Hepburn.
She said that as you grow older, you realize you have two hands: You've got one for helping yourself and one for helping other people.
Thank you for instilling that in me and making me really know that that's true because if I know anything from doing this after how—10 years of doing this, nothing means s--t except f--king helping people.
That's the only thing that makes us feel that we've really accomplished anything at all.
I hope one day that I'm here on Earth to experience an AIDS-free world, and I'm honored to have even been a twinkle in the diamond sky of this dream that one day is going to be a reality for me and my kids and their future kids and their future kids.
This is a horrible disease, and outside of this room, there are millions of people, young and old and of all races and genders, who are willing and waiting for a cure.
But this illness, it's brought us all together tonight, and for that, I feel thankful. I feel so grateful to be in a room with so many people that care.
Because unfortunately, that's just too rare in this world that we live in today, and maybe that's why it's so easy for me to be standing up here, receiving this Inspiration Award tonight.
Again, this privilege is an honor, and amfAR, I will not let this, my life, your dedication, your hard work, and all these valuable souls that are being affected by HIV and AIDS go to waste.
We will continue to fight against judgment, and we will find a cure for HIV/AIDS.
Thank you very much for having me be a part of that, and I love you very much. Thank you.
Bright Minded was really encouraging people to take this time that we had no choice but to internalise, to go inside and explore ourselves.
We didn't have many external experiences going on at that time. So all of us were able to explore ourselves in our different layers and dig deeper into things that we haven't had the time to go into.
Social media is an important tool for connecting and starting interesting conversations. It gives people a voice.
It’s an important way of reflecting who you are on a page, saying something about yourself, telling a story, and connecting with other like-minded people.
In so many ways – Dolly has inspired me to express and celebrate every layer and version of myself.
She has been so constant in her career, but also had such an incredible evolution. So there has been that consistency, but also that growth.
And whether it's talking about her as an entertainer, as an actor, a musician, an activist, or her self-deprecation and her relationship to her identity and her persona, I think she’s very layered.
She loved it! She sent me a fax saying how much she was honoured that on Mother’s Day I dedicated it to her, my godmother.
I picked it because I was able to customise it as Miley’s Touch. And 8D is just super immersive. So I'm really excited for my fans to hear it in this way because it feels like they’re just right there with me and my band for a super-intimate experience.
They're gonna get this layered sense of sound because of 8D.
Fashion to me is kind of flipping yourself inside out. It’s like wearing your heart, wearing your guts, wearing your values, wearing your identity, wearing your pain, wearing your joy.
There’s something kind of childlike . You’re so fearless when you get yourself dressed when you’re a kid.
You don't think about what someone will think of you or what they’ll judge. It’s just about expression and how you feel that day.
There’s a fearlessness. And so when I get dressed, I try to kind of think like my inner child, and be genuine and authentic in whatever I’m wearing.
Well, if I answered this question, then I wouldn’t really be holding it back from the public! But I have a very intimate and close relationship with my family.
But like all families, we’re also complex, but we embrace the fact that each of us are so different from one another.
Me and my siblings, we’re a lot alike, but we also have big differences. And we just accept that and don’t judge each other.
And our family makes unconditional love a priority.
I’m a believer that everyone’s suffering is different. All of us experience pain in our lives and loss and sorrow, but also joy and love and happiness.
And so that song is bittersweet because it’s a reflection of a time that was filled with so much love and life, but it means something so different from when I wrote it.
That song is complex because it’s filled with such a range of different feelings.
I’ve always loved music since I was born, but it was never genre specific. I listened and loved and found something that I related to in everything, so whether that was country, blues, jazz or pop, I found myself in that.
There are always new emerging artists that are super interesting. I love Billie Eilish. I think she’s just the coolest.
I love her, her messaging. I’d love to work with her.
It depends on what kind of mood I’m in. Some days the toughest choice I have to make is Britney  or Courtney .
Those are usually my big decisions, my big dilemmas.
To stay updated, to keep educating myself, to never stop learning, to continue evolving and be conscious of the evolution happening around me, too.
So keeping up with the next generation, looking at what they’re doing and what they’re interested in.
We’re still honouring everything that’s been, but what happens if you don’t do that? You turn into  Billy Ray Cyrus, who doesn’t have wifi .
It’s from my dad and it’s this: ‘A trying time is no time to quit trying.
