I move for a vote of no confidence in Chancellor Valorum's leadership. 
Thank you for having me. 
Yes. I went with some friends all around and had an incredible trip. 
Well, I think of acting as sort of practiced empathy. Like your job is to think about how someone else feels all day long and what 
It's something different every time. But I think in general, it's the active imagining someone else's existence and the 
Yes, yes. Absolutely. 
Well, I think as an actor, also I think sociologically as a female, too, that I've personally -- I don't know if it's true for other 
Yes and also increasingly what studios or financiers, if it's an independent film, what they want, too, is largely considered. 
I don't think -- I don't think ego can fit in. I think that it's really about bringing your best and then trying different things and 
PORTMAN : Yes. It was like SATs . 
Anyway, somebody didn't do it someday or another, I would probably done it myself. 
She's not my mother. I mean,  my real mother. My sister, she wanted to lose weight anyway. 
I bet she never looked so 
Well, I think it's that thing of there's an infinite number of interesting lives that are your journalistic interest, I would imagine, 
It's very hard to watch yourself. I mean, I feel like I'm definitely hypercritical of myself. So I just am -- and I'm not someone, I 
Pfeiffer, in the movie. 
-- my character -- 
No, that's the character in "Your Highness." 
I am not. I am not that. I mean, I'm not like -- I'm not like a prude angel, but I'm not like in that group, the foul-mouthed one 
It's totally fine if I were, but, yes, he's discussing the character. 
And if I don't? 
You know, it was great. I liked -- I liked school and it gave me -- I think it was -- it gave me a nice balance to all the craziness 
I did my first -- the first one after my junior year, between junior and senior year. 
Yes, it was like SATs and "Star Wars." 
They didn't really have talks with me but I think their emphasis on being and school -- and I was in public school in New York, 
Well, I think when you have brilliant professors, they respect you and demand this intellectual rigor from you, not that you feel 
Absolutely. Absolutely. And yes, no, it's an ongoing challenge to be honest and definitely having both other students and 
Well, it's incredible and I love the fact -- I always love seeing when artists create their environment full of art and what inspires 
Absolutely. And to see all of these women from different places in the world given the same sort of assignment, so to speak, and 
Well, I think it's just such a legendary house, Dior. Of course, it's an honor to follow in the footsteps of all of the great 
I don't know, that's a hard question. 
I think mainly one that where I'm trying to be good but also enjoy, because I think ultimately those are the two things you're going to 
Well, "A Tale of Love and Darkness" was an incredible experience to film. We just finished shooting in March and have been 
Well, it's also partly my family's own mythology and that also really interested me, the sort of mythology versus truth like we were 
PORTMAN : The mission of FINCA's in Mexico and I'm more than 20 countries around the globe is to provide financial services, 
Well, FINCA has been an incredible organization to be involved in. It's given me the opportunity to meet really incredible women 
Thank you so much for having me on. 
I started training a year ahead of time with a great teacher, Mary Helen Bowers, who was in the New York City Ballet for 10 years. 
She started very basic with me, really focusing on strengthening my toes. We would do 15 minutes of just toe exercises a day to get ready for going en pointe, plus obviously ballet. 
And then we upped it to, you know, we added more time as we went along, more hours a day of ballet, and we added swimming. 
Absolutely. The turnout is extreme and, you know, something that is not natural for a lot of bodies. 
I think because I had the dance training when I was little, it wasn't impossible for me to have turnout starting at 27. 
Turnout is having your sort of - from your hips to your toes pointing outwards instead of being parallel to each other. 
And, you know, everything is supposed to be turned out, every move, every, you know, tendu or grand battement, you need to be turned out. 
Yes, yes, I was en pointe for - I mean, there's no way, obviously, I could have learned, you know, fouette turns en pointe for the film. 
That's something that takes a lifetime to perfect. 
They get disgusting. Toenails fall off. You know, they get blistered and calloused, and you don't want anyone to look at them and certainly not touch them. 
Yeah, that was the sort of worst injury I had, was a dislocated rib, which basically we just dealt with by not... 
Yeah, exactly. No deep breaths for six weeks, and I didn't get lifted from my ribcage anymore. I got lifted under my armpits, because that's sort of what does it. 
Yeah, but it wasn't the end of the world. You know, real dancers dance with such incredible injuries that you wouldn't even believe. 
You know, it's such a nightmare for them to be replaced. 
Right, absolutely. Darren Aronofsky, our director, who's clearly unbelievable, he is so good at physicalizing anxiety and terror and obsession. 
And that's so much of it for dancers. I mean it's all about the way your body looks and the way your body moves. 
It was, and, you know, it's also you have physical limitations. You know, I have - I'm short and I have short limbs. 
And, you know, the Balanchine sort of City Ballet ideal is to be very long. And they had me working with a physical therapist, Sash Jairotani's teacher, Michelle Rodriguez, who's fantastic, who works with all the dancers in New York, to lengthen me. 
Yeah, it was really funny because Mila and I have been friends for years. And when we were - you know, Darren and I have been talking about the film for 10 years, and finally when it started rolling, a year ahead of time, he said, you know, do you have any ideas for who could play Lily? 
I was 11, actually. 
I turned 12 while we were filming "The Professional." Yes, very young. 
Well, I had sort of begged my parents to audition for things. We lived on Long Island, where a lot of sort of kids I knew were going out on auditions for Broadway shows or commercials. 
I think I was, you know, acting like a grown-up, even though I certainly didn't have the maturity of one. 
But I knew how to mimic a grown-up pretty well. 
A lot. I go back at least once at year, but usually two, three times a year. And five years ago I did a semester of grad school at Hebrew University in Jerusalem. 
So I lived in Jerusalem for, like, six months. 
I don't know about my personality. Probably my politics. You know, it's like how you can, like, say bad things about your parents to, like, your brother or sister, but you wouldn't say it to, like, you know, just a friend. 
It's sort of like you can criticize the government more when you're in the country among other Israelis than outside; it sort of feels like you're betraying your family or something. 
Yeah, well, I think you just feel more at ease to talk about it because you're talking to other people who are in the same boat as you, you know, as opposed to being, like, oh, someone here is going to take my opinion as an Israeli and make it represent my entire country, you know? 
Not - you know, I think I was really, really involved when I was probably in my early 20s. I was, you know, reading Haaretz every day. 
It was like my - the page, the website I opened to on my computer. I would read obsessively and was very passionate and very emotionally roused by it. 
No, no, no. My great-grandparents. 
Yes, my father's parents migrated to Israel before the war, in the late '30s. So their parents were killed in the camp. 
I don't remember the first description. I just remember it being a prominent feature of my education, because I went to a Jewish school. 
I went to Jewish day school until I was 13. So... 
Yeah, in the U.S. I went - because we moved a lot when we were in the States. So I went to different schools in Maryland and then Connecticut and then Long Island. 
So it was just such a central part of our learning, of everything we learned, which, you know, definitely has its - you can understand the power of memory for the Jewish people. 
No, my family - my family, like most Israelis, are very, very non-religious. But they - my dad wanted me to keep my Hebrew, and because it was half a day in Hebrew, that sort of was the purpose. 
And so they would, you know, tell me to sort of abstain from prayer in the morning, because we had to pray every morning. 
Because it - it was only dairy at school. 
You know, with milk and meat, it was only a dairy kitchen. So you could only bring dairy lunches. So if she would pack me meat, she would make me say it was, like, something else. 
Oh yeah, and I finally convinced my parents to let me switch in eighth grade, mainly because I think it was just really small. 
There were only 20 kids in my class. And I switched to a public school where there were 500 kids in my class, and that made me really happy. 
Yeah, well, I've been acting since I was 11 in, you know, film and stage. And I've gotten to have so many amazing experiences and work with so many people that it's been sort of a school for me. 
Absolutely. I mean, for this part, you know, just reading the script and immediately having insight into obsessive-compulsive behavior and ritualistic, almost religious practices, the relationship with the mother that is, you know, restrictive and suffocating, and this desire to please, the ability to dissociate oneself, when you're seeing yourself through other people's eyes - you know, because she's always viewing herself through her mother's eyes, her director's eyes, her audience's eyes, the character, you know, starts seeing herself out of her body and then has to do the dissociation where she starts seeing this double. 
You too. Thank you so much for having me on. 
Yes. I just enjoyed it and then couldn't stop thinking about it and imagining it, and so I contacted Amos Oz and asked his permission to make the film. 
I was introduced to him through my agents and then got to meet with him in Israel, and he was really immediately so generous, considering that I had never directed anything before and at that time I was 27. 
I think I had done one short, but I don't even think he saw it. He knew me as an actress a little bit. 
But he was really generous with it, and he asked me to make my own thing. "The book exists, so just don't try to film the book. 
Make your own piece," which was very freeing. 
He had been approached by a few filmmakers in Israel to make the film, and the thing he told me that he didn't like when they adapted the scripts was that they tried to explain why his mother did what she did. 
He said, "Don't try to give an easy explanation. It is a mystery to me still, and I'm still trying to figure it out." It's not something that you can give some kind of pop-psychology. 
At every stage I sent him the script any time I got to a draft that I felt good with. And he would send me notes back, but it was interesting because they were never creative notes. 
It was just, "This was actually December '47, not February '48," those kinds of things. 
Right, which was great because he was the most accurate fact-checker of all — it's his life. 
All of them really influenced me just by working with them and getting the great luck of observing them in action, but I really leaned on them most, I think, during the editing process, where I got to show them the film and get their feedback. 
Absolutely. You have to be careful when you're getting feedback because people will give you conflicting feedback all the time, but ultimately you end up following your own inner guide. 
Darren, in one scene where there are gunshots, I had the boy running before the shots and he was like, "If you put it after, it ups the tension by a thousand," and I was like, "Oh, obviously."  He said it and immediately it became obvious and clear and was so much better. 
Yeah. And I think that was actually something that I saw with Darren a lot when he worked. He was totally open to anyone's suggestions, and if they were good he would take it, and if they were not good he would say, "No, I disagree." It's the best way to be, because there's no ego about who the idea comes from, it's just using the best one. 
It's hard. And I think it was good for me because normally I can't watch myself at all, and watching myself makes me cringe, and I cover my face, and it's very hard to watch. 
I think people who aren't in film experience that when they hear their voice on an answering machine or something. 
So to have to watch myself in a way that was constructively critical was really good for me because it made me a little bit more easy on myself because I wasn't allowed to walk away screaming. 
No. That will never happen. But as a director you have to — you don't have the option of saying, "I'm not watching this." 
I would love to. I don't have a particular plan right now because I've been so focused of getting this into the world that I feel now that it's coming out that I can really think about that more. 
It's really interesting because the issue we have with female directors here is not the case in France at all. 
Especially with the young generation, there are even more women than men making movies right now. 
It's commonplace because it's mainstream, which is great. I can't wait for it to get that way here. 
I think the press is doing a wonderful job of putting the pressure on the decision-makers in Hollywood to support more female directors. 
I hear, more than ever, people actively searching for women to direct, actively wanting to finance women's films, which is not to say it is easy, but I think it's been a great instance of how journalism has put pressure on business to be more fair between genders. 
I don't know if the scripts are changing so much. I mean, I've been working for almost 25 years and made over 40 films and I worked with my first female director, on a feature, last year . 
And it's still the only one. But now I feel like in the past year I'd say I got three or four offers for films that had female directors, so in my career I haven't had that opportunity before. 
That's exciting. 
I read every biography I could get my hands on. There were, like, 20 of them, which was interesting because they are not exactly high literature — they are pulpy. 
It is interesting just generationally that you see that people are much more comfortable, and that's part of life now for this next generation of actors and just people in the world. 
But for those of us who were living when it didn't exist, it feels like the last thing you want to do. 
It's so much unwanted interest in your privacy that you don't want to invite anymore. 
Oh, yeah. And you see the amount of bullying and negativity that goes on that is really, really intense, and I feel lucky that I came of age before all of that came on. 
It was so fun to get to visit as, I guess, a tourist. It's fun to get to try all different things, and it's fun to get to go back and forth. 
I think the important thing is who you work with that makes the experience amazing, no matter if it's big or small. 
I talked about this with a friend of mine. I feel you have to start with "IV" because then all of the revelations — like Darth Vader's the father — are surprises. 
Well, you know, the thing is "I" is very much for kids, but I think for the story you have to start with "IV." 
Yes. Other children make that clear. 
I am so honored to be here today. Dean Khurana, faculty, parents, and most especially graduating students, thank you so much for inviting me.
The Senior Class Committee, it’s genuinely one of the most exciting things I’ve ever been asked to do.
I have to admit primarily because I can’t deny it as it was leaked in the WikiLeaks release of the Sony hack, that when I was invited, I replied, and I directly quote my own email, “Wow!
This is so nice! I’m going to need some funny ghost writers. Any ideas?”
This initial response, now blessedly public was from the knowledge that at my class day we were lucky enough to have Will Ferrell as class day speaker, and that many of us hungover, or even freshly high, mainly wanted to laugh.
So I have to admit that today even 12 years after graduation, I’m still insecure about my own worthiness.
I have to remind myself today you’re here for a reason. Today I feel much like I did when I came to Harvard Yard as a freshman in 1999 when you guys were, to my continued shock and horror, still in kindergarten.
I felt like there had been some mistake that I wasn’t smart enough to be in this company, and that every time I opened my mouth, I would have to prove I wasn’t just a dumb actress.
So I start with an apology. This won’t be very funny. I’m not a comedian.
And I didn’t get a ghost writer. But I am here to tell you today Harvard is giving you all diplomas tomorrow.
You are here for a reason.
Sometimes your insecurities and your inexperience may lead you, too, to embrace other people’s expectations, standards, or values.
But you can harness that inexperience to carve out your own path, one that is free of the burden of knowing how things are supposed to be, a path that is defined by its own particular set of reasons.
The other day I went to an amusement park with my soon-to-be 4-year-old son. And I watched him play arcade games.
He was incredibly focused, throwing his ball at the target. Jewish mother that I am, I skipped 20 steps and was already imagining him as a major league player with what is his aim and his arm and his concentration.
But then I realized that when he won, he was playing to trade in his tickets for the crappy plastic toys.
The prize was much more exciting than the game to get it.
I, of course, wanted to urge him to take joy and the challenge of the game, the improvement upon practice, the satisfaction of doing something well, and even feeling the accomplishment when achieving the game’s goals.
But all of these aspects were shaded by the little 10-cent plastic men with sticky stretchy blue arms that adhere to the walls.
That — that was the prize.
In a child’s nature, we see many of our own innate tendencies. I saw myself in him and perhaps you do, too.
Prizes serve as false idols everywhere, prestige, wealth, fame, power. You’ll be exposed to many of these, if not all.
Of course, part of why I was invited to come to speak today beyond my being a proud alumna is that I’ve recruited some very coveted toys in my life, including a not so plastic, not so crappy one: an Oscar.
So we bump up against a common trope I think of the commencement address people who have achieved a lot telling you that the fruits of the achievement are not always to be trusted.
But I think that contradiction can be reconciled and is in fact instructive. Achievement is wonderful when you know why you’re doing it.
And when you don’t know, it can be a terrible trap.
I went to a public high school on Long Island, Syosset High School. Ooh, hello, Syosset! The girls I went to school with had Prada bags and flat-ironed hair.
And they spoke with an accent I who had moved there at age 9 from Connecticut mimicked to fit in — Florida Oranges, Chocolate cherries.
Since I ’m ancient and the Internet was just starting when I was in high school, people didn’t really pay that much attention to the fact that I was an actress.
I was known mainly at school for having a backpack bigger than I was and always having white-out on my hands because I hated seeing anything crossed out in my notebooks.
I was voted for my senior yearbook “most likely to be a contestant on Jeopardy” or code for nerdiest.
When I got to Harvard just after the release of Star Wars: Episode 1, I knew I would be staring over in terms of how people viewed me.
I feared people would have assumed I’d gotten in just for being famous, and that they would think that I was not worthy of the intellectual rigor here.
