Well, I started in 1944 when I joined the African National Congress Youth League. 
Yes, I was a lawyer as from 1952. 
Yes, I did. I did until, of course, I was -- I went underground, and thereafter, I was arrested. 
Well, terrorism depends on... 
That's right. I was called a terrorist yesterday, but when I came out of jail, many people embraced me, including my enemies, and that is what I normally tell other people who say those who are struggling for liberation in their country are terrorists. 
I tell them that I was also a terrorist yesterday, but, today, I am admired by the very people who said I was one. 
Well, of course, I was -- I appeared in a number of cases, but in the Rivonia trial which sent me to prison, we were charged precisely for terrorist activities. 
Amounting to treason. We could have got a death sentence. 
Well, I think that South Africa was completely isolated by the world as a result of the activities of our people, led by one of the ablest leaders South Africa has produced, people like Oliver Tambo, and they had completely isolated South Africa, and that, during the trial, many countries, like Lord Hume... 
... in London, like people like the president of the Soviet Union at the time, the president of India, and many others made representation that a death sentence should not be imposed. 
Oh, certainly. They gave us life, yes. 
Well, that was in 1964. 
Well, I was... 
We were triumphant because... 
... throughout that trial, we used the courtroom as a platform to address the country and the world. 
No, we expected that. We also expected the death sentence because our lawyers thought it was their duty to tell us that the prosecution was going to ask for a death sentence, especially against some of us... 
... including Mr. Walter Sisulu, myself, Nkova  Mbeki, the father of the present president. 
Well, in court we challenged the government, we said that the government should be in the docket, not us. 
That was our stand. 
Well, it may be. It may be. 
That was the point, because we believed that the death sentence was going to be passed on some of us and, therefore, we should be role models and disappear under a cloud of glory. 
That is what we decided to do. 
Well, I must be frank, one of the things that inspired us in prison was the fact that the ideas for which we were in prison were quite alike, and that our people and the international community were supporting us, but there were moments when it appeared that the government had crushed the resistance inside the country, and it was natural that we should have doubts where that would come out, but those moments were few and far between. 
Well, it's difficult to understand such a phenomenon, but I think that in a country like South Africa where the overwhelming majority of the population were black and that the ruling party merely about 14 percent of the population, they regarded it as the best way to protect white supremacy, to cut us out completely from all the rights of citizenship. 
Well, we did not explain it. We just said... 
... it's wrong and racism is a characteristic feature of South Africa. We must fight it to the death. 
Well, I was first imprisoned in Pretoria, and then, thereafter, I was taken to Robben Island. I stayed there for a couple of weeks. 
I was taken back to Pretoria when I was charged in the Rivonia trial, when I was then sent to Robben Island for life. 
Oh, yes we did. No, we did. And we looked forward to going out to work because if you were on the eastern part of the island, you could then see Cape Town, Table Mountain. 
You could actually see the models moving around and, especially, what is called the Deval Drive . And, it was very lovely to work on that part of the island. 
Because we could then salvage newspapers, which were thrown away. We were not getting newspapers for a long time and we could then get the newspapers, clean them, and go and read them in the evening in prison. 
Well, we had to fight for better treatment. The treatment, at first, was very bad for all of us. But, as a result of the fight that we put up, our situation improved. 
Well, first, we staged a number of hunger strikes and -- which is one of the best weapons which the prisoners had. 
We also refused to carry out humiliating instructions, and were punished for that. And -- but we insisted. 
Yes, we were allowed visitors at first, one visitor every six months, every six months, your close family, your wife or your children or your brothers, but nobody outside that family as now already defined. 
Well, I was surrounded -- I was in prison with highly capable men, some of whom had the highest educational qualifications, who had obtained their degrees overseas, and men who were widely traveled, and it was a real pleasure and inspiration to sit down and get to talk to them. 
And then, secondly, we were able to read very good literature. 
That is true. Well, especially for those of us who lived in single cells, you had the time to sit down and think, and we discovered that sitting down just to think is one of the best ways of keeping yourself fresh and able, to be able to address the problems facing you, and you had the opportunity also, of examining your past. 
You could stand away from yourself in the past and examine whether your behavior was befitting to a person who tried to serve society, and there are many cases in which I felt ashamed of myself. 
Well, when I came to Johannesburg from the countryside, I knew nobody, but many strangers were very kind to me. 
I then was dragged into politics and then, subsequently, I became a lawyer. I became so busy that I never thought about the people who were so kind to me, who made life bearable for me. 
Yes, our wives would visit us, but not in the sense of a conjugal visit, where you can have physical contact with them. 
For a long time, you were separated by a glass wall with the wardens breathing on your shoulders, listening very carefully to what you say. 
Because that privilege was not enjoyed by other prisoners, by my colleagues, and I saw no reason why ... 
No, I -- yes, I was forced because we had been brought up, as I say, in an organization that believed in collective leadership ... 
... collective suffering, and I couldn't enjoy privileges which my own people, my own colleagues in other prisons did not enjoy. 
Well, it is easy. I mean, it's sometimes very difficult. I had to forget about things that you were used to. 
But, prison life, fortunately, I spent a lot of years, about 18 years with other prisoners and, as I say, they enriched your soul. 
The type of conversations we had, the experiences we shared... 
... and, when I went alone then, when I was isolated I was used to it. 
Yes, certainly. Well, that was something very important, which influenced our own approach because, in prison, there was a debate amongst other wardens, some saying, let us be tough on these people to save white supremacy, they must never regard the prison as a five-star hotel. 
Yes, that's true. 
No, no, no, we did that, because in prison, the government settles those things. The top fellows did not care for juniors. 
They treated them, you know, like rags. And we brought about a change, because we looked upon everybody as a human being with hopes and aspirations and that is how we treated them. 
I became aware that I was being released when I was invited by President de Klerk, and I had a discussion with him. 
He took me out of prison. 
To Stainhess , which is the office of the president in Cape Town. 
... de Klerk became president. And when I went to see him because I wanted to convince him that it is important that the government and the aides, they should sit down and negotiate. 
That is when they bought me a new suit and then a warden came in the morning and found that I was not properly dressed and untied my tie, because ... 
That was with P.W. Botha. 
It was de Klerk who let me out. 
Well, he called me at about 6:00 in the afternoon. 
No, in the afternoon. 
No, no, no. They took me to Stainhess again. 
And they then told me that: Look, you're being released on Saturday. We are going to fly you to Cape Town, keep you there for a day or two, and then deliver you to your family. 
So, my attitude was: No, no, no, I want to be released in Victor Verster, the prison where I was, and I don't want to be taken to Johannesburg. 
I'll make my own way. 
It is because I wanted, first and foremost, to greet the people of Cape Town who actually had looked after me and especially, the people of Verster, I mean, of Paari in the district in which my prison -- last prison. 
Yes, no, no, I wanted to go out to there. 
Yes, quite. I was keen to go out, but I wanted my people to arrange for my release so that they can welcome me properly, especially the people of Paari because they looked after me very well and I wanted to have the opportunity for them to come so that I can say to them: Thank you for what you have done for me. 
I, Nelson Mandela, do hereby serve to the faithful of the Republic of South Africa. 
Twenty seven, that's correct, yes. 
No. As I say, our attitude is made up as a result of collective leadership. 
That's right. But, Oliver Tambo, my friend, we were together at Wasages . Then, we formed the Youth League together and, of course, with others, and then, we formed a legal partnership, and I came to know him very closely and to respect him. 
I used to say: If I parted with Oliver Tambo, I would know that I was on the wrong. 
Yes, no, he was the leader of our organization. 
Well, before I walked out of the prison, the SABC phoned ... 
That's right, custom corporation. 
They phoned from the gate to say: Please, when you reach the gate, get out of the car, because we want to photograph you walking toward the gate. 
Yes, thousands. And -- but I had nevertheless walked toward the gate and I could not even see those wardens I had asked to stand at the gate there because of the crowds and... 
No, I was thinking, of course, of freedom, that now I'm going to have the opportunity of joining my beloved family, my children and my people. 
I am now going to do something creative in order to help to speed up the liberation of my people. 
Well, I am concentrating on one aspect, President de Klerk has a place in history, because he had the decision to realize that at the time of apartheid was up, and he had therefore the courage to come out to say: We must release political prisoners. 
We must unban the African National Congress, the Communist Party, Nkuda Wasusi , the PAC. 
Well, you have to understand the thinking of the men around me in prison, especially those who spent long terms of imprisonment. 
They lost an opportunity to serve their people during those years, and they were, therefore, determined to catch up. 
They could only catch up if they were properly focused and concentrating on both things, which will help out the liberation of their people. 
I am not the only one who did not want revenge. Almost all my colleagues in prison did not want revenge, because there is no time to do anything else except to try and save your people. 
No, because one has to take into account that many people in the situation in which we were -- a promotion to higher position depended on the extent to which you supported apartheid and, therefore, good people would have the attitude -- had the attitude -- a forced attitude of saying, "I want promotion. 
Therefore, I must do what my superiors want me to do." 
Oh, yes. Our experience in jail made us understand that because some of the wardens spoke openly to us, and they became friendly, and they wouldn't do anything to us which was below our dignity. 
Oh, yes. I did. I... 
No, not a professional, but amateur. And, of course, our hero in those days was Joe Louis, people like Joe Walcott... 
KING: Oh, you know them all, huh? 
These were our heroes. 
Oh, well, Muhammad Ali is a young man, but.. 
Muhammad Ali, Joe Frazier -- those are legends, and they are people who also are political, because every time I came to the United States of America, they gave me a lot of support, people like Evander Holyfield, like Mike Tyson, like Sugar Ray Leonard, they were all very good to us. 
Oh, yes. Absolutely. Bill Clinton and I became friendly long before either of us became president, and he helped me a great deal. 
Well, I regard him, by the way, as one of the best leaders of the United States of America. 
Now, that's an important question, because when I was asked to be president, I refused because I was 75 and I said South Africa needs a young man because our politics are very robust, and I preferred personally either the present president, Thabo Mbeki, or Sero Romapulsa , and -- but I was forced to take the position. 
Especially because Oliver Tambo, who really overshadowed all of us in his wisdom, his commitment, his humility, but he had the stroke and he eventually died. 
I wouldn't say that because you had people like Walter Sisulu. You had... 
Well, I was... 
Well, I was made so by my organization. They deliberately decided to use me in order to mobilize the organization and the international community. 
Yes, right. Yes. 
Yes, quite. Well, I sympathize with Mayor Giuliani, but my former wife is a remarkable person whom I respect even today. 
She suffered a great deal and kept the name Mandela alive when I was in jail. She also looked after my children and played a very prominent role in the struggle, but there were certain personal things I will not go into which made it difficult for us to live together. 
But she is a remarkable lady. 
No, I enjoyed it more because of the people around me, but I must indicate to you, right from the beginning, the President Thabo Mbeki played a very important role. 
I came from prison. He never enjoyed the Youth. He went abroad and helped the president, Oliver Tambo. 
He was able to meet heads of states. 
In exile, yes. 
Well, that's an important question, because if you are talking about the government in the United States of America or somewhere in Europe, you are dealing with people who are prepared... 
... for governance, who went to the best schools, and who had parents with a high level of education. 
OK. KING: We'll be right back with Nelson Mandela and answer that question of why it worked and then some current things right after this. 
Well, I say that, that is a question you must always consider, because we had no experience in governance whatsoever. 
Our people were in exile, others were working underground under difficult conditions, still others were in jail. 
Then, suddenly,  were asked to run this country, but -- excuse me -- our people had the experience of mobilizing the international community, being in touch with government leaders, and they acquired a practical experience in running affairs, and that is why they became so successful as a government, even though they had no previous training in government. 
I try to -- it's unfair to attribute what happened in South Africa to all individuals. I played a part as part of a team, and... 
No, the ego lies in the fact that I share it with men and women, some of whom are more capable than me. 
That is my ego. 
Oh, yes, absolutely. 
Well, I am going to discuss this matter with President Clinton tomorrow, because that the solution for that situation is that the Nigerian army, which is conversant with the situation, should go back and defend it, and they are the people who have got the experience and who can deal with this rebel in an effective and ruthless manner, but that they must be given resources to do so. 
Well, I would welcome America sending its troops. I would welcome that. And I believe -- I haven't ascertained this, but yesterday I got the information that actually Britain has put its army inside Sierra Leone. 
Not only to rescue its nationals, but I believe they're inside Sierra Leone. 
But I will still ascertain this, because I got it from a reliable source yesterday. Now, if that happens, then I know that the days of the rebels and all their destructive activities are numbered. 
I meet with the president tomorrow. 
Well, I can't remember now. 
No, I have five -- six grandchildren, and two passed away. I now have four. But I have 29 grandchildren and six great grandchildren. 
Well, I went to Mozambique in 1990 when I returned from the United States of America. I went around Africa and I also went to Mozambique. 
That's how I met her. I knew of her because her husband, the late Samura Merced , was one of the outstanding African statesmen and he was my hero. 
And although he came up while I was still in jail -- but he was a remarkable man. And then when I went to Mozambique I asked to see his wife, and so, that's how we met. 
Oh, very happy indeed, very, very happy. She's a wonderful lady. 
No, I am retired. I have left everything now to President Thabo Mbeki, who is doing a remarkable job. 
But I do things on the fringes and -- which I enjoy. 
Well, not that I like traveling. I prefer staying at home, writing my memoirs of the presidential years. 
Yes, I'm doing that. But I could not avoid going to Burundi, because I was asked by the leaders of the Great Lakes, as well as President Thabo Mbeki to undertake this role, and I couldn't say no. 
But after Burundi, I think I'll have more time to stay at home. 
Now, my health, I'm on top of the world. 
Well, I'm now 82 -- I'll be 82 in July. 
No, no, no, everything is all right. I have a regular medical check-ups and they say I won't die this week. 
Yes, my knees, they was injured in jail, and it chipped and little bone between the joints. And so, there has been an argument between my doctors, the military wanted to give me an artificial , but my cardiologist said: Do you get pains? 
I said: No, I have no pains, except perhaps when I walk up the steps or going down. But if I'm walking, it doesn't hurt. 
There are no pains at all. And he says: no operation. 
Yes, go ahead. 
No, that must be left to future generations, because what happens today may not be shared by future generations. 
So, it's better for us to leave to others to charge the role which one has played. 
Yes, I like to do that. 
I always like to go back on to Robben Island and go on to Pollsmoor, I go to Victor Verster, and I like visiting other prisons, to see people and to make them happy. 
Thank you, Larry. Thank you very much. It has been my pleasure. 
Before I went to jail, I was active in politics as a member of South Africa's leading organization—and I was generally busy from 7 A.M. 
until midnight. I never had time to sit and think. As I worked, physical and mental fatigue set in and I was unable to operate to the maximum of my intellectual ability. 
But in a single cell in prison, I had time to think. I had a clear view of my past and present, and I found that my past left much to be desired, both in regard to my relations with other humans and in developing personal worth. 
When I reached Johannesburg in the 1940s, I was neglected by my family because I had disappointed them—I'd run away from being forced into an arranged marriage, which was a big blow to them. 
In Johannesburg, many people were kind to me—but when I finished my studies and qualified as a lawyer, I got busy with politics and never thought of them. 
It was only when I was in jail that I wondered, "What happened to so-and-so? Why didn't I go back and say thank you?" I had become very small and had not behaved like a human who appreciates hospitality and support. 
I decided that if I ever got out of prison, I would make it up to those people or to their children and grandchildren. 
That is how I was able to change my life—by knowing that if somebody does something good for you, you have to respond. 
And that is what I am doing now—responding. There is nothing I fear more than waking up without a program that will help me bring a little happiness to those with no resources, those who are poor, illiterate, and ridden with terminal disease. 
If there is anything that will one day kill me, it will be the inability to help them. If I can spend a tiny part of my life making them happy, I'll be happy. 
In particular, it's about building schools, clinics, and community halls and arranging scholarships for children. 
And of course, I have duties to my family. 
That is not uppermost in my mind, but I will use the rest of my life to help the poor overcome the problems confronting them—poverty is the greatest challenge facing humanity. 
That is why I build schools; I want to free people from poverty and illiteracy. 
Not seeing them may be why I've developed an obsession with children—I missed seeing any for 27 years. 
It's one of the most severe punishments prison life can impose, because children are the most important asset in a country. 
For them to become that asset, they must receive education and love from their parents. And when you are in jail, you are unable to give those things to your children. 
My family, of course. And I missed my people. In many respects, people on the outside suffered more than those of us in jail. 
In prison, we ate three times a day, we had clothing, we had free medical services, and we could sleep for 12 hours. 
Others did not enjoy these things. 
We had our ways of communicating with the outside. And though we would get the news two or three days after it had happened, we still got it. 
Because we became friendly with certain wardens, we'd ask them, "Can't you take us to the rubbish dump?" Newspapers were dumped there, and we'd clean them off, hide them, and take them back to our cells to read. 
No country can really develop unless its citizens are educated. Any nation that is progressive is led by people who have had the privilege of studying. 
I knew we could improve our lives even in jail. We could come out as different men, and we could even come out with two degrees. 
Educating ourselves was a way to give ourselves the most powerful weapon for freedom. 
All I can say is that I was less foolish than I was when I went in. I equipped myself by reading literature, especially classic novels such as The Grapes of Wrath. 
When I closed that book, I was a different man. It enriched my powers of thinking and discipline, and my relationships. 
I left prison more informed than when I went in. And the more informed you are, the less arrogant and aggressive you are. 
Of course. In my younger days, I was arrogant—jail helped me to get rid of it. I did nothing but make enemies because of my arrogance. 
Ignorance—and a person's inability to see what unites us instead of only those things that divide us. 
A good leader can engage in a debate frankly and thoroughly, knowing that at the end he and the other side must be closer, and thus emerge stronger. 
You don't have that idea when you are arrogant, superficial, and uninformed. 
That's true. When there is danger, a good leader takes the front line; but when there is celebration, a good leader stays in the back of the room. 
Sometimes a leader has to criticize those with whom he works—it cannot be avoided. I like a leader who can, while pointing out a mistake, bring up the good things the other person has done. 
If you do that, then the person sees that you have a complete picture of him. There is nobody more dangerous than one who has been humiliated, even when you humiliate him rightly. 
Back then I was used to it, and I could do all sorts of things in there, like exercise every morning and evening. 
But now that I'm on the outside, I don't know how we survived it—the space was so small. 
That's true, but we challenged that rule. The officers who were senior to the wardens treated them like vermin, but because we treated the wardens with respect, they helped us. 
Once the cells were locked and the senior officers went away, the wardens allowed us to do anything except open the cell doors, because they didn't have keys. 
They let us speak to those in the cells opposite us. As a result of the way we treated the wardens, they tended to become good people. 
There is no doubt whatsoever, provided you are able to arouse the goodness inherent in every human. 
Those of us in the fight against apartheid changed many people who hated us because they discovered that we respected them. 
You must understand that individuals get caught up in the policy of their country. In prison, for instance, a warden or officer is not promoted if he doesn't follow the policy of the government—though he himself does not believe in that policy. 
Absolutely. When I went to jail, I was a trained lawyer. And when the wardens received letters of demands or summonses, they didn't have the resources to go to an attorney to help them. 
I would help them settle their cases, so they became attached to me and the other prisoners. 
My colleagues and I did not want to speak to the apartheid rulers at all, but some of us did the type of work that brought us into contact with our oppressors. 
For instance, when blacks were forced to leave Johannesburg and go back to their homelands, a man would come to me and say, "Help me. 
I have lost my job. I have a wife and children in school, and I am now required to leave my home." As a lawyer, I would go to the top authorities and say, "Look, I'm approaching you as a human, and here is my problem. 
I have to rely on you." Invariably, the person would allow the man to look for a job. So I discovered even before I went to jail that apartheid was not run by people who were monolithic in their approach. 
Some of them didn't even believe in apartheid. 
That principle influenced me throughout my life. I learned to have the patience to listen when people put forward their views, even if I think those views are wrong. 
You can't reach a just decision in a dispute unless you listen to both sides, ask questions, and view the evidence placed before you. 
If you don't allow people to contribute, to offer their point of view, or to criticize what has been put before them, then they can never like you. 
And you can never build that instrument of collective leadership. 
No. When I was told, "You'll be released as soon as you renounce violence," I said, "You started violence—our violence is a defense. 
The methods of political action that oppressed people use are determined by the oppressor." And I didn't want to leave jail under conditions. 
I also wouldn't allow myself to be singled out from my colleagues. 
Our people outside of prison used my name to mobilize the community locally and internationally. But for me to be treated separately from my colleagues, who had contributed as much as and even more than I had, would have been a betrayal of them. 
I'm not just saying this out of humility, but some of those men were more intelligent and more determined as fighters for freedom than I was. 
We always knew that one day we would be released—we just did not know when. The prison would send a warden to say to us, "Give me your names, the places you came from, and exactly where you'd go if you were released." Sometimes the wardens would tell us, "You chaps cannot be kept, because the whole world is insisting that you be released." 
Yes. And my fellow prisoners and I knew that the international community was supporting us. 
Yes. When I was inside the prison, I told the wardens to come to the gate with their families because I wanted to thank them. 
I honestly thought they would be the only people who would be at the gate! I had no idea that I would meet a huge crowd. 
If you are humble, you are no threat to anybody. Some behave in a way that dominates others. That's a mistake. 
If you want the cooperation of humans around you, you must make them feel they are important—and you do that by being genuine and humble. 
You know that other people have qualities that may be better than your own. Let them express them. 
That is a truism. 
As much as possible. My wife and I don't celebrate family days in Johannesburg, though we have a home there. 
My eldest son died in a car accident while I was in jail, and— 
No. We buried him in Johannesburg, but later my wife said, "That child must be buried in Qunu, next to your father." I also lost a daughter who died when she was a baby, and she was buried here. 
So Graça told me, "You must have a day with the family in Qunu, when you aren't running around the world. 
You can invite your children, your grandchildren, and your close relatives to come and bond." 
When I first saw this lady, it was not a question of love. I regarded her as the wife of a president I had never met. 
I respected her very much. 
Oh, very much. She is more stable than me, she does not get easily excited—and she keeps on warning me not to be overly enthusiastic in my work. 
She is a very good adviser, both on family issues and things of an international nature because she has traveled all over the world. 
We all struggled with it, especially since we were dealing with an enemy who was more powerful than us. 
But because we wanted to avoid slaughtering each other, we had to suppress our feelings. That is the only way to bring about a peaceful transformation. 
True, but we must teach people that when they've been wronged, they must talk to their enemies and resolve their differences for the sake of peace. 
I want to continue the work I'm doing. In some areas, poor people haven't had proper roads, electricity, water, or even toilets. 
But things are changing. The whole process will take many years. 
You are very generous, Oprah. All I can tell you is that if I am the person you say I am, I was not always that man. 
I know that my wife will always support me. And I know that, throughout the world, there are good men and women concerned with the greatest challenges facing society today—poverty, illiteracy, and disease. 
No. Shakespeare put it very well: "Cowards die many times before their deaths; the valiant never taste of death but once. 
Of all the wonders that I yet have heard, it seems to me most strange that men should fear; seeing that death, a necessary end, will come when it will come." When you believe that, you disappear under a cloud of glory. 
Your name lives beyond the grave—and that is my approach. 
