But we’re not coming out. 
I’m going to answer your question but you gotta stop talking. 
Flex. I need you to breathe. You’re not even listening and I need you to simma. 
For three hours, we emailed , and actually, my manager was the first person to tell me: Yo, you’re not going on that stage. 
Wayne was the second person. For three hours, we could not get a resolution. G. 
Roberson emailed me, and said: Hey, I need you on the phone. Ebro said ‘Let me get to the bottom of this.’ You know I love Ebro. 
After he sent that email, we never heard back. 
Flex. Flex. My label and program was reaching out to the manager. 
Ohhhhh. Ohhh. Okay. 
He tried to embarrass me, but I can’t embarrass you. 
Flex, if you’re gonna just say wrong information blatantly like that, then ask me a question, because I’m not here to play games. 
Well, I want you to know that we wanted to do the show. 
Do you see the kind of places I’ve gone to? Did you see how many people we were with yesterday? We were two-hundred deep. 
Let’s not go there. There isn’t a bitch alive—and when I say bitch, I include men, because you’re a bitch when you act like that—that could scare me from performing a show. 
I get money. I get money. Flex… 
Flex…I’m not even going to say what could’ve happened yesterday, and please don’t interrupt. Relax. 
Relax. This is the real reason why I called you. You said something about my record sales. 
And I want you to pull up your roster from everyone who was performing on your show. My first album sold 375,000 copies in its first week. 
My first album has gone on to sell 3.5 million records. My second album is at 900,000 worldwide, plus a three million selling single. 
If you don’t know, call Matt Voss at Universal, Flex, do the math, m-a-t-h, that’s one-point-two-million on my second album. 
Even without the single, I’ve sold. Three. Point. 
Five. Million. Albums. 
In Two Years. I want you before you ever open your mouth—it’s so misleading, when I saw Foxy Brown, she said, Nic, why are they saying things about your sales when you’ve gone number one in four countries? 
You know who the last one to do that was, Flex? The person previous to me was Eminem in 2010. 
I appreciate that you owned that. 
I appreciate that. But let me say this: In the history of the hip hop world…there has been one, single, solitary human being in the history of the world. 
One female rapper to sell more albums than me in the first week. 
That’s right. So I’m gonna have a free show, for my fans, sometime this summer, in New York. 
I need you to simma. Listen, Flex. I need you to calm down. 
Capital Y. Capital E. Capital S. 
R-E-S-P-E-C-T. 
I just spelled it out for you. People are gonna know the truth. And every woman is going to know. 
People are laughing, Flex. They’re gonna know the truth. 
Yes, but Flex… 
Flex, I’m getting off the phone. All you’re doing is talking over me. 
I love my team. And you gotta respect that. 
I got it, I got your feelings. Are you gonna let me talk? You’ve already made your opinion clear, and nobody’s opinions seem to be changing. 
I just want to apologize to my fans for what happened last night, and like I said on Twitter, I’m going to make it up to them with a free concert. 
And they said you know what Hot 97? When you want our team to come to your show, treat us with respect. 
And that’s all we’re asking. We’re not asking for any special treatment. Just respect. 
And I’m very proud of my team, and the way they stood behind me—and I’m very happy to show my female fans in that audience, and even my gay fans in that audience, when I’m coming to your home, respect me. 
It’s no longer comedy. Wayne doesn’t take me as a joke. 
Yes! Flex, I’m telling you the response to that was it got to an all-time level of disrespect. 
I stand behind it! No, no radio station that allows someone to disrespect me before I go on stage deserves an apology. 
And I know you respect it. Say it. 
Flex, we’re talking in circles. 
Yes. We can do that. All I ask is next time we go forward, we get respected. 
We need to know that the person who disrespected me is going to apologize—I don’t need an apology, I just need…. 
I’m gonna have to talk to Wayne, and Baby, and…. 
Were you wrong, or not? 
When you said something about the streets, and sales, I just want you to know that I’m never mad when you don’t like something, but when you give facts to the world, they take what you say as the truth. 
What, the whole pop thing? 
It’s not about pop, Flex. It’s about disrespecting an artist. 
Just run the entire interview. Don’t chop nothing else. I will tell you this one last thing: When I sat in the restaurant last night with my team, Beanie said, Nicki: Do you know what would happen if someone in Jamaica went on stage last night before I performed to the crowd? 
He said niggas would be in the hos-pit-al. But let me tell you: Nothing is worse than going home and having not played a gig. 
I just wanna leave with saying this: I’m gonna make this up to my fans. And I want my fans to know, nothing, no radio station, no one can alter our relationship. 
I have a very personal relationship with my fans, and I’m truly sorry that people’s nights were ruined. 
You guys have no idea, I’ve gone through hell and back. I’m not a quitter. I show up and perform. 
I went with my team’s decision, and I made history, and the next time I come out, people won’t disrespect me. 
And for once, I feel like I’ve really really shown the world, I love and respect myself, and people aren’t gonna go there any more. 
And you know what, Flex? Hit me on the email, it’s all good. 
Okay. Just put up this whole interview and we’re fine. Okay? 
I knew for the album, of course, I would have to discuss certain things or whatever. I just didn’t intend on it being a single.
A lot of times people forget that I do a lot of features, and so these are not my actual songs. These are not songs from my album.
And so sometimes people forget the kind of music that I’m able to create because it’s been a long time since they heard an album, and most of the times they get those kind of cuts on the album.
This time when I heard the beat, the first thing I did was I wrote the hook. And when I wrote the hook, to me, it felt it was… The vibe of it was really talking about a loss, a real loss you know.
But to not make the song feel only directed at one kind of loss. When I wrote the singing verse, I tried to expand it and think even about relationships.
And then by the time I got to the rap, it was like I had included all relationships that I had lost before, because I mentioned even best friends and stuff like that.
I just wanted the next song that I put out, Zane, to represent my growth, but not just as an artist, but as a human being.
I’ve experienced so many things that I hadn’t experienced five years ago, and that’s just the truth.
Zane, I meant to tell you, you mentioned Drake. You know I have a song on Drake’s album as well coming out soon too.
So it was funny that you mentioned him. I love the song so much. I’ll just say I really love the song.
I know my fans are going to love the song. I know the world’s going to love the song. And that’s all I will say about that.
But, no, Zane, Barbz, make sure y’all let Drizzy Drake know that Pink Friday 2 is coming out November 17th as well.
And we are waiting on his contribution.
I haven’t spoken to anybody about this particular part outside of super really close friends, I guess.
But I had just had my first child. The last thing I thought I was going to have to do when I just gave birth to my first child was to start preparing for my father’s funeral.
If there were a billion quadrillion things that I could have thought would’ve been happening in my life, if somebody gave me a billion options to choose, that would not have been the option that I thought I would’ve been experiencing.
And I’ll get into certain things even more, but I won’t do that right, right now. But yes, you are the first person that mentioned that, and it’s very true.
In fact, a lot of people that I knew, even when I lived in Queens, a lot of people would, right around the time that they either got pregnant or had their first baby or either baby, second, third, they had lost someone super close to them.
And I don’t understand why though
What kind of keeps me grounded with that is because when I look at my son, I can’t be angry at the universe.
I can’t be angry at God because I realize he’s given me all these blessings, so I have to take the good with the bad, you know?
The end of the song, I remember I didn’t have an outro like that. It was a outro, but it wasn’t that.
And I remember Wendy came and Josh came to hear the song and they were like, “Gosh, we kind of want to hear the hook again.” And I was like, “No, I don’t want to hear the hook again.
It’s fine how it ends,” and dah, dah, dah. But then I said, “You know what, Juice? Let me go in real quick.” And I said, “You know what?
Let me just freestyle and see what comes.” I said, “Because I can’t just put a generic, the same exact hook and just go, ‘Bye-bye.'” No.
And I went in the booth, Wendy and Josh were sitting right there. Juice was here as well. And I just said it, but I wanted to say it in kind of a different way, and then out came in the third to last line, “I knew the moment that I’d always adore you”, which is a line that I’m not saying on the hook-
… but it felt so right coming at the end. Just knowing everybody in the world will be able to relate to this is what makes me happy.
Because again, if you’re not a major
People don’t realize how scary it can be for an artist to try something new no matter how big of an artist it is.
Meaning, even though I’ve always been writing songs like this, I don’t tend to make them singles.
Where the climate of music is right now, I felt it was needed right now. I felt that if I don’t take the risk, that I’m just as bad as everyone else who I think should make a change.
And not only artists, but people behind the scenes. Because the truth of the matter is people are experiencing real life every day.
Believe it or not, people are going through real shit every day. So just because they don’t have that music out to express it, it doesn’t mean they’re not experiencing it.
I feel like I’ve definitely cracked the code to something that gives a person peace no matter what’s going on around them.
There’s peace within them. I feel like I’ve cracked the code. I am not perfect.
I didn’t get the master’s degree in it yet, but I think becoming a mom… Well, becoming a mom definitely gives you more patience with people Because you realize that people are owed that grace.
You owe it to other people because you always want people to bestow grace upon you whenever you fuck up.
And I know because I fuck up a lot. But anyway, so you learn patience and you learn that the things that money couldn’t buy when you look back.
Yes, I know everybody’s going to say, “Oh, people with money always say…” Trust me, anybody watching this, when you get money, because you will experience getting money, you will understand, you’ll understand why people say the things that money can’t buy are the things that make us happy.
You know what I’m saying?
…anybody who’s on that journey, you are welcome to take it with me. I would love for you to experience this journey together with me and the Barbz and on Pink Friday.
Pink Friday 2. Of course, it’s never going to be any album where it’s only going to be one kind of song.
I feel really good because being in a happier place for me mentally means that I’m also able to, I feel, write and create faster and better.
So I’m not mad at it. I’m blessed that people still even care about what I’m doing. That’s the other thing.
I want to make sure I don’t take that for granted. Me even having people anticipate an album… My first album came out in 2010.
My first mixtape came out in 2007. So the fact that people even care is a blessing. And I want to tell everybody that’s watching this, thank you from the bottom of my heart for everything you guys have done.
And that’s why I’m putting quality.
I could have been put this album out. I could have been… Some of the songs I wrote four years ago when I thought I was going to put an album out.
But no. No. I refuse to do it.
I feel like as a leader in anything, you have to be willing to take those kind of risks that you know that you’re not guaranteed to win at, but it’s going to shift the motherfucking culture because if you ain’t going to do it, who will?
I would never see any female rapper wearing pink hair,” she said. “Pink hair became a part of that starter kit.
Every female rapper will put on a pink wig at some point. And I remember that was just the Nicki Minaj thing.
That’s why when I said ‘pink wig, thick ass’—that’s an iconic Nicki Minaj line because that’s what she wears.
In my opinion, rap is the only culture that, from the beginning of time, has been vilified. From the very beginning, we have been treated like the bad guy.
… We’re held to a different level of judgment.
The same way I feel I should have already been on the cover of American Vogue, so should Lil’ Kim.
