One evening, a male friend hosting a house party was interrupted by a frantic call from the princess, who was threatening to commit suicide by throwing herself from her bedroom window.
Panicked, the gentleman rang up the queen, who remained unfazed by her sister's dramatics. With characteristic sangfroid Her Majesty informed the caller to "carry on with your house party.
Her bedroom is on the ground floor.
It only increased Margaret's dislike of her name when young Elizabeth, whom the family called Lilibet, insisted on referring to her baby sister as "Bud".
"She's not a real rose yet, is she? She's only a bud." Elizabeth, who was four years Margaret's senior, pertly told Lady Cynthia Asquith.
It was psychologically natural for the lively younger sister to become the royal equivalent of the enfant terrible.
My children are not royal, they just happen to have the Queen as their aunt.
Which one? My sister, my mother or my husband?
Silly ass. The land would be much more valuable today.
The Queen is the only person who can put on a tiara with one hand, while walking down stairs.
I have as much privacy as a goldfish in a bowl.
When my sister and I were growing up, she was made out to be the goody-goody one.
I have always had a dread of becoming a passenger in life.
It was the usual 'zoo tea.' You know, we eat - the others watch.
When my sister and I were growing up, she was made out to be the goody-goody one.
I would like it to be known that I have decided not to marry Group Capt. Peter Townsend. Mindful of the church's teaching that Christian marriage is indissoluble, and conscious of my duty to the Commonwealth, I have resolved to put these considerations before any others.
I'm the heir apparent to the heir presumptive.
I have no intention of telling people what I have for breakfast.
In our family, we don't have rifts. We have a jolly good row and then it's all over. And I've only twice ever had a row with my sister.
I am deeply grateful for the concern of all those who constantly prayed for my happiness.
Disobedience is my joy!
