Once again messages of Christmas greeting have been exchanged around the world.
From all parts of the Commonwealth, and from the remote and lonely spaces of Antarctica, words and thoughts, taking their inspiration from the birth of the child in Bethlehem long ago, have been carried between us upon the invisible wings of twentieth-century science.
Neither the long and troubled centuries that have passed since that child was born, nor the complex scientific developments of our age, have done anything to dim the simple joy and bright hope we all feel when we celebrate his birthday.
That joy and hope find their most complete fulfilment within the loving circle of a united family.
You will understand me, therefore, when I tell you that of all the voices we have heard this afternoon none has given my children and myself greater joy than that of my husband.
To him I say: "From all the members of the family gathered here today our very best good wishes go out to you and to every one on board Britannia, as you voyage together in the far Southern seas.
Happy Christmas from us all."
Of course it is sad for us to be separated on this day, and of course we look forward to the moment when we shall all again be together.
Yet my husband's absence at this time has made me even more aware than I was before of my own good fortune in being one of a united family.
With that consciousness in mind, I would like to send a special message of hope and encouragement to all who are not so blessed, or for any reason cannot be with those they love today: to the sick who cannot be at home; to all who serve their country in foreign lands, or whose duty keeps them upon the oceans; and to every man or woman whose destiny it is to walk through life alone.
Particularly on this day of the family festival let us remember those who - like the Holy Family before them - have been driven from their homes by war or violence.
We call them 'refugees': let us give them a true refuge: let us see that for them and their children there is room at the Inn.
If my husband cannot be at home on Christmas Day, I could not wish for a better reason than that he should be travelling in other parts of the Commonwealth.
On his journey he has returned to many places that we have already visited together, and he has been to others that I have never seen.
On the voyage back to England he will call at some of the least accessible parts of the world, those islands of the South Atlantic separated from us by immense stretches of the ocean, yet linked to us with bonds of brotherhood and trust.
One idea above all others has been the mainspring of this journey. It is the wish to foster, and advance, concord and understanding within the Commonwealth.
No purpose comes nearer to my own desires, for I believe that the way in which our Commonwealth is developing represents one of the most hopeful and imaginative experiments in international affairs that the world has ever seen.
If, as its Head, I can make any real personal contribution towards its progress, it must surely be to promote its unity.
We talk of ourselves as a "family of nations", and perhaps our relations with one another are not so very different from those which exist between members of any family.
We all know that these are not always easy, for there is no law within a family which binds its members to think, or act, or be alike.
And surely it is this very freedom of choice and decision which gives exceptional value to friendship in times of stress and disagreement.
Such friendship is a gift for which we are truly and rightly grateful.
None the less, deep and acute differences, involving both intellect and emotion, are bound to arise between members of a family and also between friend and friend, and there is neither virtue nor value in pretending that they do not.
In all such differences, however, there comes a moment when, for the sake of ultimate harmony, the healing power of tolerance, comradeship and love must be allowed to play its part.
I speak of a tolerance that is not indifference, but is rather a willingness to recognise the possibility of right in others; of a comradeship that is not just a sentimental memory of good days past, but the certainty that the tried and staunch friends of yesterday are still in truth the same people today; of a love that can rise above anger and is ready to forgive.
That each one of us should give this power a chance to do its work is my heartfelt message to you all upon this Christmas Day.
I can think of no better resolve to make, nor any better day on which to make it. Let us remember this during our festivities, for it is part of the Christmas message - "Goodwill toward men".
I wish you all a Happy Christmas and a Happy New Year.
Is everyone here called Jones?
Dontopedalogy is the science of opening your mouth and putting your foot in it, a science which I have practised for a good many years.
Looks like the kind of thing my daughter would bring back from her school art lessons.
British women can't cook.
I would very much like to go to Russia - although the bastards murdered half my family.
We go into the red next year... I shall have to give up polo.
What do you gargle with, pebbles?
Everybody was saying we must have more leisure... Now... they are complaining they are unemployed.
You are a woman, aren't you?
If you stay here much longer you'll all be slitty-eyed.
It looks like a tart's bedroom.
Oh no, I might catch some ghastly disease.
You can't have been here that long, you haven't got a pot belly.
People usually say that after a fire it is water damage that is the worst. We are still trying to dry out Windsor Castle.
You're not wearing mink knickers are you?
Aren't most of you descended from pirates?
How do you keep the natives off the booze long enough to pass the test?
If a cricketer, for instance, suddenly decided to go into a school and batter a lot of people to death with a cricket bat, which he could do very easily, I mean, are you going to ban cricket bats?
Bloody silly fool!
I don't know how they are going to integrate in places like Glasgow and Sheffield - had to commiserate with them.
You managed not to get eaten then?
Deaf? If you are near there, no wonder you are deaf.
It looks as if it was put in by an Indian.
Oh! You're the people ruining the rivers and the environment.
And what exotic part of the world do you come from?
It's a vast waste of space.
Get me a beer. I don't care what kind it is, just get me a beer.
The North East? You want to stop letting the bloody Japs take all your jobs.
You're too fat to be an astronaut.
Cantankerous old sod
What do you want to go to Wales for?
Still throwing spears?
You look like a suicide bomber.
Are you Tigers?
Not a lot, judging by the tie he is wearing.
Are we going to need ear plugs?
Do you know they now do eating dogs for the anorexic?
So who's on drugs here?
The problem with London is the tourists. They cause the congestion. They block the streets.
You look like you're ready for bed.
Were you here in the bad old days, then? That's why you can't read and write then.
I will pass on that, if you don't mind.
Young people are the same as they always were. They are just as ignorant.
Romania? You didn't go across to help in one of those orphanages, did you?
Absolute bloody nuisances. They're a pain in the neck.
Are you a pauper?
There's a cord sticking out of the back. Might you tell me where it goes?
Tourism is just national prostitution.
I thought Eastern women just sit around smoking pipes and eating sweets all day.
There's a lot of your family in tonight.
Well, you didn't design your beard too well, did you?
Can you tell the difference between them?
What did you do in the war?
Are you all one family? Did you come over for just this one show?
Do you have a pair of knickers made out of this?
Do you work in a strip club?
Are you running away from something?
You don't believe in fairy tales do you?
I would get arrested if I unzipped that dress.
How many people have you knocked over this morning on that thing?
The Philippines must be half empty as you're all here running the NHS.
go to school because their parents don't want them in the house.
Well, most stripping is.
You should get wheels.
You can't be very successful; you're not wearing a tie.
At least you're all legitimate.
Who do you sponge off?
I suppose you've got to announce in an English accent so everyone can understand you.
You can't claim any of them back. Besides, we check your luggage before you go.
What makes you think anyone is listening?
It's been open. Maybe today it is more open than usual.
When are they going to throw you out?
Are you sure you can afford it?
You look starved.
