Because she was a stunner. 
And we have to do the show. 
OK. Right. Get me a big wide shot and tell him we'll be right there. 
Live with Larry King. 
Just one of Larry's wives. Just one. 
all of a sudden it became a James Bond movie. 
No, you're right there. 
brace yourself. 
I'm so happy to see you back from Paris. I love the fact, the liberacion du Paris. 
Oh. Oh. Oh, you were -- oh, you were with -- with her -- 
Not in Paris. Oh, great. A different show. 
But I saw this thing. She -- it's nice. You -- she finished sentences, which is lovely. 
It was kind of nice to see her get out going this is so much fun. 
I think Britney -- you've just got to keep her away from a razor for a while. 
If you're going bazillion, you don't go commando and you -- and you don't get out of a limousine like you're sliding into third, you know? 
Went through it, yes. 
I wasn't -- oh, I had a little problem with alcohol. It wasn't really a problem. Everybody had it. 
But it was the idea of -- 
Yes, I was an alcoholic, a drunk. 
Well, that's nice of you to say that. 
Yes. You know, you wake up in a field with a road flare nicely placed. 
Oh, shhhh. It's going to be fun. 
What happens is people basically start the process of, you know, just saying no and being among others, you know and learning that you're not alone and working on giving up, you know, giving up -- that you could do it yourself, because everyone is saying yes, I -- I've got this under control, Gary. 
You keep going because there's this strange secret organization that you go to. 
Yes. Don't say it. Shhhh. 
It's unanimous. And you go to those and, you know, you find other people who have done things that made you look Amish. 
No, you find it. You're with people who have a great sense of humor. 
Oh, yes. You've got to be. One guy who -- his name shall remain nameless, hence the name -- the idea that he tried to commit suicide and he put a little tube in his car to pump the gas, you know, pump the fumes in, but only had a quarter tank of gas. 
So, you know, it's a bit of a kind of a gallows humor. But, you know, like all those people -- they all -- they'll tell stories about, you know -- 
Yes, somewhat. 
Yes, sometimes. I mean you can be funny with it. You know, the idea of -- I wasn't in with Mel. 
They thought, you know, for me, it was kind of ironic that Mel got busted by the only Jewish highway patrolman. 
You have to think god's I saw "The Passion," let's see what happens. Good luck. 
Bolake mala zemen . 
No, Larry, it's always there. 
It's crazy. It must be all guys who were in Paris, the original, the city, going, "I was there at the liberation." 
Yes, well show you -- 
You go by weight. If the script has a nice weight, a nice piece of fish and a nice script. If it makes you laugh and it's a comedy, that's a good sign. 
If you read a script and go that's funny, that's helpful. 
They won't let me hold the babies, what's wrong? 
Well, you're good, you're good. Well, yes, it's like that. 
Yes, you play that kind of, you know, the sociopath that -- 
-- who wants to . 
Very much. It's great because you get to explore things like a sociopath. You get to explore behavior that you would have to do time for in some states. 
O.J. You know where you are, you know? 
No, because you've already kind of -- you have to concentrate more doing comedy and you're also not afraid. 
You know, comics will go out and say those things that, you know -- 
Big time, you know? Bill Maher had a great quote and I don't know if we'll be able to use, but good luck. 
He said that people have asked me, have you ever heard Ann Coulter scream? 
I think that's allowed. You can say -- 
You can say Coulter. 
-- I think as a comic you're not afraid to try stuff. 
Because it's a comedy about marriage, basically taught from the perspective a of this Protestant reverend, who teaches like a stress test before people get married to really find out, you know -- marriage it wonderful, but the idea of how are you going to deal with the problems? 
Yes. He's a -- he's a provocateur -- 
Oh, he's -- he was in a movie called "The Greatest Game Ever Played." and Josh is pretty amazing. He's in like the grade school production of "The Sopranos," you know? 
He's, you know, "What are you doing, Tony?" 
You have fun. I mean, for me -- 
No, we don't add extra time. I know when to shut it off. 
I do it through the crew a lot of times, you know, because making a movie, a lot of times, is like open heart surgery with a spoon. 
It takes a long time. Or circumcision with a water pick. Your call. 
I think it's the idea, it takes a long time and you just keep doing it. And for the crew, sometimes you'll find stuff to talk about and you'll -- or you'll talk about what's going on in the news or like -- and for us, it's just a process of it keeps them laughing, it helps me warm up and -- 
Yes. Oh, big time. 
No. Yes, well, actually sometimes. You know, like with Al, you know. 
You talked about Pacino. When he was doing "Insomnia," he would do this thing of -- the first day I was on the set, he kind of warms up. 
You know, he does different things to warm up. 
How are you, Mr. Pacino? 
Big time. It's great. I mean, if I work with Duvall, then I've got the whole entire Godfather glass collection. 
Working with him is great because you know he's -- he's so -- 
Are you serious? 
We'll be right back. 
Correct me if I'm wrong -- the first thing you like about her is her looks. 
But you really think she's a cute control freak. 
Well, but you used the word organized, which all guys know is code for OCD. UNIDENTIFIED MALE: OCD is not 
Oh -- oh, my lord. Oh. 
I'm going to have to heal you. 
Oh, no, we have got to pray, yes! 
We have got to pray, yes. 
We have got to pray to make it through the day, yes. 
Little Sadie Jones is going to tie the knot. 
Before I certify you ready for marriage, you have to pass the marriage preparation course here. 
Let's just say we strongly advise it. 
not "License To Kill". 
Yes, because Jack, you know, is not afraid. He'd be going, Larry, I'm just going to grab a nipple and let's see what happens. 
I liked him in "The Departed." He was going, "I'm not doing a Massachusetts or Boston accent. Matty, work your little ass off. 
I'll be over here being me." 
Ooh, powerful. 
We were both at a program at Juilliard called The Masters Program, which was like an accelerated two year program basically to get us into the acting company really quickly. 
He was obviously brought in as the handsome leading man and I was brought in as the furry character actor. 
Oh, big time. He's the -- he's the godfather of my son Zach and I've known him for years, through everything. 
Oh, yes. Oh, I mean through all of it. I've known him for a long time. 
Yes, that was -- 
His son was amazing. I mean that -- how powerful he was to do two memorials in one year at the age of 14. 
it's a stress test beyond all belief. 
Yes. Yes. I mean it came -- my wife was with her all the time and knew pretty early on, and was fighting it and it was so elegant. 
You know, that -- she had that great line, you know, she came to the benefit. And she was in this Versace dress and she had -- you know, her hair looked gorgeous. 
And she said, "It's not my hair, thank you." 
Supported him? 
No, I mean he was -- you know, whenever you have a disorder of the spine -- 
-- the whole central nervous system is up for grabs. I mean, he would -- you could overheat immediately. 
I mean, one time at dinner he did this, he said, "Hey, brother, check this out." And he moved his finger. 
And I went, "OK, where's the Muppet?" 
Yes. He did that. And it's -- 
-- you realize, for him, that's the equivalent of an 18-foot pole vault. And on voluntary breathing he was getting to. 
All the work he's done is just now starting to pay off in terms of stem cell, in terms of all the -- you know, the advocacy that he began is just now kicking in, especially like in the state: "Arnold, you know, you did it. 
I'm very proud of you. Now let Maria eat, OK? 
Yes. And it's -- he was realizing. And I called him and I said, "Thank you for doing that." 
Yes, it was great to go visit him because he was all pumped up. And at that point it was like -- we would walk down the street and it would be Mork and Superman and then eventually Popeye and Superman. 
It was like kind of a -- but it was so strange to see him like in that thing, to see my friend, now is Superman. 
and it became this huge deal. 
Oh, the meister. The -- my . 
Oh, a true genius. KING: What's he doing now? 
Just hanging out in Santa Barbara, doing shows. There was a -- we did a benefit in L.A. For -- 
No. He should be, though. They did a thing in San Francisco where they showed all these old clips. 
My favorite thing is the thing that I saw my father laughed when Jonathan Winters was just playing kind of, "I'm a great white hunter." 
He said, "What do you aim for, their nuts?" 
He was always, you know, he's done -- when you're with him, he can go off on all these things, because he'll be -- I'll call him. 
He had a great thing. A guy said, "How do you get into show business?" 
Then he's like, "All right." 
Yes, big time with -- it was an open call and Richard Lewis going in. And he walked out saying, "I don't speak Norwegian," you know? 
Well, the voices, yes, like the kind of the helium, you know, the idea of someone who is just like this, who is slightly damaged. 
And that's carried on until now. 
No, not at all. They gave it odds of -- the same odds as Gary Coleman in the NBA. I think -- 
I think it's the same odds basically, you know? 
Oh, huge. Yes, you'd go off. And you had people who would, you know, go with it, three cameras. 
through anything, you know? 
Oh, welcome back. 
We're going to talk about the presidential race. 
Dear "Elle" magazine, I just found out that my husband of three months is cheating on me with my best friend. 
Half of me wants to kill him, the other half wants to salvage my marriage. 
Adultery. Going out for milk when you have perfectly good jugs at home. 
Because I'd lost three times before, it was kind of a shock. I was always losing to people who didn't have a green card, you know? 
And so -- and the winner is an English actor who is not from here. And -- 
"Fisher King" -- 
And "Good Morning, Vietnam." 
When I won, it's strange, because they announce your name and everything goes into slow motion. You're kind of . 
You get up and you look around and you see Madonna standing, and you look over and see Burt Reynolds going, "You bastard." 
And it was like -- and you look around and it's a very surreal thing. 
Oh, isn't it fun? 
Isn't that a blast? 
Yes. I've done -- I was "Aladdin" and I've done "Baricoda" . I was three -- well, initially, three penguins in "Happy Feet" and then two. 
You just do it. And then when they draw you -- 
Did they draw a bee that looks like you? 
I am an observer, yes, sir. 
Not yet. We're just going to wait until the dust clears. Right now it's like "Survivor" with videotape, so -- 
Well, look at the South right now. If the major candidates are a black man and a white woman, and a lot of people in the South are going I'll have a beer. 
They're kind of like -- I know Barack. I've done benefits for him. I know Hillary. 
I've done benefits for her. Right now, they're kind of, you know, going at each other and there's Al over here just kind of -- 
It's good. Just knock the hamburger out of his hand, you know? Because he's getting a little big, you know? 
He's almost got his own climate right now. 
He is global warming. He walks into the room and the temperature rises. It's like honey, put her down. 
You remember that? 
Yes, you could go with Gore. 
I mean you just want -- 
-- right now who can finish a sentence. You want that -- someone who has a reasonable scientific knowledge. 
having been to Iraq, just a touch. Yes, you know, you -- 
Yes. I've been to Iraq twice and Afghanistan three times. Yes, just a touch. 
Yes, you kind of -- 
Yes, booked in Baghdad. 
It's burka night. 
Well, this is a great thing. 
100 years from now there will be civil war re-enactors -- I'm a Sunni. I'm a Shia. It's like -- yes, it's been a disappointment for me. 
And, like, you talking to Colin Powell -- there's a man who actually had a certain sense of, you know, responsibility. 
The great quote, "If you break it, you own it?" 
You know, and then they went bye-bye. Thank you. Thank you. 
Thank you. Take anything off the top shelf. Good luck and -- 
Yes. They're heavily armed. You know, you see -- one time I was on a stage, and I think it was in Baghdad. 
And you look out -- everybody is fully armed. But they're also wearing full body armor. And I -- I came out and said I guess I didn't get that memo. 
and I looked over. There were five Australians sitting in a fuel truck smoking, you know, on a big fuel truck smoking a cigarette going, "Don't worry, Robin. 
Just be funny." 
And, you know -- but the great news is it's the greatest audience you'll ever be in front of. It's extraordinary people and -- 
Young and they're, you know, and you're just there and they have a great time. And they're so happy that any -- that someone even asked, like my assistant, for her autograph. 
They said -- this was in Afghanistan. 
And especially my favorite was in Afghanistan, where you perform in front of the Special Forces guys -- 
Because they'll be like -- 
The Rangers and, you know -- 
The Green Berets, the SAS, whether -- even the SAS, they're always like, "You can't look at me, Robin. 
I'm sorry, you just can't look at me." 
And it's like -- and they're, for me, the best. You know, that's -- for me, it was an extraordinary memory and a great time. 
Ask my kids. I mean, right now my son Cody, it's amazing, because he was asking, Dad, have you ever read Faubert?" 
He's 15. And it's like -- and he's pushing the envelope. But he's brilliant. 
And Zach is great. And Zelda. I mean they've always been there to kind of be my reality check. 
And Marcia, too. 
When you've got a good wife it's like, thank you. 
They were good. I think they -- they knew it was time. Daddy is sleeping. 
No, no, don't throw that -- I don't know how the vodka got here. It's crazy, you know? What's the Smirnoff doing on the couch? 
I don't know how it happened. 
Yes. For it -- once again, if you're in a comedy, it's great to have fellow comedians. 
Yes. People you like and people who are not afraid to improvise, like John Kasinski, who is funny. And you see him on "The American Office" and he's really funny. 
Mandy, who's sweet and funny. I mean everyone talks about the wild girls of Hollywood, there's Mandy who is doing, you know, has a singing career, has an acting career and, obviously, has, I think, a wonderful private life that we don't know about. 
No videotape -- 
-- at least that I've seen -- looking for it. But, you know, it's been wonderful to be with those people. 
OK, Larry. We're going to run a few initial clips before. This is your greatest hits if you're ready for this. 
OK, thanks. OK, now we've got Mel Gibson and a rabbi. 
Let's see what happens. OK, now Larry in Paris. Do you have any shots of Larry in Paris? 
No, they won't let me in. Rehab was the closest thing. I think I grew up Episcopal. 
I was a choirboy and an altar boy and you know. But like I said Episcopalian is like Catholic life. 
We didn't have confession. We just had, you know, your parents having a couple of gin and tonics at Thanksgiving. 
Your aunt is a lesbian, I'm sorry to tell you. And it's like the idea of -- you know I knew that from growing up. 
Once you put it on, the cloth -- the collar is the main thing. The cloth is nice. The collar, once you turn around, language, you know, must sort of confine the -- you're limited in terms of... 
No, I was never exalted. 
If you were a rabbi... 
Tolace. And I'd say today, it's Lar Shadicki  Demilkidicki  in the sushidicki . A rabbi in Malibu. 
Here we are. This is temple Beverly Hills, a blessing. What a wonderful thing it is. 
To Sheila who is hoping for an iPhone, God willing, in this life. Is there a blessing rabbi for an iPhone? 
May you have it? May the software function? May there be a blessing for all of this. 
May we take the cover off the iPhone today. Today you're a man. 
When you put it on it's kind of interesting. You can't wear it out. You can't wear it out because it's impersonating a... 
...man of the cloth and you'll do time, like Lenny Bruce, but you know... 
Well, especially when you've got a German pope, everything is up for grabs. 
Yes, a German pope is always -- you know it's a little frightening if you're Jewish, you know, a German in front of a large cross and people cheering, it's a bit like -- he was only in the  -- he just shot away in an . 
Just going home. 
Oh, OK. Going back -- this movie with Travolta, which will be fun. 
It's called "Old Dogs," you know. 
I play myself as a middle aged guy with another middle aged guy basically dealing with... 
The premise of the comedy is all of a sudden him dealing -- me, my character dealing with the fact that a woman comes to me and says these are your children and then we use them -- I have to learn how to be with them and accept them as my children. 
And John, I think, will be using them as cougar bait. For those of you who know, the North American cougar, they hunt in packs. 
We start in July. 
Nicholson, Scorsese, just -- when Marty laughs, it's big, you know. When you see him laughing, go for the asthma medicine. 
It's good. I mean just because -- also working with him, you realize he's teaching a film history course. 
Well, thanks, Larry, this has been a blast. 
No, I'll be back. I like this. And then, you did well with Paris. 
I love what you said to her. You were very sweet with her and allowed her to be calm. And we're going to send her some books now. 
I'm looking over here. I just look around here to see... 
No, we're basically looking at what Rupert Murdoch owns. We started here, basically of those... 
Yes, Australia. Most of China now is coming for -- they have another king now. 
The ownership now -- these are -- the small red dots are just people who he hasn't bought yet, the things around here. 
This is a small thing right here, we're moving over here. Two islands in Fiji that are up for grabs. 
This is a very good thing. 
and the new pitcher for the Yankees is Wang. Remember, do not say Wang. He'll be very upset. 
Thank you, Larry. 
You got it, boss. 
Larry King, we'll be right back. 
"License to Wed" not "License to Kill," remember that. 
Robin Quivers is next. Yes! 
