It has been a wonderful day. I told the guys, ‘I’m happy. I’m not sad.’ So, it feels great to be here. 
I enjoyed tying my shoes one more time and everything was the last time. Funny enough with all the matches and having the guys and being here among fans, family, friends... 
I didn’t feel the stress so much even though I did think something was going to go wrong - pop a calf or block a back or something in the match. 
I am so happy I made it through and the match was great. I couldn’t be happier. It’s been wonderful. 
And of course, playing with Rafael Nadal on the same team and having the guys, everybody here, all the legends - Rocket , Edberg Stefan, thank you! 
It is amazing. It really is. I didn’t want it to feel lonely out there. 
I felt lonely for a second when they told me to go out or you  want me to come out one more time. I feel great. 
But to be saying goodbye to a team; I always felt that I was a team player at heart. Singles doesn’t really do that a whole lot, but I have had a team, you know, that travelled with me around the world. 
It’s been amazing with them. So, thanks to everybody who made it work for so many years. And then of course being on the team with Andy, Thomas , Novak, Matteo , Cam , Stefanos , Rafa and Casper  and also the guys on the other team. 
You guys are unbelievable. It’s been a pleasure playing all these Laver Cups. And it does feel like a celebration to me. 
I wanted to feel like this at the end, and it’s exactly what I hoped for so thank you. 
It was never supposed to be that way. I was just happy to play tennis and spend time with my friends, really. 
And then I ended up here. It’s been a perfect journey. I would do it all over again. 
It’s been great. It’s been so much fun. It’s been amazing. 
Thank you, everybody. I’ve had so many people cheer me on, and you guys here tonight mean the world. 
Yeah, I mean... Do we have to go there? 
No, it’s okay. I have done okay so far, I feel. At least, I am able to talk. 
In my vision, I was never able to talk, so... I am doing way better. And everybody is here tonight... 
my family, so it’s great. I had so much fun over the last 13 years. Everybody’s here - the girls, the boys . 
My wife is so supportive. She could have stopped me a long, long time ago. But ‘you’ didn’t, she kept me going and allowed me to play. 
So, it’s amazing. Thank you! And then I don’t know… I find that always funny. 
We always blame my mom for everything because without her I wouldn’t be here, of course. So, thanks to my parents, you have been amazing. 
Thank you! And just everybody. Too many people to thank... 
it’s just been incredible. My God. Fantastic night. 
Thank you, everybody! 
Thank you, everybody. Thank you. It’s been an amazing journey. 
Thank you, everybody! 
Exactly, for the World Tour finals back then. 
, yes. It was my first time that I qualified for the top eight players at the end of the year and trying to win the world championship. 
So I lost at the semis against . We were in a tough match. I remember. 
I was out at the Expo Center and by now they have this most incredible Qigong Stadium built for the players. 
So I think it's a really nice place for us to play tennis. And I'm always excited coming back. 
Right. I mean, I think it's either a local hero is going to make a huge difference in the country itself, or then you need the best players to come in. 
And that's what's happened with Shanghai. 
Well, I mean, OK. Switzerland's not quite China in terms of pressure -- 
-- absolutely. I've gone through it -- 
Absolutely. And I -- I mean, it starts very locally and so forth. And you move on and on and on. 
And you have to prove yourself time and time again. And that pressure can definitely weigh on you. 
Took me a while, to be honest. I was very emotional when I was younger. So I think by the age of 22, maybe, I thought -- 25, maybe, I'd say, even, as I go, OK, losing is fine, you know. 
But I think that only came because I have -- I won that much all of a sudden. So I knew that those wins, nobody could take away from me. 
That's sort of in the vault. And that's good to have, good to know. And now you have to just prove yourself every single day and everything that comes is like a bonus. 
So I've been on this bonus trip since a long, long time and playing this way has been actually much more enjoyable, even though, you know, chasing records and playing against the other top guys and has also created its own pressure, you know. 
But a different one than when you're up and coming and trying to make a breakthrough. It's quite challenging and especially you're young and you're emotional. 
It's quite difficult. 
Yes, to myself, to my supporters, to Switzerland. I want to show them that I love to play and love to win and that I can still do it time and time again. 
I definitely have that drive, you know. But I always thought I had a good perspective like people ask me when, after I had kids, you know, that that's really give you perspective. 
I didn't feel any -- I had kids for that. You know? I had kids because I love my wife and I wanted to create a family, you know, more than anything. 
And so for me, I've always been like if tennis ended tomorrow, I'm still happy because I'll be very proud of what I achieved. 
But tennis is a very short part of my life, hopefully, you know, that you have to be able to live without it. 
So if you be injured or it were to be over the next day, you should be fine without it as well. And I think that has always been a mindset I've had. 
And that's helped me to actually stay more calm throughout my career. 
Yes, it's a bit strange, you know, at times, everybody weighing in on everything you do and every match is overly judged. 
You know, it's like, ah, he's not playing so well. Something's wrong maybe mentally or physically or his game's off, what is it? 
Let's go dig a little bit. And that clearly can take its toll. It's like it's quite challenging going into the press conference or  read too much about myself just because you get influenced by it. 
The next thing you know, it's like is my forehand really that bad right now? Or is my foot  not the same, what it used to be? 
That's why I try not to read into it too much. But clearly what I've always done throughout my career is question myself, even in the best of times. 
And then also when things don't go so well, like maybe this year's going to be a bit more challenging, you know. 
And I've done it before. 
Yes. I mean, surprisingly, yes. 
Yes. I mean, surprisingly, yes, in the first round or second round or third round and sometimes not in the semis. 
You -- I can't predict when I'm going to be nervous because sometimes I sleep really well; I wake up and I feel like, wow, today's a great day. 
I feel good at practice. 
Absolutely. They need to be connected and then that's where confidence can help in a big, big way, because you might be actually not feeling great physically or mentally; you're drained. 
But the confidence somehow gets you through. And when you don't have confidence, that's then when you have to sort of trust all the hard work you've done and you have to keep on working hard. 
So success comes back. 
Right. Well, there's definitely a few of them, you know, and they go in phases. My favorite time, in a way, was when I was coming up and about, just because I was playing against a guy from TV and there's like, really, am I playing against Pete Sampras or Andre Agassi or, you know, those kind of guys, Carlos Moya, Tim Henman, you know? 
You name it. And there's like, wow, this guy's got such beautiful volleys or his forehand's amazing or his serve is just outrageous. 
I've never seen a guy return like this. And that you're on the same court is like honor. And that is something that really marks you. 
And it's like that kid in a candy store feeling. And then all of a sudden the younger guys push through. 
And that was a very strong generation was Rafa, Murray and Djokovic. And so playing against them in the beginning is honestly quite strange, because now here you are, sort of the older guy. 
And they kind of look up to you, but not quite. They -- and they want to beat you because I'm not 10 years apart with them, but sort of only five or six. 
But it is like a new generation. And that's mentally for me was quite a challenge, just getting over that hurdle and I think Rafa, for that matter, because of the way he plays, which is left-handed topspin and so forth, he has really maybe, you know, think through my game again, what do I need to change to actually complete and beat him. 
And he's been the most challenging for me probably overall combined with late  in the beginning of my career to play against. 
Yes, I mean, there's some matches in your career that you look back on and you go like, you're so happy and proud that you were part of it. 
And I think -- I think it was actually the 2008 finals in seven, we played a best -- a five-setter as well in 2008 I lost that epic 9-7 I think in the 5th. 
And I think that's the match that everybody sort of still talks about as being that -- one of the greatest matches of all time. 
And it's just special being part of that. And you start to feel that once you enter like an epic fourth or fifth set and you realize that sort of the world has, you know, is standing still around you, that everybody's not just maybe glued to the TV, even though people are doing their own thing on the other side of the planet or elsewhere. 
But it felt like that and maybe the match should have been in like interrupted at the end of the match, because of darkness. 
But you cannot interrupt that kind of match right then because people want to see this epic finish and that's what happened, you know, Rafa, the way he won, it was unbelievable. 
But to me it was cool really to be part of it. And I don't look back at that and think this was the most crushing loss in my life. 
I don't see it that way. I see it as something more positive, actually, because I already had one five- or six-set  -- I don't remember; Wimbledons before that. 
So I was naturally super disappointed in that. But thankfully I've had some of those incredible matches, not only against Rafa but other players, too, which sort of connect you forever with that player or with the venue, with the Centre Court, with the fans. 
And that's what's so beautiful about sports in general, you just don't know the outcome and you see that, you know, the different styles against each other, the fairness, hopefully, as well, which was the case in that match, though it was a very, very special to be part of that. 
It's one of those moments you look back on as a -- as a player and a father and a husband. You're like, God, that's like the perfect moment. 
Can we like freeze that one forever? 
The Roger Federer Foundation supports this particular project because it's in the poorest neighborhood in South Africa, so and that reason, we really feel that these kids need the most help to succeed later on in life. 
One, two, three. 
It's been going on for a while now and I still feel like I'm learning every day. You know, I'm doing it with so much passion but I need, you know, some help, some expertise help to exactly how to set it all up and go through it all because it's a lot of work, you know, and it's a lot of responsibility. 
I was a nice guy. But I'm not nice against myself. 
Just struggling to keep my temper, you know -- 
But it's so funny, because actually I was -- I had all the temperament, even on the tour, on the main tour. 
But the problem was it had -- it was all before I really broke through, when I beat Sampras at Wimbledon. 
I literally decided a month before I beat Sampras at Wimbledon 2001, I'm just going to be quiet now. 
And I'm going to get so angry if I'm not going to be quiet at myself that I just -- I pulled it through. 
You can ask all my generation players how I used to be in the juniors up until about 20, 21 years old. 
And then I became this super quiet guy that now everybody knows. But people who really know me remember that crazy guy who used to comment on every shot I missed, cried after matches, broke racquets, threw racquets in the fence. 
I wouldn't break the racquets, and just be so emotional and torn, you know, on the court. And not argue ever with my opponent or the umpire decisions at all, just with myself, you know, that trying to be too perfect too soon. 
It was very much part of me, and I think it was good for me to get it all out when I was between sort of, I'd say, I don't know, 8 and 20. 
And then now I can play with that serenity that my mom is maybe saying, you know. 
Yes, friends and family for me are -- I mean, that's the top of the priorities. But Mirka has been incredibly supportive throughout. 
We got to know each other better at the Sydney Olympics back in 2000 and started dating right sort of shortly after that. 
And then had kids in 2009, also got married that year. And so for me, it's been an amazing experience and just seeing that she totally understands being with tennis, because she played herself on tours as well. 
She was herself top 100 on the WPA tour and that actually she doesn't sort of pull me away from the game of tennis and says, you know, why do you have to go practice again? 
I know. It's very romantic. I don't think -- I don't think of it. 
I just like to see her like be happy. So if it makes her happy that I win, it's good for me winning, right? 
Because if I lose, she's in a bad mood. It's not good for me. So -- 
Oh, yes, like -- oh, yes, she'll tell me, that was an awful match. What's wrong with you? You know, like absolutely. 
She can --  family they'll tell you the truth. 
Absolutely. But that's why we love them the most. And clearly we talk about matches. 
We've gone through phases where we talk so much about tennis, especially in the beginning of my career. 
There was even a time where I didn't have a coach. So I don't want to say she took the coaching role, but clearly then we talked about it. 
I think there was a particular dream of me,  of my wife, that she said it would be so, so nice if you could -- that your kids or our kids see you play still, because at a young age, they don't know what's going on. 
They  can barely tell the difference between practice and matches. And they get the winning and losing part, all of that now slowly, so for her it was really like a dream to once we had kids that hopefully can still keep on playing so they actually get to really see you. 
So at the -- at the Wimbledon 2012 in the finals, they didn't come to see the match. They came for the trophy ceremony. 
I didn't know that they were going to be there. Mirka sort of brought them in and it's one of those moments you look back on as a -- as a player and a father and a husband. 
You're like, oh, my God, that's like the perfect moment for me, like freeze that one forever or just for a longer time. 
And then just seeing them happy and clapping and seeing their happy faces, it's a beautiful feeling. 
That I was maybe good for the game, not bad, really. 
People enjoyed watching me play, that I put the game into the right direction, that I was maybe somebody you could look up to. 
And I just want to be part of the great game of tennis, that -- who was part of it, because tennis is always bigger than any athlete we've ever had and tennis will keep on going, will be successful, will be good because right now we live in sort of a golden era, people call it. 
And I'm very proud to be playing right now. 
Well, it was tough, you know. The last few games obviously as you can feel that you're not coming back from it. 
I'm not used to that kind of situation obviously very much, especially not here. 
I don't know. I really don't know. I got to regroup. 
My goal was always for the last year and more to always try to play another Wimbledon. The initial goal, like you know, was to play last year. 
That was anyway never going to happen. Plus the pandemic hit. I was able to make it this year, which I'm really happy about. 
Like I said, with everything that comes after Wimbledon, we were always going to sit down and talk about it because clearly now Wimbledon is over. 
I got to take a few days. 
Yeah, I mean, look, I'm not sure if it's necessarily matches, to be honest, because the body actually overall feels fine from the matches. 
I'm happy I went through all the process of taking losses and trying to play in Paris and Geneva and Doha and Halle, getting myself into match toughness and fitness here in Wimbledon. 
I definitely need to be a better player if I want to be more competitive at the highest of levels. I knew that coming in. 
Better players remind you of that, like Hurkacz and Felix did, for instance, in Halle. It gets tough when things get really tricky physically. 
No, no, like I explained before, I'm going to take a couple of days and sit down. I'm sorry if I'm repetitive. 
I said everything waits till Wimbledon is done. Wimbledon is done now. I haven't taken a decision yet where we go from here. 
No, it's just about having perspective. You know you need a goal when you're going through rehab with what I did. 
You can't think of the entire mountain to climb as once. You got to go in steps. Wimbledon was the initial first super step, if you like. 
I mean, I thought I had a decent chance going into the match. I felt like if I can protect my serve, I would get chances off his second serve and I would get into the rallies I would like, have them go rather my way. 
But I struggled early on in that first set. I felt like with my serve my rhythm was a little bit off. 
Put myself in too many difficult situations and didn't take my own chances. I think that first set, I feel like I need to do better. 
Okay, credit to him for getting that one done. 
I mean, the process was incredibly slow. I was hoping for faster recovery, to be honest. Like I explained, the goal was to compete already for Wimbledon last year. 
I barely made it sort of for this year, I feel like. It was a long, hard road. I said it many times before, I actually kind of enjoyed it. 
It was always uphill. As slow as it was, it was always moving forward. I haven't done that kind of - how do you say - like a rehab in the past. 
I enjoy new things, even though it's maybe more of a negative thing to go through. I don't know. I'm not going to get depressed doing rehab as you're trying and have a goal. 
The goal is first to walk again without crutches. Then the goal is to be able to start running again. 
From then on it starts to do side-to-side stuff. Then you're back on the tennis court. 
Good question. I don't know. I felt very disappointed in the moment itself. 
I still am. At the same time there's always a weight that falls off your shoulders when a tournament is over, when a huge goal is made or missed. 
It doesn't matter actually. You feel the weight is gone and you're exhausted. I feel horribly exhausted. 
I could go for a nap right now. That's how I feel. It's a funny feeling to have, to be honest. 
You put everything on the line, and when it's all over you could just go sleep because you're so exhausted from the mental, pushing yourself forward, and trying everything. 
Well, I mean, I guess to some extent it's nice to see that the work I put in paid off, that I'm able to play at this level with best-of-five sets. 
There's always different ways to go about it. Playing five days in a row is different than playing best-of-five sets every second day, let's say. 
You need different attributes, let's say. 
I mean, it was very interesting when the roof shut again. I could see that it was getting a little bit more slippery again. 
The humidity goes up, whereas I didn't break a sweat really on the outside. It was windy, it was fresh. 
Still it played faster. When you play indoors, it's just much slower. I understand now why also indoors first couple days is something we never play in all year long. 
That's why I think also that was definitely one of the reasons maybe I struggled against Mannarino. 
On top of it, he got the upper hand from the baseline. 
I mean, you would hope so, that that's the case. I'm still not a hundred percent convinced we are on the other side. 
I still think there is more to come. 
I connected more to my childhood memories going on hikes with my parents. My dad comes from the Rhine Valley, from the east of Switzerland. 
For those people to go for hikes was very, very normal. My mom being from South Africa and also very outdoorsy, it was normal for us I guess to go for hikes, do barbecues, do vacations or weekends like this. 
