Nobody's perfect and everybody makes mistakes. 
I know it should be legalized. Legalize it and I . 
She's a great artist. I'm looking forward to going to the studio with her. 
You a double O-G. 
It's me and my new record. This is my fifth solo record, I might add. I just went in and just made a record that felt good to me, that was, you know, more about me just having a good time and putting people in the spirit of just enjoying some good music. 
Yes, because in the beginning of this record, I had a lot of malice in my heart. And I was kind of frustrated and upset with the whole industry. 
And then, toward the end of this record, I found myself being in a place called Wonderland. That's why the record is called "Malice in Wonderland," because I finally made it to happiness. 
I think just, you know, my family being around me and just me en -- enjoying the fact that people still want to listen to me, from -- from being, you know, of working in 1992 to still being here and people still loving my music. 
I mean, this was a big record for me because it -- it actually opened the door again and showed that the West Coast is clearly here to stay. 
And then, at the same time, this is a great record because it makes people understand that hip-hop is a great thing and it's universal and it's bicoastal. 
I believe that rap is the most important form of music right now, because it's the -- it's the -- it's the change and the choice of the new generation. 
Because if you notice, any sports venue or anything that has to do with entertainment, they always have to involve rap, because rap is the number one source of music right now. 
Yes, you can hum it if you -- if you do -- if you dealing with Snoop Dogg, you know what I'm saying? 
You're a double O-G. 
I mean it was special, Larry, for them to even call me and have me in the room with all of those great singers. 
It was special because, you know, I was a kid watching it 25 years ago, seeing Michael Jackson, Lionel Richie and Ray Charles and all of the great musicians, you know, put a song together that meant so much. 
And for them to have me come be a part of the anniversary, it felt good to me. 
I've always had an infatuation with cars, especially old school cars, anything out of the '60s, '70s, '50s, '40s, '30s. 
I just liked it when cars were being made at the highest level, you understand? 
Yes, they were way better. And they just mean a lot more to me to have an antique car. 
I have 25 cars, Larry. 
I've got a little space, I call the Doggy Dizey  in the front of the Kezetin , you know what I'm saying? 
I've got a little space out like the Bat Cave. You know how Batman got the little underground cave where he come out with his little whoo-whop  when he need to? 
No. I believe it's something that's, you know, hereditary. I believe it's something that's, you know, accustomed to us from where we come from. 
It's a ghetto thing. You know, we have our own little slang that we use in the ghetto and it becomes our own language and our own lingo. 
East Side, Long Beach. 
It was tough, but it was fun. It was a great experience for me. I learned a lot, you know what I'm saying? 
Turn that shit  back on, 'cuz. 
It's a '76. It would be out 'til next year. But I know some people that know some people that robbed some people. 
This little meeting, it never happened. 
It's about a musical experience through the mind of Snoop Dogg. And it's supported by my movie, "Malice in Wonderland," where I play a super hero named Malice who's trying to clean up a community called Wonderland, where he lives at, and overthrow a dictator named Cain. 
I greatly appreciate you guys for coming out tonight. Wonderland, right now, is in desperate need for us to become one. 
Everybody know that me and Cain got a thing. I don't like him, he don't like me. I've come to find out that it's about all of us becoming one, to unite, to fight against that man called Cain. 
We'll become untouchable. 
I mean, it's needed sometimes. You know, I do have family time. I had a family show that I had on the air for two years called "Fatherhood" with my wife and my beautiful kids. 
So I do find time to give up a little family time. 
I've got to give them what they want. 
I believe the show was too positive and too enlightening. I think people... 
Yes, I mean and they expect... 
Yes. Yes. Because they wanted some drama. 
You know, you've got -- you've got to understand, I'm Snoop Dogg. So you want confusion and you want, you know, disruption. 
And my house is not like that. My wife does a great job of running my house and my kids are in line. 
So it's a beautiful situation. 
Oh, it's beautiful. We've been on the right track. Really, we don't look back no more. 
We're all about moving ahead. 
About six months. 
Yes, because that's -- that's who I am when I'm playing that role, you understand me? 
I make, you know, nothing of it. You know, that's a proximal issue with him and his wife. And I feel like it's been blown out of proportion because he was looked at as, you know, somebody who was perfect. 
I think he's going to do real good -- real well in the Masters and he's going to do real good in life, you know, just getting his life back right and understanding what's important, because sometimes it takes a negative situation like that for you to really turn it into a positive. 
Definitely, because there are -- there are so many ways to -- to have access to them, even if you're not in Hollywood. 
It's like that computer game is so -- so crazy now. It's so exposed, everybody knows everything now. 
Well, I call it Hollyhood. 
My real name is Cordozar Calvin Broadus. 
My mother started calling me it... 
Yes, I used to watch "Charlie Brown" and there was a character on there I used to always imitate. 
I think he's doing a great job, you know, considering all the pressure that he was up against, you know, taking over a bad situation in the beginning and trying to clean up and -- and move forward and get us back on the right pace. 
Make another right in 40 yards. 
Proceed east and turn right in 40 yards. 
Proceed south and turn right in 40 yards. 
Didn't I tell you to turn left? 
It drives good. It rides like an airplane. It's a real smooth, slow motion . 
That's called a low ride. That's called hitting the switch. That's dippin', you understand me? 
I'm going to show you how to dip, Larry. 
Don't worry about nothing. Let's get it in. Yes, dip it. 
1967 Pontiac Parisienne. 
Yes. It's low to the floor, too. 
You need some of this here. 
This is the magic. 
That's me hitting the switch, baby. 
That's me controlling it. 
Well, you know, Larry, I just had to tell myself one day, I have to be real creative and different than everybody. 
You know, I was looking at -- at the cars and I was riding in my car, hearing this lady tell me where to go everyday, getting tired of hearing her voice. 
I said, man, it would be real cool if I were doing this. So I reached out to the people from TomTom Club and GPS and whatnot and we made it happen. 
I mean that's how you would do it, Larry, because, you know, you've got that kind of attitude. Me personally, I'm too cool to get mad. 
I'm following Wolf Blitzer on Twitter. 
Let's go to The Gap and buy underpants. 
Shalom and Happy Purim to all. 
Instead of eating Hagen Dazs, I might as well apply it directly to my thighs. 
John Mayer is like sexual napalm. 
Could you please pass the rice-a- motha--roni? 
My CD "More Malice" is available March 23rd. And if you illegally download it, I'm coming to your house. 
I'm just a simple old hockey mom from Alaska. You betcha. 
I think it was a -- I think they all cool with each other. They all friends. It was like some made up, scripted feud. 
KING: You didn't buy it? 
I didn't buy it. I think they all like each other and it was a money thing. 
That didn't seem like a real feud to me. Nobody hit nobody, nobody got violent. 
I mean that's where I'm from. 
Exact -- that's where I'm from, Larry. 
So I mean, where I'm from, if you don't hit nobody, it's really not a -- really a conflict. 
Yes, my Youth Football League, the Snoopy Football League, has been up for six years now. We're doing a great job. 
We have our first set of kids that are on their way to college. And we're just doing so many great things in the inner city right now, it's a beautiful feeling to be a part of it. 
Oh, it's tackle. It starts off as flag at age six and then they work their way up to the age of 13 to play tackle. 
No, you can live -- all over LA, South Central, Compton, Long Beach, Pomona. All you've got to do is hit us up at SnoopYouthFootballLeague.com and get at Commissioner Wadu. 
Why not, not why? 
Come on, let's play. 
No, that would make me feel good, because football has no color barriers. 
Well, I started it six years ago with my oldest son, you know, Corde. He was playing Little League football. 
And we were playing in a league that I didn't feel that was really, you know -- really meeting the needs of what we needed as far as an inner city football program. 
Thank you, Larry. 
I like listening to Frank Sinatra, Sam Cooke, Marvin Gaye. My musical influences growing up were George Clinton, Curtis Mayfield, Earth, Wind & Fire. 
Get it, Larry. 
Yes, they were. 
I've got a thing called Ustream TV and I have my own show called "The Wake & Bake Show," where they can actually look and see me personally. 
And then I hit them on Twitter through my conversation, because it's kind of hard for me to be trying to type all of my fans at one time. 
So what I do is I take the messages along the side and I talk with them and they have a chance to ride with me and roll with me while I'm playing great music and letting them be a part of this Snoop Dogg thing. 
-- up close and personal. 
I mean I'm just a hustler. I just know how to get it in all different ways. You know, like you've got the GPS. 
You've got the -- you know, the Football League. You've got the clothing line. You've got the, you know, TV shows. 
You've got movie deals. Everything that I do is always about trying to get to the next level, whether it's financially, spiritually or just mentally, you understand? 
Yes. I'm down with Adidas. That's who I represent now, you know what I'm saying? 
Because it's a beautiful color. It's like that Bob Marley feeling. Sometimes I feel like I'm Bob Marley reincarnated and it's got that Jamaican feel on it. 
Man, I really wanted to meet him. That's one person that they always said that's somebody that you can work with and that ain't here right now... 
I work with all of them. 
They're my partners. 
Yes, I'm Frank Sinatra up in there now. 
I'm Old Blue Eyes. 
Wrestling, man, one of the biggest sports in the world. People love wrestling and they love Snoop Dogg and I'm a fan of it. 
And Vince McMahon loves me and I love him. And they've got money and we love doing business. 
I got in the ring a couple of times. And I did a few moves, too. I'm there. 
I'm there, Larry. I don't -- don't let the smooth taste fool you. 
It wasn't no rehearsal to this here, Larry. Don't let the smooth taste fool you. 
Yes. With no rehearsal. This is what I do. 
Yes, with no rehearsal. 
I was pushing the -- what was I pushing? 
I forgot what I was pushing. I was just -- 
And you don't even know what you're pushing. 
What was you feeling -- 
You know what, Larry? 
Man, I could use some, too. For shizzle. 
Kid, Buchanan. Soon as your pops even knows he's a cop. Think your mom's a court, but her son is a tort. 
Got out your seat, now you're back on your feet. 
Flavor man. You ain't never heard that kind of flavor with me -- 
That was off the top of my head. Come on, Larry. You know how I do it. 
I wouldn't say that. I would say that I'm a stoner. 
No, I actually am under the influence of medical marijuana. Actually, a doctor prescribed -- 
Every blue moon. 
There's a blue moon every day. 
How about I've never performed without it? 
Let's try that one time. 
We'll do it together. 
Yes, we'll do it together. Happiness is togetherness. 
I didn't change it, I put my middle name first. 
Oh, you mean why did I change that? 
Oh, that's the name that I was always called as a kid. My mother never called me by my real name. I never heard my real name unless I was at school. 
So, you know, the name that I was accustomed to was Snoop at home, or Snoopy or Snoop. 
My mother came up with that name. 
That's what it sounds like to you? 
I can actually -- the way you said it, it do sound like -- 
See, but I always say it like Cordozar. 
Yes, put that flavor on it, because I am E-talian, you understand that? 
As we speak, Larry, I have been reinstated and I am on my way back to the U.K. So I want to shoot a shout-out to all of the beautiful people that allowed me to come back. 
See you in a minute. 
They went to court a couple of times and just appealed it and just tried to see if there were ways to keep me out. 
And there was no way to keep me out. I've done nothing wrong over there to, you know, prohibit myself from being there. 
I'm all about the people. The people love me. I'm going there to do what I was there to do. 
She's a great artist. I'm looking forward to going to the studio with her. 
No, we -- I think we're going to have to get our minds together and figure out what we're going to -- what we're going to sing about. 
I'm down with that. 
There's not much I can't do, Larry. 
OK, see, that's your version. 
Yes, that's why I look so physically fit years later. You see I'm still at the -- I've got my look together, Larry. 
That's what it is, my diet consists of that Rosco's those chicken and waffles. I think I've got some here right now. 
They didn't bring no waffles. They flipped the script today. 
They went with the -- 
See, it depends on who makes the corn bread. 
It ain't -- ain't gonna be no Jiffy. You're talking about some handmade corn bread. 
Yes. You can only get it at those stores. 
It's sweet, too, Larry. 
Well, they made -- 
And eat corn bread. 
So let me take over for you. 
That would be groovy. 
OK. That will work. Or maybe some Sam Cooke. 
I've never done "American Idol". 
I like "American Idol." I think would be a perfect host to fill in. 
I think I'd be perfect. 
Yes, because I understand music -- the dynamics of music and I see stars before they made. You know, sometimes I feel like they be passing up on some good people because they don't really have it together on their first try. 
I think the secret to success with that show is that it's interactive with the people. Anybody can become a star. 
And when you start selling people a real dream that could become reality, it's -- it's everyday life. 
So you've got people who are watching the show who are feeling like they could become that next "American Idol," as well. 
KING: Do you watch it? 
I watch it occasionally. I -- I like to see what they do, you understand, because it's always some new talent that's hot. 
The four or five people that I've seen that won the show are still doing well. Ruben Studdard, Fantasia, Jennifer and the boy that played the harmonica. 
He did a little show with me. 
Larry, I want to give you something here, my new headphones. 
Well, thank you. 
Yes, sir. That's 
I've been a Lakers fan since the early '70s. I grew up loving Magic Johnson, Kareem Abdul Jabbar and Chick Hearn. 
I had a chance to meet Chick Hearn -- 
-- and to work with Chick Hearn and I mean I'm just a die hard Laker. I love them to death. They can't do no wrong to me. 
I go to as many games as I can when I'm in town. I just love to support them. If I'm not at the game, I'm at home watching them on Prime Ticket, you understand? 
I've been on the road with them before. When they won their championship in New Jersey, I was right there on the floor when they did that. 
I played football and basketball as a youngster coming up on the east side of Long Beach. And I took it to a level that I thought it -- it was the highest level that I thought I could take it to. 
So I never wanted to play high school or the next level. I went to the level that I thought I was just playing. 
I went to high school but I didn't -- I didn't never try out for high school sports. I was more into trying to create this music thing. 
I had a -- a niche for it and I really wanted to stick to it. 
Always a music guy/comedian/class clown. 
So you can see what I'm saying. 
Yes, you know I got to have my flavor. 
Yes, that's what I do. That's that Snoop Dogg flavor, Larry. 
I'd like to start a chain of Snooper-markets. 
Yes, groceries. Anything -- everything in my store would be under 20 dollars. There would be nothing in there over 20 dollars. 
Everything under 20 dollars. 
I'm talking to them right now. 
I mean, you hear them talking back? 
Yes, I knew Michael Jackson. I'm a close friend of the family. I love Michael Jackson and what he done for music, what he done for life and I'm just -- you know, I'm just a fan, you know? 
His brother, half-brother, Warren G. Was in my group, 213 -- me, him and Nate Dogg. And we had a cassette tape and Warren G took it to Dr. 
Dre's bachelor party. And the music had cut off from the bachelor party. So he slipped my tape in and when my tape came in, people was dancing to it. 
Get in the back, old school. 
I took him to go get it. 
I went with him when he got the tattoo, man. He didn't come home with that. He went with me to go get that. 
I want him to have fun and to be a respectable man and just enjoy life to the fullest and be what he wants to be. 
Look at that. He's just trying to make me mad right now. 
You know I'm a die-hard USC fan. 
I like green. Green is for the money. 
Yes, quack, quack. 
Yes, definitely. I'm going in May, a little bit in June. I'll be out there in Europe. 
I might do a reality show on him. He wants to be a model, so I'd like to see what I can do to get him -- 
I'm going to a little bit. I'm going on a tour with Mike Epps. We've got a tour called "Imagine That." And we've got -- 
Because he know I'm funny. That's one thing I am, I'm very funny. 
Respect in my house. I'm a football coach first. When I coach my kids and I give them that love. 
You know what I'm saying? 
You're following in some great Snoop steps? 
And some corn bread. 
"A.C. 360" -- I like that show. 
