Well, because film has been very good to me and it still has but everywhere I have gone, I guess after "Rocky" and after "Rambo," usually the first primary question is just what do you do to stay in shape, what do you eat, how do you do this, do you live in the gym or whatever? 
And I thought, okay, it's a little premature at 58, I thought, okay, maybe I should just put it all down and see if there is something there that really does strike an honest chord or something that can be duplicated and I think there is and so that's what the book is really about, what has worked for me, what hasn't worked, some diet myths, just feeling good, because I think at 45 years old, 40, 45 years old, people have to make a choice, like, do you want to spend that second half of your life feeling a lot better than maybe you did the second half or do you just want to keep going downhill. 
No, no, no, no, actually I'm doing -- I just signed to do the next "Rambo" yesterday and it's quite different than you think. 
No, actually, very domestic. It is something that could happen to anyone here. He has settled into a domestic life. 
No actually he works for, in the military right now there is a problem with drugs and usually like in bases, Ft. 
Bragg, right outside the place, meth labs, this that and so you have these police that infiltrate either motorcycle gangs, different kind of gangs and they find out what's going down ... 
Well, that's him and his wife. 
It's part of ... 
Well, I am going to be, hopefully it should be five months, six months. 
And there's also something go on, too, with "Rocky." I might end up fighting Rocky. 
No, I don't have to work but I enjoy it. 
They're good curses, Larry. 
Thank you very much. 
No matter what. When you hit with something like that and of course having done quite a few of them, it becomes your legacy or your identification. 
Oh yeah. As a matter of fact, I wouldn't be here without it so I -- why are you looking a gift horse in the mouth? 
Usually a lot of actors and writers and I guess any artist wants to feel as though they are everything on the spectrum and they are multifaceted but there are certain sides to that facet that really connect to the audience and others don't as well. 
Comedy, whatever. So this is what it is. I am considerably, even though I made my life, the beginning of it, through words, through literature, through writing, I am known to be a physical, so I thought why not ... 
KING: By the way, to your ultimate credit, maybe it hasn't been written in a long time, you really bent the odds. 
The University of Miami told you the one thing you should not do is act. 
I think it was a naivete but there is also part of me knowing that I am never going to find a part for me like this. 
I was always the mugger, I was always the outcaste, I was always the fellow chasing Woody Allen down the street. 
"Lords of Flatbush." But again, I was kind of the goon. I said, okay, this is the way people perceive me. 
You look in the mirror and say right away, oh, some slob. Here I am, the guy from "Notting Hill II" but no, the world perceives you a different way and so I had to be real, so I thought, okay, I am always going to be looked at as kind of this imposing kind of guy or threatening kind of guy but that kind of man can also have another side of him. 
We judge a book by his cover. We automatically assume a guy comes in in a leather coat, hat and cutoff gloves, stay away from him. 
Actually, when I was filming it, police pulled me over and said, what are you doing here? What are you doing in the neighborhood? 
It depends on heart ... 
Boxing is sort of an inevitability. We know they are going to be pounding each other. That is the least exciting part of it because if you don't build up the volcanic explosion that's coming and usually if it's always done through the fighter's eyes it's not as exciting as, okay, let's do it through Adrian's eyes. 
That's the whole thing. 
Don't break my heart with "The Contender." 
Well, what happened to it was unfortunately there were some decisions made to move it around and I think the first show started 20 minutes later after "Fear Factor" and a lot of people turned it off and next week it was moved after the "Apprentice," did very well but people were confused and a week later it is moved on Sunday night which is like limbo. 
People on Sunday nights are either putting their kids to bed, just getting home, but people are not watching boxing. 
That's going to happen. NBC is certainly going to live up to that contract, but unfortunately it looks like "Contender" is going to go down for the count this year and it's too bad because it was really a good show and Mark Burnett and all the guys ... 
In the right spot, right after the "Apprentice" for example, we doubled our numbers, so if we had been after "The Apprentice" we'd be singing a different song but it looks like there was a ... 
Well somebody let us down somewhere along the line but ... 
Najiv Turpin was a very troubled kid in the way that he -- not troubled in the sense that he had mental problems but he had a lot of drive and a lot of goals to achieve and he wanted to do that in a very short time and he wanted to fight, that's all he knew how to do, that's how he believed he would get out of the ghetto. 
It was just, I think, a horrible, tragic emotional moment. Valentine's Day and I think just people were not being rational. 
Yes. So when I heard that I go, you're kidding. Oh my God. 
And I didn't think about the show, I just thought it was impossible. He's 23 years old, he's going to go places win or lose. 
He's got everything. And you start to really take account of your own life, you realize how fragile and brief and how lucky and we went back to the funeral and that's when your life really collides with his and you see what he had to fight to get out of where he was going, why he was motivated, you see his family, who are completely devastated and you walk -- this show, this is what I meant about reality shows, this is why I wanted to do it, because you're dealing with people in the real pressure cooker, you know what I mean, Larry. 
I would say 1000 percent. The grass used to be green, now the grass is just full of weeds. 
My God, Sofia, she had to undergo surgery when she was like three months old. 
Yes. I was on this show and I was doing "Copland" and I thought, oh great, this is going to be a new revelation and it hits you and you realize all the money, all the fame, all the connections you have means nothing and now you realize what a doctor is all about he is almost a deity, he is like as close as we're going to get to a religious figure, he is going to give life or take it. 
It is up to him. So I developed a profound respect for the medical profession. 
She's great. Now she nags me, so she is perfectly healthy. 
She is as levelheaded as you are ever going to find, incredibly generous and the worst insult I have heard ever about her, you know, your wife, let me tell you about your wife, your wife is too nice. 
You're right, I have got to work on this. 
I thought it was silly and almost I still do. It's hard to believe. It's one thing if it's someone else's wife and you're -- then it's your wife and you're like, I don't believe it. 
But she's doing it. You don't believe that she has that extra switch inside and it's like ta-da. And she can sell anything. 
She can sell you bear traps. You need a bear trap. I'll buy it. 
Oh yeah. The best. She is the lioness. 
Oh yeah. I started at about 12 only because I was not. I was picked on and I had tremendous issue and I don't think, Larry, we ever get over our issues. 
I think kids growing up, if they were picked on and feeling inferior at 12, they're going to feel that way at 72. 
You just deal with it better. I'm serious. 
It's there. That's why a lot of guys, why did Mike Tyson -- even as tough as you are, he has issue when he was 10 and they are very fragile and they can implode and take you with them and I think where I had these great inferiority complexes and I thought I need something and when I saw Steve Reeves and I saw "Hercules" I was like, this is medicinal, this is like perfect medicine, now I feel like I can do something. 
No, I was scrawny. 
I became a bodybuilder. But back then bodybuilding was somebody had a cigar in the gym dripping ashes on your face, can I work in with you. 
So it really wasn't bodybuilding, it wasn't like ... 
Who's Charles Atlas? 
You seen anybody that impresses you so far. 
You think he can do all the work? 
Oh, really? Anybody. I'm talking about ... 
Whoa, did I love him. He is an unbelievable guy. He used to come out with -- I should have brought this. 
There's me hitting him with a pie in "Rambo." He is like Colonel Crav  and he's just aggravating me and so he comes out with Sly is my guy or hits me with a handbuzzer and I'm trying to stay in character. 
First of all, he could do everything. He literally had a magnificent speaking voice, a radio voice, he could do it all. 
And hard. He kicked it. So I thought. 
About his throat cancer and then he developed pancreatic. 
Well, I actually got the idea when Arnold Schwarzenegger became governor. 
He certainly is. He's doing a good job. Tough job. 
He was made editor in chief with David Pecker of doing some of the other bodybuilding magazines like "Muscle and Fitness" and I thought, this is a great idea. 
I would like to do a magazine, but how do I approach it. Maybe I could put what has worked for me and what hasn't and then I looked, you know, the world needs one less bodybuilding magazine, and there are like 400 of them. 
And there are no secrets. To build a bicep you go up and you go down. It's been that way since the dawn of time. 
And this is the way it works and they tell you a hundred -- they tell you do it this way do it in the sun, holding a muffin. 
I had known David Pecker, who was the star and ... 
He knows his magazines. And he runs American Media and he responded right away and you are right. Here is a statistic. 
There is 7,500 magazines in the United States, 7,500 and they have magazines for the county, for the state ... 
Exactly right. They have magazines for guys that like white shrimp. It's a niche thing. 
Every kind of magazine you can think of. And 2,500 magazines a year go down. So why would you want to do that? 
All the more reason to get into it. So we came up with a concept interviewing certain people, trying to be out of the box and answering questions and being more -- I have to be very accountable, in other words, the magazine has kind of an edgy -- it's a little -- I wouldn't say sarcastic but playful. 
There isn't just articles. There is an attitude to them. 
Big time. I probably do about ten articles for a magazine. KING: How long before this comes out? 
It comes out right now. It will be monthly but it's every six weeks. 
Monthly, right. 
Yeah. It's health, it's also about mental health. It's about knowing is it worth -- is everyone having the same problems as me? 
I hope so. So you share in this magazine that you are not alone, that our thoughts are pretty similar and that you have kind of a whimsical or a funny outlook on life because really for those who think that life is a comedy, for those who feel life is a tragedy, you have got to think about it. 
It everything really gets to you, if you're so hung up in the past then it's over. So this -- and I say, guys, I have the same hang-ups you have, here's what I did to get over them and then we'll interview people like Brooke Burke and we've got Mickey Rourke, Phil Nichols , and you've got Suge Knight. 
It's everything in there and I just thought let's just try to do something that is a little refreshing. 
At first but not really. A lot of women read male magazines. Of course a lot of guys read female magazines but they've got another issue to deal with. 
But a lot of women read men's magazines and think, oh, this is what these guys are thinking? Studying up on the enemy here. 
Fantastic. We -- usually, you do in your first issue like 30,000 magazines on the stand and we were over 175,000 so we were doing really well. 
Starting to sell adds. 
I don't know. I thought I'd be on the first few. I wouldn't mind. 
Why, you want to be on one? 
No, but it's what I think about depression. By the way, it's going to happen. It's inevitable. 
Some days I am going to wake up and hate everything. No reason. I have a nice house, a nice bed, everything is wonderful. 
What gene, what thing in our subconscious, what in our primordial ooze of human past that we drug out of the swamps. 
Why, why, why do people just wake up in a bad mood? I don't know. No one knows. 
It isn't worth giving the courtesy of a shrink visits, it's going to happen again. Deal with it. It's okay. 
It will pass. Just realize you're not alone. That kind of thing. 
Isn't that great? 
No. They almost came out -- the book actually was first because the book takes a much longer time and the book is -- the first part of the book is a little bit about my life, not the really seedy part of it but -- talking about Hell's Kitchen and why ... 
Talking about how I felt as though certain movie parts or whatever pushed me to. I would eat differently for "Cliffhanger" than "Rambo" and then "Copland" and then I realize that food really does dictate a lot of your food and your attitude and how all diets don't work. 
All the best girls are taken. 
I certainly hope so. 
Right. KING: Are you a health nut? 
No, not at all. Oh, God, if you wanted to... 
Please. If you went into my icebox, you would think it belonged to an overweight mud wrestler. It has everything from Red Bull, to beer, to salami, to cheese. 
But then again, it'll have, you know, broccoli and pomegranate. 
It's moderation. I tell people, first of all, if you're going to lose weight -- I tell it to the boxers on "The Contender" -- you cannot expect me to go to Larry King and say, "Oh, yes. 
You know what? I want you to completely dress different. I don't want you ever to wear those suspenders. 
I want you take the tie off. And I want you to come in here and wear a tank-top every night." 
You're going to go, "I'm hear for a steak. I'm hear for this. I came to this restaurant because I like that." And usually, if you're a pasta guy, it's only a certain kind of pasta. 
That's what you like. 
So I tell people, when they buy these diet books, and they see like, "Seven Days," and it's orange ruffie , and then take Laughing Cow string cheese to work with you, and have that at 2:00 -- you're not going to have it. 
It's not going to work. It's ridiculous. 
That you can deal with, right? That you can say, "I can deal with that." 
But if I tell you, "No, I want you to have a candied yam and a brussel sprout, but one olive, take out the pimento." You're going to say, "You know what?" 
And boy, I'll tell you what, and it was all worth it, OK? 
Oh, oh, my God. You never saw it? Twelve pound pancakes. 
Two six-pound pancakes. Obviously, they went out of business. 
And they had more homeless people hanging outside of that place, because you knew that they'd need it. 
Don't bring it up. My wife does that, too. 
No, you don't. 
I can't believe I said that. 
What is it like -- what is the word we use for, like, you know, the single-engine plane? 
Yes, close. I almost went that far. 
Yes, on "Rocky III," to get down -- yes, to do such a drastic change in one's body, you have to almost alter the whole chemistry to it. 
And doing that, you're starting to mess with the brain. And you don't want to do that. 
It is. It is, because I think that exercise -- you have gain without pain. I don't like pain. 
And I've done -- again, the same as what I told you before with the food. I've gone to the 60 sets a day, seven days a week, to the point where my body broke down. 
It can't work. 
Yes, seriously. Open a letter. Do something. 
That, strangling your toothpaste tube, do something, you know what I mean? 
Everything burns calories. You know, scream at the neighbor. Like, let it out. 
No. And therein lies that choice where you go, "OK. I don't want to do this. 
That must mean it's good for me, because if I want to do it, it's got to be easy." 
And there it is. And there's the battle. And when you do that 10 minute thing. 
And here's what I recommend for people in the morning, is just five minutes of just -- put on the CNN and just try to touch your toes. 
If you can just get your hamstrings loose in the morning -- just your hamstrings -- you're coming out of the house feeling like, you know, Ray Bolger in "The Wizard of Oz." You're clicking your heels. 
No, because he's past that. He's really assimilated into the, I guess, the tapestry of America. 
Right. He's got a job. But see, his job has put a lot of pressure on the wife. 
And now he's taking the family away to a secluded cabin and little does he know... 
Big time. Because you know, when you go in these certain areas, there are certain pockets in America that these people lived there like 150 -- like "Deliverance." Think that. 
You're out of your... 
Well, white supremacists have been done. But they are that kind of group, they're very clan-ish. And you know, this thing is going -- they run things... 
You know, I -- again, it's not a bad idea, because I think women are more ferocious than men. I really do. 
You know, I've seen women when you push their button and you just want to hide every sharp object in the house because they just take you, the house and they just go completely implode, like, do not -- I mean, they can really get wound up. 
Yes, "How are you?" But you know there's that thing. And I interviewed a female boxer in my magazine, the one that actually was in "Million Dollar Baby"... 
Yes, and I said... 
She's unbelievable. She's fighting Ali's daughter. And I said, "In reality, did you ever have a situation where your boyfriend were like" -- "Yes, yes, I had to knock him out." I said, "Did that kind of put a cramp in the relationship?" "Well, he was a karate instructor." 
I was a -- I could move well. But I thought I was a boxer until I got into the big ring with Roberto Duran. 
I could into the ring with him and Joe Frazier. And they took my arms, and they became like bad finger paintings. 
Yes, it's a fantastic -- I did. 
It's great moviemaking. And it's simple. It's simple. 
Again, you're, you know -- it engages the audience. And I wish we had a little bit more of that, you know? 
Yes, you know, to me, the biggest problem was in a lot of ways is when a guy could zip up a rubber suit with muscles on it -- it kind of took the... 
You know, now you don't even have to get in shape for it, you know what I mean? And when you don't get in shape for it, sometimes you don't feel it quite as much. 
A lot of people say, "Well, what is this, sour grapes?" I'm just telling you what I think. 
It worried me, for one... 
"Cliffhanger." 
No, I wish. I wish. 
Yes, it was like a mountain, put a guy on it, and... 
... and you go. And what happens is, I was very scared at first, really scared. 
I'm not a heights guy. 
No, I'm not. But what happens is, it's sick. After about a month, you start getting silly. 
You start doing goofy things, like guys do. And before you know it, it's like, "Hey, can you stand on one foot here and catch a football leaning over the edge?" And they do it. 
That was shot in the Austrian-Italian border of Cortina, which is the Dolomites, it's called. 
Oh, isn't that great? John Lithgow. 
You kill two people, they call you a murderer... 
... go figure. 
Renny Harlin directed it. 
Well, he sure wasn't on the edge. 
No, actually, all you hear is that inner voice going, "Get the check. Make sure you're getting paid for this, because it's" -- no, you just get into the cold... 
Oh, yes, yes. Actually, in the book, I had a -- I'm the first, like, bionic guy you probably ever met. 
I have a huge cable here where I tore out my chest getting into a bench-pressing contest with one of the strongest men in the world. 
It was ridiculous. 
Yes, usually, for movies, there have been some real bad injuries. Real bad injuries. 
What a misprint. How dare them do that. 
You know what? Again, I believe that what nature takes away you've got to put back. And regular food is not going to do it, unless you sit there, and you're raised on a farm, and you have that kind of biotanical grocery store next to you. 
Well, yes -- no, no, no... 
... I do a thing called lean fire , which is for energy. And I thing for male testosterone, which is forcity , which really -- I mean, I'm warning you right now. 
This could be hazardous to your health. 
Yes, it's like that. You'll be jousting up and down the street. 
Right now, they're at GNC and other... 
Yes, let's try it. Yes, I got the easy one. 
I know. Mine is broken. You did get the crappy one. 
You see, this is where bodybuilding comes in handy. 
Thank you. This is, again, 20 grams of protein, and it's in a pudding form. So children eat it, you eat it. 
You can take it to work. It's like a meal... 
A hundred calories. 
It does say 20 fat calories, right. That's it. 
Right. And about 1.5 carbohydrates, which is nothing. 
It's fantastic. Potassium is what keeps those muscles firing. 
Isn't that amazing? 
Well, yes. We just developed banana, lemon, whatever. I mean, I'm starting to feel like a traveling salesman. 
But I'm really proud of this stuff, because... 
... it is, you know, really. 
Exactly right. 
That's right. Bug sweepers. 
Ah, but you know what? To take the onus off of eating, to take the -- you know, I enjoy this... 
Thank you. And your kid will eat it. And I thought, "Why not?" You know, it's one thing -- it's great. 
I'm really appreciative about films and having that -- taking that journey. And I still want to take it some more. 
No, but it's not true. I'm looking today and I'm -- when Laurence Olivier stepped out and did Polaroid, all bets were off. 
All bets were off. And I say, "Why not? Why not use the entire experience?" 
Please. Julianne Moore and -- I mean, you see them all. You see them on DTV . 
And I thought, you know -- because at first, I was incredibly stand-offish about it. 
Yes. But I'm going, "You know, excuse me. Aren't you pulling yourself a little holier than thou?" 
Not really. I mean, I wish I could go back and change a few things. But you know, that's the bane of everyone's existence, is like the frustration. 
But I would like to -- I wish "The Contender" could have gone on more, only because -- not that it's such a financial bonanza, but it really served a purpose. 
Not more kids, I just want to get as much quality life out of our lives while we're here, you know? 
I'm 58 and a half, three-quarters. Actually, about eleven-twelfths. 
Yes, I've got good genes. 
I think he's like 86 now, 85. My mother is 41, so I won't go there. 
I think she's actually losing time. 
My mother will be 12 in a couple... 
Frank is great. Frank is very, very good for -- he was responsible for picking a lot of the guys on "The Contender." He's good. 
Frank is going to be one of the... 
Did we forget anything? 
It's shameless, but I love it. 
