Hi. That was nice. 
It’s great to be here. This is amazing. 
Yes. I came here, I think, about five years ago, I was 16. And just about to release my first single Tim McGraw. 
And so we were traveling up the West Coast in a rental car, in a TAURUS, and I was doing my homework in the back seat, I was home schooled in 10th grade. 
That was when we made this trip to San Jose and came to see you for the first time. It’s wonderful to be back here and have so many of you come out this time around. 
Yes. We started out the year going on tour and started off in Asia. And then we were in Europe for two months. 
It was, like, three months of major worldwide touring. So Singapore was the first place that we went on the tour. 
That will do it. I think you just said it. That’s the essential ingredient is a cat. 
I think we’ve all seen the effect of social media and how that can affect people. For me, I grew up when that was just about to set fire to the world. 
You know, I was, I think, in seventh and eighth grade when everybody started having a profile online and everybody was — you know, it was all about who’s your friend and who’s commenting on whose page. 
And then it became the YouTube generation, where everybody’s looking at videos, everybody’s making video blogs and, you know, makeup tutorials or this or that or back to school outfit shopping, you know. 
Everybody is kind of catching on to communicating by making videos and learning how to edit them. And it’s — I think it’s fantastic, because it’s just a new skill set for this new generation. 
Yes. I have watched this one three times this week because it makes me so happy. And it’s got these, like, five or six lion cubs. 
And there’s the lion trainer. And you’re like, oh, the lion cubs are cute. And they’re walking around. 
And then they jump up on the lion trainer and start hugging him. And then they’re, like, making all these little lion sounds that you don’t — you didn’t know what the sounds are that lion cubs make, but it’s amazing. 
It’s just like RRRR. They’re like hugging him, and he’s, like, oh, go for my hair. You keep going for my hair. 
And then he’s like, oh, yeah, telling me stories. 
It’s amazing. It’s — 
‘Cause he’s like Scottish and they’re, like, hugging him and they love him so much. And — I don’t know. 
It’s – you — just watch it. 
I know. It’s so cute. They came up with that. 
That’s so much questions. They’re so curious. 
I think for me, it more comes as a general idea. And my favorite thing about songwriting is that it’s so spontaneous and unpredictable what’s going to hit me first, whether it’s going to be a general thought. 
Like, for example, you know, I’ll be going through something. When I wrote the song “love story,” that’s a song I wrote sitting on my bedroom floor because I liked a guy and my parents didn’t want me to date him. 
So I got this idea in my head, it just popped into my head, you were Romeo, you were throwing pebbles, and my daddy said stay away from Juliet. 
I didn’t know where that was going to fit, but I started there and built out from there. And it’s crazy how the fastest songs that I write end up being my favorites, the ones that just happen  in just a surge of idea, a surge of inspiration. 
It’s usually something I’m going through at the time. It’s very hard for me to come up with just some random metaphor for a situation if I’m not going through it or haven’t recently just gone through it. 
But, you know, I think when I was growing up, my mom was always — my mom talks in metaphor a lot. And so I think I grew up just understanding metaphor and just kind of loving that, how you could take something you’re going through and speak about it in a different way that applies how you’re feeling to something completely different but connects it. 
So I think for me, it starts as an idea and a feeling and an emotion. 
There are several moments in a song — and I won’t finish a song if I don’t have these moments — where you go, “ooh, ooh, ooh,” like, after you write a line. 
It’s always that same feeling of, like, oh, that’s exactly what I meant. You know, if you’re in a cowriting session, I’m always the one who will, like, be, like, sitting there for a second, and then I’ll say a line, and if it’s that moment where you’re just, like, that’s the one. 
That’s the line, I have to have about four or five of those lines in a song for me to put it on a record. 
Like, lines where I’m just like, “Yes!” That’s my favorite part, is, then, when the song goes into its phase of being recorded and then being put on an album and when you’re playing it for people for the first time, when it comes across those lines that you really feel are like, I don’t know, like zingers or, like, say it really well. 
I love watching people’s reactions if they — if it comes across, like, if they get those lines. I’m like, “Yes. 
Well, yeah. For me, I never really switch the writing switch off. It’s always on. 
Because I kind of have always felt, like, to make an album that I am proud enough of to give to my fans and say, “Here,” you know, “allow this into your life,” it has to be, like — it has to be two to two and a half years of writing. 
And that way, you know you have your best stuff, because I’m so tough on myself. I drive myself insane writing records and albums, because it’s, like, I’ll write, like, 40 to 50 songs, and then 13 or 14 make it. 
That’s a lot of paring it down and making sure you’re getting to the best stuff. So for me, it takes a while. 
And I’ve been writing ever since I stopped writing the last album. And there’s been a lot that’s happened. 
And I never really talk about my personal life, but I write about it. So that’s basically what the album is about, as always. 
Well, I’m obsessed with the latest song that I’ve written. I’m very guilty of that. Because my favorite thing is always the newest thing I have written. 
But lately, I’ve become a little more self-aware, because I had this song that I wrote when I was 16. 
It’s called “Sparks Fly.” And I played it in a few shows, these little bar shows, when, you know — when I was playing to crowds of, like, 40 and 50 people and being psyched about that many people showing up. 
And I played it a few times, and it got on the Internet. And when I was putting together the Speak Now album, the fans just kept saying over and over again, “Sparks Fly, we want this to be on the record.” And so I went back and I revisited it, and I kind of rewrote some things and updated it. 
And when we put it out as a single, it’s been one of the fastest-rising songs we’ve had on the record. 
So it kind of taught me a lesson about the old stuff maybe possibly being good enough to put on new projects. 
I think that the song Sparks Fly, the fact that it technically was started when I was 16 and ended up on an album in sort of a different form in 2010, that took a while for it to turn into what it was going to be. 
So I’d say that was probably the longest developing song that I’ve ever put out, because most of them — and especially having written this entire new record without any cowriters — it all happened really fast, because I’m very impatient. 
Like, if I don’t have a song finished, I’ll obsess over it. I won’t sleep that night. And I’ll just edit constantly to the point where I can’t focus on a conversation. 
Everyone around me is annoyed, because they’re like, “Clearly, you’re working on something. Just finish it.” So that one was a long time to kind of get where it needed to be. 
Well, there are a bunch of different circumstances that could bring about a cowrite. If I’m writing for somebody else’s project, that’s always exciting for me. 
Like, I love to put myself in somebody else’s shoes and, you know, think about their style of music, incorporating their story line, what they’re feeling. 
It’s really fun for me to do that. So I love, you know, writing for other people. And then, you know, if I’m working on an idea but there’s, like, a stopping point where I can’t really figure out, like, where this chorus is going or if my hunch is right about the hook or things like that, if there’s a definite stopping point, I’ll bring it to a writer that I trust or a writer that I admire and just ask them what they think. 
A lot of times, cowriting, you know, I write really well with people who don’t even play instruments or sing. 
Because, you know, a lot of times, my best cowriters are just really great at giving advice. Like, do you think this chorus is too long? 
“Yes.” Like, “Thank you.” 
Yes. You know, for me, since I write so much and I don’t know what’s going to end up on the record, it’s — I never want to say, well, you know, wrote with this person, and — because then what if it doesn’t make it on the record? 
And then writing for some other people’s projects, in which case I feel weird talking about it because it’s, like, their project. 
So I — So yes, but — 
No, actually. I kind of have become — you have to adapt yourself to a million different places to write when you’re always on the road, because I just — I don’t have the luxury of saying, “Well, I have to be in this certain room at this certain part of town and it has to be, you know, all one color tone and there has to be Smart Water in there.” 
You know? It’s just like you’re never, ever anywhere for more than two and a half seconds. So I’ve written songs in airport bathrooms, on paper towels. 
I’ve written — 
Oh, it hasn’t come out yet. 
You know, in the bus bunk, you’ll wake up in the middle of the night and have this idea. So you write it, and you’re up at 4:00 a.m. 
Or, you know, I get awakened by song ideas all the time. And it’s just — it’s like I wake up and I’m just like, “Oh, great.” Because I know I won’t remember it in the morning. 
So you have to record it. And then it’s this whole thing where you check your phone and it’s, like, mumbling, and you don’t understand — you thought it was great at the time. 
Yeah. The ideas always end up in my phone, because it has a great recording thing in there. And, you know, for me, it’s, like, you just write whenever and wherever you can. 
And that’s been really fun for me, because sometimes I’ll walk into a hotel room and I’ll be like, “I’ve been here. 
I wrote Back to December here.” Like, it’s fun, because you have these memories of writing songs all over the world. 
Not at that point in the relationship. 
Because at that point, they’re thinking that, you know, I would never have any reason to write a song about them. 
And then it’s when, you know — 
When they start to, you know, treat me in a way that wouldn’t reflect well on them in a song, if I were to be honest about it, I’ve had a guy be, like, “You’re not going to write about this, are you?” 
I’m like, “Yeah, I am.” 
And you’d think that they would decide that before asking me on the date or before we become a couple or before all this stuff happens. 
But it only occurs to — it only — well, him, it only occurred to him when — 
— when he — it occurred to him that it wouldn’t be a good song. 
Yeah. Because I feel like in a song I love it when a song is a story, and the story develops. And my favorite stories have really beautiful characters. 
And I feel like you can most accurately describe a character if you know them. One of my favorite songs that I’ve ever put out is called “15.” It’s about my freshman year of high school. 
And it kind of chronicles my best friend Abigail and me and the way that we went through our freshman year of high school and the lessons that we learned. 
And that’s kind of how I like to tell a story, is from the point of view of really knowing what you’re talking about and knowing where you’re coming from because you were there. 
She’s pretty. I’m really in it when I’m on stage. And I go through a roller coaster of emotions when I’m performing my show, because these are all songs about people who have been in my life, who a lot of them — some of them aren’t in my life anymore, and, you know, sometimes that will hit you in just the right way. 
And when an emotion hits you strongly, it doesn’t matter if you’re in front of 20,000 people, it hits you. 
And, you know, for me, I’m in those songs, fully feeling all of it, until I hear the crowd start screaming at the end of the song, at which point, I’m just like — like, can’t stop smiling, because my favorite sound in the world is the sound of thousands of people screaming all at once. 
It’s a really amazing sound. And so I’m completely feeling all the sadness and frustration and anger and hurt, and then the crowd starts screaming, and then everything is right in the world. 
Yeah, I think it really has. I think that you can only hope that as a writer you start trying different things and you try different chords or different structures of songs, different beats that you’ve never really explored that path before. 
You know, and I think having always been a writer first, I’m obsessed with the syncopation of the way that words sound when they’re set a certain way. 
And once I’ve kind of done something once, I always want to go to a different direction and never repeat myself. 
So as a writer, I think that I’ve always hoped that my music would constantly be changing, because you never want to make the same album twice, the same song twice. 
And, you know, my greatest hope has been that as I grow, my fans will grow up with me, and as I change and my life changes, my music will change as well. 
So wish me luck there. 
Well, there’s a lot of that lately, because we have this thing called the Tea Party Room, and, you know, I have, like, four or five meet and greets before the show. 
But after the show, there’s a meet and greet for surprise people who did not know that they were going to get a meet and greet, because they were picked for the Tea Party Room, which means that they were, like, going crazy, dancing the whole time, dressed in some absurd, crazy costume from one of my music videos or just knew every single word and were just screaming the whole time. 
Like, people get picked for different reasons. But it’s been crazy lately because a lot of people have been going for the costume route. 
So we’ll look out, and, like, my guitar player will lean over to me and say, “That girl is dressed like a chicken.” And, like, I’m trying to find the meaning. 
I don’t know why. But, you know, we’ll look out. And there’s, like, a Santa Claus. 
Or, like, people who like duct-taped their entire body in neon duct tape. Or people who have just made giant cupcakes around themselves, and they’re, like — they’re this big. 
Or people who have likelihood dressed up from the mean video or something like that. But then there’s just these ones where, like, the girl is dressed as this — there’s like a clown and a starfish. 
And we’re, like, “I don’t know why, but I love it.” 
Like, and so there’s been a lot of costume stuff going on lately on the tour. So if you look around you and see someone dressed up as a giant cow and you don’t know why, we don’t know why, either. 
But it’s welcome. 
Yeah. You know, for me, like, it’s never going to be okay, no matter how many times I see little kids with cancer. 
Like, there’s — at no point do you ever become accustomed to it. At no point do you ever just brush it off and say, oh, well, there’s another kid who’s dying. 
And over the years, I’ve toured in these places, and you see, like, a little girl who will come through, and she’s, like, so full of life, but she’s lost her hair. 
And then you come through a year later, and you’re like, “Hey, Lexie, how are you doing?” She’s, like, “I’m doing good.” And then her parents update you. 
And then you come by, like, a year and a half later, and she’s not there. So it’s…. 
Ever since I was a little kid, ever since I was, like, eight years old, my dad has been telling me to save my money or invest in utilities. 
And — ’cause my dad is a stock broker. And he lives and breathes it. He’s like — my dad is so passionate about what he does in the way that I’m passionate about music, this guy lives for being a stockbroker. 
That is his thing, like. And anybody who talks to him, like, he’ll talk about me for the first five minutes, and then it’s, like, “Say, what are you investing in?” It’s just like he loves it. 
And so I thought — I didn’t know what a stockbroker was when I was eight, but I would just tell everybody that’s what I was going to be, like, you know, it would be, like — you know, first day of school, and they’re like, “So what do you guys want to be when you grow up?” And everybody is, “I want to be an astronaut” or “I want to be a ballerina.” And I’m, like, “I want to be a financial advisor.” 
I don’t know. I love my dad so much, because he’s so gung-ho for his job, and I just saw how happy it made him, and I just thought, I can broke stocks. 
My favorite music video to make. I loved making the video from Mine, because it dealt with this whole story line, and it’s got flashbacks and flash forwards. 
And there were also a bunch of little kids on the set. And they’re so fun. They make it so much fun, because there’s a lot of sitting around and waiting on sets, and we were in Maine, so we’re sitting around and waiting on a beach. 
All of a sudden, you’re just playing with ten kids. And they’re, like, wrestling with each other and throwing sand and, like, playing catch. 
And it just makes the whole thing much more fun. So I think that was my favorite one to make. 
We went to Kennebunkport, Maine, which was this little town that I’ve always dreamed of going to. It was amazing. 
It’s a little coastal town. It was really awesome. I loved it. 
Well, I go online and just kind of Google what people — what famous musicians are from a certain area, and I just pick my favorites, because, you know, I’ve — I’ve loved so many different kinds of music, and I’ve never really been genre-specific as far as what I listen to. 
There’s always, like, a favorite song of mine from a certain area. And, you know, it’s really fun to do, like, a few every night, like, you know, in California, I do, like, God Only Knows by The Beach Boys, and then Sweet Escape by Gwen Stefani. 
It’s just been really, really fun, because it’s just me and my guitar during the acoustic set. You can just do whatever because it’s just you and your instrument. 
It’s a spontaneous part of the show. 
Yeah. You know, it’s kind of unusual when I rap. 
You know. People don’t really, like — I guess people don’t see that coming. But I love “lose yourself,” so we were in an area, I think Michigan, and I just started — like, I started playing acoustically, Lose Yourself. 
And I just started off, like, “Yo.” And everybody’s just, like, “What is happening? This is really weird.” But I just — I love a great song. 
I don’t care what genre it’s in. I don’t care if it’s completely opposite from what people think is, you know, country music. 
And I just love a great song. 
I really like Better than Revenge. It’s a song off of the album Speak Now. And it’s about a girl who stole my boyfriends. 
And I got mad. And I wrote a song about it. And we do this, like, just — it’s just furious and angry and fun and, like, we have this gigantic bridge that be drops down from the ceiling, and me and my two backup singers are on the bridge, just, like, throwing our hair around and head-banging. 
And so that’s a really fun one to do. And for me, they’re all really — I think Dear John has a fun payoff. 
If you go see the show, I really love singing that, because in the end, it’s got this, you know, pyro-filled payoff in the end. 
I’d say — you know, you ought to come to a show, because the crowds are really kind of steadily ear-piercingly loud throughout the whole show. 
They’re amazing. Like, it’s really hard to gauge, like, which is the moment that — that they’re the loudest, because they’re just really, really loud. 
I do seem like that kind of person. But I haven’t done it yet. I kind of think back on the situations when I got them. 
Like, when — when I fell in love with that particular guitar, like, there’s one of my guitars, it’s an acoustic, and it’s blue, and it’s got KOI fish swimming up the neck in, like, inlays. 
It’s just beautiful. It was — Bob Taylor sent it to me for my 18th birthday. I remember the first time I opened up this guitar case. 
And I’m just like, “There’s fish on the guitar.” It’s, like, this gorgeous guitar. And so that’s what I remember about that. 
And then there’s this sparkly guitar that I play that has hundreds of tiny little crystals on it. And it looks like we had it especially made. 
But, really, we just glued them on. 
Yeah. And sometimes little ones fall — they fall off. So we’ll have to super glue more on with tweezers. 
That’s always what cracked me up about that. It’s like, everyone is, “Where did you have your guitar specially made?” I’m like, “Super glue.” 
Okay. That was a weird sound that I just made. That was weird. 
Sorry. The first one is electric. The second one is acoustic koa. 
Then there’s the 12-string. Then there’s the blue koi fish one. There’s, like, four or five. 
And then a ukulele and a ganjo and a piano. 
I watch a lot of TV. Like, a lot of TV. And my favorites are, like, the crime shows, where it starts out and, you know, you can’t miss the first scene or else you miss, like, the discovery of this crime scene. 
And then, you know, the — the, like, twists and turns of it all. I love CSI, Law and Order SVU, Without a Trace, NCIS, Lockup Raw. 
I just am really afraid of getting in trouble. You have no idea. 
Oh, mostly history. I’m obsessed with other time periods. And, like, I just — I’m always looking up museums or, like, the historical society or, like, historical landmarks that we can go to in a particular city where we are. 
And recently, I’ve been reading a lot of books on, like, John Adams and Abraham Lincoln. And I read this, like, 750-page book called The Kennedy Women, and it dates back to, like, the lineage of the first Kennedy woman who came across from Ireland on the boat in, like, the 1860s. 
It’s just this crazy interesting read. So that’s what I’ve been reading lately. I’m sort of obsessed with history. 
I was, like, 13, I think. 
Yeah. But I did. I was — I was — I have a lot of different epiphanies. 
I always have different ideas as to, ooh, this would be a good idea. And one summer, I was at the shore. 
We used to spend our summers in Stone Harbor, New Jersey. And all my friends were back in Pennsylvania. 
And so I had nothing to do, and so I had this epiphany: I’m going to be a novelist and I’m going to write novels and that’s going to be my career path. 
And so I would write different chapters of this book and send them back to my friends. And I’d write them into the book under different names, but totally describe their personalities and — it was a really fun way to spend the summer. 
My parents were so frustrated, because I would never go outside. I’d just be, like, locked in this little study with my computer. 
But you’ve always been a writer first. It’s my favorite thing, is how you can convey a thought or a story or completely describe a character or a situation through words, and the right combination of words, and the whole process of editing and re-editing and rethinking and imagining and you get these little mini just epiphany ideas that come to you. 
And I think that that’s what I loved about writing the novel. And that’s what I love about poetry. And that’s what I love about songwriting. 
What I love to do. Yeah, I watch a lot of TV. 
Yeah, crime shows. That’s pretty much the hobby list. 
Absolutely. I think that you have to love it more than anything else. And you have to love it for so many more reasons other than your idea of what the end result could be. 
Like, you don’t make an album so that you can get a platinum record to hang on your wall. 
And you don’t go on tour so that you can hang the sold-out plaques up in, you know, your bedroom. It’s, like, it’s so many little stepping-stones, and so many people have this idea that it’s like, you get discovered and then you get the record deal, and then you record the song, and then the song goes number one and — and it’s like, it’s never like that. 
Like, very rarely is it, like, one thing leads to another which leads to another, end result. It’s so many dead-ends and switching directions and going back and replanning and rethinking, and so many interviews and strategy meetings and management meetings and PR meetings, and so many things that are so outside of music, that you have to love music so much that just your hour and a half to two hours of stage every night is worth everything else that you’re going to go through. 
And also, I would say play your own instrument, because it’s easier than dragging around, like, a karaoke machine. 
You know? Like, when you’re starting out, you have to provide your own background music. And it’s just so much easier to play your own instrument. 
I love him. I think for me, beauty is sincerity. I think that there are so many different ways that someone can be beautiful. 
You know, someone so funny that it makes them beautiful no matter how they look, because they’re sincere in it. 
Or somebody’s, like, really emotional and moody and thoughtful and stoic, but that makes them beautiful because that’s sincerely who they are. 
Or you look out into the crowd you and see someone so happy that they’re smiling from ear to ear, and that sincerity comes through. 
I think that’s what makes somebody beautiful. And I’ve never felt like there’s just one way to be beautiful, you know, tall or short, straight hair or curly or whatever, some people have their definitions of their “types.” For me, I think that when I meet someone and there’s that magical think about them that makes them unforgettable, it’s that they’re sincere and honest in whoever they are, be that funny, happy, sad, you know, going through a rough time, sarcastic. 
I think that these personality traits that come through when somebody is really sincere is what makes them beautiful. 
I can wear these with sandals and — 
Those are going to look so great. 
I will see you later. 
I stay out to late, got nothing in my brain. That's what people say, that's what people say. I go on too many dates. 
Boy I keep cruising, can't stop, won't stop moving. It's like I've got this music in my mind saying it's going to be all right. 
That's amazing. 
I think that with the song "Shake It Off," I really wanted to take back the narrative and sort of have more of a sense of humor about people who kind of get under my skin and not let them get under my skin. 
This is an issue that I wrote about before. I had an album... 
Yes, exactly. Oh, I was just going to say that. 
Wow, OK, so I don't even have to tell you that. But there's a song that I wrote a couple years ago called "Mean," where I address the same issue, but I address it very differently. 
I said, why you got to be so mean? Like, an address - like, from kind of a victimized perspective, which is how we all approach bullying or gossip when it happens to us for the first time. 
But in the last few years, I've gotten better at just kind of laughing off things that absolutely have no bearing on my real life. 
She's exactly right. When I was in middle school, I had this fantasy that when we were in school, we had to deal with bullying and kids picking on you for no reason or picking on you because you're different. 
And I thought that when you grow up, that it's not like that anymore. And I realized when I grew up that it's the same dynamics except we're not walking from classroom to classroom. 
Yeah, 'cause the players gonna play, play, play, play, play. And the haters gonna hate, hate, hate, hate, hate. 
Baby I'm just gonna shake, shake, shake, shake, shake. Shake it off, shake it off. 
So I guess what I try to encourage girls who are in middle school to do is to figure out a way to distract yourself from that negativity. 
Figure out what kind of art you love to create or your favorite hobby or something to throw all of your energy into, and realize that you're going to have to learn how to cope with this at some point because it's never going to end necessarily. 
In the past, I've written mostly about heartbreak or pain that was caused by someone else and felt by me. 
In this album, I'm writing about more complex relationships where the blame is kind of split 50-50. 
I'm writing about looking back on a relationship and feeling a sense of pride even though it didn't work out. 
And I think there's actually a bit of a realism to my new approach to relationships, which is a little more fatalistic than anything I used to think about them. 
I used to think that, you know, you find the one and it's happily ever after and it's never a struggle after that. 
And you have a few experiences with love and relationships and you learn that that's not the case at all. 
Even if you find the right situation relationship-wise, it's always going to be a daily struggle to make it work. 
That's actually a really good example of the way I go into relationships now. 
He said, let's get out of this town. Drive out of the city, away from the crowds. I thought heaven can't help me now. 
Nothing lasts forever. But this is gonna... 
If I meet someone who I feel like I have a connection with, the first thought I have is when this ends, I hope it ends well. 
I hope you remember me well, which is not anything close to the way I used to think about relationships. 
Say you'll remember me standing in a nice dress, staring at the sunset. Babe, red lips and rosy cheeks, say you'll see me again, even if it's just in your wildest dreams. 
Wildest dreams. 
Like, what kind of messages? 
There's nothing that's going to turn girls away from themselves at age 12. I think that I have brought feminism up in every single interview I've done because I think it's important that a girl who's 12 years old understands what that means. 
I mean, by my basic definition, it means that you hope for the equal rights and opportunities for men and women. 
It's completely an issue. It's an issue every day that I read a headline that says careful guys, she'll write a song about you. 
Meanwhile, I have, you know, best friends who are male musicians and songwriters who write songs about their girlfriends, their ex-girlfriends and that joke is never made about them. 
Oh, I remember. Are we out of the woods yet? Are we out of the woods yet? 
Are we out of the woods yet? Are we out of the woods yet? Are we in the clear yet? 
Are we in the clear yet? Are we in the clear yet? In the clear yet, good. 
Thank you. It's been good to talk to you too. Tell your daughter hey for me. 
Yeah, happy Halloween. Bye. 
Are we out of the woods yet? Are we out of the woods yet? Are we out of the woods yet? 
Are we in the clear yet? Are we in the clear yet? Are we in the clear yet? 
Are we out of the woods yet? Are we out of the woods yet? Are we out of the woods yet? 
Are we out of the woods? Are we in the clear yet? Are we in the clear yet? 
Are we in the clear yet? Are we in the clear yet? In the clear yet, good. 
