How you doing, brother? It’s been a minute. 
I’m feeling, you know. 30 plus years, I think, you know, you’ve probably got a pretty good idea how I feel. 
Overall I feel good. I made some changes in training and diet and all that and kind of gave up on thinking I knew it all and opened my mind. 
And i’ll be damned, I feel pretty decent for the shape i’m in, I guess. 
Yeah that’s a pretty fair statement. I think so. You definitely kind of did your own thing. 
I run with my crew. And business was always there. Business was always fun. 
Pretty much the same way. Paul Boesch, obviously, I grew up in Houston. That’s where Paul Boesch’s Houston Wrestling, I have been a fan as long as I can remember. 
I used to go down to the Sam Houston Coliseum. A friend of mine lived across the street. Man, we’d psych ourselves up the whole week. 
The’d bring the original sheik. Man, we’d talk all week long that we’ll be on the aisle, oh, we’re going to get on him. 
That joker come flying at us, man, we’d be nothing but elbows running as fast as we could, you know. 
I thought you were going to do something. I just have all those vivid memories as a kid, you know, of The Sheik. 
No, that’s not correct. 
Yeah, I think I started training in ’86. There was a lot of pitfalls along the line. We got hooked up with Buzz Sawyer. 
Big time shooter. He was one of the best in the ring. As a human being, he fell quite pretty short. 
He would in — there was a few of the guys that would come in that gym and work out. And so he was like, I think Buzz Sawyer could do some training. 
So we go and we meet with Buzz. And we sit down in some restaurant and he’s like, yeah, i’ll train you guys. 
It’s going to be $2,500 a piece. He says if you bring anybody in, you know, i’ll knock off $500 off every guy you can bring in. 
So we paid him. We show up, me and about eight other guys we had never met. We all show up at the same time at his house, knock on the front door. 
Well, at this point, i’m still playing. This is during the summer. Anyway, he would finally get his stuff together and come on out. 
Then all he’d do is just stretch you. I mean we’re out in the front yard, you know, in this neighborhood, nice neighborhood. 
He come on out, you’d get down, amateur position and stretch you and cross face you and everything. 
Okay, well, this is how you break in the business. It’s a tough guy world. So I kept showing up week after week. 
Still no wrestling ring, right. I think we had maybe learned, a lock up and take an arm. That’s about it, all in the driveway in the front yard, you know. 
Exactly, when are we getting in a wrestling ring? And i’m playing summer league basketball and I’m coming over here getting the crap beat out of me. 
Well, one day, I don’t know if it was my day or I got lucky. It was my turn to roll in the ring. We get down. 
Somehow I turned him. And I put him on his shoulders. And it might have been a second because I was shocked, right. 
Usually by the half second i’m getting a forearm across my nose and my nose stretched across my face. 
Like I froze. I was like whoa. And about that time he come up, man. 
Oh my gosh, he stretched me 10 ways from Sunday. But anyway, each week, you know, each time we show up, there would be a few less guys. 
Yeah, absolutely. But I took the dogs. I’m like i’m getting something out of this, right? 
I gave them good homes. Cause I didn’t have anything at this time, you know. 
I’m not giving up, i’m showing up. It’s in my blood now and I hadn’t even had a good taste of anything yet. 
But I knew this was what I wanted to do. 
So basically you learn about what the business is all about there. Especially the way it was then and still is now for that matter. 
My first trip in there, I had to eat some crap sandwiches and do some things that I like was, hmmm, I said there ain’t nobody in this building thinks I can’t whip everybody in here. 
And on top of that, they bring in — and don’t know what to do who is greener than I am, they bring in soul taker. 
Who would come and turn out to be Papa Shango, Godfather and all that. So they didn’t know what to do with him, so they put us together. 
You were rocked up. You don’t have to be so modest, brother, it’s your show. 
I do remember it. And I remember being in your spot. When I come through the first time. 
And you weren’t some scrub. You had a look about you. So, I knew, I can still get over, you know. 
I can still get my hand raised, but I can make it mean something. And even though, you know right, I had been in the business a couple of years longer, I’m not where I am today. 
Exactly, you definitely at that point don’t want to have any bad matches. Right? And i’m like, okay, that’s three times I said that. 
I’ve got to do what i’ve got to do at this point. That’s why, it was that way. I tried. 
And that’s just the nature of the beast, you know. That’s how it is. 
I do. Well, I don’t remember it being that pleasant. When I heard it which was probably over a pay phone, it was like one of those moments I was like, oh no he didn’t. 
He didn’t say that. So I called Dutch. I think Dutch might have been staying at my apartment there. 
I was like you know what he just said to me? He said he’s going to stretch my ass. He said, what are you going to do about it? 
And that was all it took. This ain’t going to down like that, right. So we get in there, I think I had you locked up some way and I remember Dutch leaning over going, all right, let him up. 
I can’t imagine that going over real good either. 
So about that time is when Sid got hurt. When The Steiner’s had suplexed him and Sid had I think broke a rib and punctured his lung. 
When Sid went down, you know, there wasn’t a whole of 6’8 guys running around. So they call down there, I think probably through Dutch and said, hey, you want to come up here and be part of The Skyscrapers? 
You’ve got two 6’8 guys. And back then Danny could still move. And, you know, Dan is one of them legit tough guys. 
Salty and Danny was legit. I’ve got a great story. So Danny and I are together and they are getting us ready for The Road Warriors. 
We are going to have a Chicago Street Fight. Big PPV and we had one of those clashes. You remember the clashes? 
They were free at that time. They were like mini PPV’s before the big PPV and we’re going to get our heat, right. 
So we have our match. At the end of the match, before we go out, Danny says, just follow my lead, kid. 
That’s all I got, right. So we have our match. We do our thing. 
We had been together a few months now. I’m following his lead. I’m still a green horn. 
Now i’m in a role where, the stakes are way higher. So I mean i’ve gone from the regional territory to one of the big companies now. 
At the end of the match, we’re going to get the heat, right. Get some heat and leave them laying. Danny remembered. 
He didn’t like the booking up to this point. So Danny pulls out a chair. He commences to whooping The Road Warriors like ain’t nobody seen The Road Warriors get whooped, right. 
And I’m just there kinda filling up space. But Danny was going to town to the point where i’m like we’re going to fight once we get backstage. 
I’m still green enough that I’m into that Road Warriors mystique. I’m still green enough that to know that were some bad dudes. 
Which they were. I’m watching and I’m gathering all this in, you know. Danny is just wearing them out, right. 
Boom, finishes. Come on. So we go back up. 
I’ve been working my way up as a single. My contract comes up, right. And so I’m thinking I might a get a little bump. 
So I go in. I remember Jim Heard, Jim Barnett and Ole Anderson all in the CNN Tower there. To tell you the truth, kid, you’re a great athlete, but no one is ever going to pay money to see you wrestle. 
I’m like wow. I mean did I just hear that? And it was Ole. 
He looked me square in the eyes and didn’t blink when he said it. He said no one will every pay money to watch you wrestle. 
And I knew at that point like, okay, i’m done here. 
It was another hit to my pride. Okay. I became kind of difficult at that point. 
Paul Heyman was my manager at this point. So Paul is kind of relaying the information. Like look, they are not going to do anything with this guy. 
Why don’t see you see if you guys can do something with him? 
Yeah, Paul saw something. And he’s trying to, you know — he’s trying to get the door open for me. I remember I had already set up a meeting, to come meet with Vince. 
I’m just thinking, okay, one, i’m going to the house. I’m going to Vince’s house. I’ve got this, right. 
So, you know, I go to the house. Here’s a good story, too. So I didn’t know. 
Did you ever go to the China Club in New York? 
He was tied in deep. We had worked in the Meadowlands and my meeting was going to be the next day. He goes, okay, we’ll go to the China Club tonight and then we’ll go back. 
And then they were sending the car service to pick me up. I’m golden, right. So back then I had the Zubaz, the tank top, cowboy boots and Halliburton. 
That was the look, right? 
All the trademark stuff, so I had to go buy some clothes. Paul had this little, bitty sports car. I go to sit down in his car, right and I ripped the ass completely out of those pants. 
There’s a whole in my pants so wide and I’m headed to the China Club. But more importantly on my mind is tomorrow morning, I’m going to Vince’s house and meet with Vince, right. 
And i’m freaking out now. He’s like don’t worry about it. I’ll get one these girls to sew them up. 
It will be fine. I’m like Paul, come on. I said i’ve got to get these fixed. 
They’ll be able to do it. We go to the China Club. There’s so many people in there, you can’t hardly even move. 
There’s nobody got time to sew up a pair of pants. So basically, I sit down all night long in one spot because I don’t want to walk around with my damn ass hanging out in these pants. 
Yeah, before I get into this story, i’m going to need some of that. That’s what i’m talking about. Why did you wait so long? 
I don’t much, but when I do, I do. That’s perfect, man. 
So about the time I got my phone call, they were doing this promotion where on the show, you know, back then they would do three, four weeks in a row. 
They had this gigantic egg on the set. Yeah, you got it. There it is. 
So i’m at home, right. And I’m trying to think of everything I can do, i’m trying to grow my hair out, trying to come up with a different look. 
Whatever it’s going to take, right. 
So this egg appears on the show, right. And then, all of a sudden, my mind just starts going like, oh man. 
They are going to bring me in — now, this is how outlandish the gimmicks were then. I’m going to be egg man. 
I had convinced myself to the point where like my stomach hurt that i’m going to be egg man. 
No, i’m chilled usually. I’m a different point now than I was. I have already had a few doors slammed in my face at this point and have struggled to be told that no one is going to pay to see me work. 
So i’m going through all of these scenarios, you know. I’m growing my hair out. I’ve got the bogus pony tail that sticks out straight. 
I’m like, oh man, i’m going to be egg man. They are going to make me shave my head. They are going to make me shave my eyebrows. 
They are going to make me shave everything and i’m going to be egg man. That’s going to be my gimmick, right. 
I have myself believing i’m going to come out of this egg right here and I’m going to be, Mr. Clean or whatever. 
I’m just like, please don’t call. 
I’m thinking all right, here we go. I don’t know. Got one on the line. 
I don’t know what it is, you know. Like you said, my foot is in the door now. Then I got up and these are some of the sketches. 
I was mesmerized right away by it. 
I’m entranced by it because there’s a darker — there really is a darker element to the stuff that I really used to kind of be interested in. 
So I started identifying. The story boards, you know, he’s an old western Undertaker. You remember in the old westerns — they’d have the gunfight out in main street and The Undertaker would come out and measure to see how long he’s going to make the box. 
So i’m thinking, okay, that’s cool. It took me a while to put it all together. At that point, i’m doing leapfrogs, drop-downs. 
It was cool. The look and everything was really cool. It just took me a while to put it together. 
Yeah, as I thought more about the character and what I could do athletically, my presentation became I want to lull people in. 
I want to stalk somebody when I get them hurt. I want people to feel like the boogie man is coming down the hallway and going to grab you. 
That’s what I was trying to — and honestly, I don’t know why, but it clicked. That right there, Michael Myers and then Jason Voorhees from Friday The 13th, I started thinking about how those guys were. 
Those guys never moved fast at all, but they always seemed to be at the right place when it was time to cut somebody’s throat. 
And it was vicious. So I would move slow and i’d have to make myself because, believe me, there was that time where I just wanted to hit the ropes and take off and throw that flying clothesline. 
But I realized that it’s not going to work if the work doesn’t match the character. 
I’ll say that until the end of time. And to this day I think that’s an element to where these guys are at today. 
We talked about it. The guys are so athletically gifted now. I don’t know if they can go any higher than what they go. 
But after that, does your audience care? You identified so well. I mean you were the working man’s hero. 
You got to do what everybody I think in the world wants to do to their boss. But it was natural. People believed if they saw you in the street, if you didn’t have a couple of beers in your hand and flipping somebody off, I wonder what’s wrong with Steve today. 
And the same way, I lived my gimmick. I lived it for years and years. 
Only, one of the goats. And too i’m not — i’m not two or three years down the line. I’m a few months into this project here. 
I still to this day, you know — The Rhodes, The Flairs, The Races and The Steamboats, they are up there. 
I don’t care what people say, about me or anything. Those are the guys and here I am. So trying to contain, you know, it’s like hmm, thinking in my head, I just threw the american dream over the top rope. 
And then after all those — after all the negativity that I got and I’m not going to be able to draw and i’m not going to do this and that, and then you are in this big pay-per-view and you know — even that early, you know when you have your audience. 
I felt it. It was quiet in a good way. Not being quiet because you’re stinking the joint out. 
Exactly and I felt that. I had been around long enough to know there was something special. 
It wasn’t well received. Those guys are all veterans guys and all had runs. It’s the nature of the beast. 
It was my time. But they weren’t happy about it, no. 
Yeah it doesn’t feel right because that’s an idol. Then here you are, you’ve got the thumb’s up and that’s the way it is. 
That’s the nature of the beast. And I mean I had to deal with that internally But first guy I went and saw when I got backstage was Dusty Rhodes and thanked him. 
This is somebody that I grew up idolizing and watched so many matches of. And here he is and you’re making him look like a jabroni, you know. 
Never that Dusty would be a jabroni, but you get my analogy. You get what i’m saying there. There was so much emotion coming at me. 
There’s all the stuff that i’m getting, i’m getting no one is ever going to pay money. We don’t have anything for you. 
Egg man. And it all comes full circle. And you know your time is coming. 
And I still had no idea where it was going to go, but I knew I was further along at that moment than I had been. 
I knew all the work, all the door slams, everything to that point had paid off. And I was on my path. 
There’s one guy. Guess him? One guy. 
Vince is out of the equation, we’re talking about one of the boys. 
Jake The Snake Roberts. 
Not so much in my delivery or what I said. But he had such insight into characters. Jake The Snake Roberts, brilliant mind. 
Unbelievable the insight he gave me in how to put that gimmick together. He would tell me like he would listen to Pink Floyd or he would listen to Black Sabbath. 
Which, you know, that got me, okay, probably get some heat for this, but I would look in the bible at different verses. 
Back then it didn’t bother me as much if I would alter it around a little bit. Who am I telling, right? 
So I started looking outside of the box in how to put all this together and become this character. 
That’s very correct. And what I had to do early on is put my ego — I had to put my ego aside for the sake of the character. 
I couldn’t get in my own way. That was difficult because you get to see all these guys going out there and tearing it down. 
And knowing inside you — athletically I can do all of those moves. I’m 8 inches taller and i’m 100 pounds heavier. 
I can do that. But no one would care. You got out in eight to ten minutes do your stuff and people are enthralled. 
It took me a minute to figure it out. It’s like back to the less is more. And it gradually become second nature. 
But it was a struggle. 
I think probably that’s my best attribute of anything you can say — is being able to figure out — like I always felt like if i started feeling stale, my audience is probably feeling it before me. 
You get wrapped up in what you’re doing. So the small changes, the breaks at the right time. But I don’t think I would have made it through if I hadn’t have changed when I did to go to the American Badass. 
I wouldn’t have made it. The character I think would have lasted through the attitude era. I was too handcuffed for our content. 
And to tell you the truth, I had already been there nine years. 10 years already doing — made some changes, but I needed the handcuffs off. 
I needed to let go and then let them see just a different variation. Which opened the door to how when I came and brought the gimmick back, then I was allowed like you said, I kept a little bit of everything. 
There were all kinds of Harley’s. 
Oh, yeah. It’s all on the line right here. I have rolled the dice. 
Ain’t no taking it back from this point. 
That was nerve-racking. Like you said, when I hit — so many variables there. One, the bike. 
Now, I had been off almost a year at that point. 
Well, I left originally — I had a big time groin injury. And about three weeks before I come back, I tore my peck. 
So it ended up being close to eight or nine months that I was off tv. 
So now not only am I coming back, i’m coming back as a completely different dude. So that was a pay-per-view on a bike in a completely different gimmick pretty much. 
The coat was the same, but I mean the guy was completely different. You are running through all those things. 
Everything that can go wrong, if this doesn’t work, you are dead right there. Fortunately, it was the right move at the right time. 
Once I got to WCW, everything was so rampant, the things that you see are just — you try to tell people outside our industry some of the excesses — and they look at you like, man, you’re full of crap. 
Nobody does that. Only rock stars do that. Well, I’ve been in situations where I put some rock stars to bed. 
So, you know, back then I think it’s pretty commonly known that I burnt the midnight oil. Work was always first. 
But there was always that part, that camaraderie with the guys I really enjoyed. It had a lot to do with drinking whiskey and, hanging out, telling stories like we all do. 
Any time we get together, we all sit down and we start telling stories. So this is the backside probably of a 17 day tour. 
I’m like all right, guys, look, I’ve been going hard every night. I said i’m going to stay in. I’m going to take a break. 
We’ve still got three of four days left. I had to pace myself. One day out of 17 I was going to take off, right. 
But we had Amsterdam and Berlin and these places coming up. I wanted to be fresh and ready to go. 
Somebody just smarted off a little. You don’t know me. I’ve got no ill will. 
It was just a moment and that’s how everybody was. Sometimes I get, you know — you shouldn’t have said that. 
So here we go. And drank all the whiskey. So we close the bar down. 
There is still people standing upright, right. So I don’t know how it ended up. It was me and X-Pac. 
And we end up in one of the guy’s room. They were known for their cannabis intake, you know. That’s never been my deal. 
But I remember sitting in this room with a bunch of people I really didn’t know. And it was like this haze that kind of sits like the fog had come and sit down at a certain level, right. 
I’m sitting on the desk. I’m looking around and there’s only like two people left that are upright. 
There’s bodies like just laid out everywhere. I turned to say something to X-Pac. Well, X-Pac is asleep on my shoulder like this. 
This picture is so significant in so many different ways. So this tour that we’re on — and this is getting close to the end of the tour. 
So Nash and Hall are about to go to WCW. Gerry Brisco, Paul Bearer and X-Pac. Look at that, Triple H. 
I never felt that with him. 
You respect it because it’s hard — it’s hard in this business and this atmosphere. 
There’s enough drinkers in that picture right there that he didn’t need to really have anything to drink. 
But that was a really significant point in our industry and what was about to happen. So Nash and Hall are about to go to WCW. 
And then the Monday Night War starts. They are going to start kicking our ass and, you know, with nitro. 
I mean that all happened shortly after this picture was taken. 
I wasn’t there. 
Initially when they started drumming us, we were still doing some lame stuff initially. We were still gearing our content for younger demographic where they were hitting 18 to 36, 18 to 35 demographic hard. 
It was frustrating to me because I knew what they were doing is where we needed to be. And I knew once the switch flipped, I knew that would happen. 
And it did. I knew Vince is too smart. It just took — it all worked out for the right reasons. 
But it was frustrating because this is where I knew — this is the same reason that we wanted to be at WCW way back when. 
We wanted to be more reality based. 
We had a really good creative collaboration and just through the years, our friendship grew. But he obviously, trusted my judgment with a lot of the things with the character. 
It was originally his vision, but he gave me a lot of creative liberty with it. And he trusted me when I felt like I needed to turn into, The American Badass, he must have felt it too. 
We butted heads and things have been rough. But at the end of the day, our passion is the same. We want to put out the best product possible. 
Like you said, I never thought of myself as the locker room leader. It just kind of happened in a sense because I was there for everything. 
And I tell people this sometimes. And I never mean for it to come off like i’m being an ass, but times were so hard, so lean there when business was so bad, I have made more in one payoff than I did in a whole year. 
It was kind of a hybrid, American Badass Undertaker, you know I was doing the same stuff. I was just changing the look. 
And then after American Badass, that’s when I kind of hybrid everything together. And then allowed myself — because I have already been there. 
It allowed me to work a little differently which I think I needed to. Just because of our audience. 
I always look at that. That was a four-year kind of program. The two with Shawn and then the story continued with Triple H. 
So I always look at that as a four-year program. Those matches were really tough. We had such high standards. 
The match with Shawn — I mean say what you want, man, that boy can work. I mean, you know, I remember sitting there, me and Triple H looking at each other like we’ve got to top that. 
At this moment right now, Shawn has already retired. You look at my eyes. That doesn’t look like the guy to me — I remember it vividly. 
I don’t know that i’m coming back next year. 
At that point right there is about as real as it gets. 
That wasn’t called. That happened. That’s organic right there. 
It just felt — everything about that felt right in the match, the way it all – the finish turned out, I was really, really proud of that. 
Not for long because after the adrenaline wears off, then the pain comes back. 
Yea, it was bad. 
Yeah, all four of those. Enjoyed it for the minute. I don’t know. 
As I said, maybe an hour. After that, you just kind of want to sit. Because there’s such a build up to the match and everything that goes around WrestleMania. 
And you go out and then if you are lucky and you feel like you deliver like on the build up and the hype and everything else — then you just, you know, this is kind of we did it. 
You know, it’s pretty cool. Then you sit there and I know for me — and I would sit there damn near an hour. 
Then it was time to get up and change or something, it’s kind of like here’s the reality. The reality is you’re battered, man. 
You’re beat up. And now the reality is for the next few weeks. It’s been that way from that point to today. 
I know what’s coming afterwards. 
Yeah, it’s worth it. And at this point, pretty much everybody from our generation, everybody is gone. 
It’s a new — it’s not so much about the matches any more. It’s about personal challenges with me at this point. 
Sometimes Vince wants me to do a favor and do a show. And it’s about the challenge of it. Can you get yourself to the level that you need to go out and perform at a level people expect you? 
And that’s my biggest demon at this point. Because I know that the window is shrinking and, you know, my biggest fear is becoming a parody of myself. 
That’s something that I struggle with. Like I don’t want to stay too long. I always told myself don’t stay too long. 
And there’s some days, you know, some things, some matches happen and I’m like I stayed too long. Then you come back and you tear it down again. 
I did, too. Honestly, I thought it was all over. I was like this going to be worth more than coming out and giving any speech or doing anything. 
Because that just don’t fit. It don’t fit to what I do. I said this will register more with our audience. 
Sure enough, I get talked to coming back. Once I start training and once I start getting ready for something, then you get caught up in it. 
At this moment, i’m not coming back. 
That is the million dollar question. I guess it could have been. The thing with this match, though, not everybody knows — somewhere within the first five minutes of this match, I get concussed. 
I don’t even remember this night. I mean I have watched it back now. I obviously know. 
My last memory that I can definitively tell you happened about 3:30 in the afternoon when my wife came backstage and we had a conversation. 
That’s the last thing that I remember on my own of that day. At this point of my career, there is a huge process of me getting ready between the stretching, visiting the doctors, doing everything that I have to do to get myself ready to go out and perform. 
It’s gone. When I say process, we’re talking about an hour and a half, two hour process that’s just completely gone. 
My memory picks up I want to say 4:30, 5:00 in the morning when i’m in the hospital. They’re coming to check in on me every few minutes asking me my name. 
And I’ve got no clue. 
Oh, yeah. I walked back. I went through gorilla and I sat down. 
And then the next thing I remember is i’m in the hospital. And there’s doctors and nurses keep coming every five minutes, what’s your name, birth date, where are you. 
Got no clue. The only thing I remembered was my wife’s first name. And I got to the point where, you know, they’d come in and they asked me where I was at and I’ve got no clue where i’m at, no idea what my birthday is. 
So they leave. I call her over. Babe, come here, come here. 
Where am I? She’s like i’m not going to cheat for you on this. You’ve got to remember this on your own. 
I’m getting hot at her because she won’t tell me where the hell i’m at and i’ve got no clue. I’ve watched it back, 10-15 times now. 
Same thing here. 
Well, it shouldn’t because, look, I mean things happen. It’s not ballet. Things happen in the ring. 
We know that. You’ve got to remove yourself a little bit and look at the big picture of this thing. 
It was something that happen. I don’t blame Brock for me getting concussed. 
So, you know, regardless of anything, i’m going to write my own story and i’m going to write my own ending. 
It’s all speculation. 
You had fun. Your mark in the industry, that will never be taken away, you know. I look at things sometimes now — because obviously, i’ve got fewer matches in front of me than I do behind me. 
That’s just the way it is. But you know, there’s only one person that I have come across that has been really at perfect peace with himself by pulling the plug and that’s Shawn. 
He knew when we walked out of the ring the second time he was done. And he was at perfect peace. Sometimes I look at you guys and think maybe that was kind of somewhat of a blessing. 
Obviously I mean it’s taken away parts of things. But you didn’t have to make the decision. It was kind of made for you. 
When it happened, you still had rubber on the tires. That goes without saying. But the decision was pretty much made for you. 
But you’re smart enough to know what the long term — you run the risk. Sometimes I go out now and I feel great. 
Other times I don’t feel so good. What happens is when you start having to think, when you have to start thinking about what you’re doing, that’s when it becomes really dangerous. 
You have to gout there with a clear mind and do what you are out there to do. Once you start worrying about, well, if I do this, is my knee going to blow out sideways, that’s when it becomes really dangerous. 
And then it breaks down everything that you do. There’s no continuity. There’s no fluidity. 
Yeah, you can’t work with fear, not in this business. 
That’s part of it, you know. I think, like I said, it’s important that I write my own story about how I do this. 
Every time I go out, i’m going out one time. I went out and, you know, I had that match in Saudi. 
What’s so funny is like I came back right after that. I was still feeling the effects from that match. 
But, man, you know, I know you’re the same way. Pride is a sum bitch. It doesn’t matter. 
You’re on the face of mount rushmore. Just like you just told me, it still bothers you that you didn’t give me the match that you felt like I deserved. 
I’m not going to let that be the last thing that people remember. Wasn’t anybody’s fault. Just one of them bad nights at the office. 
It was so bad, you know, almost didn’t make it back. But I came back. It’s a joke around my house because I’ve retired 15 times. 
I’m proud. I feel very blessed honestly to have the career. I was fortunate. 
I think preparation and luck — what’s the old saying? Preparation and luck create opportunity. All the surgeries, everything, it’s all been worth it to me. 
Because I’ve got to do for 30 plus years, I’ve got to do what I love every day. Not everybody can say that. 
So, you know, as far as my contributions, hopefully 10 years from now people will still remember some of the stuff that I did. 
Those were good times, bro. Did you ever watch the documentary “When We Were Kings” ? Oh, it’s awesome. 
It’s about Ali and Frazier. Man this is when we were kings. I mean this was good times. 
Well I didn’t appreciate that  one bit. 
You were kicking it, man. 
What do you have to apologize for? 
I feel it. It’s still there. That was just for the business there. 
Earl is like, man, your hear is jacked up. So it ain’t me you need to apologize to. You know who you need to apologize to? 
So they were going at it. It was a charter plane. So they had all the big first class seats. 
And I was like in the section — because I could get my legs completely straight out. So I was right in the first row after the first call on this charter. 
And it was the flight from hell. But anyway I was out. And they were right in front of me they were like on my feet. 
So I come to and I look you know. And I hear all this and I see Kurt on Vince, right. 
Hey, if that’s the worst thing that happened to me over my career, i’d be all right, man. 
That’s all right. I didn’t mind. Wanted to cash them checks, brother. 
See, that gives you the out right there. 
In 30 years, I can probably count on one hand the number of times that I have actually broke. What that was, so to backtrack a little bit, if you remember, it was like a soccer stadium, right? 
So, you know, we’re all feeling pretty good about ourselves, right. Oh, man, we’ve got this soccer stadium. 
Police escorts, everywhere. We roll up into that stadium and there might be 800 people in that stadium. 
And we’re all looking like, what? You know, we’re rocking in all over the world, right. We go into this stadium and there’s like 800 people there. 
It’s a 40,000 seat stadium. Before I get to what you did to me, do you remember the headlock chain? 
This is the most hokey thing you’re ever going to see. It started out a battle royal of some sort. That’s what it was. 
Our stuff was happening in the same match. It was a battle royal. Anyway, somebody grabs a side headlock and then somebody else grabs the guy who has the side headlock, grabs them in a side headlock. 
So there ends up with like a six, seven man daisy chain headlock. It must have been a lumberjack match. 
I don’t know what kind of match it was. But there was an eight man daisy chain headlock and it went downhill from there. 
He stuck his head under the original guy in the original headlock. That’s right. 
He had the whole roster. He could have been the king of the world. And he went to the ass end of the daisy chain. 
Unfortunately, yeah. 
Before that, though — before it’s even worse than that. You were the farthest away from me. So basically we were like this. 
And everybody there is like that. So when I initially did it, nobody here sold. You sold it. 
And I wasn’t even touching you. And then everybody figured out that they needed to sell it because you went down. 
It was so bad. 
And that was halfway through that. They kept sending guys. Something happened — I don’t remember. 
It got a big enough distraction where I left. I ran — I didn’t run, but I power walked out. And he sent Big Show after me. 
And I come back through the curtain, Big Show was reaching for me. I said, big man, I said you may whoop my ass in the end, but you’re going to eat something before you get me back through that curtain again. 
We were grinding, man. 
Tell me that. How do two red necks from Texas end up in a studio? That’s got me a little baffled. 
Absolutely, man. I don’t do this often. You know that. 
So I appreciate you having me on. And hope you much success. Since you mention George Strait, you will appreciate Troubadour. 
