Thank you. Appreciate it. 
I think, being an athlete for a long time, rarely does the season ever just go smooth sailing. So every team deals with adversities, it has to overcome different obstacles over the course of the year. 
Sometimes you start slow. Sometimes you … we had a middle stretch where we didn’t play our best and we played some really good football teams. 
And then sometimes you struggle a little late and you got to get it going, but this team found a way when it mattered most. 
And there are so many great plays by great players on our team at the biggest moments. And even thinking about the playoffs, to go to Washington and get a win there, and our team’s first chance in the playoffs was incredible. 
And then to go to New Orleans and watch the defense play against the Saints team, which really beat us pretty well two times this season, and then to go up and play the MVP of the league and watch our defense play the way they did. 
And then again, last night was pretty spectacular. So offensively, we made some great plays when we needed to, but it was the ultimate team effort, ultimate team … as BA said, it’s an amazing team, amazing group of guys, and just very blessed to be a part of it. 
It was just amazing to have everybody there, and my family’s been so supportive in this journey with me for a long time, like all of our families. 
And I know I couldn’t do it without my family. So my sisters … I’ve always said I had three sisters who are way better athletes than I am. 
And they were three of the most competitive girls I’ve been around growing up. I was the little brother. 
I would just tag along to all their softball games. And my oldest sister, Maureen, was an All-American pitcher at Fresno State. 
And her daughter now plays at UCLA and is going to be an All-American at UCLA as one of the best players in the country as a young softball player. 
So there’s a lot of competitiveness. 
And she’s a nurse now, but in her heart, she’s still an athlete. So she gave me a hug after the game and she said a few things that probably aren’t appropriate for this call, like we all do when we win, but it was great to everybody there, great to have everyone celebrate, and it will be a good day today of rest and have some time with them today. 
And we’ve all kind of been away from … well I’ve been away from my family for … I said nobody comes to the house until this game’s over. 
So we’re going to get some time today to all chill out and enjoy it. 
I actually spent the night in my daughter’s bed, because I had five of my nephews and nieces in my bed. 
So that was pretty unique. It was probably about two hours of sleep. So I’m going to be trying to get some extra sleep today. 
Well, I think in any game … I think what our defensive line did last night was incredible. And it’s very difficult, almost impossible to play quarterback under duress like that. 
That’s just the reality of football. You have a rhythm in your head of how a play should go or the rhythm of a certain play, and if that rhythm is thrown off from the snap of the ball, you’re just scrambling to make plays. 
And Pat was doing everything he could to make a bunch of plays last night. He was running around, reversing field, doubling back, tripling back, and then made some great throws. 
But in the end, it’s tough to do that consistently and play on rhythm. But our D-line really made him uncomfortable all night. 
It’s a good feeling from our sidelines, seeing them do that. Just seeing the other quarterback work for passing yards is a great feeling. 
There’s nothing … I know when I feel in rhythm and I feel like, okay, things are really clean, I’m seeing everything, it’s fun, it’s relatively easy. 
But when you feel God man, every play for a six yard gain, I got to fire it in there and thread the needle between two guys, I mean that’s tough to play football like that. 
So I just give credit to our D-line, to coach Bowls, the scheme he came up with, all the linebackers, Devin, Lavante, what they did in pursuit of him. 
They played their ass off. 
Yeah, BA was very supportive of me, and Clyde, my quarterback coach was very supportive. It’s anything where … anything that affects your parents is pretty tough, especially on the other side of the country. 
They’re in California, I’m in Florida. I think a lot of families have been affected by this COVID situation and it hit my dad pretty hard. 
My mom recovered pretty quickly. My dad had a little rough go, but in the end he came through like he always does. 
He’s a fighter and I was just so happy that he was there last night watching us play. So it all ended up well. 
It was amazing. That’s the best part. I mean, for me, that’s the best part is just watching Mike, watching Lavante, Kevin, Cam , Will Golston, guys that have been here for a long time, and just everybody wants to win the Super Bowl. 
I know everyone, hey, that’s the goal every year, but as the commissioner said earlier, it’s hard, man. 
It’s a hard league and these guys are good. These talented players, talented coaches, very, very … you need a lot of good fortune. 
Injuries and stuff like that always play a part, but just to see them celebrate … our locker room, man, that was amazing after the game. 
I’m sure it’s probably a lot on Instagram and social media with a lot of guys and the cameras, but there was champagne bottles popped and cigars being lit. 
It was just a moment I’ll never forget. So just celebrating with them, that was an amazing feeling. 
Well, I think everybody was dealing with, like I said, just a bunch of different things that are a little bit challenging and so forth. 
And I think anybody that is just trying to learn some new verbiage, it’s not like curl routes are any different or  or any different or comebacks or go routes or posts, but just how you put them all together and how you call them and stuff. 
But again, I think everybody just worked at it together. That was the best part. It was just everyone everyday showing up, “Hey, this is what we’re going to do. 
This is how we’re going to do it, this is how we’re going to try to make it better.” And we just worked every day. 
And I know BA … I would say BA had incredible confidence in us from the moment we got started. 
And even we hit a rough patch, he never lost his poise. He never doubted what we could accomplish. He just kept believing that we could do it and he saw it, and the players, when the coach believes in it, the players believe in it too. 
And we’re just going to … we’re a really hardworking team. Guys showed up wanting to put the work in. 
And when you do that, it usually pays off. So it doesn’t always pay off, but most of the time it does. 
So the guys put the work in and we all went out and we got it done. 
Yeah, I said last night, every year is different. This year has been so … it’s been incredible for me. 
It’s just been incredible. So it’s great. That’s where I rank it, it’s great. 
It’s been a great year and incredibly … I mean just fun. There’s a lot of … I think in a unique way, it was kind of like with the coronavirus situation and all the protocols, it was really like football for junkies. 
There was not really a lot of other things to do other than show up to work and play football. Normally there’s a lot of other things that go along with playing football. 
So if you love football, this was a year to be a player in the NFL, because that’s all it was. It was like football camp with all your buddies year round. 
So I really enjoyed that part. 
I’ll get to the point right away. I’m retiring for good. 
It won’t be long-winded. You only get one super emotional retirement essay, and I used mine up last year. 
Thank you guys for allowing me to live my absolute dream. I wouldn’t change a thing. Love you all. 
Yeah, it's been a lot of fun. Being back on the field and having a chance to work with a lot of the new guys; some of those guys we've worked with . 
There's a lot of familiarity with Donte'  and Jabar, with the stuff they've already done on offense, so it's been good. 
We've had 12 practices, so we've got one more tomorrow and we've got to finish strong. 
Yeah, you know we've done a lot of installation and stuff. There's been a lot of stuff thrown at the players, some mentally. 
Probably more than our level of comfort, but it's nice for everyone to hear things and cover everything and then at least you've heard it once we get to training camp. 
There's been a lot of installation every day and I think coach has really kept the pressure on us to see how much we're retaining from week to week. 
Guys have worked hard at it and it's been a lot of fun. 
Yeah, it's been a different offseason than last year, but a lot of guys have adapted and we pretty much have everyone out there. 
You can really see what kind of team you're going to be, see the level of competition, the level of focus and the level of concentration, especially on wet, rainy days. 
We're moving from situation to situation - there's been a lot of red area work, right into third-down work, backed up , plus-50 work - so we've really had to focus our minds and be ready to shift and adapt over the course of practice to try to simulate what we do in a game. 
It's been a lot. 
I think it just lets everybody know where they're at and what they need to do over the next five weeks. 
If you feel like you're not real comfortable with everything we're doing, then you know you've got to put a lot of time in your playbook. 
If you feel like you're conditioning needs to be better, that's what you need to do; your strength, that's what you need to do; your speed, that's what you need to do. 
You can feel pretty comfortable with where you're at based on how it looks out there, but no one is ready to play a game yet, I can assure you of that. 
We've got a lot of work left before we're ready for that. 
I mean hopefully not, hopefully we don't look at it like that. We're in full preparation mode. This is the point where things really start getting ramped up. 
There's no breaks, we had our vacation, we had a lot of time off and now it's time to really focus in on what we need to do because we're going to blink and the first game is going to be here. 
You've got about five weeks and everyone should use it really wisely. Get in better shape, get in better football shape and have a better understanding of what we're doing so that we can go out there and when training camp starts you can really get off to a great start in training camp. 
I've got a long way to go. I've got a long way to go. Nowhere near where I want to be or where I need to be. 
Yeah, I mean it's always good to have good players on this team. Rob's worked really hard, so I think everyone's happy for him. 
He certainly deserves it and he's had two great seasons and hopefully has a great season this year. 
It's a lot of football activity and I think at this point your conditioning and your strength is where it's at. 
For me it's a lot of drops, a lot of throws and working on footwork and being better mechanically. That's all you can really work on when we don't have any practices. 
I love to work on my technique and my mechanics, so it actually gives me a lot of time to focus on that. 
I feel really good. I feel great. I'm right about where I always am to tell you truth. 
We had weigh-in today and I'm right where coach wants me. 
I think you really refine what you do over the course of years because you realize what works for you and what you need to do to be prepared for the football season. 
I think there are some things that you do when you're younger that I haven't necessarily done in awhile, because I don't think it really correlates well to being a better football player. 
Ultimately we're trying to be the best football player we can be, not necessarily the best weightlifter or the best sprinter - you need to be the best football player. 
Sure, a lot. Every year it seems to be a little different. I'm always looking for little ways to improve and I certainly eat healthier, which is actually easier to do now than it used to be when I was young. 
I eat pretty good. 
Whatever makes you happy, that's what you've got to do. A lot of guys probably struggle with it more than me. 
I feel bad for some of the defensive linemen that are out there running the whole practice, but for me it's relatively easy at this point. 
I had a great level of comfort with Tom over the years and he was always someone I could call on to rely on him, but I know he's watching down with every throw and I hear his voice in the back of my head after every throw. 
Throwing the football is about mechanics. There's nothing special, it's just a matter of doing it the right way and the better mechanically you are, the more accurate you're going to be able to throw the football. 
When you're not accurate, there's a reason for it. It's not like, 'Hey, you just have to throw the ball more accurately.' There's a reason, what are you doing? 
So I'm constantly evaluating every throw. I watch every throw in practice, every rep that I take in practice I have someone film and I watch it after practice. 
I just make sure that I'm continuing to work on the right things because ultimately when you're under pressure, your body is going to revert to what it knows. 
Muscle memory is a very important thing for a quarterback and hopefully you train your muscles to react the way you need them to react when the pressure is on the most. 
That allows you to throw the ball with velocity and accuracy and the tougher the games get, the closer the coverage is and the more accurate you need to be. 
I've got to rely on what he's taught me over the years. I've got a lot of stuff written down, of things that we talked about and things that I've learned. 
I have a great understanding mechanically of what I need to be able to do, it's just a matter of seeing it and being able to correct it. 
Hopefully you can correct it between series sometimes because you don't always have the fortune to wait until Monday to figure things out - sometimes you have to figure them out in the middle of the third quarter. 
That's something where I'll have to rely on everything he's taught me over the years. 
No, I think I really enjoyed my opportunity to be a part of it. We've obviously had a lot of issues come up over the last few years and I think the players are very comfortable with the leadership we have and all of the player reps take it very seriously. 
It's a different side of the game and a very important side of the game that the players are involved in, but I've been very fortunate to see kind of the inner workings over the last few years and I've really enjoyed it. 
It's the best job in the world as far as I'm concerned. I don't think there's anything I'd rather do. 
I probably have more fun out there now then I've ever had out there, just because you don't take a day for granted. 
You get a chance to go out there and play football and you look forward to those moments of competition. 
I don't enjoy boredom and this is certainly not boring. I love coming out here every day and working with this team. 
There's always a lot of player movement. I loved being with Chad, he's a good friend and a great competitor and I enjoyed my chance with him and my opportunity to play with him, but I don't make any personnel decisions and as a player you've just got to deal with what happens and try to be the best quarterback I can be. 
He's got a unique skill set so it's going to take some time to get used to things that he does really well. 
We haven't had anyone quite like him, so just to understand where he likes the ball placed and how he gets open. 
He's a very good player, so we've got a lot of work ahead in training camp and we're going to have to use every single practice and every rep really wisely, because he can be a big part of this offense if we can really get up to speed. 
Yeah he does, he's got great ball skills and great body control. If you get it near him, he's going to catch it. 
It's just a matter of sometimes it doesn't look like he's really open and then boom, he springs open on you. 
So sometimes you think, 'Oh he's covered,' and then you get off him and then you watch the film and you're like, 'How did he get open?' He knows what he's doing to set the guys up and he makes the move and you have to trust that he's going to beat the guy and he does. 
It's just really a matter of, don't really let your eyes take away from what he's doing in his route, because ultimately he's going to get open at some point. 
a little different of a player. They're different players with different skill sets. They have some different skills. 
Oh, that's the worst question in the world. I mean, putting a rank on it. I really like the way certain guys play. 
I think I'm up there. I think I'm right there with the really, really good ones. 
Right, just like I said, whatever anyone thinks, I don't care. I don't care whether they think I'm the best, the second best or the third best. 
I mean, I've got three Super Bowl rings. So, that speaks. Hey, say whatever you want, but look at these diamonds on these fingers. 
I mean, that speaks for itself. I mean, it just shuts a lot of people up. 
My favorite ring? I've always said the next one. The next one's the best. 
They're special. 
The third one? 
I sure do, sure do. With those strength and weaknesses, you do play to your strengths and you try to improve your weaknesses. 
our team, a lot of guys are very mobile, and they can do a lot of great things when the plays break down and when they're moving out of the pocket. 
It's fun to watch. I mean, I see Michael Vick do that, and I say, "Geez, that guy is terrific, and I can't do that. 
It's impossible, no matter how hard I try only bad things are going to happen." So, why try it? I mean, the best thing for me is to know what the defense is going to do and to drop back and throw the ball to the guy who's most open and let him run. 
And if I don't do that, then we won't win. And that's not fun. 
I would say the guy that, if I could be like anybody, and the person I try to be like, and, if I am, that's great, it'd be Joe Montana. 
Yeah. I hear that quite a bit. 
Who else do I really like? There's some guys that I really like, that I probably wish I could be more like, but the most similar would be John Elway. 
I had posters of John Elway and Steve Young and Dan Marino. Joe Montana was who I really looked up to. 
What'd I say? "He probably doesn't need any help from me, he's in the Super Bowl." 
I didn't think people wanted that. 
Yeah. I would say so. Self-deprecating. 
It'd be too easy to do. I mean it's like why be the jerk? I mean I don't need to say it. 
Let other people say it. It sounds so much better. 
Well, I put incredible amounts of pressure on me. When you feel like you're ultimately responsible for everyone and everything, even though you have no control over it, and you still blame yourself if things don't go right -- I mean, there's a lot of pressure. 
A lot of times I think I get very frustrated and introverted, and there's times where I'm not the person that I want to be. 
I wish I knew. I wish I knew. I mean I think that's part of me trying to go out and experience other things. 
I love playing football, and I love being a quarterback for this team, but, at the same time, I think there's a lot of other parts about me that I'm trying to find. 
I know what ultimately makes me happy are family and friends, and positive relationships with great people. 
I think I get more out of that than anything. 
I don't think I was on my death bed. I want to preface it by that. There was nothing that was gonna keep me out of that game. 
The desire to win, and to compete, is stronger than my threshold for pain, or sickness, or whatever. 
Sometimes you could be. I mean I thought that was probably the best game I've ever played, as a player. 
It brings a sense of focus, in a weird way. I can still go out there and do just fine. 
That was maybe the first time I'd really played in snow. It came down in these big, fluffy, white snowflakes. 
It wasn't a really wet, drenching, nasty snowfall. It was just very, came down so soft. And I was out there before the game in a t-shirt and shorts, and a skull cap on, because I wanted to, you know, show everyone how tough I was. 
You know, football players do that. And, as the game kind of wore on, it got colder. And then the wind started blowing. 
When I look back on that field, and I look back at those highlights, I mean I didn't realize how bad it was because we were going through it at the time. 
But that's one of the best environments for football you could ever have. 
I don't hear much. I think when you have that inner thought in your head always going, you don't hear anything. 
And we're playing a team like Pittsburgh, and 70,000 fans, and they're screaming as loud as they can. 
They're stomping on the bleachers. And you realize they can be loud, they're gonna have no effect on what happens on the field. 
And we went to this last playoff game with such a great idea what was gonna happen, from what they were doing, based on a previous game there, and a result, and the way we had prepared that week. 
And we ran out onto the field, and I there wasn't much of a doubt that we'd win that game. It wasn't up to chance I don't think. 
I was that confident in the way we had prepared that week. That was, I think, the best game I've ever played. 
I think that was the best week of preparation I've ever had. I think it was the best three days prior to the game of focus and discipline that I've ever had. 
I wish I could repeat that, and keep that level of determination, and sustain it for a course of the season. 
I think it'd be very tough to do. We went there early, because the weather was gonna be terrible. And so we were basically there for 48 hours. 
And we probably met for eight or nine of those 48 hours on going through every play, based on every defense that we could face. 
And so no matter what play was called, I knew exactly what best case and worst case of what could happen. 
No. You don't. You don't hear the crowd. 
You don't hear-- you don't feel the weather. I mean it was five degrees out. You don't feel the cold. 
You don't-- you just see what you need to do. You just feel the situation. The plays are called. 
And when he called we threw a long touchdown to Deion. And we faked it, we faked the ball, and we knew, ok, when we're lined up in this slot formation, and we motion across, it's gonna take their strong safety, who was down over the slot there, back to the middle of the field. 
Which is the guy we want in the middle of the field on that play. If they play that coverage. So I see him down. 
We motion across. He rotates back to the middle. And I think this is exactly what we were hoping for, before the ball snapped. 
So what do I have to do? I know who's in the middle of the field, he's a very aggressive safety. So if I just stare in this little in cut, from his strong side, and give him a little pump, he's gonna jump all over it, and completely expose the post behind him. 
So I'm lining up, stalk formation, he motions, he goes back to the middle of the field. So what's my first thought? 
I mean I haven't snapped the ball yet, and I'm thinking about the pump. You know, I'm not thinking of where I'm throwing. 
I know where I'm throwing. And now I'm trying to pump it. So I drop back. 
I come off the fake. I look up at him. He looks at me. 
I look to the receiver. I pump him. He jumps. 
And I just turn and go, phew, 55 yard third, Deion standing under it. And I said, "Ok." Just like we drew it up. 
Yeah. As that receiver's crossing the formation, and just getting past me, but I'm thinking I know where I'm throwing. 
Well, everybody makes different decisions, and everybody has their reasons. Peyton and Michael decided they wanted to, whatever they want to play for is up to them. 
I used to get $600 dorm checks and go eat Subway, and use pizza cards to get my way through college. 
And eat baked potatoes and make pancakes every night. So I don't think that's ever been a big thing for me. 
I mean I'm making more money now than I ever thought I could ever make playing football. I'm very lucky to be here. 
Why would I go screw this up? I mean where else would I want to be? Where I want to get paid more money? 
I mean I'm not gonna be able to spend this money. 
Yeah. I mean that's always a factor. The way the NFL works, the more you take, the less money other guys have. 
And I decided, hey, this is what I think I deserve. And it's very fair. And it is a business, and I make those decisions. 
It's not like I'm, you know, non-profit here. I'm not working for free, and I'm getting paid a lot of money. 
Other people need to get paid a lot of money too, because a lot of other people contribute. But it's not like the grass is greener anywhere else. 
I mean, I'm a part of three championships here. And I've got a great relationship with the coach, the ownership and the players. 
And the fans, and the city. And it's like why leave here? Why would that make sense? 
That would be the dumbest -- it's such a stupid decision if I ever decide something else. And if people ask those questions, I don't think they're very smart either. 
'Cause if they were to evaluate it the way I did, it'd be an easy decision. 
There's been some crazy stuff. Yes. Yeah. 
There's certainly a lot of upside. There's much more good than bad, and that's why you don't complain. 
But, yeah, the mail and that stuff -- pictures and underwear. There's been a lot of stuff like that. 
He's probably true. That's true. I always wanted to date this particular girl, but they never gave me the time of day. 
They probably still, well, they might now. But I'm pretty happy with who I got. 
At some point, oh yeah. I mean I look forward to that very much. 
If, see you, you can't ask that -- 
Next question. 
She's helped a lot. Sure has. I can be myself around her, and there's not many people I can be myself around. 
It's fun to be around your best friends who know you well, and she's someone that I consider one of my very best friends. 
Calls me a lot of things, some of them I can't say. That's one of the nicer things he said to me actually. 
Yeah. It's a place where I think I do fit in. I don't think I'd want to play for the Jets of the Giants, but I think it's a cool place. 
It's always moving. Like I said, I'm the kind of person that likes to be on the move, and New York -- there's kind of something for everyone. 
That'd be a tough place to make it. 
My playing career, I don't want to go anywhere else other than here. There's no question about that. 
Living-wise, that might be a place. California's a great place too, where I was born and raised. 
What do I make of it? 
I mean it's flattering. I mean, of course, it's flattering. It, like I said, a guy had a hard time getting dates in college, I mean it's very flattering. 
No, but, at the same time, I don't think I sleep any better at night being that. No way. 
Yeah, that's right. 
I got invited to be the best man in a wedding of a person I'd never met. That's kind of interesting. 
I get invited to proms. I had a girl actually came up to my house, and knocked on my door, and asked me to her prom. 
I was 24 at the time. That was interesting. I mean I've had guys that say, "Hey, you know, come over and you kiss my girlfriend." And I'm sitting there thinking -- this dude is crazy. 
You get to do a lot of great things. I like traveling. There's a lot of people that I look up to that I've had a chance to meet. 
I mean when you have Joe Montana that wants to have lunch with you, I mean that's an upside. Michael Jordan, you know, came up to me the first time I met him. 
He was actually playing golf with Donald Trump. And I see him and he goes, "What's up TB?" It's the first time I met Michael Jordan, and I'm thinking like that's the coolest thing I've ever heard. 
I mean people call me TB my whole life, but, when Michael Jordan said it, I mean that was the coolest. 
Yeah. Twelve. Gunslinger. 
They try. They try. And I try to look out for them just the same. 
I've had a very close family. My mom and dad and my oldest sister live out in the Bay area. And the two other sisters live out here, they live together. 
Yeah. All three were great athletes. The oldest was an All American softball player at Fresno. 
And she's the one that I had the salsa eating contest with. Tells you a little bit about her. She was 116 and 9 in high school as a pitcher. 
She's a college All American. One of the feistiest most competitive girls I've ever been around. I mean the sweetest girl, but she would slit your throat so fast. 
The other two are very much the same. Very loving and caring, but very, very competitive, and very independent. 
And I think I'm very proud of where all of them are at. We have a lot of fun sharing a lot of things together. 
If I could ever play softball, I'd kick their butts. 
Yes, I'm interested in. I think the way my interests ebb and flow. In two years, I don't know what I'll be interested in. 
But, yeah, it's something I like, and something I'm always staying on top of. 
Did he? See, he should have been learning some things. I figure all that dead time in the car, I mean the book's like 600 pages, it'd be a good time to listen to it. 
That was a great story. 
You know, I'm actually independent. I'm actually an independent, and I have been for some time. There's no doubt this world needs a lot of help. 
So much of my attention now is focused on playing ball, and I like to do that. And if that chance does come up, and I'm still interested in it, I mean it would be something that I think I could do a decent job at. 
When you think about things you like to do, you think about things that you could be good at, and that's one thing I think I could be good at. 
Whether I do it or not, I don't know. Who does? 
Probably in Scotland playing golf with my mom and dad. Yeah. 
I'd probably take my mom and dad. Yeah. They're some of the most happy times in my life. 
The end of my playing career. Big time. Because I guess I've done this for so long. 
And I know what I feel like in the off-season. That I'm always trying to figure out ways to have a day that's filled with things I like to do. 
And when I'm playing football during those seven months out of the year, it's easy. I mean I get up and come in here. 
Not that it's easy to work hard, not that it's easy to show up every day and do the job, but you're focused. 
You know? You got a goal. You got something you're trying to accomplish. 
And when that's done, you don't have 80,000 people screaming your name. You know, what's it gonna be? 
I've heard a lot about astronauts who go to the moon and come back, and they're so depressed, because there's nothing they can do in their lives that ever can fill 'em the way that that does. 
