With Ed Zwick and Marshall and Paula Wagner . 
Well, Ed came and talked to me, Ed Marshall , and they asked Paul and I to co-produce the picture with them. 
That entails two years of my life. 
Yes, from beginning to end. 
Yes, every aspect. You know, I respect Ed's choices, but definitely, I was there to discuss things with him, whatever he needed me for, and there, you know, working on the script, on the character, involved in, you know, basically, every aspect of production. 
I mean, from having produced "Mission Impossible" movies, we produced some pretty big pictures, but this is definitely, by far, for both Marshall, Ed, you know, Paula and myself, this is by far the biggest picture we've ever been involved in. 
When Ed came -- our first meeting... 
Ed Zwick, the director. He came in and he told me what he wanted to do and the ambitions that he had for this picture. 
I read the script, John Logan's screenplay, great screenplay. And I just thought, Man, I don't know, you know? 
I said, This is -- I got to -- I'm on board with him. It -- a lot of work, a year prep on the picture. 
Every aspect -- you know, you look at battles, like the fog battle, the final battle, that was all Ed Zwick, his whole -- you know, what -- how he envisioned the picture. 
Choreography... 
Choreography -- definitely. It's all choreographed. You know, none of the horses were injured in the making of the picture. 
They trained eight months before. And yes, Ed Zwick, his design of the picture and the work that he did -- and you know, definitely, when you're doing things like that, when you're shooting -- you know, I've done a lot of action films, you know, producing action sequences, and you have to be still -- you know, you choreograph them, but you still have to be open for, Ah, this is -- what about this? 
What about this idea? But directing a scene like that, because you have a lot of story going on there... 
... and it's -- you really have to give the geography of the battle sequence, and yet never give up the emotion and the ride and the story that's going on with these -- with these 
Yes. I'm glad you feel that way. 
Very honored to be -- I remember seeing "Lawrence of Arabia" in a drive-in when I was... 
No, no -- 7 years. Must have been a re-release or late runs. It was a drive-in. 
And it was late. And we -- you know, we used to go to drive-ins as kids. I loved drive-ins. 
And I remember being on top of my parent's station wagon. And they set up -- you know, I was there, you know, with the popcorn. 
You could hardly hear the sound, but I remember seeing the Sahara, going, Oh, my God, you know, what -- you know, I didn't understand every aspect of that picture, but I remember thinking, I -- was there a time like that? 
Was there a place like this? Is there a place like this? And it just took me away. 
I worked on it. I had to work on it. I rode... 
No, no. There was -- when -- the horse strike -- there's a scene in the movie -- that was a mechanical horse. 
But every other -- all the riding I did. And I worked very hard. They -- they -- the physical preparation and the character preparation took me close to a year to prep for this picture. 
No. It's based -- definitely, the events are true. 
Well, that's... 
He's an actor in Japan and very well-known. He and Hiro Sanada, who plays his lieutenant -- very talented, wonderful, wonderful actors. 
Right off. Right off. I couldn't wait. 
You know, when I saw the tapes and -- it's -- if -- every character in this movie, by the time we hit the village, there's seven relationships we're developing -- with the children, with Taka , with Katsumoto, with... 
And each actor -- he just had to be perfect in the cast and... 
Oh, elegant. The way these actors move -- you know, Hiro Sanada has trained as a martial arts but also dance and as an actor since he was, I guess, about 5 years old, maybe in that since -- certain martial arts since he was 13. 
And Ken also was trained in that, of course, and Taka -- just the elegance that they have. 
My first? Yes. It was "Risky Business." 
It was Warner Brothers. It was "Risky Business." 
Yes, I did "Taps." 
I did "Taps." The first thing that I did was, I worked one day on a picture called "Endless Love." And that was the first film that I ever auditioned for. 
And I remember going on set and not knowing -- you know, they said, Hit your marks, and I didn't -- camera angles -- you know? 
I'm used to watching movies, and all of a sudden, I'm inside the picture and I didn't know what I was doing. 
And then I did "Taps" with Tim Hutton, Sean Penn and George C. Scott, directed by Harold Becker and produced by Stanley Jaffe . 
And that was really a great, great experience for me. 
It was my first starring role. 
I'm back at Warner Brothers. 
Oh, I didn't think of it in terms of that, actually, until you mentioned it. But I loved making this picture with them. 
They were very supportive of this film, and this film was -- it's not -- you know, you don't know. It's either going to work or it's going to go down the drain! 
No, I'm just saying it's either going to work or it won't work. You know, when -- and when you're working on a project like this -- I mean, it's a very ambitious film because here -- you know, it's -- what we were hoping to do is create this great adventure film, yet it has all of these philosophical underpinnings. 
And you don't know -- you just don't know how is that going to be. It's... 
You kept me alive just to speak English? Then what do you want? 
I've seen what you do to your enemies. 
Nathan Auburn. 
Got the whole family here. 
Oh, I feel -- of course, I want the studio to make their money back because they trust me and, you know, give me the money to go make the movie. 
And I feel, as a producer, very responsible with the money. But I want them to make their money back so I can go out and do it again, but I don't... 
I mean, that's -- I feel that's my responsibility. 
No. No. Not at all. 
I want it right. 
No, I haven't. 
Well, you can tell this guy doesn't know me. 
That's not true. It's not true. I mean, did I have a challenging life? 
That aspect, absolutely. Absolutely. But I also -- my childhood, I had -- there were some great things in that. 
And I trust people beyond... 
... my mother and my family. But they are close friends. 
I mean, I traveled -- I lived in Jersey a couple of times, Canada, Kentucky, Saint Louis, Cincinnati. 
I was born in Syracuse. 
I remember, as a kid, I used to do imitations. I used to do different characters, and I enjoyed -- my mother was involved in amateur theater, and I was involved in creative workshops when I was about 8, 9 years old. 
But I remember in high school, that's when I decided -- after my senior year of high school is really when I decided that I wanted to go on to... 
Well, it's all about me, yet they -- they never ask me. They've never interviewed me. So I don't know. 
I haven't read the whole thing. 
Well, it depends. You know, I spend most of my life on my work, my family. And I concentrate on those things. 
If it's too outrageous and -- and -- you know, I used to let things slip by, but sometimes I'll go and handle it, you know, and... 
Oh, yes. I've never lost, actually. I go to court. 
Oh, he's great. Bert. 
No, I'm not. No, I'm not. I've -- I'll ask for an apology first and a retraction. 
And if that doesn't happen, then I'll go and pursue it further. 
It's something where you go -- you know, it just depends on each one. There's ones where you go -- I'm more thinking about my children. 
You know, it's not me. I think when we had children, that's when you kind of go, You know -- because what do these people -- what do they -- what sells? 
You know, they want controversy. They want big names. And some people, it's all for profit. 
It's their profit. It's not even necessarily about accuracy, it's about, How can we make money? You know, How can we sell -- what they think will sell something. 
And you learn -- that's why -- you know, I produced a picture called "Shattered Glass." I mean, it's -- I don't know if you've seen it... 
... but it's about the writer from "The New Republic." 
Who lied, and then, you know, later, you know, it came out in "The New York Times." Well, I feel -- because I'm someone, when I say something, I feel responsibility for that, or if I do something, I take responsibility for what I've done. 
I -- you know, there's -- if someone is going to say something and base it on -- you know, they better know -- they better know the facts. 
And that's -- I think that people deserve that, deserve the truth. But some people can't handle the truth. 
Yes. No question. No, it's parasitic. 
It's parasitic. But there are people out there who want to tell the truth, who really care and want to write something accurate. 
But there are those that don't. 
I wouldn't put yourself in that "we" because I think you're responsible in what you do, and I think that that's why you've been around as long as you have, and you're respected. 
But the -- I don't feel that I have to give anything that I don't want to. I don't feel -- you know, communication is my right, both ways. 
No. It's not court. So there's things I go, Hey, you know what? 
There's certain things that you say -- you know, I've got nothing to hide, and I enjoy people. I enjoy talking to people. 
I enjoy meeting people and doing what I do, working with people that I've worked with. So I also am not stupid to know that privacy is going to be -- certain aspects -- certain parts of it are going to be given up. 
But when I get asked certain questions, I don't feel obligated to have to answer them. 
Well, I think -- you know, I take pride in my work. It's -- I don't think it's a matter of -- I don't get into owing or not owing or -- I really don't -- you know, people want to write stuff? 
OK, write it. I would prefer if they would be accurate in what they write or... 
Yes. And ask. You know? 
But I don't -- I don't spend a lot of my life worrying about -- that's not a huge upset in my life and a worry about it. 
I focus in on... 
... on what I'm doing and what's at hand. 
Captain Omland, we will show you no quarter. You ride against us, and you're the same as they are. I'll look for you on the field. 
I'm not dyslexic. 
No. No, I don't. 
Well, I was labeled with it when I was 7 years old and kind of lived with it my whole life. And you know, when I became a Scientologist in '86, '87, later on discovered also L. 
Ron Hubbard developed study technology that actually -- to help me realize that that -- you know, that the false labels that are out there... 
No. No, I wasn't. 
Because that's what they do. 
That's what they do. No. And later on -- I mean, now we have, you know, this technology that he developed that actually helps people to learn how to learn and discover that -- you know, these -- I've actually helped people that have been diagnosed with ADD, ADHD. 
And it's extraordinary, what happens with this technology. We have centers all over the world now that help people get this technology, and it's also in various schools and educated millions and millions and millions of people in it. 
I know! You told me that. 
Different faiths. Different faiths. And what drew me to it -- it was so practical and it just made sense to me, and things that I wanted to figure out in my life. 
And I always -- what I discovered were the tools that helped me. You know, Scientology, the word means knowing how to know. 
And there are tools that I use every day as an artist, as a businessman -- you know, you look at it just this way. 
I was diagnosed being dyslexic. I came in, learned these tools, and now I -- you know, I mean, my literacy is -- it is where it is, and it'll go where I want it to go with these tools. 
It just kind of melts barriers, breaks them down. It helps you to recognize and understand the barriers and then overcome them. 
And it's just... 
Yes because it is -- there's areas -- you know, you look at what we do with education, with, you know, helping people, getting them these tools -- if they're Christian, you know, they can read their Bible. 
If they're -- you know, it doesn't matter, whatever faith, atheists 
It's not that controversial. 
No, it doesn't. 
Oh, that was -- you're talking decades... 
... decades ago. 
Well, that's all gone now. 
I mean, it -- definitely, now it does have its... 
... religious... 
... recognized as a religion. Well, it's new. 
It was a new religion. It's also -- there's things that we do -- you know, you have to look at -- you look at the services and the things that we help. 
Narcanon is something that LRH developed that helps people get off drugs. And once you're off the drugs, you don't ever need those drugs again. 
And it's the largest drug rehabilitation center in the world. You look at Crimanon that he developed and found, which actually helps to rehabilitate criminals and used in you know -- in some of the toughest prisons in South Africa, and those prisoners have never gone back to the prisons. 
You look at his -- the moral -- secular moral code that he wrote, called "The Way to Happiness," that's used by, you know, communities in the world all over. 
Is it a faith? It's an applied religious philosophy, is what it is. It's a religion, but it's something that you apply to yourself, you apply to life. 
There is -- I mean, it's such a wide range, from business technology to help someone run their business better, tools that you use in your life that help improve conditions. 
We improve conditions. And those are the things that we do. We educate people on -- about the realities of drugs. 
And it's -- it's an individual's choice, you know, on things -- on how you want you to live your life. 
What do you want from your life? 
Well, you know, I talk to people about it. I mean, if you know -- if you know how to -- I've actually personally educated people and helped them with the study technology, to help get them off, you know, these vicious drugs that psychiatrists so -- you know, that they proselytize, you know, that they sell to people. 
Oh, most definitely. 
No, I mean, psychiatry doesn't work. You look at the things that psychiatry's brought to society. We now are living in a time where we spend over $700 billion a year on education, psych- driven, and where are we? 
We have still a decline in illiteracy. We know that electroconvulsive shock therapy, you know, drugging people, OK, with these vicious drugs -- when Prozac came out, it had the -- you know, the biggest -- I mean, in the first few months or a year, it had 14,000 complaints on that drug, yet it's still out there. 
You look at Paxil, OK, that's now banned in the United Kingdom for under 18 because of the vicious side effects of those drugs. 
You have to chase me. 
I tell you what I do know is you got a little stoned tonight, you've been trying to pick a fight with me and now you're trying to make me jealous. 
No, I haven't. 
Well, I don't know Alice, maybe because you're my wife. 
You don't have to be -- to not feel that way, once you go through something that we've gone through. 
We've lived a life together, you know? I'm now with Penelope Cruz, and she is with -- with, you know, another. 
She's with -- Lenny Kravitz. 
So you have to say that... 
It jumped right at us. Come on. No, really. 
He's a very talented musician. 
I don't care what society says. I don't know what it have to be that way. 
They're doing great. 
See, these things, we keep very private in terms of that. We both -- we both spend a lot of time with the kids. 
A tremendous amount of time. 
Yes, of course. Yes. 
Yes. Yes. Both of us. 
No, I haven't -- I mean, I haven't faced that yet. I haven't... 
Well, he's a contract killer... 
Yes. Michael Mann. 
You've got to see the movie. 
That's why I've got the beard going, man. 
Well, you have to just wait and see the movie. We'll have a discussion after the movie. 
We'll have a discussion. When you see the movie, then we'll talk about that. But it is a thriller, and it has humor. 
It -- Michael Mann is directing this. Great filmmaker. And you know, you look at -- It just has -- It's a great script. 
I love it. I love what I do. I take great pride in what I do. 
The first time I read it, I'm the audience. I'm just reading something. And as an artist, I'm looking for a challenge. 
I've always been looking for a challenge. 
You know, I used to do -- I've done amateur theater and stuff like that. But I love movies. I love the medium. 
It's -- I just find it very exciting and involving. 
On a what? On a bet? 
I've never rule that out. I would never rule that out. 
Maybe I will one day. Maybe I will try that. I'm having so much fun at what I'm doing right now, and I've worked very hard at this. 
And I -- something that, the challenges, they never end. Every -- every time you go out, it's different. 
I'm a Vietnam veteran. I'm here tonight to say that this war is wrong. That this society lied to me, it lied to my brothers. 
The people in this country. Tricked them into going 13,000 miles to fight a war against a poor peasant people who have a proud history of resistance. 
Who have been struggling for their own, their own independence for 1,000 years, the Vietnamese people. 
I can't -- I can't find the words to express how the leadership of this government sickens me. 
Just our shortcomings. That's all we're allowed to draw. 
That's how you see me? 
No, it's wonderful. Sign it. 
Well, I couldn't. 
Wouldn't rule that out. 
Penelope and I are -- have no future plans for marriage, but... 
No. I love her. She's a beautiful woman. 
Absolutely. Absolutely. 
Having a committed relationship? 
No, because I -- I like relationships. I'm not really interested in the one-night stand. And the people that I get involved with, I'm involved. 
I don't -- I'm not interested in that, you know. 
To me, it's like, you know, you look at what kind of -- I enjoy that dynamic. And there's also -- I wouldn't, if I don't want to be in a relationship, you know, I wouldn't be in a relationship. 
No. And also, if -- you know, I'm enjoying the relationship that I'm in very much. 
It's great. It's actually -- it's based on the research. It's -- Hubbard developed it. 
What happens is that Hubbard developed a thing that's based on clear body, clear mind. He figured out how to eliminate toxins from the body. 
And it does just that. 
Self-evident. And how the toxics, you know, because I've done -- I've gone through the detox myself, and it gets the toxins out of the body. 
So that these guys that have come on and they were on -- I mean, that amount of drugs that some of these guys were on. 
And they essentially thought they were going to have to retire. 
Personally just go down and take a look at it. 
I know. But you go down and you see what these -- you know, because people are saying afterwards, you know. 
I was looking and I was thinking, OK, what about the people who lived? What about -- you know, what about them? 
What's going to happen when you start talking about the, you know, leukemia, Parkinson like symptoms, M.S. 
that they're going to have. Or the children now that have breathing problems as a result of this. 
No. It's -- It is a charity, so it's not tax deductible. And there's things where people come in and we've gotten donations from people to help them out. 
Nobody's making any money off this. This is just to help people, to help them go -- you know, to help them. 
It's also something that we also use in Narcanon that helps get the drugs out of their system. 
Absolutely. Absolutely. And it's compounded that. 
You go to a doctor and now he's going to put you on more and more drugs, steroids and things that are ineffective. 
Yes. I'd love for you to see it. 
I was here in L.A. I was here in L.A. And I went in and I saw that happening. 
And... KING: Well. 
But there's a thing. That's why I started this, because I looked at those men and women, you know. And the -- friends of mine went, who were volunteer ministers. 
And they went down and they -- volunteer ministers were working down in -- at, you know, helping set up lines and giving different things in Scientology that we have, assists, setting up food to help these people. 
And that's why I set up the detox, because I thought about them afterwards. And I started... 
Right away. Right away. Right away. 
Because some people, it's like we -- there's things that we can do to help. And... 
... Scientologists want to help people. 
You're Jimbo, right? 
No. I had a few close calls. I got hit a couple of times, but... 
No. No close calls. 
OK. Reach up and take this hand, and pull it -- hold it, hold it. OK. 
OK. And now slowly pull it out. Normally -- slowly pull it out. 
I don't want you to hurt yourself. I've done it a few thousands times already. 
All right. See, you've got the whole outfit going. Now grab it -- grab it with the other hand. 
Keep it like this. 
Right. You know, whatever comes out when a sword's coming at you. You know, that ronin fight, we actually did that from beginning to end, that scene. 
It's in cuts, but the way -- that's what took me so long to learn how to do this. You know, I fought all those five guys right from the beginning of the fight all the way to the end. 
There weren't any cuts for me. 
There's cuts for the audience, but none for me. 
No. No one got hurt. We trained... 
You get to wear it. It's kind of cool. It is. 
You've got the feel. Let's go, man. See, it's not -- wait for it! 
I just, you know -- I just don't want to hurt you, Larry. 
Are you OK? Are you OK? Yes? 
I'm not going to bring it. I'm not going to bring it. We go nice and easy, nice and easy. 
Well, that's the ronin. That's... 
Ed Zwick. When I read it -- when I read it in the screenplay, I lost it. I said, "How did you think of that, man?" 
Want to learn how to do that? 
OK. Sure. Just relax. 
Let it relax. Use those two fingers... 
"The Very Last Samurai." 
"The Lastest Samurai." 
The Grand Master. 
You start training now. 
Let's -- let's... 
I'm just trying, just trying to stay alive here now. 
Thank you very much. 
Thanks, Larry. 
Thank you, sir. 
Good night, Tom. 
