I think that the Middle East is a promising region of the world. I always see the liberation of the UAE and Saudi Arabia make energetic steps to diversify their economies. 
of these countries to think about the future. I’m confident they will achieve results because they are goal-oriented. 
It’s early to say so. Cryptocurrency may be a unit of contact. But it’s . 
To transfer money to some other place maybe, but it’s too early to talk about the trade of anything in sources of crypto. 
Cryptocurrencies are not supported by anything, yet. It may exist as a means of payment. But I think it’s too early to say about the oil trade in cryptocurrency and the trade in other primary energy sources. 
Everything develops and has the right to exist - it may have the right to accumulate, we’ll see. But it’s too early to talk about it today. 
I believe that it has high value but it cannot be used in oil trade. But in order to make cryptocurrency it demands tonnes of energy. 
And so far we must use traditional hydrocarbons. 
I believe the US makes a huge mistake in using dollar as the sanction instrument. And it does so because it impedes US transfers in US currency, or sanctions in production. 
So we can’t acquire money in dollars and what does it lead to? We are forced - we have no other choice but to move to transactions in other currencies. 
This is the first thing I wanted to say. 
It undermines its position as a world reserve currency. Both transactions and reserves in US dollars shrink. 
But we are not interested in moving completely away from transactions in dollars. And we are satisfied as of yet to pay in dollars for energy sources for oil first and foremost. 
I also believe that the Chinese president is my friend and we have been working a lot with him. We achieve good results. 
Both political cooperation and in economy. I believe it benefits both Russian and Chinese populations. 
And it’s a great balance in international relations. 
Our main problem, our main issue and goal is to increase the revenues of our citizens. This is our main challenge. 
And we’re not going to use simple linear methods to solve it in order to do so. We need to ensure economic growth and to increase its quality. 
These are our long-term tasks. We’re not going to use populist means to do so. 
The citizen that you’ve mentioned is now in prison— 
Not the best you’re right but he’s not alone. There are other people who also violated Russian legislations, and we are not going to create any exclusive conditions for those who use the political activity as a cover up for their activities. 
So I think that I’ve answered your question. 
Yes. He was indeed a politician of European, and it can be said, of global scale. There are few people like him in the international arena nowadays. 
He was a good friend of our people and did a lot to develop business-like and friendly relations between Russia and the European countries. 
As for Ukraine’s NATO membership, as we have said many times, this obviously creates a threat to Russia’s security. 
In fact, the threat of Ukraine’s accession to NATO is the reason, or rather one of the reasons for the special military operation. 
Of course, there are no secrets here. 
This is just empty talk. Although it is one of the conditions. There is also freight. 
SWIFT means money transfers, yes, it matters. There are also logistics, foreign ships calling at our ports, and so on. 
No, I have not seen this new letter, but we are in contact with United Nations officials. I repeat once again: they are sincerely striving to ensure that Western countries fulfil the commitments they have undertaken, but they are not succeeding so far. 
And they say to us, I repeat, extend the deal again. We can do this in a different way: we will extend the deal exactly at the moment when the promises made to us are fulfilled. 
We are beginning with this issue? Ok. As you know, it all began long ago. 
I will just need to repeat the story. After the collapse of the USSR, some rivalry between Russia and Ukraine was inevitable – obviously – but it seems that those who were dealing with this believed that it would be done in a civilised way, and moreover, with regard to our historical, cultural and linguistic affinity. 
But it all went another way, unfortunately, which should have been expected. 
It was a very emotional experience. Of course all of this I had already seen a number of times on television, and I must tell you that as far as the official schedule of my visit, the trip to New York was not part of it. 
However, I could not help but come here, both to New York itself and of course the Ground Zero, the disaster site. 
And it made a very big impact -- not just on me personally, but on Russia as a whole. And what I wanted to do was not just to go visit that place, but to pay my respects to those who had suffered in this tragedy. 
And I wanted to once again by doing that, by going to the site, to attract the attention to this tragedy, to do everything that I can to make sure that nothing like this happens in the future, that there is no repetition of this in the future. 
And I would like to express my admiration for the courage displayed by the New Yorkers. I also would like to say that there was a poster across the street from the Russian flag, because of course there were some Russians among the casualties -- and I signed the poster. 
And what I wrote there was that, quote, "This great city and the great people of America will no doubt prevail," unquote. 
Well, the problem is not so much about the administration's plans to build up the system. The problem is that in the whole we do share the concerns of the U.S. 
administration regarding possible future threats. And in this regard we do have a common platform on which we can engage in a discussion and to decide what the optimal way is of providing security for both our two countries and the rest of the world. 
First of all, indeed we have heard quite a lot that such a scenario is possible, but no final decision has been made. 
Secondly, I would like to reiterate -- I would like to emphasize once again that the level of our relationship -- and I am not just talking about my personal relationship with President Bush, but I am referring to the relationship between the United States and the Russian Federation -- the level of awareness of the need to strengthen this relationship vis-a-vis the new threats is such that we simply cannot fail to understand the importance of the quality of this relationship, no matter how difficult the challenges are and how difficult the problems are that we are solving, such as for instance the ABM Treaty and its future is. 
That is one of those difficult problems. That is why I am saying with this much confidence that no matter what the actual situation is, we jointly with the U.S. 
administration will be looking for a scenario that will be acceptable for everyone involved, and I am positive that we will find such a scenario. 
I believe that the most important is for us to be thinking about a future security system together. 
The most important thing is to work on a system that rather than generates mutual distrust and rather than deteriorate the strategic position of the partner, we engage in building a system that will work exactly towards the opposite end. 
And I believe -- I think that such a scenario is indeed feasible, and that's what I feel my partner and colleague President Bush is prepared to do. 
Why is it that we have focused on Texas? Actually I believe that's the right thing to do -- 
Unfortunately we all live in a world where there are all kinds of problems that one still comes across. 
However, I don't think -- let me put it differently -- I am confident that there are no problems about the interaction of any confessions, representatives of any confessions, with the official authorities. 
I don't think that there will be any problems in that area. 
You know, this is a question -- or this is an issue that cannot really be summed up in a yes or a no. 
I will try and express my position on this matter briefly. 
Not only I am not opposed to it, I actually don't think it makes any sense. If we were to deal with increasing its national security, NATO enlargement does not make sense. 
We of course are not in a position to tell people what to do. We cannot forbid people to make certain choices if they want to increase the security of their nations in a particular way. 
But I don't think that enlarging or enhancing NATO mechanically makes any sense. 
Well, of course I have been asked not only about President Bush, but about advice in general, what I think is the most important thing when one is faced with the threat of terrorism. 
And what I'll try to do is to provide a very specific and brief answer. The most important thing is your society's morale. 
It's the society's preparedness to try and control terrorism and terror and any pressure that may come from the political leadership of your county. 
And I have a feeling that America has enough of that now. 
No. And I'll tell you why. Chechnya is part and parcel of the Russian Federation. 
And it is our duty to decide matters in what is our home. And that's the first point I would like to make answering the question. 
As you can see so far, the situation has been evolving, as we planned -- as President Bush planned, and as we both discussed this situation some time ago, including in Shanghai. 
Yes, of course. Let me finish answering that question first. I believe that, first of all, we must focus on the Afghans themselves. 
And we should put them in a position where they can liberate their own country and their own nation from fundamentalists and foreign mercenaries. 
While we should be doing that supporting them with aviation and special forces and special means, and helping them with food supplies and weapons. 
And as we can see, once again I would like to say that so far this line of action has been effective. 
And as far as a large-scale ground operation is concerned, as of now -- as of now, that doesn't seem to be an appropriate line of action. 
Everything will depend on how the situation will evolve in the future. 
I started practicing this sport when I was 14, and as a matter of fact, what I did start engaging in was something called sambo, which is a Russian acronym for, quote, "self-defense without arms," unquote, which is a Russian wrestling technique. 
And, after that, I joined a gym that was teaching judo. And I was what they call a master of sports. 
We have our sporting ranks, and the equivalent of the black belt I received when I was, I guess, 18, in judo. 
And all my adult life I have been practicing judo -- I guess I can put it this way -- and I do love the sport tremendously. 
And I think that there is more to it than just sport. I think it's also a philosophy in a way, and I think it's a philosophy that teaches one to treat one's partner with respect. 
And I engage in this sport with pleasure and try to have regular practices still. Yes, still. 
I love the Russian classics very much, the Russian classical literature. But I also read modern literature. 
As far as Russian literature is concerned, I am very fond of Tolstoy and Chekhov, and I also enjoy reading Gogol very much. 
For instance -- I can see you are surprised to hear that -- for instance, it helps me establish a good relationship with you as we are working here today in the studio. 
It helps me establish human interaction, because working for the intelligence -- and that's where I was working, I was working in the -- I was working in the intelligence department of the KGB -- so working for the intelligence, you have to be working with and for the people. 
What I was doing, what was my specialty was the political intelligence. I basically engaged and researched into international politics -- of course, from a different perspective, in a different capacity. 
And I never, ever regretted working, taking up a job with the external intelligence department of the Soviet Union. 
I did my duty. I served my country. And I believe that I did a fairly decent job at that. 
However, one must not forget, of course, that we lived in an entirely different world then, in a world that is no longer here. 
As far as I know, though, in the United States, there is a certain amount of experience where ex-intelligence employees became heads of state. 
And I also had a meeting with the father as well. 
Well, the United Nations' involvement in the counter-terrorism effort is extremely important, above all, in the international -- in the internationally legal area, as far as the international law is concerned. 
The United Nations should work out fundamental definitions and standards to describe terrorism and to help make these standards part and parcel of the national legislation of the member nations. 
You know, while answering this question, I may come across as somewhat immodest. Advice of this kind is more or less a waste of time, really, because whenever somebody bothers to give this kind of advice, as a rule, the recipient wouldn't follow, wouldn't take that advice. 
I was thinking that he was being a little extreme, and I was thinking that that kind of an extreme attitude was unlikely to result in the accomplishing of an objective, even though those objectives that President Reagan himself was mapping out were noble. 
Actually, I think President Bush is being very mild in his choice of words. I have other definitions and epithets to offer, but I, of course, am being restrained by the fact that I am talking to the media and this is hardly appropriate. 
As far as the economy is concerned, the impact was minimal, fortunately. As far as the citizens of Russia are concerned, I can tell you that it was both a shock for the United States and a very serious event for Russia. 
And it is no accident that hundreds of people in Moscow and in other cities of the Russian Federation where there is some diplomatic representation from the United States came to the buildings of these diplomatic missions and brought flowers with them. 
I think that was a crucial impact that they provided. It was a fundamental impact that they provided to the Russian history. 
At different periods, certain periods of time in the life of any nation, there will be people who turn on the light, if you will, and they show a road for the nation to follow. 
And no doubt Andrei Sakharov was one of those people who turned on the light. 
Yes, exactly, a visionary, and also someone who was able to not only see the future, but to express, to articulate his thoughts, and do that without any fear. 
And that is also very important. 
No, it doesn't bother me. I think that people who criticize the authorities -- there should always be people who criticize the authorities. 
And at the end of the day, it is good for a regime, for the authorities, to have this kind of people, because what these people are trying to do is casting light on a problem from every single perspective, including from a perspective that the authorities themselves may fail to notice because the authorities are busy dealing with the daily challenges of everyday life and they may not see a certain aspect of a problem. 
I believe that the Russian mass media are as free as in any other nation. There is a problem that is specific to nations with an underdeveloped market economy, with an insufficiently-developed market economy. 
And this problem, of course, projects itself to the mass media before anything else. 
The choice was made, and I am absolutely, 100 percent confident that this is an irreversible process. 
And everything that you have just mentioned, I am positive will continue to evolve in a positive manner. 
And the basics of the democracy, the foundation of the democracy, will continue to be strengthened and the market economy will again continue to progress. 
And I have no doubt whatsoever that this will happen. The point of no return is way in the past. 
I think that if you were to go to Russia now, to come to Russia now, and if you could see for yourself how active and proactive the Russian press is now, I think many of the questions that you are about to ask, you probably even wouldn't bother to ask. 
I am very touched by your kind invitation. I have a lot of places to visit in this sense in the United States, and I think there's a city that's called St. 
Petersburg in the state of Florida, and I of course was born in St. Petersburg -- not Florida, in Russia -- and I would very much like to visit Moscow, Idaho and St. 
Petersburg, Florida. 
Yes, if we were to refer -- as if we were to use the phrase "white nights" to describe nights that are covered in snow, and streets that are covered in snow --  -- when the streets are covered in snow, then December might do just fine. 
However, we will be happy to welcome President Bush on Russian soil at any time that is convenient for him. 
Thank you very much for organizing this event. And I would also like to thank the audience and the callers. 
I would also like to thank everybody for the interest that they have shown in today's conversation. 
I also would like to take advantage of this opportunity to thank the American people for the extremely warm and cordial welcome that has been extended to me. 
And I saw it with my own eyes when I went to Texas. I could see posters and Russian flags flying virtually on every house, and there were greetings -- and there were posters and greetings written across the posters. 
And that's actually something that some of your listeners, some of the callers have mentioned today -- that is, where the feeling of friendship and the feeling of human interaction goes down to the grass-roots level, to the level of the interaction of individual citizens. 
Thank you very much, Americans. 
Of course not. What is more, we did not seek such conflicts and do not want them in the future. 
I strongly object to the way this question is formulated. It is not for us to guarantee that we will not attack someone. 
We have not attacked anyone. It is we who are demanding guarantees from others, to make sure that no one attacks us anymore and that no one kills our citizens. 
We are being portrayed as the aggressor. 
This has certainly done damage to our relations, above all government-to-government relations. 
Let me explain. 
I have said to you that if the presence of U.S. citizens in the zone of hostilities is confirmed, it would mean only one thing: that they could be there only at the direct instruction of their leaders. 
And if that is so, it means that in the combat zone there are U.S. citizens who are fulfilling their duties there. 
They can only do that under orders from their superiors, not on their own initiative. 
I have no such information. I think it is not correct. 
First of all, if my hypothesis about the U.S. domestic political dimension of this conflict is correct, then I don't see why United States allies should support one U.S. 
political party against the other in the election campaign. This is a position that is not honest vis-à-vis the American people as a whole. 
But we do not rule out the possibility that, as happened before, the administration will once again be able to subordinate its allies to its will. 
Russia has been working very consistently and in good faith with its partners on all problems, those that I've mentioned and those that you added. 
We do so not because someone asks us and we want to look good to them. We are doing it because this is consistent with our national interests, because in these areas, our national interests coincide with those of many European countries and of the United States. 
If no one wants to talk to us about these problems and cooperation with Russia becomes unnecessary, God bless, do this work yourself. 
We have never done it. Construction of the first gas pipeline system was started during the 1960s, at the height of the Cold War, and for all those years, from the 1960s until this day, Russia has been fulfilling its contract obligations in a very consistent and reliable way, regardless of the political situation. 
Well, I am not an agricultural expert. This morning, the minister of agriculture gave me the following information. 
We too do not like some of the things being done. They need to work closer together with our Ministry of Agriculture. 
Such things have happened before. 
We could go on. I am in no hurry. 
Well, I have told you that there is no ban on U.S. poultry. It's a ban on some plants that did not respond to our concerns for a whole year. 
I can easily reply to this question. Since the 1990s, as soon as this conflict started, and it started in recent history because of the decision of the Georgian side to deprive Abkhazia and South Ossetia of the rights of autonomy. 
In 1990 and 1991, the Georgian leadership deprived Abkhazia and South Ossetia of the autonomous rights that they enjoyed as part of the Soviet Union, as part of Soviet Georgia, and as soon as that decision was taken, ethnic strife and armed hostilities began. 
At that time, Russia signed a number of international agreements, and we complied with all those agreements. 
We had in the territory of Abkhazia and South Ossetia only those peacekeeping forces that were stipulated in those agreements and never exceeded the quota. 
