I am so good. I flew 30 hours to be here with you. 
Bhutan. The Nat Geo show. 
Traveling around the world to just finding the secrets of life. 
No, not yet. Not yet. 
South Pole, yes. 
The show is, I don’t know if I’m supposed to be announcing it yet, but the show’s called Pole to Pole. 
We’re going from the South Pole to the North Pole and all the stops along the way. It’s called Other People’s Wisdom, so we’re seeking the wisdom. 
There are people who live at the South Pole, they’re researchers. We’re going there, we’re going to talk to them. 
All the scientists. 
Yes, absolutely. 
You’re making me cry already. 
Yeah, I’m talking about… The South Pole is just such a… When I think about all that cold. 
The guy who discovered the South Pole is named Will Smith. 
Yep, that’s true. 
No, it’s true. It’s true. Somebody can Google it. 
Somebody can Google it. 
When I read this script, man, it’s like you’ve probably seen the image. It’s of a Black man and it’s his back and his arm. 
He’s sitting, so it’s a pretty famous picture. 
It’s that image. First seeing that image was one of the things that really got me excited to explore this because you see the image, but you don’t know who he is. 
You don’t know what the story is. Then as I started to do the research, and American slavery was one of the most brutal aspects of human history. 
It was something that was so incomprehensible. It’s hard to understand the level of human cruelty. The screenplay was spectacular. 
Antoine Fuqua just, he did his thing on this, man. 
The Emancipation was January 1st and slaves weren’t free until June 19th. The period of Emancipation- 
Yeah, 1865. January 1st, slaves were free, but the South refused to allow the slaves to be free. The enslaved people started trying to run to get to Lincoln’s army, in Baton Rouge is where Lincoln’s army was from this place in Louisiana. 
It’s about that period where the slaves were free, but they weren’t being freed. It is a beautiful, beautiful movie. 
My daughter asked me, she’s like, “Daddy, do we really need another slave movie?” When I was thinking about it and I was like, I said, “Baby, I promise you, I wouldn’t make a slave movie. 
This is a freedom movie.” 
If someone must allow you to do it, are you really free? This film, what’s really interesting about it is it centers on faith and the power of faith to be able to endure anything. 
This character is just what he had to endure and what he had to survive. Only God could make a man. 
When you look at those marks on his back, only God could make that possible. 
I’ve got airplane eyes, but the difference between faith and revelation that he walked in the world with a knowledge of the divine, with a knowledge of God. 
That was just something I’ve desperately wanted to understand and explore. 
I think that as an actor, anytime you go into these characters and you go this deep into these roles, it changes something about you. 
You understand something that you didn’t understand before. I guess the major thing that came through for me with Peter is the power of the direction of love. 
He’s trying to get back to his family and that comprehension of love and how love actually is a superpower, when you can fill your heart with that kind of love, it’s a propulsion that is unlike any other thing. 
It’s stronger than fear. It’s stronger than hate. It’s stronger than tired. 
It’s like when you can really latch into and fill your heart with love in a way, it really is shield and armor unlike anything that exists. 
I’ve been away. What y’all been doing? Thank you baby. 
Thank you, man. 
I have no independent recollection of the- 
That was a horrific night as you can imagine. There’s many nuances and complexities to it, but at the end of the day, I lost it. 
I guess what I would say, you just never know what somebody’s going through. In the audience right now, you’re sitting next to strangers and somebody’s mother died last week. 
Somebody’s child is sick. Somebody just lost their job. Somebody just found out their spouse cheated. 
It was a lot of things. It was the little boy that watched his father beat up his mother. All of that just bubbled up in that moment. 
That’s not who I want to be. You’ve known me for a long time, so you know me personally, so you know. 
But y’all might not know. That’s not who I want to be, man. I’m trying to put- 
Now I’m crying for real. 
I understand how shocking that was for people, man. On that stage- 
I was gone, dude. I was gone. I was gone. 
That was a rage that had been bottled for a really long time, but I understand the pain. It was my nephew Dom is nine and he is the sweetest little boy. 
We came home and it’s like he had stayed up late to see his uncle Will. We’re sitting in my kitchen and he’s on my lap and he’s holding the Oscar and he’s just like, “Why did you hit that man, Uncle Will?” Damn it. 
Why you trying to Oprah me? 
I was like… It was a mess. I don’t want to go too far into it to give people more or to misunderstand stuff. 
The one thing that’s killing me, so Emancipation is Antoine’s masterpiece. 
He has created an absolute masterpiece. Bob Richardson, the DP and Ben Foster, and just all the way down, it’s like these top artists in the world have done some of the best work of their career and the idea that they might be denied because of me. 
That is killing me dead. It’s like the thing that is so critical for me is that these people came and they trusted me and they were down for me. 
I hope that their work will be honored and their work will not be tainted based on a horrific decision on my part. 
Really? You have conversations with people? 
I think that was one of the big things for me over this last couple of months that I had to forgive myself for being human. 
It’s like, trust me, there’s nobody that hates the fact that I’m human more than me. 
Just finding that space for myself within myself to be human. I’ve always wanted to be Superman. I’ve always wanted to swoop in and save the damsel in distress. 
I had to humble down and realize that I’m a flawed human and I still have an opportunity to go out in the world and contribute in a way that fills my heart and hopefully helps other people. 
all right now. 
Thank you all. 
That's not who I want to be, man. I'm trying to - you know, I'm trying to... 
Oh, thank you. I'm very happy to be here. 
Of all of the other, I guess, hyphens, this one was the most painful . 
You know, there were a couple of things. First and foremost, the abuse of my childhood - you know, I saw my father beat up my mother, you know? 
And that narrative didn't fit into the image that I was crafting. You know, it was embarrassing. You know, there was a person I wanted to be or a person I thought I had to be to be able to create the life that I wanted to create, and I just never could have said that out loud while my father was alive, you know, because at the same time, my father was my hero, you know? 
And my father is largely responsible for all of the blessings and the things that I've been able to go on and create and build. 
So, you know, that internal conflict was dissolved when my father passed in 2016. 
Yeah. I've since talked to all of my brothers and sisters. And, you know, we were not a family that discussed those things. 
So the writing of the book really freed my siblings and I and my mother and even my children and my current family to be able to explore all of these things. 
Yeah, this was the first time that I sat with my mother. I had a - what I called book camp. So basically, as I was writing a book - I was probably 85%, 90% finished the book. 
So I called everybody that I mentioned in the book, and I sat down, and for two weeks, I read everybody everything that I said about them. 
And we laughed, and we cried. And, you know, I allowed people to say, hey, that wasn't my experience. 
Can you please make this adjustment? 
Well, first it was shock. She had absolutely no idea that that's how I was processing the - you know, some of the experiences of my childhood. 
You know, it was a deeply emotional conversation. You know, my mother is wildly powerful. And she's not a big crier. 
But this conversation was a little too much. But we - you know, we got to the bottom of it. We talked it out thoroughly and, you know, we are better for it. 
We're talking in ways we never talked before. And we're interacting at deeper levels that we had never been able to reach before that conversation. 
Yeah. You know, my father was one of the greatest men I've ever known. My father was brilliant. 
My father was wise, you know, and not unlike other little boys, my father was the Superman image in my mind. 
And that was also one of the things that was difficult about writing this book and telling this story because as soon as people hear abuse, they paint an ogre in their mind. 
And, you know, my father wasn't an ogre. You know, my father was both things. My father was deeply brilliant. 
He never missed a game. He was a beautiful teacher. And, you know, he was military minded and he never abandoned the post of being a father. 
He put food on the table every night, you know. So it's - that dichotomy is part of what breaks the mind of a child in that way because you can't fit both of those things into one space, you know? 
Yeah, for sure. 
You know, that is such a difficult idea. I don't remember - I always hate quoting authors and I don't remember who said it, but there's an idea of the adversity paradox, that, you know, as parents, we try to shield our children from adversity, not realizing that the adversity is what makes them strong, that being able to overcome adversity and being able to solve problems and being able to triumph over your difficulties is a really critical aspect. 
So it's like if I could go back and change it, would I? And it's no. It's like, those difficulties and those traumas and the mental anguish that I had to overcome was a big part of me growing into the person I am today. 
And I love my life. I'm happier than I have ever been. And it is largely based on the perception of myself that I can survive anything. 
Because of what I have been able to overcome, I have confidence in myself, I trust myself to manage whatever God decides I need to triumph against. 
You know, probably about 20 years ago, I saw - it's a famous video, and I'm sure you have seen it. There was one where Venus is doing an interview, and the interviewer keeps asking her about her confidence. 
And Richard interrupts the interview and slams the person who's asking her the question - you know, saying she's - you know, she answered you with a lot of confidence. 
You know, you are dealing with the image of a young Black child. It's like - you know, she done told you what's happening. 
Leave that alone. And I remember being blown away at how calm Venus' face was. It was almost a little bit of a smirk, as if she knew she had a lion. 
And she didn't want to sic her lion on nobody, but if somebody messed with her, her lion would attack and defend. 
Going to put your pool in the front? 
Oh, you're just going to be the crazy lady on the block. 
Oh, that's the one, then. That's the one. You going to have any one of these houses you want - Beverly Hills, Hollywood Hills, any of these old hills 'cause you got a plan, and you're going to stick to it. 
When I was a little boy, my moms used to say, son, the most strongest, the most powerful, the most dangerous creature on this whole Earth is a woman who know how to think. 
Ain't nothing she can't do. Y'all know how to think? 
Now, these peoples we about to go see, you going to show them how dangerous you are? 
Let me see your dangerous face. 
Where your - that's your dangerous face? 
There you go. That's your dangerous face. That's - OK, don't do that for the people. 
Oh, absolutely. Part of my ability to understand Richard Williams is related to my father and slightly to my parenting, also. 
But Richard Williams and my father were from a different generation. You know, they were from a generation where they can fix things with their hands. 
They build things with their bodies, you know? So it was a completely different mindset, you know, post-World War II kind of pull-yourself-up-by-your-own-bootstraps kind of mentality. 
In West Philadelphia, born and raised, on the playground is where I spent most of my days, chillin' out, maxin', relaxin' all cool and all shooting some b-ball outside of the school, when a couple of guys who were up to no good started making trouble in my neighborhood. 
I got in one little fight, and my mom got scared and said, you're with your auntie and uncle in Bel Air. 
I begged and pleaded with her day after day, but she packed my suitcase and sent me on my way. She gave me a kiss and then she gave me my ticket. 
I put my Walkman on and said I might as well kick it. First class, yo, this is bad, drinking orange... 
What's going on? Everybody OK? 
A call from who? 
You all need to look around? Go, you can check on in the cupboards. Maybe you can go check under the beds, make sure there's no monsters. 
That's right. Girls, spell civilization. 
Wait. Now, hold on. Hold on. 
You want to check on the kids? Let's check on the kids. We got future doctors and lawyers plus a couple tennis stars in this house. 
Now, I understand you got to do your job, even if some crazy ass neighbor do call, talking foolishness. 
And I don't even mind you saying we hard on these kids. You know why? 'Cause we are. 
That's our job - to keep them off these streets. You want to arrest us for that? Fine. 
But what you not going to never do is come knock on this door, talking about you had to blow their damn brains out in them streets 'cause they running with hoodlums and doing drugs and things. 
That's what you not going to never say in this house. 
One of the biggest surprises was when we think about Richard Williams, we think about a standard overbearing parent, and he was so not that. 
He wasn't the father that was hammering and pounding his kids to excel. He was the father who used love. 
And he aligned with what they wanted for their lives. And it was a family mission. It wasn't Richard's mission to get his kids to become something that would satiate his ego, you know? 
So one of the major things that I got from talking to Venus and Serena was they were pushing Richard in a way that - Venus called it the Jedi mind trick, that he somehow did a Jedi mind trick on them where they were pushing to play tennis. 
They wanted to excel. 
In terms of Richard's priorities, God was first, alongside family and love and school, and tennis was fifth or sixth on the list of what he wanted from them. 
They had to complete all of their other tasks and all - they had to, you know, be at the top of all of the other elements before they were allowed to play tennis, you know? 
So it was a very, very different kind of relationship when we looked at it. There's a scene in the movie where, you know, he says, you know, Venus Williams, who is your best friend, you know? 
And that was the relationship that they had. They were a family on a collective mission to become powerful contributors in the world more than to be successful tennis players. 
They were just using tennis as a way to cultivate powerful, loving, God-fearing human beings. 
You know, I guess for me, the - you know, I fell right into my father's military mindset. And the transition and the transformation that I had to make over the past few years with my parenting the past decade, really, is, you know, from a place of seeking product - right? 
- seeking an end result, seeking a goal, to opening to understanding my children's unique talents and difficulties and supporting their vision for their lives, rather than demanding that they adhere to my vision for their lives. 
Yes, absolutely. And that was the thing that I had to cultivate with my children. And, you know, Willow's the youngest, so - you know, I always say, you know, Trey got the most ignorant version of my parenting... 
...And Jaden got Will Dad 2.0, and Willow ultimately got the most evolved version. 
Hold on. Let me see. So, you know, I asked  I'm trying to see if I can do my Arnold voice. 
He said - you know, he told me that in order to be a movie star, my movies couldn't only be successful in America. 
My movies had to be successful in every country in the world and that I had to go there. And he told me to think of myself as a politician running for biggest movie star in the world. 
And you go to every country and you shake hands and you kiss babies and, you know, you want people to recognize you and love you in every country on earth. 
And I took that to heart very seriously. You know, I had already been around the world once with music, but it wasn't with that mentality. 
And, you know, the thing that he said that really stuck was the concept of a politician. And when I saw that, I was like, oh, yeah. 
Yeah, yeah, no. I was tracking myself with Tom for quite a few years. He's unbeatable, though . 
He will stay out there for insane amounts of time. You know, there was a report I got from Berlin where he literally signed every autograph on a red carpet, you know, six hours out there signing. 
Like, he - you know, he's hard to beat, you know. But that idea and that mentality and that, you know, creating a global footprint and being able to go out and to be able to understand what a French audience likes in their movies - you know, why was Jerry Lewis so successful in France, you know, similar to the way that Jim Carrey was? 
And it's like, ah, physical comedy because they're speaking a different language. And, you know, films that are subtitled, for whatever reason, the French don't accept subtitled films as much as the Spanish, for example, or the Germans, right? 
So - but you can't know that if you don't go market to market and study and understand the subtle nuances that make entertainment penetrate. 
Absolutely. You know, in the first part of my career, it was really important to me to - it was like, I want to be considered for the same roles that Tom Cruise is considered for. 
I don't want to be seen as a Black actor. I want to be seen as an actor equal to all of my, you know, white or Latin or counterparts. 
I'm an actor. I'm a human to be seen on the same level. So it was really important to me to play characters that weren't necessarily Black in the screenplay. 
You know, all of that to say - so roles in slavery, I was not considering those at the time. But when - you know, when this role came around, one of - the first that I considered was "Django." 
You know, I have almost completely and totally purified and transcended that scared little boy. You know, I'm almost at 98%, I would say. 
The writing of the book was a very powerful, cleansing, purifying endeavor. So I would say I feel almost completely - I'm not sure if there's 100%. 
I'm not even sure if 100% is real. But I feel free. I feel clear, and I am focusing on cultivating the most powerful and loving version of myself to go out into the world and to give and to love and to care for people in the way that my grandmother tried to get me to understand almost 50 years ago. 
Thank you so much. 
Woo - uh, uh, uh, uh - haha, haha - what, what, what, what. On your mark, ready, set, let's go - dance floor pro. 
I know. You know. I go psycho when my new joint hit, just can't sit. 
Got to get jiggy wit it. Ooh, that's it. Now, honey, honey, come ride - DKNY, all up in my eye. 
You got a Prada bag with a lot of stuff in it. Give it to your friend. Let's spin. 
Everybody looking at me, glancin' the kid, wishing they was dancing the jig here with this handsome kid, ciga  cigar - right - from Cuba, Cuba. 
I just bite it. It's for the look. I don't light it. 
Ill-way the an-may on the ance-day oor-flay , give it up jiggy make it feel like foreplay. You, my cardio is infinite - haha. 
Big Willie style's all in it. 
In this special interview, Will Smith plays a grieving father who has to find a way to reconnect with the world after his devastating loss in David Frankel’s star-studded “Collateral Beauty.”  His character tries to make sense of his loss by writing letters—not to people, but to things—Love, Time and Death.
And then, unexpectedly, he gets responses, which makes him see the world in a new light.
I loved that this was a guy who had the world on a string. Everything was perfect. He had it.
He had life figured out then suffered a loss and had to make his way back to even believing there was a possibility to have joy again so I really loved that journey.
It was really close to me. Howard thinks about life a lot of the ways I think about life and he had to move from thinking he could solve all the issues of life with his mind to accepting that there is a certain amount of bleeding that you have to do to be able to purge and cleanse yourself to be able to experience joy.
The pain and joy and growth are all inexorably bound together.
For example, in my mind, I decided that Howard had moved to Buddhism. When the movie starts he’s trying Buddhism.
There is a shot that goes across the teaching of Buddha when he is writing the letters and there is a thing the Buddhist monks do, the mandalas for twelve or fourteen hours a sad they make these beautiful sand mandalas and they work and slave all day and they stand up, look at it for sixty seconds and wipe it away, this beautiful piece of art and they just destroy it for the practice of impermanence.
That was the idea I was working on with the dominoes. He has these domino mazes and tips them and turns and doesn’t even watch it fall as the practice of impermanence and letting things go so I am forever changed from working on “Collateral Beauty.”
Nothing tortures me more than love. There is nothing in life that I experience more pain around than love.
Even in dealing with my father’s passing, what comes back to me and how I react to that is “Jada, you're not loving me enough!” It’s like, “Listen, if we are going to die, we need to spend more time together.” It’s the craving for love for me is far beyond the loss of death and beyond the punishment of time.
I’m having more life experiences. They enable me to connect to different, more complex, deeper human emotions.
As an artist, I am my tool and my life experience is my well so as I have more life experiences. I want to be able to courageously go forward to find those new things and deliver those new ideas.
I’ve had huge life-changing moments, again, all centred on love. I’m a serious hopeless romantic. I think the greatest experience of love I’ve ever had was when my daughter was born.
I remember when Willow was born I sat down with Jada and just looking at the two of them I was just full as I ever have been.
That was the maximum amount of love I’ve ever experienced in my life. It was the safest and purest and happiest that I’ve ever been in my life and I think, subconsciously, I chase that  every day of my life.
Howard was trying to solve his problems with his mind. He thought he could think his way through this problem and what he realized is that he had to bleed, suffer and mourn.
He had to let it go and when he finally had the opportunity to just release and let it all go, the collateral beauty was the joy that he was ultimately seeking in the first place.
There is a wonderful quote from Khalil Gibran that I love that says, “Pain is the knife that hollows us out so that we can hold more joy.” I thought that’s such an interesting idea that you suffer that pain and you are torn open for the purpose of being able to hold more light and joy and positivity.
I think that is the collateral beauty of the type of suffering that Howard experienced in this film.
On the aftermath of playing his role in Collateral Beauty, the practice of Meditation and Yoga are almost mandatory in our workout suggestion.
But the amazingly fit Will Smith has of course his physical exercise cut out for him. With a personal trainer and specific workouts for very demanding roles, transforming his body to play the part is a constant challenge.
Performing Muhammad Ali  was one of the roles that demanded a muscle mass increase. For I, Robot the actor had to run 6 days per week, lift weights 5 days per week and box twice a week to get leaner and reduce body fat.
When not preparing for specific roles his regular exercise routine includes sets of exercise repetitions and machines you can also include in your circuit.
