This mechanistic, technical-military psychological attitude had inevitable consequences. Every single act in foreign policy is governed exclusively by one viewpoint.
If successful, radioactive poisoning of the atmosphere and hence annihilation of any life on earth has been brought within the range of technical possibilities.
They are determined to influence the pace of events within the framework of their possibilities. That is the situation.
The situation calls for a courageous effort, for a radical change in our whole attitude in the entire political concept.
b) to speed up the experimental work, which is at present being carried on within the limits of the budgets of University laboratories, by providing funds, if such funds be required, through his contacts with private persons who are willing to make contributions for this cause, and perhaps also by obtaining co-operation of industrial laboratories which have necessary equipment.
One possible way of achieving this might be for you to entrust the task with a person who has your confidence and who could perhaps serve in an unofficial capacity.
We do not forget the human[e] attitude of the Soviet Union who was the only one among the big powers to open her doors to hundreds of thousands of Jews when the Nazi armies were advancing in Poland.
The UN, as it stands today, has neither the military force nor the legal basis to bring about a state of international security, nor does it take account of the actual distribution of power.
Most people would lead a dull life of slavery just as under the ancient despotisms of Asia. It is only men who are free, who create the inventions and intellectual works which to us moderns make life worth while.
Within the country -- concentration of tremendous financial power in the hands of the military, militarization of the youth, close supervision of the loyalty of the citizens, in particular, of the civil servants by a police force growing more conspicuous every day.
But we know a few things that the politicians do not know. And we feel the duty to speak up and to remind those responsible that: there is no escape into easy comforts; there is no distance ahead for proceeding little by little and delaying the necessary changes into an indefinite future; there is no time left for petty bargaining.
There can no longer be any doubt about this absolute necessity. For this reason, everything that is formed in international affairs must be born from the following viewpoint: will it help or hinder  the establishment of world government?
The only hope for protection lies in the securing of peace in a super-national way. A world government must be created which is able to solve conflicts between nations by a judicial decision.
While in Europe territories are being distributed without any qualms about the wishes of the people concerned, the remainders of European Jewry, one-fifth of its prewar population, are again denied access to their haven in Palestine and left to hunger and cold and persisting hostility.
But so far, we fail to see any guarantee of peace. We do not see any guarantee of the freedoms that were promised to the nations in the Atlantic Charter.
Nor was it necessary to delay the proposed measures against Franco-Spain. It is senseless to recount here the details which all show that nothing has been done in order to alleviate Russia’s distress.
Such a statement would be justified if the United States had made a serious attempt in this direction during the past year.
Even a declaration of the nations to collaborate loyally in the realization of such a "restricted world government" would considerably reduce the imminent danger of war.
Well, I am afraid they cannot help it; with their six million dead they have been pushed at the head of the queue, of the queue of Nazi victims, most against their will.
The development of technology and of the implements of war says all about something akin to a shrinking of our planet.
and the U.S.S.R., should realize that we may have vanquished an external enemy, but have been incapable of getting rid of the mentality created by the war.
A distress which can very well be understood in the light of the events of the last decade, and to whose origin we have contributed no little.
The picture of our postwar world is not bright. As far as we, the physicists, are concerned we are no politicians and it has never been our wish to meddle in politics.
The available weapons of destruction are of a kind such that no place on Earth is safeguarded against certain, total destruction.
We helped in creating this new weapon in order to prevent the enemies of mankind from achieving it ahead of us, which, given the mentality of the Nazis, would have meant inconceivable destruction and the enslavement of the rest of the world.
The striving to free oneself from this delusion is the one issue of true religion. Not to nourish the delusion but to try to overcome it is the way to reach the attainable measure of peace of mind.
For if such an agreement would be achieved, then these two powers alone would be able to cause the other nations to give up their sovereignty to the degree necessary for  the establishment of military security for all.
The first problem is to do away with mutual fear and distrust. Solemn renunciation of violence  is undoubtedly necessary.
One should think that the wish to create a decent form of life on this planet and to avert the danger of unspeakable destruction would tame the passions of responsible men.
Thus you can not only  defend yourself successfully, but you can serve your country and your descendants in a degree as was not given to any previous generation.
We shall never forget the heroic efforts of the small countries, of the Scandinavian, the Dutch, the Swiss nations, and of individuals in the occupied parts of Europe who did all in their power to protect Jewish lives.
As long as Nazi violence was unleashed only, or mainly, against the Jews, the rest of the world looked on passively; and even treaties and agreements were made with the patently criminal government of the Third Reich.
The armament race between the U.S.A. and the U.S.S.R., originally supposed to be a preventive measure, assumes hysterical character.
Certain aspects of the situation which has arisen seem to call for watchfulness and if necessary, quick action on the part of the Administration.
However, such bombs might very well prove too heavy for transportation by air.
There was no need to manufacture new atomic bombs without letup, and appropriate 12 billion  dollars of our defense in a year in which no military threat was to be expected for the nearest future.
Under a world government I understand an institution whose decisions and prescriptions are binding for the individual states.
Real power is, at present, in the hands of a few nations. It is no exaggeration to say that the solution of the real problem is linked solely to an agreement on a grand scale between this country and Russia.
I find, however, that the opposite has happened. There was no need to accept fascist Argentina into the UN against Russia’s opposition.
And it bears a still more significant significance for the physicists who, in one way or another, were connected with the construction of the use of the atomic bomb.
What about international control? Well, it may be of secondary use as a police measure. But it may be wise to overestimate its importance.
May the spirit that prompted Alfred Nobel to create this great institution -- the spirit of trust and confidence, of generosity and brotherhood among men, prevail in the minds of those upon whose decisions our destiny rests.
Later, when Hitler was on the point of taking over Romania and Hungary, at the time when Maidanek and Oswiecim were in Allied hands, and the methods of the gas chambers were well known all over the world, all attempts to rescue the Romanian and Hungarian Jews came to naught because the doors of Palestine were closed to Jewish immigrants and no country could be found that would admit those forsaken people.
The great powers, united in fighting, are now divided over the peace settlements.
It showed me that a sense of responsibility and initiative is at work in the young generation of this country.
The maxim which we have been following during these last five years has been, in short: security through superior military power, whatever the cost.
We delivered this weapon into the hands of the Americans and the British people as trustees of the whole [of] mankind, as fighters for peace and liberty.
It is an institution, therefore, which  is analogous to that relationship which exists between the government in Washington, D.C.
On both sides, the means to mass destruction are perfected with feverish haste -- behind the respective walls of secrecy.
In view of this situation you may think it desirable to have some permanent contact maintained between the Administration and the group of physicists working on chain reactions in America.
Now many will say that fundamental agreement with Russia is impossible under the present circumstances.
The belief seemed to prevail that in the end it were possible to achieve decisive military superiority.
And the fact that many of them are still kept in degrading conditions of concentration camps by the Allies gives sufficient evidence of the shamefulness and hopelessness of the situation.
This government must be based on a democrat constitution which is approved by the governments and the nations, and which gives it the sole disposition of offensive weapons.
We cannot desist from warning, and warning again, we cannot and should not slacken in our efforts to make the nations of the world, and especially their governments, aware of the unspeakable disaster they are certain to provoke unless they change their attitude toward each other and toward the task of shaping the future.
There would be no comfortable houses for the mass of people, no railway, no wireless, no protection against epidemics, no cheap books, no culture and no enjoyment of art at all.
In the last analysis, every kind of peaceful cooperation among men is primarily based on mutual trust and only secondly on institutions such as courts of justice and police.
Such renunciation, however, can only be effective if at the same time a supra-national judicial and executive body is set up empowered to decide questions of immediate concern to the security of the nations.
In the course of the last four months it has been made probable through the work of Joliot in France as well as Fermi and Szilard in America--that it may be possible to set up a nuclear chain reaction in a large mass of uranium, by which vast amounts of power and large quantities of new radium-like elements would be generated.
The ghostlike character of this development lies in its apparently compulsory trend. Every step appears as the unavoidable consequence of the preceding one.
This new phenomenon would also lead to the construction of bombs, and it is conceivable--though much less certain--that extremely powerful bombs of this type may thus be constructed.
Arming and economic strengthening of potential allies.
A permanent peace cannot be prepared by threats, but only by the honest attempt to create mutual trust.
Otherwise, human civilization will be doomed.
a) to approach Government Departments, keep them informed of the further development, and put forward recommendations for Government action, giving particular attention to the problem of securing a supply of uranium ore for the United States.
The war is won, but the peace is not.
In this way, any potential opponent would be intimidated, and security, so ardently desired by all of us, brought to us and all of humanity.
I believe therefore that it is my duty to bring to your attention the following facts and recommendations.
This holds for nations as well as for individuals. And the basis of trust is loyal give and take.
In order to atone for this, in order to relieve his human conscience, he instituted his awards for the promotion of peace and for achievements of peace.
The world was promised freedom from want, but large parts of the world are faced with starvation while others are living in abundance.
I am grateful to you for the opportunity to express my conviction in this most important political question.
It is apparent that the development of the political relations in the year which has elapsed since the conclusion of the Second World War has brought us in no way nearer to the achievement of this goal.
The Nobel Anniversary celebration takes on a special significance this year. Well after our deadly struggle of many years, we are at peace again; or what we are supposed to consider as peace.
In accordance with the principles of justice we must develop international law, strengthen the United Nations, and have peace in the world from now on.
They were left to perish like their brothers and sisters in the occupied countries.
The leading point of view of all political action should therefore be: What can we do to bring about a peaceful co-existence and even loyal cooperation of the nations?
You cannot rely on that, my young friends. May you succeed in activating the young generation in this sense, so that it will strive for a policy of peace on a grand scale.
The idea of achieving security through national armament is, at the present state of military technique, a disastrous illusion.
Intimidation of people of independent political thinking. Indoctrination of the public by radio, press, school.
The times of prohibition come to mind and give one pause.
For these physicists find themselves in a position not unlike to that of Alfred Nobel himself. Alfred Nobel invented the most powerful explosive ever known up to his time, a means of destruction par excellence.
I understand that Germany has actually stopped the sale of uranium from the Czechoslovakian mines which she has taken over.
Territorial questions and arguments of power, obsolete though they are, still prevail over the essential demands of common welfare and justice.
In the end, there beckons more and more clearly general annihilation.
Allow me to be more specific about just one case, which is but a symptom of the general situation: the case of my own people, the Jewish people.
Economic interlinking has made the destinies of nations interdependent to a degree far greater than in previous years.
Today, the physicists who participated in forging the most formidable and dangerous weapon of all times are harassed by an equal feeling of responsibility, not to say guilt.
But after all that had happened, and was not prevented from happening -- how is it today?
That she should have taken such early action might perhaps be understood on the ground that the son of the German Under-Secretary of State, von Weizsacker, is attached to the Kaiser-Wilhelm Institute in Berlin, where some of the American work on uranium is now being repeated.
On the part of the United States this illusion has been particularly fostered by the fact that this country succeeded first in producing an atomic bomb.
Now it appears almost certain that this could be achieved in the immediate future.
These students are aware of the fact that the destiny of the new generation will be decided in these few years.
The nations were promised liberation and justice but we have witnessed, and are witnessing even now, the sad spectacle of liberating armies firing into populations who want their independence and social equality, and supporting in those countries, by force of arms, such parties and personalities as appear to be most suited to serve vested interests.
There is no country, even today, that would be willing or able to offer them a place where they could live in peace and security.
A person or a nation can be peace-loving only if it is ready to cede its military force to the international authority and to renounce every attempt or even the means of achieving its interests abroad by the use of force.
The world was promised freedom from fear, but in fact fear has increased tremendously since the termination of the war.
There would be no machines to relieve the people from the arduous labour needed for the production of the essential necessities of life.
Some recent work by E. Fermi and L. Szilard, which has been communicated to me in manuscript, leads me to expect that the element uranium may be turned into a new and important source of energy in the immediate future.
and the 48 states of the Union. In its present form, the UN does not  possess the powers of a world government because its decisions and determinations have no binding power over the individual governments.
His task might comprise the following:
Growing restriction of the range of public information under the pressure of military secrecy.
These people are forbidden to enter Palestine with reference to the principle of democracy, but actually the Western powers, in upholding the ban of the White Paper, are yielding to the threats and the external pressure of five vast and underpopulated Arab States.
A human being is part of the whole, called by us “Universe,” a part limited in time and space. He experiences himself, his thoughts and feelings as something separated from the rest—a kind of optical delusion of his consciousness.
The United States has only very poor ores of uranium in moderate quantities. There is some good ore in Canada and former Czechoslovakia, while the most important source of uranium is in the Belgian Congo.
It is sheer irony when the British Foreign Minister tells the poor lot of European Jews they should remain in Europe because their genius is needed there, and, on the other hand, advises them not to try to get at the head of the queue lest they might incur new hatred -- hatred and persecution.
A single bomb of this type, carried by boat and exploded in a port, might very well destroy the whole port together with some of the surrounding territory.
How do we have to act in order to achieve utmost superiority over the opponent in case of war? Establishing military bases at all possible strategically important points on the globe.
It is impossible to achieve peace as long as every single action is taken with a possible future conflict in view.
Without such freedom there would have been no Shakespeare, no Goethe, no Newton, no Faraday, no Pasteur and no Lister.
Ladies and gentlemen, the conversation I had with three students of your university has made a strong impression on me.
Now that an atomic bomb, such as the bombs exploded at Hiroshima and Nagasaki, can destroy a city, kill all the people in a city, a small city the size of Minneapolis, say, we can see that we must now make use of man’s powers of reason, in order to settle disputes between nations.
The H-bomb appears on the public horizon as a probably attainable goal. Its accelerated development has been solemnly proclaimed by the President.
The time has come now, when man must give up war. It is no longer rational to solve international problems by resorting to war.
Is there any way out of this impasse created by man himself? All of us, and particularly those who are responsible for the attitude of the U.S.
