We could just perform and entertain and that's it, and take a bow, and on to Portugal or wherever. But you know, it's really dope to see my friend not only killing it musically and on the stage, but also you make people feel so good and accepted, and you say something. 
It's worth the fear because you have more knowledge, experience, you learn from people, and you have memories.
It’s hard to describe it. There’s a lot of strutting to the beat. There’s a lot of sitting down and leg-kicking and voguing and posing and hair flipping involved.
Of course I love music and I love what I do, but seeing their response to my work is my favourite part of it.
It takes so much less energy to smile than to hate. Enjoy life.
Oh god, I don't know! That's such a hard question, because I wouldn't do anything any differently. I'm obsessed with your work, and you're killing it. 
I love harmonies. But if it had to be nothing in music or entertainment whatsoever, I'd probably be running my mom's company. 
I think my favorite part about working with them is that they're open to me being like, "Try this weird thing," or, "Why don't we modulate it," or, "Try this weird '90s chord progression that you probably haven't played since '98 Max Martin." 
Sometimes people can confuse my niceness for weakness in a way — or ditziness or stupidity. But it doesn’t go hand-in-hand in that way, you know what I mean?
It’s very crude. When I was 7 years old, my mom took me to see Rocky Horror. That’s just how my family is.
When you feel your best, everybody else can feel it, too.
[Laughs] At that restaurant and there were like four people... 
Well thank you, it's an honor and it makes me so happy. There's nothing, I swear to god, honest to god, knock me out, I swear on my life, more rewarding than seeing sweet little gays in the audience moving along to my choreography, or a drag queen coming into my meet-and-greet with like a 40 pound ponytail and thigh-high boots. 
I just want to say that if you’re someone out there who has no idea what this next chapter is gonna bring, you’re not alone in that.
I have everything I've ever dreamt of having and as of late I've discovered that it's the things I've always had and the people I've always had that still make me the happiest.
I look forward to hopefully learning to give some of the love and forgiveness that I've given away so frivolously and easily to men in the past to myself hopefully this year.
We’re just this Italian family that loves slightly raunchy humor. Everyone sees Frankie on Big Brother, they get the idea.Thank you guys so much for having me tonight, I just wanted to thank you guys for coming together, and I just wanted to say really quickly how proud I am to be a part of a generation that is so passionate about creating a change and for making things better.
I sang it about my personal things that are holding me back, my fears, certain negativities in my life that were holding me back.
I've only been in hotels and venues for the past, I guess three or four years, or at my house. So, yeah that's been crazy. 
It's definitely more personal. You know, I feel like Dangerous Woman was a grown-up My Everything, and this is a grown-up Yours Truly. 
Everything that she does is spectacular. You can't listen to a Nicki Minaj verse and be like, "Eh." You just can't. 
They're very different to me and we've had a great history together. We've had a lot of really dope experiences together. 
And with all due respect to My Everything and Dangerous Woman, I feel like I played the game a lot on those two albums. 
. . you know, whatever, and think, ‘She’s really got her shit together,’ you know.
Like literally. 
[Laughs] That's so funny, you know me... 
Only be with somebody if they make you feel like the best version of yourself. You can't sacrifice yourself for anybody, you know?
I grew up in a very eccentric, interesting household, and I guess it was super gay even before we knew Frankie was gay. 
Because they, to me, are my friends, like I have grown up with them, I know their faces and names, I know stories about them, I know conversations we've had. 
I don't know where it comes from, but the movies my mom played in the house when I was a little girl, or the music we listened to, or the artists my mom idolized... 
If that makes sense. Whereas like... 
Yeah, but you're never home! So it doesn't matter. We can have this conversation when you're not on tour for like 70 years. 
I know that my fans will probably learn a lot about me by listening to my music, if they really listen to the lyrics.
First of all, thank you and I love you so much with my whole heart. But overall, [Pharrell] kind of forced it out of me, because I was in a really bad place mentally. 
So yeah, it's been a very conflicting one. And I just want to say that if you're someone out there who has no idea what this next chapter is going to bring, you're not alone in that.
[Laughs] I love you so much, no you don't. You're perfect, you're killing it, you're crushing it. But, I feel like this is a more grown up Yours Truly. 
I'm down to mess around and try on things. I love fashion, but I hate it. Like I think it's really cool and really dope, but then as soon as someone's trying to put me in something weird I'm like, "Alright relax, calm down, this is extra." [Laughs] Like I have my things I love, I have my comfort zone. 
Wait, can I start? 
You're really good at this! 
It's the most fulfilling, like it makes my heart scream. It's the best reward. 
Oh, I mean absolutely. Troye, you can choose your role. I would love for you to be a bridesmaid, though. 
But I don’t know why people are so shocked by me. I guess it’s because of the character I played so long being such a goody two-shoes.
That's so cute. 
I hate the judgment. I hate it so much.
I just want to say if you're someone out there who has no idea what this next chapter's gonna bring, you're not alone in that.
To be a part of a generation that won't be silent, that refuses to be silent, I'm so proud. So thank you, I love you, keep using your voices and making this a safer place for each other.
Take a load off, don’t take everything so seriously. And just be happier.
Life is beautiful. Cherish every moment even if you're stressed or hurt or whatnot. There's always tomorrow and it always gets better.
I don't really believe in any fashion rules. I think fashion is a form of self-expression. I think you can wear whatever you want!
I do, but as far as like my personal life goes, I really have no idea what the fuck I’m doing. So yeah, it’s been a very conflicting one.
She has a gift and she is a spectacular artist. But I think as a human being, there is the most beautiful soul underneath this really badass exterior. 
If anyone tries to bully you don’t let them. Take the positive energy form a ball of rainbow power and just, like shove it.
But this record is way more feel-good, and I wanted to make people feel really good when they listen to this. 
But this just feels closer to home, you know what I mean? It feels like now the mask is off, let's talk. 
Those first two album cycles might as well kill you. It's pretty much as close to dead as you'll ever be, and I think a lot of people don't realize how tough it is. 
Funniest shit in the world. 
I'm not saying that for sympathy, I'm just saying that because I think a lot of people would look at someone in my position right now...and think, 'She's really got her shit together,' Ya know?
I was raised in a household where being gay was like, the most normal thing. My brother is gay, all of my best friends are gay.
She is my sister, and I have so much respect for that woman because she puts up with a lot of shit. 
Okay cool. I am obsessed with you. I think you are everything that pop music needs and I think your stage presence and your voice and your aesthetic and literally everything about your artistry is so divine, and I have been the biggest fan of you since forever. 
Everything you're doing right now is exactly what you should be doing. You're making the best music you could possibly be making, you're kind to your fans. 
There are people who try to twist it, and then my fans get upset at that and it's just this chain of things. 
The thing that my friends say when they listen to this album is, "This feels like the girl we hang out with." When they listen they're like, "This is our friend." You know what I mean? 
He's really supportive and just a positive thing all around in my life. 
School is tough sometimes, but it’s all about knowing who your real friends are.
And I think she is one of the greatest rappers of all time, male or female. It's kind of wild that people still try to discredit her and question what she's done and accomplished. 
[Laughs] My bad. 
Some people will find any reason to hate. Don’t waste ur time. Lighten up!
We literally turned this tiny Japanese restaurant that's the size of a closet into a fucking bar mitzvah. 
I have an interlude in my album called "Pete Davidson" because I didn't know what else to call it. I played it for Tyler, the Creator and he was like, "I guess that title makes sense because if I wrote a song about how much I loved waffles and syrup I'd call it 'Waffles and Syrup.'" But I don't think it's gonna affect my work. 
And know that you are just as perfect as anyone else, exactly as you are.
Probably that. When people are shocked when they see me curse, I wish they knew my sense of humor. I have the sense of humor of a 14-year-old boy.
I don’t regret any of the decisions I’ve made in my life. Because with every choice I’ve made, I’ve learned something new.
I don't know if that makes any sense, am I insulting my own work? I don't think so, because I really like it all. 
I wanted to make dope records that would put me in a place where I could then make whatever the fuck I wanted. 
I want to say that I find it interesting that this has been one of like the best years of my career, and like the worst of my life.
I don't know! Because I've always been attracted to and I guess, brought joy by very gay things. I always have, even before I knew my brother was gay, and I thought — this is probably the most ridiculous thing you'll ever hear — but there was a time in my life when I thought Frankie might be straight and during that time, my favorite movie was To Wong Foo, you know what I mean? 
Music is my biggest passion and Ive just been obsessed with it. Like, always.
It's either house, studio, like there was one sushi restaurant I would go to in LA, and then I've been touring and in hotels for the past four years. 
I think that fashion should be more of a self-expression thing as opposed to a trend thing. To me, when I feel really dope and I have an outfit on that makes me really happy that's so much better. 
It still took me a few weeks to feel better, but looking back at it now from a healthier place, it's probably one of the most important songs I'll ever write. 
I mean when Frankie came out, everyone was like, "Okay, you wanna go to dinner?" 
You need to make this into music and get this shit out, and I promise it will heal you." And it definitely helped. 
Most of my favorite people in my life are gay. It's something I'm super passionate about, because whenever I would see my friends get bullied, or my brother get hurt for his sexuality, I would become a raging lunatic.
Like, 'She's really on it.' Like, 'She's got it all.' I do, but as far as my personal life goes, I really have no idea what the fuck I'm doing so yeah, it's been a very conflicting one.
It became physical and I was not going out at all, and I felt like I was outside my body. I'd have these spells every now and then where I felt like I was having déjà vu, but like 24/7 for three months at a time. 
And it's really an honor to know that girl, cause she's really tight and I love her. 
I’m not saying that for sympathy . . .
The thrill of not knowing what's going to happen, trained me to be prepared for anything.
Nothing burns more calories than dancing in 5-inch heels... try it!
The day my child tries a celery is the most stressful day of my life.
One of the most terrible feelings in the world is knowing that someone else doesn't like you. Especially when you don't know what you've done to deserve it.
But I also think that people have a misrepresentation of me as a person because I’m friendly and I like to meet people and I like to talk to people and make people laugh.
Wow! That's so sweet. 
My remaining two [dream Broadway roles] are Elfie in Wicked and Audrey in Little Shop of Horrors. But I think I would either be on Broadway or I'd be writing songs for other people or producing, doing vocal producing or vocal arranging. 
That's so dope. I'm obsessed with you. 
The best part about having true friends is that you can go months without seeing them and they'll still be there for you and act as if you'd never left!
I try to keep it real, because who the fuck cares? 
"I'm not saying that for sympathy, I'm just saying that because I feel like a lot of people would look at someone in my position right now, I guess, like Woman of the Year, an artist that could be at her peak, like reaching her, you know, whatever, and think, 'She's really got her shit together, you know, like, she's really on it, she's got it all.' I do, but as far as my personal life goes, I really have no idea what the fuck I am doing.
I feel like the luckiest girl in the world. I have the best family and fans in the world!
It's outrageous to me when I see people hate on someone because of their sexuality. I hate the intolerance.
It is a great breakup song, but for me, personally, I didn’t have a boy to sing it about because I’m not breaking up with anybody.
And that's a really real thing to me. I take our relationship super seriously and I cherish them. But also, I'm reminded all the time that everything I say will make waves, and people will make it into ridiculous stories and it's kind of bullshit because I really want to be able to have that friendship with them. 
Like you're doing all the promo, you're going to be exhausted for the next two years, you're going to be doing the whole thing and traveling everywhere, you're not going to know what day it is, you're not going to know where you are, and you'll wake up in a strange country. 
To be honest, I never really considered myself to be too much of an actress. So, whenever I get the chance to do music, I'm always, like, just in it.
It's such a kooky song. 
I like Aurora, Sleeping Beauty, because shes just sleeping and looking pretty and waiting for boys to come kiss her.
I've always had anxiety, I've had anxiety for years. But when I got home from tour it reached a very different, intense peak. 
When you asked me to be on "Dance To This," before I'd even listened I was like, "I know it's already going to be tight." I was so excited and so honored. 
The best fashion advice I'd say would be just to do what makes you comfortable and what makes you feel cute, and that's how you're gonna look your best cause when you feel your best, everybody else can feel it, too.
I have to be careful, but I would say that what you see is what you get, I'm pretty honest, I'm pretty authentic. 
When my brother came out of the closet, it wasn't a big deal for my family.
"Get Well Soon"? 
I’m just saying that because I feel like a lot of people would look at someone in my position right now, I guess—like Woman of the Year, an artist that could be at her peak, like reaching her .
And I knew that they would be down for the challenge of making songs for Sweetener. So when I finished up everything with Pharrell, and we had discovered this new delicious world that is Sweetener, I brought everything over to them and was like, "Yo, I would love to have you guys be a part of this, but it has to feel this fresh." And we challenged each other. 
Sounds like a good life - lots of naps and cute boys fighting dragons to come kiss you.
It's like, 'Oh my God, I finally get to do this. I'm so happy.'
But you know, I think them being so open and willing to experiment with me is what made this so special and kind of like, me being in the middle with Pharrell and two of the best producers in the world, who are both so successful in their own right, and seeing them, having both of them involved in my project is the craziest thing in the world to me. 
But I love you a lot, and that's all. Okay bye. 
Yay! thank you. 
This is really special. I want to say that I find it interesting that this has been one of the best years in my career and, like, the worst of my life," she said.
I'm the happiest I've ever been. I guess the only way it would reflect in my work is like, when I write songs about [Pete]. 
It was really weird, and all that was on my mind. [Pharrell] was like, "You have to write about it. 
I feel like a princess. I feel like a true pop princess. 
So going out and not having any anxiety — well, less anxiety — but living closer to all my friends and being in love and having a new dope place and being close to my family... 
It's hard because I have to walk this line between being 100% myself and authentic with my fans, and being real, upfront and truthful with them. 
It's great hearing stories of my mum growing up in Brooklyn, then moving to Florida, having me and growing up with this eccentric, fun family.
Love is a really scary thing and you never know what's going to happen. It's one of the most beautiful things in life, but it's one of the most terrifying.
I think both of us are. The thing that I think is so dope about Troye is that you say something. I feel like we're both in a position where we don't have to say shit, if we don't want to really? 
I kind of played the game a little bit. All my favorite songs from those two albums are not the singles, like they aren't at all. 
Of course. Maybe it’s more the early 2000s that are really shockingly embarrassing, fashion-wise. People had weird cornrows and light blue eyeshadows.
‘She’s really on it; she’s got it all’ . . .
Things I was afraid of like, ego and fear and all of that. I wanted to break free from all that I felt like was making me enjoy my life a little less.
Oh, I have no idea. All I know is that I'm happy with Pete, that's all I really care about. 
I've dreamed about doing music since I was three or four years old.
It's been really, really, really, really fun and I'm really happy. I think the people who are closest to me are blown away because everyday they see pictures of me walking around with my friends and using the front door and walking around New York City and smiling and I seem okay, and that's really different. 
I hope that people can relate to my music, it's very relatable, it's very fun, it's very honest.
People don't realize how exhausting what Troye's doing right now is. It's what I did two years ago or three years ago when I put out My Everything and Yours Truly. 
Oh my God, we don’t have the time, there are so many.
Ew, I'm not gonna cry that's really stupid... You're not alone in that. I'm really looking forward to embracing whatever happens; whatever comes my way.
Let's celebrate each other and our differences, and let's have a good a*s time tonight, let's go.
I absolutely do. I’m Italian! I wish I could less.
But artistry aside, you're literally my favorite little bean. You're the cutest. I wish we could hang out more, but you're always doing promo and you're never home for more than like three seconds. 
Too many young girls have eating disorders due to low self-esteem and distorted body image. I think it's so important for girls to love themselves and to treat their bodies respectfully.
I love New York. I thought I hated New York, but I actually love it. 
Although I don't eat a lot of Italian things, because I'm vegan. I was raised on meat and cheese, so I've had enough for anyone's normal life span.
Be happy with being you. Love your flaws. Own your quirks.
Dangerous Woman is a part of who I am, and of course, there's a still a little bit of her in Sweetener, with "God Is a Woman," and with "Borderline" — definitely with those two records. 
