It'd be good for the economy. 
And I believe that when- in the states that are fully compliant, I- all- all the figures I've seen so far is the insurance is coming in less- costly than was estimated. 
And it'll work for about 20 years, for the- time for them to get used to they're going to have to take immigrants, if they get women in the workforce in the same percentage men are. 
So it's- I don't know. All I know is that, you know, this is stuff she's done all her life and convinced me I should get involved in. 
And the candidate should want- as po- much as possible for the storyline and the story to coincide. 
The Democrats in the Senate have already negotiated with the Republicans." 
He thought the people deserve to have a say. Now, that's what Senator McConnell said they deserved back in 10 months before the presidential election of 2016. 
There are no rules on this. There's no law. So we'll just have to see what happens. 
And- one of the things that I totally missed was how much the calendar had changed, for example, from '92 to 2008. 
You know, this is not about the candidates as much as about having a plan for the future. And secondly, you have to have a strategy for presenting your true self to the voters in an environment where there are unprecedented opportunities for those who don't want you to win to paint a different picture of your true self. 
Senator Graham and Senator Grassley, who said they wouldn't vote no matter what the party the president was- 
No, I mean, I knew that- I knew she had hoped Hillary would be elected in 2016 and thought she would and hoped that she'd have some time because she wanted to leave the court while she was still at full steam. 
The Republicans say, "You just haven't given us enough cuts in the things we want to cut. And we've decided what we want to cut and we've decided what we don't want to cut. 
So he knowingly waited until after the election to appoint, as former Treasury Secretary Salmon Chase to the Supreme Court. 
When the Iranian president- of my term, the moderate progressive Khatami  was elected, I came here and gave a speech. 
If it does, we can go on- this. And I hope they're doing lots of stuff that you and I don't know anything about. 
And she proved for 27 years that I was right about that. She turned out to be even better than I thought. 
If they pass our bill, health care would be less expensive and higher quality today and would cover more people, because you just delay. 
I- I know that I did what I always do. I said that I would look at it, and if I'd heard any questions, I would ask those questions. 
And one of the great, big tests we're all looking at in the rich countries is Japan. What about Prime Minister Abe , this great, aggressive economic program reminds me of us in 1992. 
And they all voted for it, but they didn't want to own it, because the government was somehow involved in it. 
Abraham Lincoln faced this very thing in early October, Justice Roger Taney died. And he couldn't know for sure whether he was going to win re-election because we didn't have all the tools we have now to determine such things, and even then we don't know. 
And she came on a Sunday night, and we weren't interrupted. And after she'd been there about ten minutes, I just knew that I wanted to appoint her because I wanted somebody who was open minded, passionately committed to equality and capable of working in the setting of the Supreme Court, that is getting to know the other judges, getting to know how they felt and working with them and- to try to forge consensus when possible. 
Then I read her Court of Appeals decisions, and I really was intrigued. So I invited her to the White House to come talk to me. 
I think at the time, first of all, it was so new. We'd been estranged for so long. And he thought that they couldn't take advantage of it. 
Resources and hustle. They spent more than- longer than they'd ever spent anyplace else. But they also developed a software program with a company called Palantir , which handles big data for a lot of defense departments and has been at the center of a lot of these security issues that you report on all the time. 
So it didn't take that long to change their tune. But that is their tune. They're for whatever maximizes their power, and I think that in this case, we should ask. 
And yeah, big data helps, it really matters. And you have to merge high-tech with grassroots. I still think we have way too many caucuses. 
And it turns out it works. It- it's good. It's not just good for a country. 
Well, first of all, the most important thing is it turns out people want to come to a meeting where they know they had to make a commitment. 
And the votes reflected that. And then God, they had all those debates and everything else. It's just a fascinating thing. 
And he just kept making all these claims that just aren't so and everybody knows they're not. 
You know, I don't know. I don't know. You know, they had just- they were starting in Iowa. 
Well, first, I think there is a greater chance of constructive engagement this time for a simple reason. 
And remember, Syria could be a good dress rehearsal, because if- Russia and Syria keep their word and are judged to have done a good job in identifying and turning over the chemical weapons and the materials used to make them, then it gives us a chance to say, "Okay, now the world won't understand if you go back to kill just as many people with conventional weapons. 
And you have to find a way for who you are to be presented to the voters. And we have learned that it's a strategy in modern life to make- do reverse plastic surgery on people, so that people don't really know who you are. 
They so badly want it to fail- 
I've never seen a time- can you remember a time in your lifetime when a major political party was just sitting around, begging for America to fail? 
Yeah, all that kind of stuff. I believe that that will happen in some places, but I think it's largely overstated. 
And that's because anything that's political tends to be two dimensional, almost cartoonish in its demand for labeling. 
So she- so you know, it was- that was a one-off, exciting thing. That may never- we never- we may never see anything like that again in our life. 
And they're willing to make commitments and try to keep it. They want to have an impact. They don't want to just sit around and talk anymore. 
And the main thing you can't do, the great trick in any human endeavor, including politics, is you must learn the lessons of your mistakes and your failures without becoming a general who fights the last war, because every new encounter will be shaped by different forces. 
Well, I remember everything about it, and I- she was just coming out of the hospital, but she had promised to give this speech and she was determined to give it. 
And she's even developed a sense of humor around her- her whole persona. You know, I'm- I'm a big- I'm very impressed with her. 
But won't cover your family at a price you can afford. But there's a little glitch in the law that says, "Your family cannot go into these exchanges and qualify for the tax credits." There's stuff like that. 
But if we're going to have a vote, then it's important that the Democrats and the Republicans make absolutely clear that the voters understand what the consequences of it are. 
We want our way. It's our way or the highway. And if you don't do it, we'll shut the government down." I think there are times when you have to call people's bluff. 
She- she just never stopped going. She said keeping- her work was keeping her alive and she just kept doing it and she had a good time doing it. 
That's what I mean. 
That's what I think, if you do that, then you can say- then it may be that the political climate will have shifted enough that the current president of Iran will be able to engage us. 
But 2008 was way more complicated than that. You had two extraordinarily gifted people with great political skills, particularly President Obama. 
But I think that the voters at least have to know that if you put one more conservative, particularly an ideologically conservative Republican on the court, they're giving up the healthcare bill for, you know, 20 million people's health insurance, losing all the preexisting conditions for tens and tens of millions of people. 
They- not comfortable with that. The answer is, it will work. I- in my opinion, it will work. 
He- you know, he'd been in more races than Hillary had, by far. Her first primary election in her life was the presidential primary of 2008. 
She was an astonishing human being and I was- I'll always treasure that night and one where Hillary and I did an interview at Georgetown Law School with her and spent time there. 
Well, but the negotiations we had were extremely minor and keep in mind. There was two different things. 
That's one of the reasons we won in '92. And you have to keep struggling. And every new environment has different media rules and possibilities and constraints. 
But we can take them up on it. But I think the first test will be, ironically, whether the Russian -Syrian promise works out. 
And so there's a lot at stake here. And since it's only 40 days, I think that maybe the Democrats should leave. 
Not at all. Not at all. There are some similarities in his bill and the one we proposed. 
That was my job. It was an important part of being president. 
And I believe that it will go much smoother than people think. And that the real- the only thing that could really derail it is if young people decide in massive numbers not to enroll. 
It was almost a year, but there is a tradition of the president foregoing an appointment when you're closer to the election. 
So I think that there's a global movement now to- if you will, to power-sharing. I just was watching Joyce Banda , the president of Malawi, go up on stage with Hillary and Chelsea and all the male African presidents to announce their efforts to save the elephants. 
A change in their election direction occurred too late in my term. President Obama has enough time to make something out of this. 
Good morning, MARGARET. 
If you believe in yourself, then you believe in what you do. And 'cause then, when it does, you prevail and when it doesn't, you don't. 
So I remember that. I remember the great dinner we had afterward and I invited a friend of mine who was in town, Carlotta Walls LaNier, who was one of the surviving members of the Little Rock nine who integrated Little Rock Central High School when President Eisenhower sent the troops there to enforce the court's order in the case of Cooper v. 
You know, the- there are detailed issues like what do you do if you work for an employer who has fewer than 50 employees and doesn't have to cover you, but wants to cover you? 
There are very few people- who we'll never hear from again, who just wanted to come here, be here once and they- many of them are actually doing what they said they were gonna do, but they don't think they're gonna be part of our network, so they don't take the time to report in. 
We don't want to negotiate with the democrats in the House. And we have no intention of doing what the law requires that we negotiate with the Senate, because the Senate has the Democratic majority. 
So I'm embarrassed that- I remember most of my conversations with Senator Moynihan. I don't remember that, but I'm might have just had a lot of questions when I started out. 
We're up- but there are lots of countries, rich and poor, that still have higher participation rates for women in politics. 
I do, because they haven't asked for negotiations. They said, "Yeah, we negotiate with everybody and we don't like where it came out. 
Yeah. It- unless there really are all these implementation problems they predict, but the- the biggest problem I see with it has nothing to do with all this. 
You remember that. 
And the people down there appreciated it. There were 15,000 people filling the basketball arena. They couldn't fit in either my library or the convention center. 
Well, it depends on who they are. For one thing, let's remember. 16% of the people aren't covered. 
Go back and look at the polls, even more unpopular than health care reform is now. 
--if it was close to the election, the voters should be heard first. I think that we should ask the others, we should see what's going to happen, but you can't be possibly be surprised that Senator McConnell and President Trump are taking the position. 
And it's terrible, because all over the world, people say, like, you know, I'll listen to some of Senator Cruz's  filibuster on the health care bill. 
If this bill is really, really effective, it should probably enroll 11 of those 16%, give or take. Take, it's up to 95% coverage. 
Here are the draconian cuts we want you to adopt, including massive cuts in nutrition for the children of low-income working people, people working. 
They'd never elected a woman to any major position. And it's hard to know. We're at a better place now on women's participation, I think. 
I don't know. There is a difference between what happened with Judge Garland. That is with Judge Garland, you're talking about missing probably one and a half full terms of court. 
I wanted to know why. When we met, I did talk. But there were some people who thought she was, it seems funny now, thought she was too conservative. 
That's a legitimate deal. We'll have to figure out how to work that out. But I think that we'll get through that. 
Your funding stream dries up, you know. 
Is it gonna work? And the answer is, maybe, but Japan's getting older. They have a very low birthrate and they don't take immigrants yet. 
--what the Democrats would do. 
Look at America. What would it do for the American economy if the 25% pay gap that still persists, actually 23 cents on the dollar between women and men doing the same kind of work, what would it do for us if we could eliminate it? 
I figured of all the people I've met, she had the best judgment on when to work with others whenever she could and when to stand up when she couldn't stand it anymore. 
Oh, it's quite good. We get- we get detailed progress reports now on more than 60% of the commitments and something less on another significant percentage. 
So I think they should keep the door open. This is- but the short answer to your question is, we should keep working for the best and preparing for the worst. 
You know, they still, since 2000, we've had a lot of very important political cases like Shelby County v. 
Aaron. And I remember how fascinated they were, and this was late at night and Ruth Ginsburg was still talking to her, still getting out information, wanting to know how it felt then. 
We're not gonna- and- and he had a better grassroots organization in many states. And he was able to raise enough money to do that and have a credible media campaign. 
And it's interesting, because there were serious problems with implementing the- the Bush senior drug program. 
So here's one of the wealthiest countries on earth and all these poor countries and all the ones in-between. 
I think she trusted Hillary to make a good decision. 
Well, I guess he could stop it but the price of- the current price of stopping it is higher than the price of letting the Republicans do it and taking their medicine. 
It's good economics. And I think- I think women's prospects around the world were brightened by Chancellor Merkel's reelection and the fact that she is not a conventionally charismatic politician, but she is charis- charismatic, partly because of her common sense and her competence. 
I don't remember that. I, first of all, there were- everybody that I know is taking credit now for- for 27 years for nominating her, but I didn't have misgivings. 
Number one is the economy was growing and the deficit was going down. Before we ever signed the balanced budget amendment, 90% of the deficit was gone, because of economic growth and what the Congress voted for in our economic plan in '93. 
In other words, we want to dictate over the Senate, over the House Democrats, over the speaker of the house of our own party and over the president, we insist on dictating the course of-[the country] 
Probably. But, you know, we- we all respected Justice Ginsburg a lot, and we thought we had no business talking about her as if she were already gone. 
That's- and there are some- you know, labor's afraid they're gonna lose some of the good plans they've- 
So it was- we didn't give away the store and they didn't ask us to give away the store. 
Yeah, but there's nothing to negotiate with. He- he- he shouldn't delay the health care bill. It's the law and we're in the- we're opening the enrollment on October first. 
They're not democratic. And unlike primaries, they have no legal enforcement. You can break the rules, nobody's gonna say anything. 
It's just getting more normal. And we just have to keep working at it. 
I- for example, I was intrigued by her, a number of her opinions, and her ideas that she- she thought- she supported a woman's right to choose, but thought that the case should have been decided under the equal protection clause rather than the constitutional right to privacy. 
And most people who don't have insurance who are younger and healthier will be able to buy it for $100 a month or less, that- that will enable people with preexisting conditions to buy insurance on the same terms as other people in their age group. 
Thank you, George. 
And I think that's- I think recognizing that it is often going to be challenging and then things happen sometimes. 
And they didn't know what was gonna happen in the election. And you know, it just didn't work there. 
But- I don't know if- it's just- I have no idea how to answer your question. 
Yes, because it- coming out of this CGI and because it has so many- implications for other things- in- in the poor countries of the world, if we know we can get all the girls in school and all the young women in the labor markets, it would do more than anything else to lift them out of poverty. 
And I reviewed 40 candidates, settled on five, then got down to three. But I just- you know, Hillary mentioned it to me, she thought I ought to look at her more closely, so I read- first of all, the account of the cases on gender equality she'd prevailed in in the Supreme Court as a lawyer. 
Yeah, and- and the- the calendar, the early states were better for him than the later states. And the later states were better for her than the early states were. 
They are- they're for whatever maximizes their power. I don't know-- 
They- they've been to enough seminars. They want to come to a place where people are trying to figure out how to do things. 
That means that all the people who- currently don't have insurance or currently have insurance they can afford, because they have preexisting conditions, it'll be hard to make the prices go down as much as they otherwise would, if everybody enrolls. 
And she wanted to leave the court with someone who she thought was not an ideologue, somebody who was too far to the right, but I- I didn't- I don't think she necessarily had a preferred candidate. 
Because I found that she had the best combination of skills and instincts of any of the people I interviewed and boy, I interviewed some great people. 
Holder, the voting rights case where Ruth Ginsburg strongly dissented. But there are a lot of other things that could go either way. 
Right now, we've had a debate. And basically, Justice Roberts has enforced some sense of balance where they debate the substance and the Republicans have been pretty reliable on the politics. 
We're ready. It's- it- they're in better shape now than the country was to implement President Bush's drug program, which was- everybody's forgotten. 
I think the most important thing that anybody can do- well, two things, is you've got to have a plan for the future that relates to the people. 
We don't want to negotiate with the Senate. We acknowledge that the Senate Democrats and Republicans have negotiated, but they're not right-wing enough for us. 
Before she ever even went on the Court of Appeals, she'd done enough to shape American law for a generation. 
I think what we had to do and what we're- we're doing better is to help people keep those commitments. 
The supreme leader- Khamenei  also thought of doing an outreach. And I think they didn't do it 'cause I didn't have a lot of time left. 
No help on the other front. That's just one example. So there are consequences. 
I think this- this bill's already produced a lot of good results and every- look, they are desperate for this bill to fail, because if it's not a failure, their whole- everything they've been telling us since 1980 that government's bad is wrong. 
And that was only about half the people who tried to get into the speech. So she had- people were really pulling for her and they really gravitated to her because of her sense of equality and fairness, and they thought, unlike much in politics today, she was totally on the level. 
That's- that's what I got out of 2008. It's- and you know, the- there's- there's always, in every campaign, a storyline and a story. 
And- but what's hurting Obamacare in the polls are all the people who are covered who are afraid they're gonna lose what they have. 
I wanted to read her opinions. I wanted to read her articles. I wanted to talk to people who knew her, and then I wanted to see her. 
And headed by Mr. Mosaddegh in Iran. And then I went out and sat in the American delegation and listened to his speech. 
And she was not a woman to be labeled with. She- she was who she was, and I was immensely impressed. 
You remember I apologized for the role of the United States in overthrowing a genuinely democratically-elected government in the '50s. 
So let's go to Geneva, as we did several years ago and put together a future for Syria that has a future for the Sunni, the Shia, the Alawite , the Christians and the huge Kurdish population." We're gonna have to some- have some sort of shared participation agreement like the Lebanese constitution. 
Well- the current price of stopping it is, we're not gonna have any legislative process, no negotiations, no hearings, no evaluation of the consequences. 
They have repeated their pledge that they will not develop nuclear weapons. And we can't take their word for it. 
We now- we now do full time. We have all these full-time workers that help people develop their commitments for the coming year and that help them to keep them. 
And we were hoping she would live for lon- longer. And so I don't think there's anything can be done about that. 
That's right. But I will say again. This is the house Republicans and the Tea Party people saying, "We don't want to negotiate with the Democrats. 
I think there are way too many of them. But you can talk about all that calendar stuff. But the most important thing is, you got to have a plan for the future. 
And for the- the people who come all the time have noticed that we're spending increasing time at the opening of our sessions, giving people progress reports on the commitments that have already been made as compared with just announcing the new commitments. 
The next one will be better. It'll be different. Whether she's in it or not, they're all different. 
I think you do. 
