Thank you, much. 
We can get this going. 
Yes. I've been here since -- coming here since '94. I came here then for a film. 
So people want to be here, be back here, have the best shot that they will ever have. 
Dedicated, kids first. Really inventive and great fun for them and very, very protective. 
But to people like Charles and everyone else on the ground. I mean there's literally hundred of people now involved in this that this thing is working. 
MR-GOs being shut down, which became a conduit for exacerbating the strength of the storm. And we're building this with the strongest methods that are known today. 
Oh yes. Oh yes, sure. I'm putting in a water capture system at -- in our home in L.A. 
All of this was unnecessary. It didn't need to happen. And we feel that there is a responsibility to right that wrong. 
And we'll know when -- when we should stop. But I see it as such a positive right now. 
University of Missouri. Mm-hmm. I didn't graduate, though. 
Yes, we take turns. 
That's been my -- that's been my modus operandus. But -- but for something like this, I -- I feel very fortunate to have it and then I can direct it this way. 
No, we -- we just -- we keep the brood together. That's a law of ours. So we'll take turns and make sure we get time off in between for everyone. 
All hands on deck king of scenery. 
It's the -- I think it's the greatest gift that I can give my kids is that she is -- that they have such a fantastic mother. 
But she is an absolute delight. She -- I just can't see life without her. 
There's hope, too. It's moving. It can move now. 
And that makes me hopeful. 
Anything that's discarded becomes fuel or becomes food for something else. And that we can be -- we can be living that same way. 
Well, I -- you know, I duck and jive. Keep moving. Just keep my head down a lot. 
KING: So you participate, then, with the ... 
And I look at this -- it's -- one of them came from Ethiopia and one from Vietnam and one from Cambodia and one was born in Namibia. 
And so that's -- that's -- that's where it started from. It started from a gentleman I had met who was in his 70s, I believe, and was telling me how he had done everything right, according to the American dream -- getting a job and saving for a house and buying the house and raising his family and sending his kids off to school from that house -- and then it all being wiped out. 
That would be... 
And it's really cool. It's going up now. It's worth a visit. 
Right. Right. I don't know. 
We live in a few -- I mean, we're a pretty nomadic family, as you can imagine. 
But it can be fixed. 
But, you know, I took from Christo some of the works that... 
Yes, Charles has been here from the very beginning and been just a tremendous help and has shown tremendous leadership in shaping this and finding out this project with what shape it would become, and is really one of the leaders in the future of New Orleans. 
Yes. That's great. That's great. 
There still needs to be work going on. It's supposed to go on to 2011. The wetlands now being addressed. 
By the end of the summer, you will see homes finished and you will see families moving in. 
And it'll -- it won't be that -- that important or overshadowing. 
Yes. Thanks for having me and having all of us here. 
And they are -- they are brothers and sisters. And they have fun. And they squabble and they fight, just like any other family. 
Yeah, it's great. Yeah, it's great. 
Yes, we're just getting started. 
Well, we're, you know -- we -- we are -- we're fortunate that we can give them -- we have time to give them attention and -- and protect their upbringing. 
Yeah. I do a little of that. I do a little of that. 
The hardest job in the world. The most rewarding job in the world. There's something to -- with the long days in here, we're out here as soon as the sun comes out and to come home and have dinner with your kids and have to discipline one of them who is out of line and still have the energy for that is -- I can't explain the fulfillment of that, but it is everything. 
Truthfully, I worry about that. I'm very concerned about that. They call out my kids by names and shove cameras in their faces. 
These are -- Miami, certainly. And let's not forget the Netherlands are 27 feet under -- you know, below sea level. 
And see it  thriving again. But not only here, St. Bernard Parish next door and the other parishes over here. 
I think there's a beautiful story to it. And at night, as I say, the story continues. It glows from within which, to me, represents the heart of the house, the family. 
A few months after. I was out filming "Jesse James" in Calgary when the storm hit. And it was talking to people at the first Clinton Global Initiative -- we were talking about the lack of -- or the help that was needed with the rebuilding effort. 
That's right. We started there. 
I haven't found it, no. 
It's great for . 
Well, it certainly illuminated the fact that there's a portion of our society that we're overlooking, that we're not taking care of. 
How can I help? People want to help. It's in our nature. 
Well, I'll do exactly that. We've -- I was really pleased to see we had already been shown interest from Senator Clinton's campaign and also from Senator Obama's campaign. 
Yeah. Sure. I mean. 
That's right. I do like geometry, very much. 
I'm a credit and a half short or something like that. 
I think I should stay out this first round. I think that -- it would be a bit egotistical of me to think I could do that but -- so instead we called on the great minds to come here and answer these problems. 
But for every $150,000 that comes in, a family will move into one of these new homes. 
I can't speak to that but this is -- certainly has to be a long haul project for it to work and there is no turning back. 
They -- I mean, you come here, you'll meet seventh generational families here, people that -- they are not leaving. 
Yes. It just kind of -- we stumbled on it and after much deliberation and -- when it felt right, it felt right. 
We'll see. We'll, you know, we'll probably crap out somewhere. I don't know. 
It's not that difficult to deal with. 
But, yes, we're not done. 
We pack up the kids. We've got our system and it's truly a mobile unit. And we plop down here and we can plug into a school here and ... 
Well, apparently it was great fun. We got on all right. 
Yes, and again, we've set our initial goal at 150, but there are thousands and thousands and thousands of homes that need to be rebuilt and can. 
They didn't ask for this. 
No, listen it's been the community and the hundreds of people working on this. And this is truly a group effort on the ground. 
And it came from two stats that actually came from Bill's research, and Bill's book, is that 40 to 45 percent of all our pollution comes from our buildings -- our building is the culprit, and that we need to readdress how we go about our buildings, how we think about our buildings. 
I'd like to drop in if I'm still invited every few years or so. Look at Newman. I like the way Newman does it. 
We can get this built. 
A family. It's all family. You talk to the people here and they'll talk about a -- they'll tell you about a front porch culture, where neighbors helped neighbors -- a lot of barbecues, sitting on the front porch and stories and music. 
...a weight on our kids. But, hopefully, you know, I'll probably be -- probably have worn out my welcome by the time they're old enough to really realize. 
It's who we are as Americans and here walking around it I saw potential. I saw how and by bringing in a lot of people who really knew how. 
Sure. I think about it -- I think about it a lot. But, you know, we'll make them as strong and respectful individuals as we can. 
I just always had a love for this place. I mean it's really like no other city we have. It's got its own unique vitality and it's the home of Mardi Gras and -- I mean, where else can you do something as silly as this and people really enjoy it? 
We thought about it. But... 
I think it's really more of a younger man, younger woman's game. But I'll come in and play the ... 
I stumbled this way and it worked out. 
You can read it in your bathtub, pull it out and drop it in and it'll be in exactly the same condition. 
I'm a little shy to do that but in the instance, no, I'll be doing exactly that. 
And hope there's some time to build in the future. 
Well, again, I'm going to -- it is a very interesting country and also a place that could use focus and assistance -- and they say the birthplace of mankind, as far as we know it right now. 
Martin Luther King. It's up and running and in beautiful shape. 
This is why we're here. 
That's right. OK, so we're... 
...the oldest lineage of humanity. 
Well, of course -- you know her to be one of the great leaders as far as helping and changing and shaping up the world as we know it. 
Oh, yes. Yes. Yes. 
The film or whatever we're focusing on, yes. 
A sustainable community. 
Well, that's the hope. And that's the plan. The levees are certainly better than they've been. 
Oh yes. Another great thing about the installation here is all these materials here are nontoxic. This paint that you see here, it will be reused in chairs and umbrellas and nothing goes to waste here. 
They love this place and it's very important to them. 
But this is -- this is everywhere. You -- to see the extent of the damage and the extent of the people -- the extent of the lack of movement is -- I mean, this goes on for parish after parish after parish. 
but it's really meant to work as a fundraising component. And we were looking for something that was -- that was loud and would get a lot of attention and that was also hopeful. 
It just felt like pink screamed the loudest. 
I don't know. I always see it as a -- really a -- I see it becoming less and less of a focus as I get older. 
KING: They just fell out of the air? 
...and give it to them in their name or ... 
No. We -- I can't -- I can't tell you anything more than it just felt right. And... 
It's the Lower Ninth and it will always be so. 
Well, you know, I -- it's my fault. It's my fault. 
So the plan here is to start with 150 homes -- 150 homes that follow the criteria that I mentioned before. 
Bill is one of our voices. I mean, he's certainly our quality control. The idea here was, after all of this suffering and loss, can we actually provide a better home for people who lost everything? 
And could we start putting these people together, and, you know, help the good folks here get -- you know, rebuild their communities. 
That's fantastic. That's great. 
Nothing goes to waste. It is all lit by solar panels and those panels are the very panels that will end up on a family's home. 
I can't explain it. 
We want to build homes, OK? 
We need to all join together to do this. But the point is, it is possible. 
...that within -- on that night, within under 20 minutes this place had a -- the break was right over there and there would have been a surge of water that eventually climbed to 20 feet. 
No, not really. Challenge each other a lot. Have good fun with that. 
It makes me so proud. 
Really? That's hilarious. I mean, I jonesed on it. 
No, no I can't. And it's a big project, but there's no reason why we -- when I say we, I mean America, can't get it all done. 
This right here where we're sitting is like -- it is like two to five feet, as far as I understand it, right here. 
This would have at one time been someone's house. 
And really, you know, for green technology to work, it has to work on all economic levels. And this, for us, has been a great proving ground. 
I'm still -- you know, I'm still -- I lean -- I'm still -- I'm still listening. Yes, I'm still listening. 
... Corporations -- yes, high net worth individuals -- to come in and adopt a house. We're calling this -- this pink, which I'll explain back here, the adopt-a-house campaign -- and to adopt a house, adopt 10 houses, adopt a little piece of a house. 
You know, Bill, in my eyes, is one of the great thinkers of the new paradigm of how we need to build. 
That is their view of the world. And I -- I worry about the effect it will have on them. But -- but we'll do our best and... 
... Had done at that time. 
There's -- I will -- I'll debate anyone for on the reasons why we should be rebuilding here. There are multiple reasons, but no better reason than when you meet the families -- the families who are trying to get back, families who have been dispersed, families without a really clear-cut direction on how to do it or not do it or to relocate. 
And I really believe there should be laws against that. I mean, my kids believe that any time you go outside the house, it's just a wall of photographers and people that take your picture. 
Charles, the question is, why rebuild it? Why should people come back? I mean, how do you answer that? 
Yes, this is the location, yes? 
And you will also see -- what we have to remember here, that in this very spot, as far as the location, that there were over -- or there was nearly 1,000 deaths. 
Well, no question. I mean but it -- you know, the Ninth Ward has got a lot of attention. And we're starting here because it seems to have the least -- or the most difficulty of coming back. 
But I lived here for about three months and really fell in love with the place. And it's been a nice home for myself and my family. 
OK. This is what we're calling the adopt-a-house campaign. It's part art installation, part act of social disobedience. 
And I also want to say that this is also set up where people can contribute at all levels. It's set up, if you go to the Web site... 
That came after, Larry. That came after. 
To build those 150 homes, I need the help of the American people. We need the help of the American people. 
I'm sure -- I'm sure that... 
It is so true. They are as much my blood as I am theirs. And they are brothers and sisters. 
I would love to see that. 
We're going to get this place rebuilt. 
So there is not an ounce of waste in what you see out there. 
We made 75 percent. We were able to cut the inhabitants' utility bills by 75 percent. We didn't make zero yet, but we're working on it. 
It will get done. It's a big project, but there's no reason why we -- when I say we, I mean America, can't get it all done. 
Yes, it's hard to imagine... 
And I knew -- I know a little bit about building. And I certainly know people who know a lot about building. 
Thank you. Thank you, much. 
But, yes, we have a base here. 
We can do it. We're just going to need the support. 
Right now and incorporating solar. And, yes, I think it's really exciting, this idea that we can insert ourselves into the ecosystem, this idea that within nature, there's no concept of waste is mind-boggling to me. 
I do now. It's always been a love of mine and it was that love that brought me here and led me and others to reach out to the architects that we did to work on ... 
Right. And -- and will be again. 
You can buy -- you can buy the tip of the corner of the house. You can adopt that section. Or you can adopt a solar panel and give it to someone for the holidays as a... 
You told a story about bringing your father here to see the area for the first time after the devastation. 
How long have you lived here? 
That's right. We're trying to send people to the Web site, because what we now have here are -- we can get families into homes by the end of summer. 
Yes, it's really . 
Yes. This was an international competition. And some young guys won it out of New York. 
Los Angeles -- we're there right now for a month here while Angie is working. And then we'll be back through here and... 
It will get done. 
You keep seeing the lists of all the road blocks that we're going to encounter and have yet to encounter, it would appear to daunting. 
Yeah, I liked it. 
Yeah. Because I -- I can see and I -- the question people usually ask is how do I help, how do I help? 
This -- I mean, we've talked about it. You keep seeing the lists of all the road blocks that we're going to encounter and have yet to encounter, it would appear to daunting. 
We -- you're going to see this community start to come back. And where we need help is we need America to come together like they did directly after the storm and help the families here meet that financing gap to build properly, to build safely. 
So yeah, she's been nothing but supportive, of course. 
... A low-flush toilet. That's right. 
Yes, I would love to see it. I mean I think -- I think it should be. I think it's truly out of hand. 
I -- that was never my calling as they say. So at this point, I'd rather -- it takes so much time there's just other things I'd rather be doing. 
Hey, you're good at this. You've done this before. 
They are putting a family in a house. They are returning a family to their neighborhood. Done. 
Yes, I did. Yes, I did, because -- because I know we can do this. I believe it should be done. 
Yeah. Right over here. MLK. 
No, it can't change. 
And that's it. It's family and friends, period. 
This will be -- this, I'm telling you, will be one of the greenest communities in the U.S. 
He's got such elegance and class to it all. 
