You put so much into the newspaper and then you expect people to believe what is going on. I say back to the facts again.
But it is okay. she is telling the truth now. She wouldn't have any ulterior motive like immunity for seven counts of murder.
If you are not strong enough to stand on your own, don't come and ask me what to do. You know what to do, This is one of the philosophies that everyone is mad at me for, because of the children.
If you put me in the penitentiary, that means nothing because you kicked me out of the last one. I didn't ask to get released.
But she will come up here and you enshrine her, you put her above you, and you strive to be as good as something below you.
You can't live within the law and protect yourself. You can't knock the guy down when he comes over and starts to rape one of the girls, or starts to bring some speed or dope up there.
A hippie is generally a guy that's pretty nice. He will give you a shirt and a flower, and he will give you a smile, and he walks down the road.
How many people have ever worn moccasins with a leather thong in it? So you have placed me on the desert with leather clothes on and you took a leather thong from my shoe.
Each one of these young boys was without a home. I showed them the best I could what I would do as a father, as a human being, so they would be responsible to themselves and not to be weak and not to lean on me.
The power of suggestion is stronger than any conspiracy that you could ever enter into. The powers of the brain are so vast, it's beyond understanding.
I am not saying he did this. This is implied. A lot of diagrams are actually in my opinion senseless to the case.
You set this woman up here to testify against me. And she tells you a sad story. How she has only taken every narcotic that is possible to take.
Explain to you what is inside of me, how I feel about things. Because words are your words. You invented the words, and you made a dictionary and you gave me the dictionary and you said, "These are what the words mean." Well, this is what they mean to you, but to someone else, they have got a different dictionary.
You only give them your frustration; you only give them your anger; you only give them the bad part of you rather than give them the good part of you.
What you thought was true is dying. What you thought was real is dying. Because you all know, and I know you know, and you known that I know you know.
You create it when you pay taxes, you create it when you go to work, then you create it when you foster a thing like this trial.
It doesn't mean that my philosophy is valid. It's only valid to me. Your philosophies, they are whatever you think they are and I don't particularly care what you think they are.
If I could fight this case and I could present this case, I would take that monster back and I would take that fear back.
So you say, "Okay, and then what else did she say?" She said, "You only see in me what you want to see in me." you only see in her what you put in her, because when you take LSD enough times you reach a stage of nothing.
But I'm only what lives inside of you, each and every one of you. These children, they take a lot of narcotics because you tell them not to.
A word is changed: "in there" to "up there," "off of that" to "on top." The semantics get into a word game in the courtroom to prove something that is gone in the past.
I don't understand the courts, and I don't understand a lot of things that are brought against me. Your write things about my mother in the newspaper that hasn't got anything to do with anything in particular.
I was released from the penitentiary and I learned one lesson in the penitentiary, you don't tell nobody nothing.
When you live outside the law it is pretty hard, you can't call the man for protection. You have got to pretty much protect your own.
And then, when you get on the outside, you look into people's heads. You take Linda Kasabian and you put her on the witness stand and she testifies against her father.
How sensational do you think that you have made this case? I never made it sensational. I was hiding in the desert.
This is your God. But let me tell you something; there is another Father and he has much more might than you imagine.
Why comes from your mother. Your mother teaches you why, why, why. you go around asking your mother why and she keeps telling you, "Because, because" and she laces your little brain with because and: "Because." "Why?" "because." "Why?" And you don't know any different.
I don't recall saying to anyone "Go get a knife and kill anyone or anything." In fact it makes me mad when someone kills snakes or dogs or cats or horses.
Is it a conspiracy that the music is telling youth to rise against the establishment because the establishment is rapidly destroying things?
But he wasn't. He was in the White House sending them off to war. I don't know the different people that have got on the stand, one friend said I put a knife to his throat.
I have been in a cell with a guy eighty years old and I listened to everything he said. "What did you do then?" And he explains to me his whole life and I sat there and listened, and I experienced vicariously his whole being, his whole life, and I look at him and he is one of my fathers.
Or would it be a conspiracy for your wife to mention to you twenty times a day, "You know, you're going blind, George, you know how your eyes are, you're just going blind; we pray to God and you're going blind, and you're going blind."
You can't bring the past back up and postulate or mock up a picture of something that happened a hundred years ago, or 1970 years ago, as far as that goes.
I don't dislike any of you for it. If you want to think me not guilty it is okay with me. I know what I know and nothing and no one can take that from me.
I don't want to keep rehashing the same things over, There are so many things that you can get into, Your Honor, that I have no thoughts on.
Again you have a magical mystery tour that most of the time there's forty or fifty people at the ranch playing magical mystery tour.
You are too deaf, dumb and blind to stop what you are doing. You point and you ridicule. But it's okay, it's all okay.
It is not my responsibility. It is your responsibility. It is the responsibility you have towards your own children who you are neglecting, and then you want to put the blame on me again and again and again.
I have ate out of your garbage cans to stay out of jail. I have wore your second-hand clothes. I have accepted things and given them away the next second.
I have looked up to the strongest father-figure, and I have always looked to the people in the free world as being the good people, and the people in the inside of the jail as being the bad people.
Then I look at the facts that you have brought in front of this court and I look at the twelve facts that are looking at me and judging me.
If he falls, that is how he learns, you become strong by falling." They said, "You are not supposed to let the children do that.
I don't know that it means anything. I can talk to the witnesses and ask them what they think about things, and I can l bring the truth out of other people because I know what the truth is, but I cannot sit here and tell you anything because like basically all I want to do is try to explain to you what you are doing to your children.
Then there is Paul Watkins' testmony. Paul Watkins was a young man who ran away from his parents and wouldn't go home.
I won't challenge them. If the guy says, "You're no good," I say, "Okay." If that's what you want me to believe it's okay with me.
Then you put a witness up here to say what you said. I could never say what someone else said. I could only say what I said.
Most of the people at the ranch that you call The Family were just people that you did not want, people that were alongside the road, that their parents had kicked them out or they did not want to go to Juvenile Hall, so I did the best I could and I took them up on my garbage dump and I told them this that in love there is no wrong.
Any child you put in a room and you tell them, "Don't go through that door," he never thought of going through that door until you told him to go through the door.
I am one of your motorcycle people. I am one of what you want to call hippies. I never thought about being a hippie.
To you, it seems serious. But like Larry Kramer and I would get on a horse and we would ride over to Wichita, Kansas, and act like cowboys.
So, then it moves on to awareness: how many cracks can you count in the wall? It moves to where the mice live and what the mice are thinking, and see how clever mice are.
I don't think that any of you care about anything other than yourselves because when you find yourself, you find that everyone is out for themselves anyway.
Yes, I do. There has been a lot of charges and a lot of things said about me and brought against me and brought against the co-defendants in this case, of which a lot could be cleared up and clarified to where everyone could understand exactly what the family was supposed to have been, what the philosophies in regards to the families were, and whether or not there was any conspiracy to commit murder, to commit crimes, and to explain to you who think with your minds.
You tell me something and, tomorrow, I try to repeat it, if I didn't write it down, I couldn't tell you what you said.
I have nothing against none of you. I can't judge any of you. But I think it is high time that you all started looking at yourselves, and judging the lie that you live in.
I live in my world, and I am my own king in my world, whether it be a garbage dump or if it be in the desert or wherever it be.
You are in jail, all of you, and your whole procedure. The procedure that is on you is worse than the procedure that is on me.
It looks that way to me here, the money that has been made, the things that I cannot talk about, and I know I can't talk about, I won't talk about and I will keep quiet about these things.
He is finding himself. You, those children there were finding themselves. Whatever they did, if they did whatever they did, is up to them.
You people put importance on your lives. Well, my life has never been important to anyone, not even in the understanding of the way you fear the things that you fear, and the things you do.
You just sell those newspapers for public opinion, just like you are all hung on public opinion, and none of you have any idea what you are doing.
And it's the same thing with this court. I don't believe what these witnesses get up here and say but I don't disbelieve them either.
And then I don't really particularly care anyway, because I still will be there and I will still know what I am doing.
I knew a guy that used to work in the stockyards and he used to kill cows all day long with a big sledgehammer, and then go home at night and eat dinner with his children and eat the meat that he slaughtered.
I did seven years for a thirty-seven dollar check. I did twelve years because I didn't have any parents, and how many other sons do you think you have in there?
There are so many aspects to this case that could be dug into and a lot of truth could be brought up, a lot of understanding could be reached.
I am the biggest beast walking the face of the earth. I kill everything that moves. As a man, as a human, I take responsibility for that.
You are not you, you are just reflections, you are reflections of everything that you think that you know, everything that you have been taught.
If I showed someone that I would do anything for my brother, include give my life for my brother in the battlefield, or give where else that I may want to do that, then he picks his banner up and he goes off and does what he does.
The only thing you can prove is what you can prove to yourselves, and you can sit here and build a lot in that jury's mind, and they are still going to interject their personalities on you.
I look at the projection that comes from this witness stand often to the defendants. It isn't what we said, it is what someone thought we said.
and they're gone. You say, "Where did they go?" They are dead. You say, "Well, that person could have made the motion." He could have taken my life just as well as I took his.
Because when it does come down around your ears and none of you know what you are doing, you better believe I will be on top of my thought.
I was working on cleaning up my house, something Nixon should have been doing. He should have been on the side of the road picking up his children.
You can jump up and scream, "Guilty!" and you can say what a no good guy I am, and what a devil, fiend, eeky-sneaky slimy devil I am.
And you can project it back at me, and you can say that it's me that cannot communicate, and you can say that it's me that don't have any understanding, and you can say that when I am dead your world will be better, and you can lock me up in your penitentiary and you can forget about me.
Another guy was a movie star, but he had never been in any movies, and everybody was just playing a part, you know, like most people get stuck in one part, but like we were just playing different parts every day.
If you can understand it, then I bow to your understanding. But in my understanding I wouldn't get involved with it.
Yesterday you cannot prove yesterday happened today, it would take you all day and then it would be tomorrow, and you can't prove last week happened.
And I look at you and I say, "Well, you look alright to me," you know, and you look at me and you say, "Well, you don't look alright to me,"
People would see me and they would see what I do and see the example that I set. They see, when I am cleaning out a cesspool, that I arn happy and smiling and making a game of it.
If you had two mothers, one to tell you one thing and one to tell you another, then your mind might be left where mine was.
It is circles that just don't make any sense in my reality. But of course again that is my reality and it has nothing to do with you, because you have got your reality and you have to live with what you believe in.
But I know this: that in your own hearts and your own souls, you are as much responsible for the Vietnam War as I am for killing these people.
I am my own human being. You may restrain my body and you may tear my guts out, do anything you wish, but I am still me and you can't take that.
That is all I have done since I have been out of the penitentiary. I agreed with every one of you. I did the best I could to get along with you, and I have not directed one of you to do anything other than what you wanted to do.
The only way that I have been able to live on that side of the road was outside the law. I have always lived outside the law.
You are dealing with facts and positive evidence. If you are dealing with things that are relative to the issues at hand, then you look at the facts.
I have reflected your society in yourselves, right back at your- selves, and each one of these young girls was without a home.
Only for vicarious thrills do you sell a newspaper and do you kow-tow to public opinion. Just to sell your newspapers.
and anybody in my family is a white human being, because my family is of the white family. There is the black family, a yellow family, the red family, a cow family and a mule family.
I always let the children go. "You can't let the children go down there by themselves." I said, "Let the children go down.
You can kill the ego, you can kill the pride, you can kill the want, the desire of a human being. You can lock him in a cell and you can knock his teeth out and smash his brain, but you cannot kill the soul.
Like I was on a chain gang somewhere once upon a time and they come and pass the water. I make a game out of it, or I make a pleasure out of a job.
If you tend to compliment a contradiction about yourself, you can live in that confusion. To me it's all simple, right here, right now; and each of us knew what we did and I know what I did, and I know what I'm going to do and what you do is up to you.
I gave everything I could think of to that old man and that ranch for permission to stay there, and I have given the people that stayed on that ranch my all.
you only look like a composite of what someone told you you are. You live for each others' opinion and you have pain on your face and you are not sure what you like, and you wonder if you look okay."
You killed me years ago. I sat in a cell and the guy opened the door and he said, "You want out?" I looked at him and I said, "Do you want out?
And I have never snitched, And I told them that anything they do for their brothers and sisters is good, if they do it with a good thought.
She never has liked her father, and she has always projected her wrong off to the man- figure. So, consequently, it is the man's fault again, and the woman turns around and she blames it on the man.
you are asking him to judge you. Because with my words, each of your opinions or diagrams, your thoughts, are dying.
Wrong is, wrong is, wrong is you keep on, you pile it in your mind. you become belabored with it, and in your confusion....
Then when she gets on the stand and she says when she looked in that man's eyes that was dying, she knew it was my fault.
You could even put a boat on it. So I covered it up and I hid it and I called it "The Devil's Hole" and we all laugh and we joke about it.
Then Linda Kasabian gets on the stand and says: "They were going to kill a man, they were going to kill a man in an automobile."
But if there is any way that my personality can get around it, I try my best to get around any kind of thing that is going to disturb my peace, because all I want is to be just at peace, whatever that takes.
But you stand and you play the game of money. As long as you can sell a newspaper, some sensationalism, and you can laugh at someone and joke at someone and look down at someone, you know.
I have showed people how I think by what I do. It is not as much what I say as what I do that counts, and they look at what I do and they try to do it also, and sometimes they are made weak by their parents and cannot stand up.
One day you put on a cowboy hat and say, "Shoot somebody," or the next you might have a knife fighter, or go off in the woods for a month or two to be an Indian, or just like a bunch of little kids playing.
When no one wanted to go out in front and fight, I would go out and fight. When no one else wanted to clean the toilets, I would go and clean them.
I have always said this: You do what your love tells you and I do what my love tells me. Now if my love tells me to stand up there and fight I will stand up there and fight if I have to.
You look for something to project it on and you pick a little old scroungy nobody who eats out of a garbage can, that nobody wants, that was kicked out of the penitentiary, that has been dragged through every hellhole you can think of, and you drag him up and put him into a courtroom.
And you say time is only relative to what you think it is. If you want to think me guilty then you can think me guilty and it is okay with me.
My father is the jail house. My father is your system, and each one of you, each one of you are just a reflection of each one of you, and you all live by yourselves, no matter how crowded you may think that you are in a room full of people, you are still by yourself, and you have to live with that self forever and ever and ever and ever.
I went to jail when I was eight years old and I got out when I was thirty-two. I have never adjusted to your free world.
You never could kill the soul. It's always there, the beginning and the end. you cannot stop it, it's bigger than me.
I have never learned anything wrong. In the penitentiary, I have never found a bad man. Every man in the penitentiary has always showed me his good side, and circumstances put him where he was.
When he gets on the stand, I forget what he said, whether it had any relative value, oh, I was supposed to have said to go get a knife and kill the Sheriff of Shoshone.
I make up my own mind. I think for myself. I look at you and I say, "Okay, you make up your own mind, you think for yourself, then you see your mothers and your fathers and your teachers and your preachers and your politicians and your presidents, and you lay in your brain with your opinions, considerations, conclusions." And I look at you and I say, "Okay, if you are real to you it's okay with me but you don't look real to me.
Were I allowed to defend myself, I could have proven this to you. I could have called witnesses and showed you how these things lay, and I could have presented my picture.
They will have to explain to you that. I'm just explaining to you what I am explaining to you. Everything is simple to me.
Let alone a year ago, let alone eight months ago, let alone a week ago. I am forgetful. I forget one day to the next.
They are relative to the Eighth Century. They are relative to how old you are or what kind of watch you wear on your arm.
My peace is in the desert or in the jail cell, and had I not seen the sunshine in the desert I would be satisfied with the jail cell much more over your society, much more over your reality, and much more over your confusion, and much more over your world, and your word games that you play.
You listen. When you are little you keep your mouth shut, and when someone says, "Sit down," you sit down unless you know you can whip him, and if you know you can whip you stand up and whip and you tell him to sit down.
There's been a lot of tank about a bottomless pit. I found a hole in the desert that goes down to a river that runs North underground, and I call it a bottomless pit, because where could a river be going North underground?
Everybody used to come in and tell me about their past and their lives and what they did. But I could never tell anybody about my past or what my life was or what I did because I have always been sitting in that room with a bed, a locker, and a table.
Well, I pretty much sat down. l have learned to sit down because I have been whipped plenty of times for not sitting down and I have learned not to tell people something they don't agree with.
When you were out riding your bicycles I was sitting in your cell looking out the window and looking at pictures in magazines and wishing I could go to high school and go to the proms, wishing I could go to the things you could do, but oh so glad, oh so glad, brothers and sisters, that I am what I am.
You eat meat with your teeth and you kill things that are better than you are, and in the same respect you say how bad and even killers that your children are.
Sometimes I think it would be easier than sitting here and facing you in the contempt that you have for yourself, the hate that you have for yourself, it's only the anger you reflect at me, the anger that you have got for you.
And each witness got up here and only testified for what was best for them, they did not testify for what was best for me.
An example of this: if you were to be standing in a room with someone and you were loaded on LSD and the guy says, "Do you like my sports coat?" And you would probably not pay any attention to him.
Yours is yours and I don't care what it is. Whatever you do is up to you and it's the same thing with anyone in my family.
You see, it is what happens inside the now that ... the words just lose meaning. A motion is more real than a word.
There is nothing I can say to any of you. It is you that has to say it to you, and that is my whole philosophy; you say it to you and I will say it to me.
Confusion is coming down fast. If you don't see the confusion coming down fast around you, you can call it what you wish.
I haven't broken his law yet but it seems as if somebody lays around and somebody needs to fulfill a spot, they snatch it up and say, "This will do.
In the penitentiary you live with it, with constant fear of death, because it is a violent world in there, and you have to be on your toes constantly.
It is hard for you to conceive of a philosophy of someone that may not think. I have spent my life in jail, and without parents.
She got. I don't know how much money she is going to make in magazines and things. You set her up to be a hero, and that is your woman.
I like it in there - it's peaceful. I just don't like coming to the courtroom. I would like to get this over with as soon as possible.
If he said he did not like the black man, I would say, "Okay." I had better sense than tell him I did not dislike the black man.
You are just doing what you are doing for the money, for a little bit of attention from someone. I can't dislike you, but I will say this to you.
You projected fear. you projected fear. You made me a monster and I have to live with that the rest of my life because I cannot fight this case.
I don't particularly care because all that is real to me is right now. But then, the case is real to me, and I say, "What do I have to do to make you people let me go back to the desert with my children?"
You don't care about the truth. You take another Alka-Seltzer and another aspirin and hope that you don't have to think of the truth and you hope that you don't have to look at yourself with a hangover as you go to a Helter Skelter party and make fun of something that you don't understand.
And if a man can't rise above a woman's thought, then that is his problem, it is not my problem. But you give me this problem when you set this woman against me.
But in your world it's hard because your understanding and your values are different. These children that come at you with knives, they are your children.
If you had a dozen parents that you went around with and couldn't believe anything you were told and then you couldn't disbelieve anything you were told.
You have many sons in there, many, many sons in there, most of them are black and they are angry. They are mad, and they are mad at me.
Woman is not God. Woman is but a reflection of her man, supposedly. But a lot of times man is a reflection of his woman.
You are my brother. That is why I can't fight you. If I could I would jerk this microphone out and beat your brains out with it because that is what you deserve, that is what you deserve.
Well I don't care what I look like to you. I don't care what you think about me and I don't care what you do with me.
you could ask him to go home and he would say no. He would say, "I don't got no place to live. can I live here?" And I'd say, "Sure." So, he looks for a father image.
His mother told him what to do and she trained him for twenty years and passed him on to the wife. Then the woman takes him and tells him what to wear, when to get up, when to go to work.
A magical mystery tour is when you pick up somebody else and play a part. you may pick up a cowboy today, and you go around all day and play like a cowboy.
If you spit in my face and smack me in the mouth and throw me in solitary confinement for nothing, what do you think is going to happen when I get out? 
He is only reacting to the individual terminology, the person that he has in the room. As you would put two people in a cell, so would they reflect and flow on each other like as if water would seek a level.
The man works for her, the man slaves for her, the man does everything for her, and she lays around the house and she tells him what he should do, because, generally, she is an extension of his mother.
Does that not give him permission to take one? No. Because then we bring our soldiers back and try them in court for doing the same thing we sent them to do.
You invent stories, and everybody thinks what they do, and then they project it from the witness stand on the defendant as if that is what he did.
Without being able to prepare a case, without being able to confront the witnesses and to bring out the emotions, and to bring out the reasons why witnesses say what they say, and why this hideous thing has developed into the trauma that it's moved into, would take a bigger courtroom, and it would take a bigger public, a bigger press, because you all, as big as you are, know what you are as I know what you are, and, I like you anyway.
I have done the best I know how, and I have given all I can give and I haven't got any guilt about anything because I have never been able to say any wrong.
So, I have always abided by that law. It is the only law that I know of, and it is the law that I have always abided by.
It is a pretty hideous thing to look at seven bodies, one hundred and two stab wounds. The prosecutor, or the doctor, gets up and he shows how all the different stab wounds are one way, and then how all the different stab wounds are another way; but they are the same stab wounds in another direction.
I know that the only person I can judge is me. I judge what I have done and I judge what I do and I look and live with myself every day.
If he wants the Yankees to be the best ball team, it's okay with me, so I look at him and I say, "Yeah, the Yankees are a good ball club."
To some people this would be hell; to some people it would be heaven. I have mine, and each one of you will have to work out yours, and you cannot work it out by pointing your fingers at people.
The Indians spoke with it. They could explain to you with motions what they felt. This is what I intended to do if I could represent myself.
Now the girls were talking about testifying. If the girls come up here to testify and they said anything good about me, you would have to reverse it and say that it was bad.
It's beyond thinking. It's beyond comprehension. So to offer a conspiracy might be to sit in your car and think bad thoughts about someone and watch them have an accident in front of you.
You go to the high schools and you show them pills and you show them what not to take, how else would they know what it was unless you tell them?
Then he would go to church and read the bible, and he would say, "That is not killing." And I look at him and I say, "That doesn't make any sense, what you are talking about?"
She knew that it was my fault because she couldn't face death. And if she cannot face death, that is not my fault.
But maybe the girls and women in your world outside ... Being by yourself for such a long time when you do get out you appreciate things that people don't even see, you walk over them every day.
I can stand here in front of this court and smile at you, and you can do anything you want to do with me, but you cannot touch me because I am only my love, and it is all for me, and I give it to myself for me, because I look out for me first and I like me, and you can live with yourselves and your opinion of yourselves.
Why a woman would stand up and project herself into a man and say, "Actually he never told me anything, but I knew it all came from him."
Where does the garbage go, as we have tin cans and garbage alongside the road, and oil slicks in your water, so you have people, and I am one of your garbage people.
I have done my best to get along in your world and now you want to kill me, and I look at you and I look how incompetent you all are, and then I say to myself, "You want to kill me, ha, I'm already dead, have been all my life!" I've lived in your tomb that you built.
It says, "Rise!" It says, "Kill!" Why blame it on me? I didn't write the music. I am not the person who projected it into your social consciousness, that sanity that you projected into your social consciousness, today.
If I could get angry at you I would try to kill every one of you. If that's guilt, I accept it. These children, everything they have done, they done for love of their brother.
Go get a knife and kill the Sheriff of Shoshone? I don't know the Sheriff of Shoshone. I don't think I have been there but once.
I look and I say, "Why are you mad at me?"He said, "I am mad at you because of what your father did." And I look at him and I say, "Well," and I look at my fathers, and I say, "If there was ever a devil on the face of this earth I am him." And he's got my head anytime he wants it, as all of you do too, anytime you want it.
About two or three minutes later the guy loaded on LSD will turn around and say, "My, you have a beautiful sports coat" because he is only reacting.
For example, with Danny DeCarlo's testimony. He said that I hate black men, and he said that we thought alike, that him and I was a lot alike in our thinking.
you would have to say, "Well, he put the girls up to saying that. He put the girls up to not telling the truth." Then you say the truth is as I am saying it, but then when it is gone, tomorrow it is gone, it changes, it's another day and it's a now truth, as it constantly moves thousands of miles an hour through space.
I was smart enough to stay out of jail and too dumb to learn anything. I was too little to get a job there, and too big do to something over here.
Your parents have told you what you are. They made you before you were six years old, and when you stood in school and you crossed your heart and pledged allegiance to the flag, they trapped you a in truth because at that age you didn't know any lie until that lie was reflected on you.
And then you tell them what you don't want them to do in the hopes they will go out and do it and then you can play your game with them and then you can give attention to them because you don't give them any of your love.
We speed down the highway in a 1958 automobile that won't go but fifty, and an XKE Jaguar goes by, and I state to Clem, "Catch him Clem, and we'll rob him or steal all of his money," you know.
You only reflect on me what you are inside of yourselves, because I don't care anything about any of you and I don't care what you do.
If we enter into an agreement to build a house, I will help you build the house and I will offer suggestions for that house, but I won't put myself on you because that is what made you weak, because your parents have offered themselves on you.
So consequently he would drink another beer and walk off and pat me on the back and he would say to himself, "Charlie thinks like I do." But actually he does not know how Charlie thinks because Charlie has never projected himself.
I never went to school, so I never growed up in the respect to learn to read and write so good, so I have stayed in jail and I have stayed stupid, I have stayed a child while I have watched your world grow up, and then I look at the things that you do and I don't understand.
I have killed no one and I have ordered no one to be killed. I may have implied on several occasions to several different people that I may have been Jesus Christ, but I haven't decided yet what I arn or who I am.
I have never lived in time. When your mind is not in time, the whole thought is different. You look at time as being man-made.
I could say either way. I could say, "Oh, I was just joking." Or I could say I was curious. But to be honest with you I don't ever recall saying "Get a knife and change of clothes and go do what Tex said." Or I don't recall saying, "Get a knife and go kill the sheriff."
I offer no father image. I say, "To be a man, boy, you have got to stand up and be your own father." And he still hungers for a father image.
