Every time you do a picture you're kind of thinking well if I was doing it I would do it this way but this director’s doing it that way so… And so you stack up all that stuff in your head and eventually when you get your opportunity you kind of go okay, I like the way Capra did this or I like the way Howard Hawks did this, whomever. 
They neglected to get the rights from the Japanese and they said… And halfway during the picture Sergio Leone came to me and said by the way, don’t mention that this is from Yojimbo. 
Except that he was not afraid to do things that were taboo in the old days here. In other words in the old days there used to be a rule in the Hays office days where you couldn’t fire a shot and see the person who was being shot. 
Yeah, the camera… You tell the cameraman what you like and eventually that was Jack Green he knew I worked for… He worked for me as a operator for years and so he knew shorthand with him. 
He says the tendency is when an actor’s directing is to kind of you want to work on everybody else but you're going to short yourself. 
So I'm always looking for that. Doesn’t always happen. Sometimes you get somebody that doesn’t really warm up until four or five takes or maybe later. 
Billy Wilder had a couple that didn’t do so well but I always admired him, I always loved White Heat and I loved all these films that he did. 
Okay. So that… I didn’t think too much of it because I was back here in Rawhide and then about a month later they said well this one show called Fistful Of Dollars. 
And I said somebody else, Steven’s doing that, and I go what are you talking about? And they said no, no, that fell out but we'd all love it for you to come over there. 
No, I just… Yeah, I just thought in the back of my mind I was well some people have made through these things so maybe we’ll have a luck and when we hit the water and the water felt much more comfortable because in the air the sound of the engine not running was very disconcerting. 
But it came out, it went in as a mid-season replacement for a program Jackie Gleason had, not The Honeymooners, it was a later program. 
Well I think it’s better today because the directors have complete control now but in those days it was a great learning era because if somebody gives you four actors that you don’t know and a script and says be ready to go on Monday morning you have to do a lot of stuff real quick and you have to be able to think on your feet real fast. 
But you have to have great faith in yourself and you have to have great faith in your camera operator and the various camera people because you could just look at people’s faces and see if they're kind of going, uh, or they're going yeah and they're with you. 
But you know everybody has their likes and dislikes. I called up Richard Harris, I called him up and he was in the Bahamas somewhere and I asked him to play British Bob, which is a character that’s kind of… We didn’t see there, but is in the picture. 
Well there was a ton of them in those days. When I was first coming up in the 50s they were all the great directors, Billy Wilder was working and John Ford and Hawks and all these guys were… That I admired were… And Capra. 
No, I just went in. I just kind of went in and I filmed it up in Monterey County where I knew all the areas and so I scattered the areas and I have to think it was done on a shoestring. 
Well, I think he responded to it well. You know, the actors -- all of the actors -- and Ken will tell you this himself -- is that you -- none of them knew much about the history of Iwo Jima. 
And I said okay. I got it and I had… And Hilary Swank was very interested, Morgan was interested, all the actors came right together real fast and we put it together. 
I had seen… No I hadn’t, I saw it at a theater down on Western Ave. that did foreign films and they were doing Yojimbo, a Kurosawa film with Toshiro Mifune as the lead and I thought well this picture’s great but nobody had the nerve enough to make it as a Western. 
And I… Not well but he was saying them all. I said oh that guy’s got the part. So I went home that night and I said well I'd blown another one and then the next day they called up and said there you are. 
I did read Heart of Darkness when I was young and so I kind of knew where it was going but then I said no, I don’t think I can go off for that long a time. 
So I sat in the back, I got up there and on the way back they didn’t have a plane, they had one plane a Douglas AD, sort of a torpedo bomber of the World War II vintage and they were going back to Alameda so I thought I'd hitch on that. 
So anyway, we did that and then I went to Tokyo and where they hadn’t been too fond of Americans going there and filming, I sold the governor who was actually the mayor of Tokyo, I sold him on the idea that this would be a great thing for the Japanese people that didn’t even know this battle even existed much less how tough it was. 
He was going to go 16 weeks in the Philippines. And then Steve McQueen called me and he says why don’t you come on and you come on and play this role? 
And I mean that’s the way… Obviously that’s the way he feels and it’s a good idea. I think if you feel like you've got something to offer you should do it while the iron’s hot. 
Late October, November something. Very cold water. Found out many years later that it was a white shark breeding ground but I'm glad I didn’t know that at the time or I'd have just died, just had apoplexy or something. 
And I said, but I think it’s time for the Japanese people to be aware of people because it’s a pretty heady thing to be asked to go defend an island and, by the way, don’t plan on coming back. 
There were certain rules of the business so that’s why it looks like paint, you know. Like it was… And the violence was slightly comedic. 
So he shot some film on me and I looked at it a couple days later, it was awful. You know how it is when you first hear yourself on tape? 
Well the picture was made under the title of Magnifico Straniero, so when it was Fistful of Dollars I didn’t think anything of it, and then about the fourth or fifth time that they mentioned this film they said Fistful of Dollars with Clint Eastwood, little tiny letters down there and I said-I said oh god, that’s it, huh? 
William S. Hart directed, Stan Laurel I think and of course Orson Welles came along and made a splash with Citizen Kane and then others along the way,  Olivier. 
But you know as far as the actual participation I think it’s something that… It’s historically relevant because history has never been without it but it’s one of those things that should be done with a lot of thought if it needs to be done. 
One, the Afghanistan had been… The British had never been successful there, the Russians had 10 years there and hadn’t been successful and so we think we’re going to go over there and we can't even fly in directly and we’re going to… I think you'd have to… You know, it has to have some thought process added into it. 
As you probably noticed that was slightly operatic and the people were… I had other actors, were all different languages so everybody spoke their own language as we only had a $200,000 budget and so they didn’t… Everybody… They didn’t have time to do a lot of training or anything. 
And I put it in a drawer and kind of forgot about it. And I went all the way through the 80s with… Doing other projects and then one day I took it out and re-read it and I said this is what I'm going to do. 
And so they'd give you everything, the composers, they furnish everything in the days of Jack Warner and Harry Cohn, people like that. 
And when you watch stylized music… So I was like great, in fact the music in American Sniper is an old Ennio Morricone piece that Sergio Leone played for me on the planes of Spain 50 years ago. 
So I go in and it turns out he's in charge of production there so they cast… The next day after that the very next day I went, I was testing at a studio, standing and they gave me a page of dialogue, an absolute page, no other actor there and I had to run in and start talking to the camera. 
Everything went wrong. Radios went out, oxygen ran out and they finally… The pilot flew it around for quite a while and we ran out of fuel up around Point Reyes, California. 
You couldn’t have anything tied up. And he was going ahead and tying up all the shots, everything and I kept thinking ah, should I say anything? 
I did. Apocalypse Now, they…  Coppola called me up and asked me if I wanted to do the young guy I think later played by Martin Sheen. 
No I don’t think it glorifies… I think it glorifies it, sure. I mean in the first sequence he shoots down… Yeah, the sniping part is. 
And also it’s another element when a composer comes in he's looking at the thing totally different than you are and he maybe sees it more operatic or maybe less so depending on. 
And he always did a lot with very little. Never had the big budget films or anything. So he just had managed to accomplish a lot on a minimal basis. 
And he came back and said no, there are no books. There’s a small book about letters from his daughter that he had written to his daughter back in the late 20s when he was traveling in America. 
I'd turn the light back on and start memorizing the lines. And so it takes a while but after quite a few times it was okay, it sort of took care of itself. 
And so in all those discussions I was reading books on Iwo Jima and one night I was reading a book and it was talking about an American general who was being very complimentary to the Kuribayashi, General Kuribayashi who was the head of the Japanese army on Iwo Jima and the defense of that. 
Fistful of Dollars. And then just about a day or two later they called up and said would you come back and do another one and all that sort of thing. 
People suggest a lot of things but you have to stick by what you think the story is. It’s a story that you have to… Whatever the drama of the story is, you have to be true to it. 
I'm usually reading but potential material. But I'm reading everything but I read books a lot and Mystic River you mentioned, I read that as a… I read a review of it in the paper and I thought that sounds good and I went out to Costco and got a quick copy of it. 
Well, it is in direct line with the Marianas and Japan. And because the B-29s -- which was a terrific bomber, but it also was plagued by a certain amount of engine problems at times -- would need places to... 
But it’s a father/daughter love story. It’s the daughter he never had and the father she never had and they get together and it’s as simple as that. 
I think it’s nice for veterans because it shows what they go through, you know, and that life. And the wives and families of veterans. 
And it really… If you miscast it, you're working an uphill battle a little bit and maybe you can come out okay but you can't always come out great. 
So I did a couple myself to see if I could get it the way I wanted it better without having to explain it to someone else at great detail. 
And he was saying how he thought the guy was extremely creative to be able to hold off the guys. So he was just being… And I thought I've got to find out about that so I called a friend of mine in Tokyo and I asked him if are there any books on this guy, Kuribayashi who was the defender of Iwo Jima? 
And he finally said… He called me up and said we’re on the last day of a picture and then the last day of the picture if you'll come out I'll just shoot some film on you and nobody will know the difference and then you can see what you look like and all that kind of thing. 
No. With Gene I knew him socially and so he was a friend. Morgan I had met socially and he was a big fan of Westerns and he… When I called him up I said would you like to do a Western with me and he said yeah, I love it, I love Westerns. 
... regardless of what culture. And so you made -- you got that feeling where you really wanted -- you really wanted to tell his -- see what kind of a person he was. 
I mean he had great style and great energy in the film. But you just kind of get your own thing and when you have your own chance you continue on. 
You know what, I did "Unforgiven" in '92. I thought that would be the last one. The subject matter, the way it was laid out, I thought that's enough of that genre. 
There’s no way to make it less pessimistic. Well you can… You bring it up a little bit, you kind of see where, but there’s no way to make it a happy thing. 
Good acting is good acting in all languages and bad is bad in all languages. But I just hired the very best actors I could find, starting with Ken Watanabe, who I had seen in films before and was a big admirer of. 
The only thing that our story reveals was that it was tough on the three guys to be held up to great expectations that they thought would come along later on and only one of them ended up having sort of a relatively happy existence. 
I was here many years ago before anyone here in this room except me was born. And Charles Chaplin was doing the moderation and he was the critic for the Los Angeles Times at that time. 
I like to watch films, good stories told. And you have to have… But that was a changeover era. You know, all those people were quitting, retiring. 
My mother thought it was great, my father said get a real job. He says you know stay in school, get a real job and I should have… Normally would have. 
I did a play once when I was in high school and I always vowed I'd never do it again. And then… It was actually junior high school. 
I don't know. I started now directing in 1970 with the idea that when I looked up on the screen and I didn't like what I saw, I would -- I could be -- stand behind the camera and not have to worry about suiting up, so to speak. 
I had optioned it from her and then I went off to Europe to make a picture and it was going longer and going way over schedule and so finally she said… She called me up, said that gee I got this offer to sell this thing to Universal and I said take it. 
No. It was a one-act play and I can't remember it for the life of me but it was supposed to be a comedy and it was funny, I'm afraid in all the wrong places. 
I had tried to purchases it, but it had already been bought by DreamWorks. And so it resided there for a year-and-a-half or a few years. 
No. I did… I wanted to be a director and in 1970 or 1969 I had the script, Universal had the script, I bought a script from a young lady that wrote it, a friend of mine and she had written a treatment, a 60 page treatment called Play Misty for Me and I went off to Europe and made a picture. 
And they said well, you know, we don’t think it’ll make any money because there’d been another woman boxing picture that hadn’t worked out too well though I thought it was a pretty good film 
And it’s one way if you ever get caught in this situation you might want to consider it. And in those days they had… I was on a picture where they had the old three-stripe Technicolor camera and it was a big thing in one place, didn’t move at all. 
But self-protection is a very important thing for nations and… But I just don’t like to see it… I was not a big fan of going to war and in Iraq or Afghanistan for several reasons, several practical reasons. 
A lot of people did direct. And some of them quite successfully and I think Raoul Walsh had acting experience before he came along and he turned out to be a really good director. 
And but the people you surround yourself with it’s very important and then the actors you cast are very important because they have to… You have to see something in them that makes them embody that character. 
Well, I turned from acting to directing 38 years ago so -- but my mentors go back -- well, even today, there are some wonderful directors around. 
And that was my dad’s influence because that was his deal. Growing up in the 30s, he always said don’t ask what you're going to get, you know, ask what you can give. 
And so I… Just through that I got story ideas and I called up Paul Haggis and I said, you know, I can't afford you Paul as a writer but I said do you have any students? 
Listening is a great art form as I always like to say. There used to be a program called the Hallmark Hall of Fame and they'd always say dedicated to the art of listening. 
When I did the Rawhide series in the 60s and late 50s we had a lot of wonderful directors, old time film directors that had not been doing that well so they would do television and our television show would come on. 
So it’s a great training ground. But then later on as the people of, you know, John Ford, William Wilder, people like that, they had a lot more power because they became stars themselves, you know. 
And so I looked up, I had Rob Lorenz research it, it took him two weeks to find it. We finally found a recording of it and that’s what we bought the record and just put it in. 
The crew was all Italian and Spanish. And I didn’t speak either one of those languages at the time other than buongiorno and arrivederci. 
So it was a bad time, but as kids my sister and I never really knew too much about it or thought too much about it because we were only seeing it from what we knew. 
But that I'd remember, you know, sometimes something will stick in your brain, you know, from a long time back and you kind of go eh, that’ll work perfect for this. 
And sometimes in the 40s and 30s they just give you the script and tell you who the actors were on Friday night and Monday morning you'd start in. 
He says you guys are pulling a damn… And the reason he said that is because he was downstairs in his basement watching High Plains Drifter on his… 
But he said she had a great eye for that story, a story. And so I said well bring her over and she came over and she gave me sort of an outline that she had worked up and it was really good based upon these little books that I had given him. 
Yes. I've done war movies but that doesn’t… Because they're always loaded with drama and conflict and all the things that make drama great. 
What have I learned? Well just because of the talent it probably encompasses everyone. A talented executive would be somebody who knows how to surround themselves with a lot of people that will make him look good. 
With Morgan Freeman and Gene Hackman I didn’t rehearse because they… I got halfway through a rehearsal on the first day and I saw that it was going so good I said we better shoot this just in case they couldn’t get it the second time. 
It's the people who are sent to a place to fight a terrible battle in very tough times with very little odds of winning at that particular time. 
They're either with you or against you and you have to be able to read that in other people’s faces to keep yourself from getting insecure. 
But it’s happy, the memory of the people. And the same thing with Million Dollar Baby you think back and enjoyed the company when they were at their peak and they were enjoying the thing and she was winning fights and he was the manager and they had a great life together. 
I just, what their feelings were, just kind of I got… She was very, very helpful, his wife. She brought their whole relationship to life, you know, by being a very expressive person. 
And they made a lot of small westerns with Audie Murphy and people like that. They had a bunch of nice starlets, Mamie Van Doren and people like that. 
Just to… Yeah, to learn what acting was all about in front of the camera. At that particular time I was just going to classes where you're up on stage like this and you'd go through different scenes that somebody would give you and you would say either do this as a cold reading or else memorize it and come back tomorrow and portray it. 
So I was thinking it was ’53 at that time, the year 1953, ’54. So I was thinking the other night I said that, you know, that’s 62, 63 years. 
No. No he had already been… He had been dead about a year before I came into it. So I went down and I met the family, I met his wife and his mother and father and brother and all the people who are involved. 
They were talking about having Beyoncé in it and she was very popular but she also is very active and is hard to get a time scheduled so we never could get that worked out. 
But you know then eventually as that scene indicates that he's getting… You can see it’s starting to tell on him and later on when he visits a psychiatrist and has to talk to him and the psychiatrist says did you do anything along the way over there that you maybe or you felt you shouldn’t have. 
So he did. He called me back and said he had a little Japanese girl, an American Japanese, though she didn’t speak Japanese at all. 
And so it was very confusing because when we were shooting up there I would say to the script supervisor I would tell her that, you know, this scene, we’re shooting this thing right now, this is for second picture. 
I said I don't know about going to the Philippines and there’s a lot of unknown factors maybe over there and I'd just gotten through building a house and everything and I thought no I don’t want to go away that long. 
But to me it seemed like if you knew Billy Wilder you knew he was kind of pushing… Double Indemnity was one of his pictures that I thought was great, too. 
No. They had a lot of things. You notice when you watch that it’s been changed lately, but… We changed it, but you couldn’t have blood that looked like blood. 
Well, they obviously felt they did. They felt that by a tremendous defense that they would discourage the Americans from maybe invading the mainland or going on to Okinawa, which happened. 
It's -- I think one good thing about -- as you mature, to put it nicely, I think you become much more tolerant and much more enjoyed and enjoyable. 
Well I think yeah, sometimes you can have overly dramatic music and I started writing music basically because I saw a lot of… I had a lot of composers come in and work for me and they always wanted to dramatize certain things and take it over the top sometimes and I didn’t want it over the top. 
I always tell people it takes just a little bit of skill and a heck of a lot of luck. So if you can get at the right place, I went in the 50s, all through the late 50s up till 1959 and ’60 I was just digging the swimming pools out in Encino and just working for a United Pool Company up in L.A and running down didn’t have cell phones so we ran down and slapped a nickel or a dime into the thing and call your agent and the agent would tell you get lost, kid. 
So you have to adjust everything. Directing is more like you're being a psychologist and you're kind of analyzing the situation and evaluating each person for their idiosyncrasies. 
Just because it starts out with Taps and then goes into a beautiful chorus. And I thought that would be a perfect memory for Chris Kyle. 
And I kind of liked him and he's a very personable guy and kind of old school. He reminded me a lot of Bill Wellman and some of those guys who is one of the only named directors I'd ever worked for and I'd done a small part for him in a picture and they were all kind of rough and tumble guys. 
No it isn't. In hindsight though my dad would have loved to have been an actor because he was kind of a ham, but it was during the depression years when I first grew up in the mid, early-30s, mid-30s, it was a bad time. 
Yes. Yes, it is. If you take -- I would recommend -- I would recommend that everybody wait quite a while before they get married because it gives you a chance to kind of find out where you are, what your thinking is. 
Yeah, even the current film, American Sniper has a bad ending which is just due to the fact that fate took it in a different direction so that the movie has to follow in the same direction. 
But, you know, you can imagine it’s all in your imagination anyway. If it ends happily and you're not feeling happy that day you film it anyway. 
I was enjoying it. Everything that you do is a challenge. And acting is just building up your concentration and being able to listen and to do the ridiculous. 
Well that was an interesting project because Steven had asked me to do Flags of Our Fathers and so I was having a meeting with him and we were talking about that war and that battle and I was going off into Iceland to film the beaches because Iceland has black sand much like Iwo Jima does. 
But it’s got a terrific drama. But they approached it as a woman boxing picture. And they didn’t want any part of that and I said well it’s not a woman’s boxing picture, that’s what goes on, that’s the vocation. 
And I thought my god, he's going for everything here. I better get it while it’s hot. So I got up and I left the room and my agent stayed there. 
Went with it and I wasn’t going to say anything because I didn’t want to impose our motives. I never thought anybody would see the film anyway. 
Yeah. The girls at Universal used to call me Coop because they thought I resembled Gary Cooper at that time who was kind of a big leading actor some of you might remember. 
And we did okay in the ratings so we… And we hung in there and then after a couple years somebody said would you like to go to Italy and make a Western and I said no, I don’t want to go anywhere. 
You know, I haven't really thought about it. I thought maybe 38 years ago, when I started directing, I thought maybe I'd hang it up and maybe I'd hang up the acting part of it. 
They could, but it… You know, there’s something about the first time an actor runs the material over his or her face you know when they kind of run it through their eyes and you see the thing and there was little imperfections in it and not every line is delivered perfectly, it doesn’t have that mechanical feeling. 
Just cast… The casting is the most important thing. Just cast the proper people for it and if you cast a picture really well a lot of things take care of themselves. 
I guess because I worked with it from the very scratch idea but I thought that Ken Watanabe and the crew we brought over, Japanese actors were splendid. 
I did. I worked at a Texaco station right next to General Service Studios on Santa Monica Boulevard and I managed an apartment house that I was living in to get the rent knocked down and that… And then going to classes at night and you know just… 
So everybody did and they put it into Italian then they put it into German then they put it into Spanish and they put it into English. 
I'd like to take the time off, we have a month off and then I read the script and I realized it was Yojimbo, which was my absolute favorite picture at that time. 
It later turned out to be John Kennedy’s thing, too you know. What you can do for the company. You can be the best employee in the company and what have you. 
Well that’s in the eyes of the beholder. Probably a lot… It depends on the individual watching. Yeah I probably have but I don’t dwell on it if I have. 
Yes, he plays the general. And the other -- the other actors were just auditioned and eventually, as far as what, you just kind of get the feel of it. 
No. I didn’t. After I got out of the service I went to world famous Los Angeles City College and like I came down here and I was going to Los Angeles City College and someone suggested I go to an acting class in the evening and I said I don’t know about that. 
and I remember it playing and he says I'm going to use this as the theme for The Good, the Bad and the Ugly and I said yea, that sounds great. 
Yes, I'm always -- I'm always surprised when you make a film and you live with it a while and you put it out, you never dream that anybody is ever going to want to really see it. 
I was a big fan of his work. I thought he was the -- he's the sort of logical, you know, he has a great face on the screen, a very great presence, much like Toshiro Mifune, who I admired very much. 
The easier it is the more you can bring yourself to it, the better it is. After a while you learn different techniques of making yourself relax and a lot of people have different techniques. 
I had seen some other films that he had done. I was a big fan of… He did one of the best B movies ever made, a thing called Invasion of the Body Snatchers. 
I talked about that for a while with Warner Brothers people and we’re still playing with that idea but the problem at the beginning I thought they were more infatuated with just the idea of the casting. 
But I guess my roots go back to John Ford and Howard Hawks and Preston Sturges and early American directors, though, ironically, one of my favorite directors was also Akira Kurosawa, who was indirectly responsible for my career, because my career started with the remaking of a Japanese Samurai film. 
I think it’s anti and it’s… It just depends on how you want to look at it. It’s probably… I think the whole picture and with him dying and everything it’s no good deed going unpunished. 
And you'd go back and go back to work. And then finally one day I started getting some parts and then I did a little film out at Fox called Ambush at Cimarron Pass. 
Cinematography and directing, anything that’s in the sets is a good platform for directing. Though writers sometimes do well because they interpret their own stuff. 
And I think that would be… You could say that about a politician or you could say that about a head of a major corporation or what have you. 
And he was just seeing the Italian technique. You know, the whole thing the crew was… And they were shooting, they didn’t care about sound, they put the sound in later so people would be playing Frisbees and everything else in the background. 
It was interesting because it was not much television. Still making movies. Universal was making real cheesy movies like Revenge of the Creature from the Black Lagoon . 
You know, he'd come in and himself he wore a Western hat when we were shooting and he always wore a cigar and he was always trying… I'd look and I'd be doing a scene and I'd look off camera and I'd see him sitting there and he's imitating me. 
Yeah I was about… I kept wanting to give up but you never quite give up. You always kind of hang in but then I just ran into… Lucky thing I ran… I was having tea with a lady who I knew who was an older woman who was a reader at CBS and we were standing there and this guy comes up to me in the hall and says what’s your name, boy, and then I said Clint Eastwood and he goes are you an actor? 
I said well you want to know what the part is? And he said yeah, yeah, I do. And he read it and he said okay, but if nobody’s doing the sheriff, he says I'll do the sheriff and I said well I've already got Gene Hackman for that. 
Lenny Hirshan, yeah. So I was down at the end of the hallway waiting and then he comes out and I said gee, that was easy I mean he went for everything. 
I don't know if I took naturally to it. I think acting -- everybody always had that debate of whether actors are born or whether they're made. 
So you get very critical. And then but finally somebody did offer me a contract and I was a contract player out there for a year and a half at $75 a week which actually, you would laugh about now maybe but you could live on that. 
In those days you could, as a GI, which I was in the service, you could wear your uniform and get a free flight on any other branch of the service. 
I mean the great recession that we had here a few years ago was nothing compared to this. There was no such thing as unemployment and all that sort of thing. 
We have a little problem with the Japanese and I said, what’s the problem? And they said well, we haven’t quite ironed out all the contracts yet but that’ll be done in a few days and it took two years. 
And I said I can't learn this in five minutes. There’s no way. So… But fortunately I just learned what the intent was, I came in and improvised the whole thing. 
I think it’s a lot of fun and I think I want to do it plus the fact the great Toshiro Mifune had done it before me and I thought what the hell. 
Every element of films or drama just be open to ideas and sometimes you get ideas as you're going and it’s great to be able to incorporate them because you're not glued into one thing. 
That would be a hard sell in this room. It would be a hard sell for me, I tell you. But that’s the way it was and that’s the mentality in those days. 
For instance in the dollar films that you showed earlier, A Fistful of Dollars and The Good, the Bad and the Ugly and those films, they were very operatic and the music was extremely stylized. 
We did it for I think by then it cost about 700,000 I think, but that was with overhead and everything else slapped in there from the studio. 
That’s a long time ago. What was going through my mind was just a stark fear, a stark terror because first place, I didn’t know anything about aviation at that particular time I was just hopping a ride. 
And then he went off and they used another theme that Marricone had written. But you know I thought gee, I wonder where that theme is. 
Iraq, I know was a different deal because there was a lot of intelligence that told us that bad things could happen there and we’re never sure how that ended up whether it was pro or con or no, I tend to err on the side of less is best. 
So… And because after the war, after World War II, there was not even any books or anything. It was not in any classroom discussions, it was frowned upon to talk about it. 
Well Warner Brothers I was quite surprised at because it was such a good story and a well-done script, but it does have a bit of a downer in it. 
So I read the rest of it and then I read the screenplay they had and had a few comments on that but I said yeah, by and large I'll do it so count me in. 
But anyway we did it and then finally I went to these acting classes there and I met some people and a cinematographer at Universal years ago named Irving Glassberg called me up and said who I'd met and he had… We talked about sports and swimming and all that kind of stuff. 
But you know there’s great interest because you want it to be right. The last film I did was a current film, American Sniper and… But actually I had my associate go over to, Rob Lorenz, I had him go over to Morocco and he checked that out for the architecture of the villages. 
A lot of people turned it down. I remember when I got to Rome to prepare to do the thing everybody was saying oh, stay away from that project, it’s been around for a long time and everything and I said well I don't care if it’s been around. 
I mean or one or the other. So… But the last one I did was Gran Torino a few years back. And for a while there during the 70s and the 80s I directed everything I was in for a while. 
And that was… It’s got to be 25 or 30 years ago but it was a great experience and I like LMU, I've had two children who have graduated from here and everybody always has a great positive feel and I hope you're all having great luck here yourselves and will be great filmmakers or voyeurs or appreciators. 
But you never know. A great role comes along and you have to grab it. But those don't come along as -- quite often enough for anybody, regardless of their age. 
I don’t think too much of it. I think it’s a product of the type of material you've been doing. Over my career I played some badass characters. 
It came out and spawned sequels and… But it was… It kind of got me away from the Western thing for a little while even though there’s gunplay and all that sort of thing. 
Sometimes people will sit and concentrate in the corner. I used to go talk to the camera. I'd sit… I'd go up and stand in front of the camera and I'd call it all kinds of names and say… 
Well it was good. Except I was back doing Rawhide in the States because we were doing another season of episodes and then all of the sudden there was a story in the Variety about how Westerns were finished in Europe. 
And the Japanese frowned upon the idea of filming on Iwo Jima because it’s considered a, you know, shrine because they lost so many people there. 
The one I love to watch and I love to watch people in this age group watch is Sunset Boulevard. Because I've shown it to my kids and they thought it was the damnedest thing they'd ever seen, you know. 
And sometimes I'd talked, I stand behind him and talk as we’re laying it out. If you were rehearsing I just sort of whispered to him as we'd be laying out the shots. 
Anyway, it was an interesting time but if you paid attention and visited a lot of sets, which I did, you start getting interested in film. 
And then so finally I was just about ready to make a deal somewhere else, though I had got turned down elsewhere as well and then they called… Alan Horn called up and says you know I can't let you go, said well you go ahead and make that. 
And another thing the script had that’s really interesting, the guy’s haunted by it, but he's still monogamously true to his wife who is deceased. 
Well, obviously, he was a likable man. I -- when you -- the book that I first read that called my attention to it was a book that he had written -- of letters that he had written home to his daughter or his son and his wife when he was an envoy in the United States in 1928 and -- through '30. 
And I thought yeah, it is an art to listening. And to listen and then to absorb things and be open minded about all the business aspects plus the artistic aspects and the casting aspects. 
And they were kind of dropping the whole program at that time and I was early in the game there so I went out and at that time T.V. 
And they all retired too early. Wilder did, Capra. I used to visit Capra, he lived up at Mona Lake up by that area in the June Lakes area and I used to visit him and he was just lucid as could be in his 70s and I thought what the hell? 
But then years later I went back to Universal, it was a different regime then but I went back to Universal and I went to Lew Wasserman who was the head of Universal at that time and I said you know that you have this story called Play Misty for Me that’s on the shelf nobody was making. 
But it’s funny when you read the script you thought that his part was going to be the lead because it starts out with him at the beginning and how they get in the predicament where they put this bounty out for these women who were mistreated. 
was starting to come in and a lot of TV series at that time just Highway Patrol and Men of West Point or Men of Annapolis, they had a couple of those. 
Or war movies and what have you because conflict is sort of the basis of drama. And I've played a lot of conflict characters or that enter into conflict so it’s kind of a natural thing for an actor. 
And so one thing led to another so when I went off to Iceland to do Flags of Our Fathers, I had with me another script called Letters from Iwo Jima. 
... land coming back. And, also, because it was a direct line it offered the Japanese defenders an opportunity to intercept bombers on their way to Tokyo, and also to the radar transmission. 
I was editing one while preparing another and I just thought, at the end I thought you know the worst thing that could happen now is somebody gives me a really great script. 
Yeah. It is interesting but I remember the first day or the first picture I directed I went to bed at night and started learning how I was going to do the scene and everything and then I'd turn out the light and then I'd realize I'd lay there and I'd say oh wait a second I'm acting in this too. 
