I am grateful and I am deeply moved.
It reminds me of the very first broadcast I made in 1940, helped by my sister. We as children spoke from here at Windsor to children who had been evacuated from their homes and sent away for their own safety.
My Government will drive economic growth to improve living standards and fund sustainable investment in public services.
They died so we could live as free people in a world of free nations. They risked all so our families and neighborhoods could be safe. 
This will be underpinned by a responsible approach to the public finances, reducing debt while reforming and cutting taxes.
But to be inspirational you don’t have to save lives or win medals. I often draw strength from meeting ordinary people doing extraordinary things: volunteers, carers, community organisers and good neighbours; unsung heroes whose quiet dedication makes them special.
My Government will continue to seize the opportunities of the United Kingdom’s departure from the European Union, to support economic growth.
The United Kingdom’s data protection regime will be reformed .
MY LORDS AND MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS
My Government will prioritise support for the Belfast  Agreement and its institutions, including through legislation to address the legacy of the past .
But I shall not have strength to carry out this resolution alone unless you join in it with me, as I now invite you to do: I know that your support will be unfailingly given.
That is the great privilege belonging to our place in the world-wide commonwealth - that there are homes ready to welcome us in every continent of the earth.
On our own, we cannot end wars or wipe out injustice, but the cumulative impact of thousands of small acts of goodness can be bigger than we imagine.
We know that these things are the price we cheerfully undertook to pay for the high honour of standing alone, seven years ago, in defence of the liberty of the world.
Today, once again, many will feel a painful sense of separation from their loved ones, but now as then, we know deep down that it is the right thing to do.
A bill will be brought forward to further strengthen powers to tackle illicit finance, reduce economic crime and help businesses grow .
All of you, near or far, have been united in one purpose. It is hard for me to find words in which to tell you of the strength which this knowledge has given me. 
I cannot do quite as they did.
My Government will introduce legislation to improve the regulation of social housing to strengthen the rights of tenants and ensure better quality, safer homes .
Many of this year’s winners spoke of being inspired by athletes of previous generations. Inspiration fed their aspiration; and having discovered abilities they scarcely knew they had, these athletes are now inspiring others.
Using the great advances of science and our instinctive compassion to heal, we will succeed, and that success will belong to every one of us.
New legislation will strengthen the United Kingdom’s financial services industry, ensuring that it continues to act in the interest of all people and communities .
My Ministers will take action to prevent dangerous and illegal Channel crossings and tackle the criminal gangs who profit from facilitating them.
Legislation will be introduced to modernise rail services and improve reliability for passengers .
Other measures will be laid before you.
Throughout this memorable day, I have been uplifted and sustained by the knowledge that your thoughts and prayers were with me. 
These started as small initiatives but have grown beyond any expectations, and continue to transform young people’s lives.
As I speak to you today from Cape Town I am six thousand miles from the country where I was born. But I am certainly not six thousand miles from home.
I hope in the years to come everyone will be able to take pride in how they responded to this challenge, and those who come after us will say the Britons of this generation were as strong as any, that the attributes of self-discipline, of quiet, good-humored resolve, and of fellow feeling still characterize this country.
In this resolve, I have my husband to support me. He shares all my ideals and all my affection for you. 
The moments when the United Kingdom has come together to applaud its care and essential workers will be remembered as an expression of our national spirit, and its symbol will be the rainbows drawn by children.
My Ministers will work closely with international partners to maintain a united NATO and address the most pressing global security challenges.
The war had been a total war. It had affected everyone and no one was immune from its impact. Whether it’d be the men and women called up to serve, families separated from each other or people asked to take on new roles and skills to support the war effort, all had a part to play. 
There is also this. I have behind me, not only the splendid and the annals of more than a thousand years, but the living strength and majesty of the commonwealth and empire, of societies, old and new, of lands and races different in history and origins, but all, by God’s will, united in spirit and in aim. 
I thank you all from a full heart. God bless you all. 
Everywhere I have travelled in these lovely lands of South Africa and Rhodesia my parents, my sister and I have been taken to the heart of their people and made to feel that we are just as much at home here as if we had lived among them all our lives.
The wartime generation knew that the best way to honor those who did not come back from the war was to ensure that he didn’t happen again. 
Though while we celebrated the victory in Europe, we knew there would be further sacrifice. It was not until August that fighting in the far east ceased and the war finally ended. 
Regulations on businesses will be repealed and reformed. A bill will enable law inherited from the European Union to be more easily amended .
I speak to you today the same hour as my father did exactly 75 years ago. His message then was a salute to the men and women at home and abroad, who have sacrificed so much in pursuit of what he rightly called a great deliverance. 
And when I look at our country today and see what we are willing to do to protect and support one another, I say with pride that we are still a nation, those brave soldiers, sailors, and airmen would recognize and admire. 
Jesus Christ lived obscurely for most of his life, and never travelled far. He was maligned and rejected by many, though he had done no wrong.
My Lords and members of the House of Commons.
Public sector procurement will be simplified to provide new opportunities for small businesses .
Legislation will be introduced to ensure the police have the powers to make the streets safer .
The planning system will be reformed to give residents more involvement in local development .
I should like to make that dedication now. It is very simple.
I have in sincerity pledged myself to your service, as so many of you are pledged to mine. Throughout all my life and with all my heart, I shall strive to be worthy of your trust. 
Before I am much older I hope I shall come to know many of them.
Across the Commonwealth and around the world, we have seen heartwarming stories of people coming together to help others, be it through delivering food parcels and medicines, checking on neighbors, or converting businesses to help the relief effort.
The greatest tribute to their sacrifice is that countries who were once sworn enemies are now friends working side by side for the peace, health, and prosperity of us all. 
My Government will improve transport across the United Kingdom, delivering safer, cleaner services and enabling more innovations.
My Ministers will bring forward an Energy Bill to deliver the transition to cheaper, cleaner, and more secure energy.
Now that we are coming to manhood and womanhood it is surely a great joy to us all to think that we shall be able to take some of the burden off the shoulders of our elders who have fought and worked and suffered to protect our childhood.
When I spoke to you last at Christmas, I asked you all, whatever your religion, to pray for me on the day of my coronation; to pray that God would give me wisdom and strength to carry out the promises that I should then be making. 
That was the message of VE Day. 
It gives expression, as I pray it always will, to living principles, as sacred to the crown and monarchy as to its many parliaments and peoples. 
Legislation will prevent public bodies engaging in boycotts that undermine community cohesion .
I send my warmest good wishes to you all. 
A few months ago, I saw inspiration of a different kind when I opened the new Cambridge base of the East Anglian Air Ambulance, where Prince William works as a helicopter pilot.
A Bill will be brought forward to drive local growth, empowering local leaders to regenerate their areas, and ensuring everyone can share in the United Kingdom’s success.
Parliamentary institutions with their free speech and respect for the rights of minorities and the inspiration of a broad tolerance in thought and its expression, all this we conceive to be a precious part of our way of life and outlook. 
I am sure that you will see our difficulties, in the light that I see them, as the great opportunity for you and me.
But the 67 medals at this year’s Games in Rio and 147 at the Paralympics meant that the GB medallists’ reception at Buckingham Palace was a crowded and happy event.
They are filled with the love and the care that we have for each other. 
My Ministers will continue to support the police to make the streets safer, and fund the National Health Service to reduce the COVID backlogs.
But in our time we may say that the British Empire has saved the world first, and has now to save itself after the battle is won.
MEMBERS OF THE HOUSE OF COMMONS
I’m sure the nation will join me in assuring you that what you do is appreciated, and every hour of your hard work brings us closer to a return to more normal times.
I have been aware all the time that my peoples, spread far and wide throughout every continent and ocean in the world, were united to support me in the task to which I have now been dedicated with such solemnity. 
Many of these organisations are modest in size but inspire me with the work they do.
And yet, billions of people now follow his teaching and find in him the guiding light for their lives.
In fact, the word ‘inspire’ literally means ‘to breathe in’. But even with the inspiration of others, it’s understandable that we sometimes think the world’s problems are so big that we can do little to help.
We will be with our families again. We will meet again. But for now, I send my thanks and warmest good wishes to you all.
During recent centuries this message has been sustained and invigorated by the immense contribution in language, literature, and action of the nations of our commonwealth overseas. 
I ask you now to cherish them and practice them too. Then we can go forward together in peace, seeking justice and freedom for all men. 
I also want to thank those of you who are staying at home, thereby helping to protect the vulnerable, and sparing many families the pain already felt by those who have lost loved ones.
There was a time when British Olympic medal winners became household names because there were so few of them.
From giving friendship and support to our veterans, the elderly or the bereaved; to championing music and dance; providing animal welfare; or protecting our fields and forests, their selfless devotion and generosity of spirit is an example to us all.
But through the inventions of science I can do what was not possible for any of them. I can make my solemn act of dedication with a whole Empire listening.
As I now reflect on my father’s words and the joyous celebrations some of us experienced firsthand, I’m thankful for the strength and courage that the United Kingdom, the Commonwealth, and all our allies displayed. 
Will you, the youth of the British family of nations, let me speak on my birthday as your representative?
To accomplish that we must give nothing less than the whole of ourselves. There is a motto which has been borne by many of my ancestors - a noble motto, "I serve".
At Christmas, our attention is drawn to the birth of a baby some two thousand years ago. It was the humblest of beginnings, and his parents, Joseph and Mary, did not think they were important.
We should take comfort that while we may have more still to endure, better days will return. We will be with our friends again.
Although there is none of my father's subjects from the oldest to the youngest whom I do not wish to greet, I am thinking especially today of all the young men and women who were born about the same time as myself and have grown up like me in terrible and glorious years of the second world war.
My Government will continue to champion international trade, delivering jobs across the country and growing the economy.
I wish you all a very happy Christmas.
My Ministers will support the Bank of England to return inflation to its target.
To mark my 90th birthday, volunteers and supporters of the six hundred charities of which I have been patron came to a lunch in the Mall.
Most of you have read in the history books the proud saying of William Pitt that England had saved herself by her exertions and would save Europe by her example.
My Government will protect the integrity of the United Kingdom’s borders and ensure the safety of its people.
In this year of my Platinum Jubilee, I look forward to the celebrations taking place across the United Kingdom and throughout the Commonwealth, and to the Commonwealth Games in Birmingham this summer.
She once said: ‘Not all of us can do great things. But we can do small things with great love’.
Reforms to education will help every child fulfil their potential wherever they live, raising standards and improving the quality of schools and higher education .
My Government will level up opportunity in all parts of the country and support more people into work.
Many people laid down their lives in that terrible conflict. They fought so we could live in peace at home and abroad. 
They are an inspiration to those who know them, and their lives frequently embody a truth expressed by Mother Teresa, from this year Saint Teresa of Calcutta.
This has been the experience of two remarkable organisations, the Duke of Edinburgh’s Award and the Prince’s Trust, which are 60 and 40 years old this year.
The sense of joy in the crowds who gathered outside and across the country was profound. 
Therefore, I am sure that this, my coronation, is not the symbol of a par and a splendor that are gone, but a declaration of our hopes for the future and for the years I may, by God’s grace and mercy, be given to reign and serve you as your queen. 
I’m speaking to you at what I know is an increasingly challenging time, a time of disruption in the life of our country, a disruption that has brought grief to some, financial difficulties to many, and enormous changes to the daily lives of us all.
Let me begin by saying 'thank you' to all the thousands of kind people who have sent me messages of good will.
Measures will be introduced to support the security services and help them protect the United Kingdom .
My Government will ensure the constitution is defended. My Ministers will restore the balance of power between the legislature and the courts by introducing a Bill of Rights .
Throughout the Commonwealth there were equally joyful celebrations. Grenada, the Bahamas, Jamaica and New Zealand won more medals per head of population than any other countries.
God help me to make good my vow, and God bless all of you who are willing to share in it.
Many thousands of you came to London from all parts of the Commonwealth and empire to join in the ceremony, but I have been conscious too of the millions of others who have shared in it by means of wireless or television in their homes. 
We must not be daunted by the anxieties and hardships that the war has left behind for every nation of our commonwealth.
On my twenty-first birthday I welcome the opportunity to speak to all the peoples of the British Commonwealth and Empire, wherever they live, whatever race they come from, and whatever language they speak.
The pride in who we are is not a part of our past, it defines our present and our future.
My Government will lead the way in championing security around the world. It will continue to invest in our gallant Armed Forces.
I think that is an even finer thing than was done in the days of Pitt; and it is for us, who have grown up in these years of danger and glory, to see that it is accomplished in the long years of peace that we all hope stretch ahead.
This will build on the success of the COP26 Summit in Glasgow last year . Draft legislation to promote competition, strengthen consumer rights and protect households and businesses will be published.
I have been speaking of the vast regions and varied peoples to whom I owe my duty, but there has also sprung from our island home a theme of social and political thought, which constitutes our message to the world and through the changing generations has found acceptance, both within and far beyond my realms. 
As this day draws to its close, I know that my abiding memory of it will be not only the solemnity and beauty of the ceremony, but the inspiration of your loyalty and affection. 
The message of Christmas reminds us that inspiration is a gift to be given as well as received, and that love begins small but always grows.
My Ministers will publish draft legislation to reform the Mental Health Act .
Legislation will be introduced to enable the implementation of the United Kingdom’s first new Free Trade Agreements since leaving the European Union .
I vividly remember the jubilance scenes my sister and I witnessed with our parents and Winston Churchill from the balcony of Buckingham Palace. 
At such a time it is a great help to know that there are multitudes of friends all round the world who are thinking of me and who wish me well.
Estimates for the public services will be laid before you.
Then, although my experience is so short and my task so new, I have in my parents and grandparents an example which I can follow with certainty and with confidence. 
The ceremonies you have seen today are ancient and some of the origins are veiled in the mists of the past, but the spirit and their meaning shine through the ages, never perhaps more brightly than now. 
My Government’s priority is to grow and strengthen the economy and help ease the cost of living for families.
I want to thank everyone on the NHS frontline, as well as care workers and those carrying out essential roles who selflessly continue their day-to-day duties outside the home in support of us all.
When people face a challenge they sometimes talk about taking a deep breath to find courage or strength.
Today, it may seem hard that we cannot mock the special anniversary as we would wish. Instead, we remember from our homes and our doorsteps, but our streets are not empty. 
The continued success and integrity of the whole of the United Kingdom is of paramount importance to my Government, including the internal economic bonds between all of its parts.
At the start, the outlook seemed bleak, the end distant, the outcome uncertain, but we kept faith that the cause was right. 
Those words were an inspiration to many bygone heirs to the Throne when they made their knightly dedication as they came to manhood.
And though self-isolating may at times be hard, many people of all faiths and of none are discovering that it presents an opportunity to slow down, pause and reflect in prayer or meditation.
My Government will establish the UK Infrastructure Bank in legislation, with objectives to support economic growth and the delivery of net zero .
My Ministers will encourage agricultural and scientific innovation at home. Legislation will unlock the potential of new technologies to promote sustainable and efficient farming and food production .
We should and will remember them. 
Measures will also be published to create new competition rules for digital markets and the largest digital firms .
I declare before you all that my whole life whether it be long or short shall be devoted to your service and the service of our great imperial family to which we all belong.
This is a happy day for me; but it is also one that brings serious thoughts, thoughts of life looming ahead with all its challenges and with all its opportunity.
In these challenging times, my Government will play a leading role in defending democracy and freedom across the world, including continuing to support the people of Ukraine.
And this belief as my father noted in his broadcast carried us through. Never give up. Never despair. 
I pray that the blessing of Almighty God may rest upon your counsels.
While we have faced challenges before, this one is different. This time we join with all nations across the globe in a common endeavor.
Together we are tackling this disease, and I want to reassure you that if we remain united and resolute, then we will overcome it.
If we all go forward together with an unwavering faith, a high courage, and a quiet heart, we shall be able to make of this ancient commonwealth, which we all love so dearly, an even grander thing - more free, more prosperous, more happy and a more powerful influence for good in the world - than it has been in the greatest days of our forefathers.
It was not hard to be moved by the dedication of the highly skilled doctors, paramedics and crew, who are called out on average five times a day.
Legislation will also be introduced to ban conversion therapy . Proposals will be published to establish an independent regulator of English football.
I am one of them because Christ’s example helps me see the value of doing small things with great love, whoever does them and whatever they themselves believe.
Let us say with Rupert Brooke: "Now God be thanked who has matched us with this hour".
