I don’t know. He may or may not come back. But the point is that Twitter should be a town square that gives equal voice to the whole country. 
Oh, do we still say state media, whatever. It says government funded media currently as opposed to publicly funded media. 
So we used to have three data centers. We shut down one of them. So we actually have roughly two-thirds of the prior compute capability. 
I already have. I keep telling you, I’m not the CEO of Twitter. My dog is the CEO of Twitter. 
I mean, there have been a few outages, but not for very long. It’s currently working fine. 
But we’ve made so many improvements to the core element. In some cases we improved the core algorithm by 80%. 
No, not really. And I actually didn’t even have a burner account. I do have a second account at this point because I need to test the app before it goes out so it’s like a beta test account. 
Yeah, I mean, if the media’s writing nonstop stories about why you’re a horrible person, it’s hurtful, obviously. 
I mean, ChatGPT is essentially a zillion instances of ChatGPT. How would you even know? 
I mean people were given three months of severance, in some cases more. But like I said, the companies need to be run on their own cognizance, and it’s not so easy for me to sell stock as you might think. 
At this point I think we’ve got a pretty good handle on what makes Twitter work. And we’re also doing it with two data centers instead of three. 
You literally said you experienced more hateful content, and then couldn’t name a single example. 
During this transition period, we want to be, just like I said, extra vigilant against impersonation. 
What was… Hindsight’s 2020, so a bunch of decisions that could have been made better for sure. But as I said, alls well that ends well. 
Yeah. But you are sort of saying who knows best, the average citizen or someone who is a journalist? 
So for example, you cannot advocate murdering someone. That’s illegal in the United States, everywhere really, I suspect. 
Yeah. So our goal is simply to be as truthful and accurate as possible. So I think we’re adjusting the label to be “publicly funded” which I think is perhaps not too objectionable? 
Well, Covid is no longer an issue. Does the BBC hold itself at all responsible for misinformation regarding masking and side effects of vaccinations, and not reporting on that at all? 
Yes. Well, they’re probably the same people who predicted that Twitter would cease to exist and their predictions have turned out to be false. 
Yeah. So the point I’m trying to make is that BBC itself has at times published things that are false. 
And the best interpretation is there is someone who doesn’t really understand what’s going on in the industry, has only a few facts to play with, has to come up with an article. 
People will say all sorts of nonsense. I’m literally asking for a single example and you can’t name one. 
I mean it was really kind of like a non-profit, they’d run it and roughly break even. 
If we bore people or it’s like somehow uninteresting, then they will leave. Yeah. 
But then the issue is that if you then add $1.5 billion in debt servicing and have a massive drop in revenue, which we did, which was partly cyclic and partly political concerns or whatever. 
I sold a lot of Tesla stock to close this deal. I did not want to sell the Tesla stock. 
… be very skeptically, any organization that claims to be completely truthful, because they’re not and so that very claim is false. 
And I think in a lot of cases, it is the average citizen that knows more than the journalist. In fact, very often when I see an article about something that I know a lot about, and I read the article, and it’s like they get a lot wrong. 
Well, I generally… I’m often seen in that view, if the people in a given country are against a certain type of speech, they should talk to their elected representatives and pass a law to prevent it. 
I think if we keep people entertained then they’re going to, yeah. If we’re entertaining and informing people, then they’re going to stay on the platform obviously. 
And that seems like, “Okay, well, we don’t want to have regretted time. We want the time to be unregretted, where you learned things, you were entertained, amused.” Frankly, I get more laughs out of Twitter than anything else, and many people tell me the same thing, so that’s a good sign. 
We’re not talking midnight stuff. Literally mid-morning driving into Twitter, it looks insane. So people can just come here and see it with their own eyes, it’s next level. 
Yeah, the censorship bureau was let go. I don’t think the sort of putting a thumb on the political scales on the far left has been let go because that’s not right. 
And we also have given a lot of attention to community notes, which corrects, with community itself, corrects misinformation. 
Although I sometimes forget what the BBC stands for. What is it? Just kidding. 
But much more important than a house. And yet there is no property record whatsoever. There is no picture of this mine whatsoever. 
Yes, because you can’t give me a single example of hateful content, not even one tweet. And yet you claimed that the hateful content was high. 
Well, COVID is no longer an issue. Does the BBC hold itself at all responsible for misinformation regarding masking and side effects of vaccinations and not reporting on that at all? 
And what about the fact that the BBC was put under pressure by the British government to change its editorial policy? 
You  anything, it looks pretty real, including the voice. That can get the voice matched and the video matched. 
But Twitter effectively acted as a megaphone for very niche regional politics and megaphoned that to the world. 
Okay, then you must have at some point seen a before you hateful content. I’m asking for one example. 
Yeah, that’s true. Look, this whole thing only came together in a matter of hours. So… 
It’s not like you can say, “Oh, that’s my mine.” These things are hotly debated. If you’ve got something valuable, you have to have some property record, like a house. 
That’s part of the problem. So I think we’ve got less misinformation because we don’t have one problem that we used to do. 
Well, shutting down one of our service centers was quite difficult because it turns out there were, I thought the service centers were redundant, but there were in fact a lot of things that were hard coded to this one server center. 
If you’re under constant criticism and attack and then that gets fed to you nonstop, including through Twitter, that is rough. 
Yeah. So I’m saying who is to say that one person’s misinformation is another person’s information? 
Well, who’s to say that something is misinformation? Who is the arbiter of that? Is it the BBC? 
Yeah, during this kind of transition period, we’re extra vigilant about impersonation. So I agree that over time if somebody has a trusted track record, they should be able to change their name and profile picture without losing the blue check. 
I actually don’t know of anyone who said definitively they’re not coming back, but they’re all sort of trending towards coming back. 
That’s our goal. The least inaccurate. And I think we might be there already. 
No, look, I said I would appoint a new CEO and I did, and it’s my dog. I don’t know what people have against dogs? 
It’s very entertaining. I was thinking Twitter does make me miserable at times, but it actually makes me laugh as well. 
So that’s why I think basically any social media that does not require paid verification will basically cease to be relevant. 
Yeah, literally. It’s like people think maybe you’re exaggerating. I’m like, no, you can just definitely come here any day of the week, including 10 in the morning or 2 in the afternoon. 
And if your compensation’s tied to user growth, well, you’re not going to look too closely at some of the users. 
And I think if it’s entertaining and informative, then we’re doing a good job. 
Yeah. Look, if Disney feels comfortable advertising their children’s movies and Apple feels comfortable advertising iPhones, those are good indicators that Twitter is a good place to advertise. 
We tried to turn into a homeless shelter but building management group, well, the owner rejected it. 
And you just said that if something is slightly sexist, that’s hateful content. Does that mean that it should be banned? 
No, in following, you should see all the tweets of people that you follow. If not, there’s a bug in the system. 
I don’t really use TikTok. I mean, one of the reasons that I emphasize that our goal here at Twitter is to maximize unregretted user minutes or unregretted user time is that I hear many people tell me they spent a lot of time on TikTok, but they regret the time spent. 
It’s against their will and you’re following them around, then yeah, that would be doxing. 
Look, people will say all sorts of nonsense. I’m literally asking for a single example, and you can’t name one. 
Well, the people couldn’t parse the difference between I’m selling Tesla stock because I’ve lost faith in Tesla – which I haven’t. 
But yeah, there’s really some amazing AI generator clothing. It’s really cool. And I really love that one with the Pope and that went viral. 
All right, sounds good. Well, good talking guys. I’ll head back to work and thanks for all your feedback. 
Okay. Well, I’m just trying to see if there’s like any good… There’s a lot of comments here. 
It’s really getting to the point where it’ll be quite easy to generate extremely realistic fake videos, images and so forth and voice. 
The AI fashion is incredible. So can we just print that somehow or make it, because it’s amazing. 
So I thought this might be a good opportunity to answer some questions, and I guess maybe get some feedback too. 
If they’re referencing an article, then the article may not be wrong, which they’re still… Community Notes is not going to be perfect. 
But look, the acid test is, people will use the system and find it to be a good source of truth or they don’t. 
Well, I think the media is the driver of misinformation much more than the media would like to admit that they are. 
First of all, do you think something like an emerald mine would have some sort of property register, there’d be like a picture of it? 
Yeah. No, no. The problem was that the publicly stated user numbers were in excess of the real user numbers. 
Let’s unmute Jason and David as well and us. Definitely Walter Isaacson if he does want to speak. 
Then you must have at some point seen the For You hateful content. I’m asking for one example. 
Oh, that’s the guy who I guess was accused of election interference or something, - 
And so when we shut it down and we actually, it was quite catastrophic. We lost a lot of functionality, which sort of really rushed to put it back. 
Well, many of these people have predicted that Twitter will cease to function. Their predictions have not turned out to be true. 
Yeah, I mean, look, I’m been under constant attack. I mean, it’s not like I have a stone-cold heart or something like that. 
But we’re going to treat everyone equally, so what we’re not going to do is say that there’s some anointed class of journalists who are the special ones, who get to tell everyone what they should think, that it should be up to the people what they think. 
We’re roughly breakeven, I think we’re trending towards being cash flow positive very soon, literally in a matter of months. 
I actually think there’s less these days because we’ve eliminated so many of the bots which were pushing scams and spam. 
Well that’s partly why it was a $3 billion loan rate. So in rough numbers, a normal year of Twitter would do, let’s say $4.5 billion in revenue and $4.5 billion in cost. 
Honestly, the best advertising that Balenciaga has ever gotten in their entire  which the Harry Potter Balenciaga demon Flying Fox one was genius. 
They say less than 5% of what’s in the warehouse is broken. Then you walk into warehouse and say, “Actually it’s 25%.” So you might still want to buy what’s in that warehouse, but probably at a lower price. 
Sounds good. Well, this has really given me a long list of future improvements that we need for spaces. 
That’s not what you want for a public square. You’ve got to have equal treatment for people from across the political spectrum. 
The Community Note may be referring to a thing where I went on a trip with my father to Zambia, but I never saw any mine or anything. 
We’re like chewing on cyanide before being bought.” That was their initial response. 
I think it’s gone pretty well. So the grand scheme of things, I can’t complain. 
Yeah. I mean, Tesla’s got activities around the world and so does SpaceX. Once in a while those things do come into conflict, but it’s not like Twitter operates in China. 
We’re seeing some all-time highs in terms of total user time. So we passed 8 billion user minutes per day, which is a lot of user minutes. 
Well, it seems like everyone and their dog is buying GPUs at this point. It’s kind of getting to the point where you’re going to have to buy GPUs in a back alley. 
It’s an immediate source of truth that you can count on and that gets more accurate with time as people comment on a particular thing. 
Yeah. A good friend of mine actually had a good suggestion and it has helped, which is that if you’re going to tweet something that maybe it’s controversial, save it as a draft and look at it the next day and you see if you still want to tweet it. 
Well, I take it back. It depends on who. I suppose if I was confident that they would rigorously pursue the truth, then I guess I would be glad to hand it off to someone else. 
There’s so many. So anyway, it’s nice to be interviewed by the BBC. I have a lot of respect for the British Broadcasting Corporation. 
I mean it really is quite entertaining. I mean it’s like a soap opera. Because when I first made the offer, the response was like the board of Dr. 
Not all, but most. You can see it for yourself on Twitter, even in the For You feed. 
Yes, very expensive office building, great decor. It’s a lovely place and definitely is spending money like it’s going out of fashion. 
I think almost all of them have either come back or said they’re going to come back. There are very few exceptions. 
No, it is somewhat of a love-hate relationship, although it might be tilted a bit more towards the hate. 
It doesn’t. Twitter is banned in China. So certainly, I’ve received no communication whatsoever from the Chinese government with regard to Twitter. 
So if somebody’s paying on the order of $8 a month, that’s $100 a year, and they also need to get a credit card and a phone number from a reputable carrier. 
I must confess to some delight in removing the verified batch from the New York Times. That was great. 
So there’s a no doxing rule. It was unevenly enforced. In fact, in general, part of the issue with the prior management of Twitter is they have all these rules, but they’d only enforce them against some people and not against others. 
But I think it’s better that we have a situation where the media can say mean things to powerful people. 
Well he has stairway a few times on the stairwell, so that’s quite believable in that situation. So a bunch of things very close to the truth, it’s quite reasonable to expect that people would interpret that as possibly true. 
Yeah, at a certain point we need to move on from the Twitter files, but I think there’s a few things left, but generally I think there’s not a lot that I’m aware of that’s left. 
Well, then that’s up to them if they… Can’t make them pay, it’s a small amount of money, so I don’t know what their problem is. 
Maybe if this is something that people on the Twitter want to say. We could ask them. 
Content you don’t like or hateful? What do you mean? Describe a hateful thing? 
I’m not asking you for a yes or no, since you’re not running BBC per se. It probably seems to pass a reasonable test. 
So it’s hard to actually see. I definitely see some room for improvement from a functionality standpoint because when you have a really big spaces, it’s actually hard to even see who’s requesting to speak because there’s so many. 
Anyway, I hope people have a good time on Twitter and learn things. And like I said, the acid test is under regretted user time, and if under regretted user time is growing, then we’re doing the right thing. 
I mean, depending on how things go, if current trends continue, I think we could be profitable, or to be more precise, we could be cashflow positive this quarter if things keep going well. 
What we’re really trying to do here with verification is to massively raise the cost of disinformation and bots in general. 
But even if it would help Twitter, I would be generally against banning of things. 
And even if an article is completely accurate and comprehensive and everything, they’re still, in writing that article, the media is choosing the narrative. 
Yeah, so here at Twitter we’re going to be very focused on figuring out what’s real, and if it’s not real, then trying to address it. 
Yeah, like I said, my opinion is that any social media organization that does not insist on paid verification will be worthless because at this point, take Instagram for example, you can generate an infinite number of thirst pics using Midjourney and for very little. 
I know. Well, I suppose I have seen a few things where there’s people doing interviews with the Twitter sign in the background, and I guess that’s more interesting than just being in a studio or something. 
And then they said, “No, you must buy us, gun to the head. You have to buy us.” I’m like, “Are you the same people who said you’d rather die than be bought?” 
So it’s possible that some fashion house made a really epic coat for the Pope. But that was obviously AI generated. 
Now, at the end of the day, I kind of think that if you do lose your feedback loop, that’s actually not good. 
It’s been quite difficult. I’d say the pain level of Twitter has been extremely high. This hasn’t been some sort of party, so it’s been really quite a stressful situation for the last several months. 
I think we’re around 1,500 people at this point. And there was I think 7,800. 
I’m scrolling as fast as I can to sort of see, I guess there’s some complaints about Twitter Spaces needing some improvement. 
So there’s certainly a lot of people buying GPUs. Twitter and Tesla are certainly buying GPUs and we’re also working on Dojo. 
People generally seem to this interview far as I can tell. Very few negative comments, so generally positive. 
You said you’ve seen more hateful content, but you can’t name a single example, not even one. 
I don’t see you listed as a speaker but perhaps you will be. We’ll have to make sure that both mics are on at the same time though. 
Yes. Because you can’t give a single example of hateful content. Not even one tweet. 
But I think that this is sort of part and parcel of having a free media situation, which is that I do take part, in that the media is actually able to trash me on a regular basis in the United States and the UK and whatnot, whereas in a lot of other places, media cannot say mean things to powerful people. 
The advertisers are returning. I think the quality of recommended tweets has improved significantly, and we’ve taken a lot of feedback from people that have looked at the open source recommendation algorithm, and we’ve made a lot of improvements even since that was made open source and we’re going to keep doing that. 
Yeah. Really something needs to be done about the crime situation in San Francisco. It’s really . 
No. In fact, the algorithm is open sourced so you can see exactly what’s going on. 
Do you see a rise in hate speech? Just your personal anecdote, do you? I don’t. 
And I hope that’s our aspiration with Twitter, is to have a source of truth that you can count on. But it’s also real time. 
I think were there many mistakes made along the way? Of course, but all’s well that ends well. And so I feel like we’re headed to a good place. 
I don’t know about that, what exactly happened with some content situation in India. The rules in India for what can appear on social media are quite strict, and we can’t go beyond the laws of a country. 
So this is not a caring / uncaring situation. It’s like if the whole ship sinks then nobody’s got a job. 
Let’s see, how do we see, okay. Let me see who… I’ll just look at my tweet and see what people are saying or what questions they have. 
Nope. Well, let’s see. Any key points anyone wants to make, otherwise, I’ll sign off in a few minutes. 
So then it’s much harder to create a million bots, whereas if you don’t require those things, it’s trivial, frankly, to create a million bots and they’ll all seem very human and will take very little computing effort to do so. 
It’s totally troll heaving on Twitter. And the thing is, I even get trolled and I’m like, God, why did I get trolled again? 
No- I think criminal is over the top there. I would agree with that that they went too far. If that’s the standard for throwing someone in prison, then there should be a lot of people in prison. 
So I think it is actually important to get negative feedback. I don’t turn replies off, and I actually got rid of… I removed my entire block list, so I don’t block anyone either. 
Yeah, that’s a good goal. But we’re definitely not going to assert that everything you see on Twitter is true because it isn’t. 
Okay. So that would be accurate. If we use the same words that the BBC uses to describe itself, that presumably would be okay. 
Yes, that was literally the issue. It’s like, let’s say you buy a warehouse full of goods and you were told that less than 5% of the goods in the warehouse are broken. 
And at this point, modern AI can pass any human verification test. So the only solution that I can think of is to increase the cost of fake accounts. 
Well, I think those are two good rules. Yeah, don’t tweet if you’re wasted or really upset about something. 
I don’t care about the money, really, but I do want to have some source of truth that I can count on. 
But then you actually get the warehouse, you look into the warehouse and turns out actually 25% of the things are broken. 
Oh, hey Walter. Let’s invite Walter to speak. He may not wish to speak, but we can at least invite him. 
And previously, previous management turned a blind eye to the bot because their bonuses were tied to user growth. 
Do you have any requests on a personal level or you can’t speak on a personal level? 
Yes. Even if you aspire to be accurate, there are times where you will not be. 
There’s like a lot of comments. Let’s see. I’m just literally looking at replies to the fact that I just . 
Not an easy one, but apart from the pain… So it’s been quite painful, but I think at the end the day it should have been done. 
You literally said you experienced more hateful content and then couldn’t name a single example. 
Well, I think in the tweet, in the post, I think it would be advisable to say that this is not real if it is something that can be potentially misinterpreted. 
I don’t know. I like spontaneity. And there’s a lot going on and it seems like… I actually do have a lot of respect for the BBC. 
And ideally the whole world. It should not be a partisan politics. And the partisan politics that are the very far left of the spectrum – San Francisco, Berkeley politics -normally is quite niche. 
Let’s fix Twitter Spaces is one of the comments. People like the fact that my dog Floki is the CEO. 
So I think it’s important to reflect on what mistakes we’re making and try to make fewer of them in the future. 
Well, I’m just curious. I’m trying to understand what you mean by hateful content. And I’m asking for specific examples, and you just said that if something is slightly sexist, that’s hateful content, does that mean that it should be banned? 
Well, I don’t think it’s necessarily a giant revenue stream. Even if you have a million people that are subscribed for, let’s say, a hundred dollars a year ish, that’s a hundred million dollars, and that’s a fairly small revenue stream relative to advertising. 
For TikTok itself, like I said, I just don’t know enough about what’s going on there. I can’t say I have a strong opinion on TikTok. 
Like I said, my goal is to create X the everything app. That’s the goal. It’s what we’re working towards. 
I wouldn’t say “uncaring.” The issue is, the company’s either going to go bankrupt if we do not cut costs immediately. 
Yeah, if you want the realtime news, this is the best place is Twitter. And like I said, any given source of information is going to have some degree of inaccuracy, and we can just aspire to make that as small as possible and iterate towards being closer to the truth over time. 
Look, it’s recorded. So it’s not like we don’t have to engage in guess work here, it’s recorded. 
I’m generally against banning things, so I’d probably not be in favor. I mean, it would help Twitter, I suppose, if TikTok was banned, because then people would spend more time on Twitter and less time on TikTok. 
No, I understand. You’ve got four months to live, 120 days. In 120 days you’re dead. 
Poison Pill. So they were like, “Hell no, you can’t buy Twitter. We’d rather die. 
And no system is going to be perfect in its pursuit of the truth. But I think we can be the best, the least inaccurate. 
I saw a fake Joe Rogan interview and it really sounded like Joe Rogan’s voice. I sent it to Joe and he was like, “Whoa, this is crazy.” So yeah, I think verification is going to be extremely fundamental in the future. 
No. Look, if we have a choice of either our people go to prison or we comply with the laws, we’ll comply with the laws. 
I’m just curious. I’m trying to understand what you mean by “hateful content.” And I’m asking for specific examples. 
You said you’ve seen more hateful content, but you can’t name a single example. Not even one. 
A lot of people thought that the Pope actually had that outfit, which is not totally out of the question because there’s a lot of amazing fashion in Italy. 
So I think there’s a lot of potential there with Dojo that people don’t realize. 
Well not at that price. I think the analogy is pretty close. Let’s say there’s a warehouse full of goods. 
So let’s see. David or Jason, I don’t know if you guys can speak, you’re welcome to if you’d like. 
So my prediction is that any social media company that does not insist on paid verification will simply be overwhelmed by advanced AI bots. 
We’re only using one of the buildings and so the other building could be a homeless shelter. 
Yeah, but I have to say I was wrong. He was wrong, I guess, because I was acquitted by the San Francisco jury unanimously. 
That has been a good rule of thumb. So I’ve got a bunch of things in my folder that I’m glad I didn’t say. 
Yeah. Following is literally the thing they say when they say it. There shouldn’t be any algorithm interaction there. 
I’m not here five days a week. But there’s a library that nobody goes to on the seventh floor and there’s a couch there. 
So yeah, I think just verification that an account is real, that material is real. What is real anymore is an extremely fundamental question. 
What should we be doing different? I know the BBC, for example, is not thrilled about being labeled state-affiliated media. 
Well, it’s not been boring. It’s been quite a rollercoaster. Things are going, I think reasonably well. 
