There's things you can do with your hands, it's really cool, it's different. I think it's better. 
Then whatever I say gets out there in the wrong context or just pieces of it you know. So it kind of got switch at the last minute for them to come to Detroit. 
One of the things we were trying to mimic was Public Enemy’s “You’re Gonna Get Yours” cover. I don’t know if anybody got that, but that’s kind of the feel that we were going for. 
It was one of those things that…stepping away from it now, I think I realized that what people probably have gotten accustomed to is me taking some risks, and I think that Revival was probably just too tame of an album or too…I guess tame. 
Oh, I was for sure on drugs when we met. 
That was an old class. Without them a lot of us wouldn’t be here. So that’s all I have to say now.
Being as that you’re the biggest thing to come out of Detroit in recent years. How are you doing? 
With every song, all the elements have to work. First, the beat has to be great—you start there. You start with the music, and then the ideas follow. 
Dre said, “You’ve gotta build your house before you can let your friends come in,” and it made so much sense to me. 
I mean some stuff, yeah. But for the most part I just felt like it might be fun to just revisit that, the overall vibe of that album. 
Yeah, as soon as I heard the words to the chorus... I got this beat, this beat was sent to me and had those words on it. 
For sure. There are ups and downs. I haven’t had a perfect career. 
Because a lot of ideas in the beginning stages, not mine of course, mine are just insane from the moment I think of them- but sometimes ideas are not always the greatest. 
It was, but it wasn't, in the sense of-- I had to record a lot of songs for it because I felt like if I'm going to call it that, I want it to make sense. 
It's kinda like saying, if you're going to go down this road, then you're going to call it this, and this is going to be the title, and this is all of these things coming back on me. 
Sometimes it doesn't come until the middle/towards the end of a record to figure out where I'm actually going with that... 
It's grown up and down. I mean some of the themes and topics and things like that are revisited on this album, but at the same time I feel like its kind of a 2013 version. 
Cypress Hill, D-Nice, Dana Dane, De La Soul. Nah, I’m only playing with you. De La Soul.
Thank you. Yeah. Thanks I appreciate that. 
I hadn’t seen anybody do that kind of thing to me since Mick Jagger in the early days. Not only are you a great studio artist but you also go out on one of the few rap/hip-hop people that go out and actually do shows. 
Um, Yeah the other night I don't think we did the whole song. We did kind of a Deadly Medley. 
Now I’m down to the S’s.
Then we had a conversation a few days later, and he was like, “Do you think it needs a bridge?” And I was like, “I knew you were going to say that.” 
It’s never been my thing to be in the spotlight all the time. 
How does that feel? 
Super Legacy and Casanova One, The DOC, the Roots, Black Thought, The Skinny Boys, Tony D, Too Short, Treach and Naughty by Nature, Tribe Called Quest, UTFO, Udini, Wise Intelligent and the Poor Righteous Teachers, Wu-Tang Clan and Wiki.
Each song I record has to get better. If it’s not better than the last song that I made, it’ll usually linger for a couple of months, and then it’ll be put on the backburner, and then there’ll be another song that I do, and then it often doesn’t make it on the album. 
We’re not trying to disrespect the military, we’re not trying to disrespect the flag, we’re not trying to disrespect our country. 
But with this one I feel like I kinda got an earlier idea for a concept. 
And this is a list, man. I put this list together yesterday, and I kept adding to the shit, adding to the shit, and if I forget anybody, I apologize, but these were my teachers right here.
I’ve tried to make a little something for everyone. 
Absolutely—because, like I said, he usually ends up being right. When I played him “Not Afraid” for the first time, he wasn’t too fond of it. 
Elton John: I’m good. Thank you for doing this, I’m so appreciative. We’re doing a big Detroit special, and we couldn’t do a Detroit special without you having taken part in the Detroit special. 
Do it again.” So I would do it again and again until finally I’m screaming, and he goes, “Yeah, there you go. 
Fad, Jaz-O, Jazzy Jeff and the Fresh Prince, Justus, K-Solo, Kid ‘n Play. What’s happening right now?
J. Cole. Travis Scott. 
I’m good, I’m good. I just kind of got up, but yeah. 
It was so powerful, and you’re one of the few people to actually get up and say something. I really admire you for doing that. 
I’m glad you said that and cleared that up and that’s great kudos to you for that. Well done. And you know you’ve had your little moments towards Machine Gun Kelly and you put out the diss track “Kill Shot,” which I love by the way. 
I had my reservations just because I felt like I'm a super fan of Rick, and I'd probably be a little nervous and wouldn't know what the vibe would be because I would be wanting to impress him. 
Likewise. That was a crazy time for me. I don’t know if I was actually on drugs when we met, but that was right around the start of my using. 
Because drugs were fucking delicious, and I thought we had a good thing going, man, but I had to go and fuck it all up and take too many.
And they say that you won’t work a day if you love your job and shit. This part, I’m not crazy about, but okay.
Elton John: You have a late night in the studio or what? 
It had to be Dre. I remember one of the first times I went out to L.A. I met Dre and Jimmy  at Interscope, and it felt so ridiculous and so far-fetched that this was happening. 
He knows what he’s doing. 
So I had to switch some things around. 
That’s doing great as well, so you couldn’t really be having a bigger moment than you have now. That comes after a relatively disappointing reaction to Revival, which you must have been really pissed off about right? 
And when Paul brought it to my attention I was like super excited, honored at the fact that he was even thinking about it. 
But shit is going on that we want to make you aware of. We have a president who does not care about everybody in our country; he is not the president for all of us, he is the president for some of us. 
They’re legendary rock stars, man, and I just want to say, those are just a few of the names that I hope will be considered in the future.
Tech N9ne, too. 
Elton John: It was pretty on the spur of the moment. I know I spoke to you about it, because we called each other from time to time and we have a good ole chat. 
I’m a high school drop out, man, with a hip hop education and these are my teachers. It’s their night just as much as it is mine.
I've always been a fan of Rick's, and my manager Paul had been talking to him and Rick had expressed that he had interest in working with me. 
And that's what I was kinda hoping to get. 
to rehearse with you. Obviously we did “Stan” together. And when I saw you rehearsing, I got chills up my spine. 
I’m not sure. We usually do mini tours. 
He’s usually right about it, though. It’s just hard when you’ve spent so much time on something, writing and recording, laying the vocals, getting the hook right, getting the beat right, making everything sound right—you spent a freaking week trying to make it sound perfect, and someone comes along and shoots it down. 
King Sun, King Tee, Kool G. Rap, Kool Moe Dee, KRS-One, Kwame, Lakim Shabazz, Large Professor, Leaders of the New School.
There’s more of us than there are of them. I still feel like America is the greatest country to live in. 
Yes! I also just remembered some advice that Rick Rubin gave me. We were talking about a song or something, and he said, “I don’t really consider myself smart enough to know what everybody’s going to think, so I just do what feels right to me.” 
It was very much the feeling that I got early on with Dre. 
God damn. Okay, Hayley, you can … Come on, I lost my motherfucking spot. Did I say … I said drugs were delicious, right?
It was about having the right to stand up to oppression. I mean, that’s exactly what the people in the military and the people who have given their lives for this country have fought for—for everybody to have a voice and to protest injustices and speak out against shit that’s wrong. 
That was the original plan, so I had wrote a different kind of thing for that, and it kind of got switched at the last minute. 
Elton John: Well it really worked, and it’s brilliant. The new album is doing so well, and we’re going to be playing a track. 
Yeah, nine years. 
Did I say De La Soul? Def Jeff, Del the Funky Homosapien, DJ Quik, Dr. Dre, Dres from Black Sheep, LG, EPMD, The Fat Boys, Fat Joe, Fu-Schnickens, Gang Starr, Geto Boys, Heavy D, House of Pain, Ice Cube, Ice-T, The Intelligent Hoodlum, J.J.
Elton John: And listen, thank you for doing this. I know how busy you are and how you’re all over the place but you’re also all over the studio all the time. 
What an honor it is right now for me to be up here tonight, and what a privilege it is to do the music that I love, the music that basically saved my life.
Because the question was brought up about…I guess the BET Awards are pre-taped. I don’t know if they are pre-taped every time, but this particular time they were pre-taped, and they were worried about people in the audience with their cell phones. 
All my albums I think, for the most part, pretty much tell where I'm at, you know at each one at that time period, whatever. 
There was a period when I stayed up writing for 48 hours straight and ended up crashing at, like, six in the morning. 
It’s great for you to talk to us especially as we’re doing the Detroit thing. It’s you and Aretha  that we’re featuring from Detroit. 
And his vibe in the studio is very much like... "Try whatever", don't be afraid to try whatever, even if the idea in the beginning is stupid. 
It used to be hard. Early on in my career when I was more in grind mode, I was doing two or three shows a day. 
Kendrick is great. My friend Royce da 5’9″ is incredible. Joyner Lucas is really good. 
I’m fucking stuttering and shit. Jesus Christ. So I’m probably not supposed to actually be here tonight because of a couple of reasons.
It was tough because you start feeling like you have no life. That being said, I do enjoy actually doing the shows. 
Yeah, I had kinda known that going in. Once I kinda knew what direction I was going, I knew that I needed certain songs to be able to call it that, and like I said to be able to make sense. 
Elton John: Yeah. 
I wrote it. The original idea was for me to go to the BET Awards and do it acapella onstage. I went home that same day and wrote it all, but then at the last minute, plans got switched around and we filmed it in Detroit. 
This is my opinion. But we have issues that we need to work on and we need to do better. 
You’re not going to hit it every single time, and that’s why, when I record an album, I do probably close to 50 songs. 
Know that this induction is supposed to me talking about myself and shit, man, but fuck that. I wouldn’t be .
Elton John: If you lose your passion you’re dead you know. 
From that day forward, he started showing me things that I didn’t know I could do with my voice. We did a song called “Role Model,” and it went, “Don’t you wanna grow up to be just like me?” And he just kept going “Nah, do it again. 
Obviously the proof of the pudding is that it’s doing so bloody well. 
And sometimes for me it's like- I like making my own choruses and its also fun for me to take someone else's words and interpret them my own way. 
Yeah I don't know. I wouldn't even want to begin to think of that, because I think it is a... stream of consciousness. 
Thank you. Yeah, that was one of those things I just felt like… 
I didn't write that, I freestyled it, off the dome, 1 take. 
I had all these things in my head, and then when I met him, the guy's so laid back, it made it easy. 
I think performing has gotten a lot different, it's gotten better with the band because there's just more elements to it and being it is a live show, there's more places you can go with it. 
I had started making a few records for it, and it just sounded like the tonality of it, the tones of the records kinda were heading towards that way. 
I love you too man. Take care. Good luck with everything right now. 
Elton John: How are you gorgeous thing, how are you? 
Getting clean made me grow up. I feel like all the years that I was using, I wasn’t growing as a person. 
You are the first person really to go out there and really conquer the big arenas, big stadiums. So, you’ve been doing it since 1999 now. 
I’m always in the process of writing a new song, so trying to learn a new one takes a minute. 
Yeah I'm still always trying to impress Dre too to this day at the same time. But I just kept thinking if I got in the studio with Rick, what if we're not able to come up with anything. 
We’re going to play “Lucky You.” You’re still as feisty as you ever were which I love. I do like a little bit of feistiness. 
How are you doing, cunt? 
Man, where’d I just seen him? The one and only LL Cool J. Lord Finesse, Lords of the Underground, Mantronix, Masta Ace, MC Creed, MC Lyte, MC Shan, Melle Mel, Merciless Ameer, Mobb Deep, Monie Love, Nas, Newcleus, Onyx, Organized Confusion, OutKast, Andre 3000, Paris, , Queen Latifah, Rakim, Redhead Kingpin, Pete Rock & CL Smooth.
It’s something that I’m definitely very passionate about. If I’m not passionate about it, I can’t write it. 
I wanted to be prepared for Dre because I thought, “If I’m not ready for every aspect of this, this could be it for me.” 
Yeah we were actually…it was basically a homage to Public Enemy’s cover of “You’re Gonna Get Yours,” like a 12-inch single back in the day. 
For me it’s just the grittiest thing you’ve done for a while. Just, you know, being a big fan of your gritty stuff, I am very happy. 
They say success has many colors, and that’s definitely true for me. So whatever my impact has been on hip hop music, I never would’ve or could’ve done this shit without some of the ground-breaking artists that I’m about to mention right now.
Nice stream of consciousness, running down my leg. 
The album is called Revival. It’s a reflection of where I’m at right now, but also I feel like what I tried to do was diversify. 
ELTON JOHN: Hi, Marshall. 
But yeah that was kind of what we were trying to play off of was that. 
And it's kinda like me reflecting on it and getting to the point where I am now with it. 
Elton John: Yeah. So you went in the studio and did another album straight away and it really worked. 
I listen to pretty much everything that comes out. 
As long as he’s got his base, he does not give a fuck about anybody else in America. But guess what? 
Oh, that’s definitely Paul. 
I'm peeing right now. Alright see you guys later! 
When Dre walked in, it was like an out-of-body experience. Nothing in my life had been going right for me, but he put me up in the Oakwood apartments and paid my rent so I could record with him. 
Nah, I'd never met him. So I was like nervous to meet him and you know, even more nervous to work with him. 
Elton John: And you ended up in a car park, and a great video. So it all worked out for the best. 
I’m almost done. Redman. Redman, Roxanne Shante, Run DMC, , Slick Rick and Doug E Fresh, Snoop Dogg, Souls of Mischief, Special Ed, Stetsasonic.
Just because it started to go there in the recording process. 
Absolutely. That first time in the studio we did three or four songs in, like, six hours, and with any beat he threw on, I either had to rhyme to it or write something right there. 
And it doesn’t come from…like it only comes with hard work and… 
I love you, I hope I see you and I hope I see you soon. Congratulations on everything love you so much and speak to you soon buddy. 
That’s great, you have great knowledge of where you stand in the world. Sometimes a non-success can spur you to do bigger things. 
How does it feel? I’m certainly…listen I’m blessed. I think that we both are in a sense of being able to have longevity you know. 
Nah, nobody had heard it. 
He also used to say, “It can be in bad taste as long as it don’t taste bad.” 
Elton John: Hard work and passion too. 
I’ll never forget it either—and I was on drugs. 
And I figured out what direction it should go in, kinda started gearing everything that way. And alotta times, making an album, I dont always have the direction or concept early on. 
We started going through old break beats and I was trying to tell him I kinda had the idea, I kinda had a notion that I was going to call it the Marshall Mathers LP 2, but I didn't want to say anything yet to him because I wasn't 100 percent sure- and I wanted to make sure that I had enough songs to even play for him that would make sense. 
I’m very happy that you said you don’t get to use the word f***** anymore because I think you don’t need…you’re bigger than that. 
Yeah, because I get excited, and then I get it in there and hear it, and I’m like, “Oh my god, this is fucking terrible.” 
I love the sound that Rick gets when he does hip hop. Even from early on, Beastie Boys- it's incredible. 
Especially, you know, coming from you. 
In hindsight, waiting was probably better because eventually we got Shady Records and were able to sign them to it. 
Elton John: I’ve known you now since we did the Grammys together, and I remember coming down to the valley in L.A. 
Elton John: And you did the Trump video which was amazing for the BET  video, when Revival was coming out. 
So, my musical influences are many, and they say it takes a village to raise a child. Well, it took a whole genre and culture to raise me.
Well yeah the original plan was that I was supposed to go to the actual BET Awards, and perform it there live. 
Elton John: Thanks. Thank you for everything man. Thanks. 
So this is kinda like, there's a lot of reflecting and things like that back on everything that was happening during that time, you know. 
Awesome Dre, the Beastie Boys, Big Daddy Kane, Big Pun, Big L, Biz Markie, The Notorious B.I.G, of course, Black Moon, The Boogiemonsters, Brand Nubian, Brother J from X Clan, Buckshot, Casual from Hieroglyphics, Chill Rob G, Chubb Rock, Chuck D, and Public Enemy.
Secondly, I almost died from an overdose in 2007 which kind of sucked because …. Hayley, plug your ears.
I’m going to start with the 2 Live Crew, 2Pac, 3rd Bass, Alliance, Apache, Audio Two, Milk Dee, what up?
I found that as well so well done to you. 
And finally, I had to really fight my way through, man, to try to break through in this music, and I’m so honored, and I’m so grateful that I’m even able to be here doing hip hop music, man, because I love it so much.
One, I know that I’m a rapper, and this is the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, and there’s only a few of us right now that have been inducted in already, but there’s only a few of us.
You know what I'm saying, he died in the story. So in the back of my mind I kinda had an idea of who could be left from the story, but I needed to get the right beat and be able to... 
Yeah. That’s tough, too. 
I can’t fake it. 
I know it was kind of on the spur of the moment, and you did the video on the spur of the moment. Sometimes those things work out the best. 
Can you tell me a little about it? 
And I realize that some people see going away as, “Oh, he’s irrelevant now,” but I feel like if I don’t go away, I get sick of myself. 
Thank you, Elton. I love you, too. 
I’ve put some albums out that, looking back, I’m not super proud of, but there’s also a lot of stuff that I am very proud of. 
that's just a culmination of songs, and depending on what the vibe is. Sometimes I do a songs that is so left field one or two of them its like Oh Shit where am I going to put these songs and now what am I going to call it because its not going to make sense to go, let's say Recovery or whatever. 
But, I just wanted to make sure that I had the right ones, and in other words, I knew that, obviously Stan off the first Mathers LP was a big topic. 
I’m great. How are you doin’? 
Meet the man right there, the man who saved my life, ladies and gentlemen, Dr. mother fucking Dre. I’m going to try and make this as quick and painless as possible.
Then you start thinking of rhymes, and then you record it, and sometimes—this happens to me a lot—it doesn’t come out as good as it did in my head when I first wrote it. 
Elton John: You’re always in your studio. You’re just relentless. First of all, congratulations on Kamakaze, which I really love. 
So if you say one thing that's going to spark another thing to lead to a better thought, that's kinda how it went. 
And I had heard a lot of chatter around the time doing the Recovery record that I should do Stan 2 and why doesn't he do Stan 2, and all I kept thinking was Stan's dead. 
I studied Dre a lot. I don’t know if you’d call it a mantra or what, but he believed that if you never go away, it’s hard for someone to miss you. 
I would have to say Dre again. Actually, he gave me a couple of pieces of advice. When I first got signed to Aftermath, we had many discussions about how I wanted to bring in my group D12 and put them on right away. 
I’ve been working on it for over a year. You know how it is—you make songs, and as you make the new ones, the old ones get old and you throw them out. 
Yeah, my manager. He and I go at it during the making of every album, and sometimes we’re on the same page and sometimes we’re not. 
It's super exciting to be here. I was trying to figure out how I was going to top the publicity of yours and Kanye's interview so I decided I was going to walk in here, pee on the floor, and leave. 
My main concern was trying to get the message out and also memorize all the words. I have a hard time memorizing stuff. 
