Well, women aren't really mentioned in Noah's story at all, so um.. Darren kind of had to kind of fill in some gaps, and uh, Ila is .. 
And I was going to ask you, what I sometimes get asked, which would be what you would do if you could be anonymous for a day. 
Well, it's the Bible, they had to kind of.. a lot happens, and they had to try and.. you know.. 
Okay. I’m glad to hear that. I’m really glad to hear that because I know you have to deal with being famous. 
If you believe in equality, you might be one of those inadvertent feminists that I spoke of earlier, and for this, I applaud you.
And, um.. yeah, there's no mention, really, of women, in the original story, so.. 
I think it’s amazing that it’s going so far beyond that. 
Yes, boys in the audience specifically, I work for a cause called He for She. If you haven’t signed up yet, then that would be wonderful. 
Ah, that’s really kind. Thank you. 
Well it's ah, um, I guess it's what you guys would call ah, high school. So it's up until 18. 
Wow. I’m so moved to hear that. That’s absolutely amazing. 
My life is a sheer privilege because my parents didn’t love me less because I was born a daughter. My school did not limit me because I was a girl.
What do you plan to do next to further promote equality? And that’s from Mavis in Middlesex. 
It’s a wonderful book. I’ve also read this book and it’s an amazing book. 
Yeah. Tough for the parents. I was wondering, are you excited to see Hillary Clinton, a woman running for president in the US? 
If there is one thing I know for certain, it is that this has to stop. For the record, feminism by definition is the belief that men and women should have equal rights and opportunities.
How does it feel to have your story shown on film and screen to thousands of young people today as part of the Into Film festival? 
So, I’ll stop taking up all of the time. Why is it important for girls and boys to be treated equally? 
And I agree with you. It’s become this really difficult word, but I think it’s wonderful when people do embrace it, because it should be synonymous with equality. 
Skinner. She’s a teacher in Cardiff. 
In fact, in the UK, suicide is the biggest killer of men between 20 to 49, eclipsing road accidents, cancer and coronary heart disease.
So, those are my questions. I know that, very sweetly, we have questions from members of the audience, which is brilliant. 
I’m so moved to hear that. Well, it’s kind of a similar question, but what would you say to people who argue that religion and educating women are odds? 
I invite you to step forward, to be seen and to ask yourself, “If not me, who? If not now, when?” Thank you very, very much.
Yes. So I'm, I give birth to twins. This is a spoiler, by the way, if you don't want to know this, you should.. 
I thought, again, it was so wonderful in the film to show how important your faith and your spirituality were in giving you strength to do the work that you do. 
I think because he wanted it to feel .. practical. He, you know, they weren't planning on actually sailing anywhere, they just needed to survive this mega flood. 
Okay, so the other thing is to wait yet... 
I think it is right that socially, I am afforded the same respect as men. But sadly, I can say that there is no one country in the world where all women can expect to see these rights.
But we really need you as the next generation to extend a hand to the goals and the women in your life, and to include them and to make sure that they can live their lives without discrimination, and that they have access to the same opportunities that you do. 
It was.. it was a bit confusing. 
And if you still hate the word, it is not the word that is important. It’s the idea and the ambition behind it, because not all women have received the same rights I have.
You have personal experience with this. 
That was the thing, I honestly couldn't think of anyone else who could do it as well as Russell because you need the physicality of a man who you think could build with his bare hands an ark, and Russell Crowe seems like the guy who I would hire for that job. 
How did you find the filmmaking process and what did you learn from it? It’s from Olivia in East Lothian. 
Again, the film is so wonderful, and your story is beyond inspiring. 
And then it sorts of, it stopped me dead in my tracks because I realized exactly what you would do. 
I’ve seen young men suffering from mental illness, unable to ask for help for fear it would make them less of a man.
You lull me into a false sense of security. Last I was here, he played my clip from my movie-- 
They really, really have. So, that’s wonderful. Wow. 
It is the theory of political, economic and social equality of the sexes. I started questioning gender-based assumptions a long time ago.
Is all pink, orange. 
Well, we’ve got through all of the questions that we’ve been sent, which is brilliant. So, maybe I will take this moment just to say, thank you. 
I mean.. you have a point. You have a point. 
Thank you, Malala. 
It's true. You know they actually do at Harvard and Yale, and a few of these universities, they actually have Quidditch teams. 
I do, I do. I think um you know when you read a book, it's very sort of personal to you and you get to create it all in your imagination and then you get to see the film and it’s all good. 
If men don’t have to control, women won’t have to be controlled. Both men and women should feel free to be sensitive.
What were your feelings when you had to speak publicly for the first time in front of presidents and prime ministers and that’s from Merriam in Manchester. 
And this question’s from Elisa in Cheshire. 
Okay. So, love and fear, both together. 
Do I know anything about Noah? 
Yes so we made sure we had a girl turtle and a boy turtle. 
And I thought that was wonderful. 
As a big book fan, I have to ask you, what was your last favorite book? Was there anything that you read in the last year that you just fell in love with? 
I think it’s very easy to take for granted and it is actually a gift. What do your younger brothers think about your efforts? 
He's incredible as Noah. He is absolutely sensational as Noah, I have to say. 
Yeah, it's tough. Yeah, you get embarrassed. 
First, I just wanted to say how wonderful I thought the film was and that you’re just my absolute hero. 
Well, that’s good. Sometimes, sometimes, that’s something. My brothers are the same, by the way. 
I give birth, and.. 
That’s amazing. And yes, I completely. 
And, the more I spoke about feminism, the more I realized that fighting for women’s rights has too often become synonymous with man-hating.
Well, they fly on the brooms. They really don't run around on them. 
It was a real...um... It was pretty interesting. I..I said to my costume media "ok I want a...really do this method. 
My mentors didn't assume that I would go less far because I might give birth to a child one day. These influences were the gender equality ambassadors that made me who I am today.
It’s about freedom. I want men to take up this mantle so that their daughters, sisters, and mothers can be free from prejudice, but also so that their sons have permission to be vulnerable and human too, reclaim those parts of themselves they abandoned, and in doing so, be a more true and complete version of themselves.
66 million girls is such a huge number. It’s such a massive number to think about that can’t go to school. 
I just thought that was such a wonderful part of the film, but what would you say to people that, you know, that use scripture to say that women shouldn’t be educated or that argue that educating women is a Western concept or a Western idea? 
Great choices. Very serious choices. Brilliant. 
Unattractive, even. Why has the word become such an uncomfortable one? I am from Britain, and I think it is right I am paid the same as my male counterparts.
from the air.. in the air, from the airplane. I never saw that myself, but that's what he said. 
When you say 'contacted', it makes it sound like you picked up the phone. 
How is education for girls in your country now? And that’s from Asher, in Enfield and Northeast London. 
Statesman Edmund Burke said, “All that is needed for the forces of evil to triumph is for good men and women to do nothing.” In my nervousness for this speech and in my moments of doubt, I told myself firmly, “If not me, who?
Oh this is a scene, Russell and I before the world flooded basically and we're kind of having a conversation about the end of the world might look like. 
And you’re in a unique position. 
Ahaha it was intense. I have a whole new-found respect for women and motherhood and... 
No country in the world can yet say that they achieved gender equality. These rights, I consider to be human rights, but I am one of the lucky ones.
I would kind of twist myself up like a pretzel in my seat and I'd bite my nails and everything and then um... 
So, other than going home, is there anything that you liked the idea of doing, if you could be, if you had magical powers and you could be invisible for a day, what you would do? 
You don't want to gain more than that. 
Slightly agree. Which of your teachers inspired you the most? And this is from Delano, in Manchester. 
Yes, well it's, I mean, the story in the Bible is only about two pages, and uh.. yeah, it's, I mean, you know, there's, there's.. 
And also, um.. you know, they had to build this thing with their bare hands, with, you know, not that many, not that many materials. 
When at 18, my male friends were unable to express their feelings. I decided that I was a feminist, and this seemed uncomplicated to me.
You know, it's funny. I used to in the early Harry Potter films. I would get very nervous. 
And this is from Grace Dane at Mill Primary School in Leicester. 
So, we build the ark to scale. To the Biblical, exact measurements. 
We are struggling for a uniting word, but the good news is, we have a uniting movement. It is called HeForShe.
the ark, and there's the animals that go two by two.. and.. 
She said, you know, she basically said "how do you expect to get better if you don't watch your performances" and I said "well that's a good point" and yeah. 
Men, I would like to take this opportunity to extend your formal invitation. Gender equality is your issue, too.
I didn't. I hadn't... 
Well, Ray Winstone claims that when you were flying into New York, you could actually see the ark from.. 
I was curious, what are the thing you found the strangest about England compared to Pakistan? What they all would be? 
That’s amazing. And I thought that the animation in the film was so beautiful and I loved the mythology behind it. 
Today we are launching a campaign called for HeForShe. I am reaching out to you because we need your help.
This is crazy." And she turned to me and said "yeah, that's just the weight of one child". And I was like "ok, ok, umm". 
And you use the power and the strength of that to really, you know, push away any nerves, which is great. 
She kind of just told me to get a grip and since then I have watched my performances. 
They may not know it, but they are the inadvertent feminists that are changing the world today. We need more of those.
.. but, yeah. I'm a new mother in the movie, and um.. 
We want to try and make sure that it’s tangible. I was appointed as Goodwill Ambassador for UN Women six months ago.
Because to date, I’ve seen my father’s role as a parent being valued less by society, despite my need of his presence as a child, as much as my mother’s.
It’s great that you see it as something which isn’t, it’s personal obviously, but it’s so much bigger than that. 
We made sure we had both of the sexes. Yes that was important. 
Right, sure, ok. You get to build some muscle, right? 
Voices are important, speaking out and asking governments to do the right thing. Super, super, super important. 
If men don’t have to be aggressive in order to be accepted, women won’t feel compelled to be submissive.
What would you say to young people who do not like, enjoy or appreciate school? And this is for Ms. 
I agree with this. I agree with this. Very trivial question compared to some of the others about, I had to ask, that really, really bright pink color that you wear, it’s one of my absolute favorite colors and I see you wear that a lot, and I wondered if it was lucky or if it had any sort of special meaning to you. 
Because the reality is that if we do nothing, it will take seventy-five years, or for me to be nearly 100, before women can expect to be paid the same as men for the same work.
I think it is right that I should be able to make decisions about my own body. I think it is right that women be involved on my behalf in the policies and decisions that will affect my life.
We want to try to mobilize as many men and boys as possible to be advocates for change. And, we don’t just want to talk about it.
No. He doesn't. 
When at 14, I started to be sexualized by certain elements of the media. When at 15, my girlfriends started dropping out of sports teams because they didn’t want to appear muscly.
Both men and women should feel free to be strong. It is time that we all perceive gender on a spectrum, instead of two sets of opposing ideals.
And yeah, and I called my mother after the first day of shooting and I was just like "this is crazy" and she said "you don't get to complain, you only faked it". 
Well, I guess, you know, the focus was on Noah, you know, he was the one saving all the animals. He was kind of busy, there was a lot of.. 
Epic, it's epic. 
But my recent research has shown me that feminism has become an unpopular word. Women are choosing not to identify as feminists.
I think the best part of the film for me was that you got to see what obviously made you so extraordinary, but more importantly, ordinary, which shows that anyone can encourage change. 
We want to end gender inequality, and to do this, we need everyone involved. This is the first campaign of its kind at the UN.
So he wanted it to feel, you know, authentic. 
Apparently, I’m among the ranks of women whose expressions are seen as too strong, too aggressive, isolating, and anti-men.
I think, small mercies, they, they didn't. And so that was a safe... 
I mean he's done pretty well for himself. I don't know. 
yes. Yes. It's, I.. 
And this is from Artem in London. 
Well, it's funny because, when I was growing up, I always saw the ark as this kind of, like, big ship, and it had a bow, and there were the sails and everything, and uh.. 
I’ve seen men made fragile and insecure by a distorted sense of what constitutes male success. Men don’t have the benefits of equality, either.
Wow. This is breaking-- 
Exactly the same size, and we built it in Long Island. 
I want you to put in my pregnancy suit, I want you to make it weigh the same amount as it would as if I was carrying twins, and she said "ok, fine, we'll do that". 
was one of those gaps.. she's my . 
We don’t often talk about men being imprisoned by gender stereotypes, but I can see that they are, and that when they are free, things will change for women as a natural consequence.
Yeah, it was right in the middle of our shoot, actually, that hurricane Sandy hit. And um.. yeah, it was just incredibly surreal, to be pretending that there was this big flood coming, and there was a big flood that came. 
But I thought it was wonderful that you have chosen this bright color, which meant that you wanted to be seen and, you know, and you wanted to spread your message in spite of that. 
stuff that needed to go into that, I guess. i don't know. 
If we stop defining each other by what we are not, and start defining ourselves by who we are, we can all be freer, and this is what HeForShe is about.
I've never met the author. I don't know. 
Outdoors. But we had an indoor one, too. But the outdoor one was the really big one. 
You might be thinking, “Who is this Harry Potter girl, and what is she doing speaking at the UN?” And, it’s a really good question.
And, having seen what I’ve seen, and given the chance, I feel it is my responsibility to say something.
Sadly, many of the things that she wanted to change are still true today. But what stood out for me the most was that less than thirty percent of the audience were male.
Uh.. no, it's all been dismantled now, we finished filming about, you know.. a year ago now. 
And it just really, it was so beautifully done and so well told. And I completely agree with you. I think it’s great that people are watching the film and it’s wonderful, but it’s great that you want people to really do something and take action as well, and that this is about a movement, not just a film. 
Darren Aronofsky's ark is kind of like this quite sinister, huge, coffin-like, very utilitarian, um.. 
How can we effect change in the world when only half of it is invited or feel welcome to participate in the conversation?
I'm pretty sure it was Maggie Smith who said this to me, it was 10 years ago now so I, sometimes I struggle remembering, but uh... 
No, she's not. So Naameh is Noah's wife, and Ila is his adopted daughter, um, in.. Darren's adaption. 
And I came up to her the next day and I said " You can't be serious. This is... I'm exhausted. 
Yeah. Now is the time. 
squeeze it.. squeeze it down. 
He's got to get all of the animals into the ark. He's got to build it first, yeah it's definitely two, definitely two hours. 
Ageism is a huge issue actually. And every voice feeling is important. Are you enjoying your education these days in your school in Birmingham? 
If not now, when?” If you have similar doubts when opportunities are presented to you, I hope those words will be helpful.
In fact, statistically, very few have. In 1997, Hillary Clinton made a famous speech in Beijing about women’s rights.
I can relate. I actually have brothers. There’s a lot of fighting that goes on, it’s not very peaceful. 
That’s good. If you could give us, 12-13-year old any advice, what would it be? And this is from Jake in Northern Ireland. 
15.5 million girls will be married in the next 16 years as children. And at current rates, it won't be until 2086 before all rural African girls can have a secondary education.
Aww, thank you. 
Does this mean you’re finally going to watch a Harry Potter film? 
Gosh, I think it's like two hours. 
And I just thought that was a wonderful message from the film. Do you have a sense of a tangible goal that you would like the Malala fund to reach within your lifetime? 
When I was 8, I was confused for being called bossy because I wanted to direct the plays that we would put on for our parents, but the boys were not.
Yeah. Must be a thing. I feel it’s nice because I get the impression that you’re someone who is generally sort of, you know, shy that is struggling with all of the attention that’s being thrust on her. 
Ok. Well I'll remember that for... for the future. 
And it made me really emotional actually. And so, I just wanted to thank you again for being who you are and for being so brave. 
And it really struck me, you know, what you’ve sacrificed for your ideals and your dream and this movement. 
I don't quite understand what you're saying. 
I’ve been asking myself the same thing. All I know is that I care about this problem, and I want to make it better.
