Hand in hand with this we must frankly recognize the overbalance of population in our industrial centers and, by engaging on a national scale in a redistribution, endeavor to provide a better use of the land for those best fitted for the land.
This war is a new kind of war. It is different from all other wars of the past, not only in its methods and weapons but also in its geography. 
FDR was delighted by the mail he got. He considered it a “perfect index” to the moods and minds of the electorate. 
That very word freedom, in itself and of necessity, suggests freedom from some restraining power. In 1776 we sought freedom from the tyranny of a political autocracy—from the eighteenth century royalists who held special privileges from the crown.
This generation of Americans has a rendezvous with destiny.
The age of machinery, of railroads; of steam and electricity; the telegraph and the radio; mass production, mass distribution—all of these combined to bring forward a new civilization and with it a new problem for those who sought to remain free.
It can be accomplished in part by direct recruiting by the Government itself, treating the task as we would treat the emergency of a war, but at the same time, through this employment, accomplishing greatly needed projects to stimulate and reorganize the use of our natural resources.
Our greatest primary task is to put people to work. This is no unsolvable problem if we face it wisely and courageously.
During the intervening time, the Japanese government has deliberately sought to deceive the United States by false statements and expressions of hope for continued peace.
I call upon my fellow citizens everywhere to cooperate with me in making this the most efficient and the cleanest example of public enterprise the world has ever seen. 
Better the occasional faults of a Government that lives in a spirit of charity than the consistent omissions of a Government frozen in the ice of its own indifference.
Values have shrunken to fantastic levels; taxes have risen; our ability to pay has fallen; government of all kinds is faced by serious curtailment of income; the means of exchange are frozen in the currents of trade; the withered leaves of industrial enterprise lie on every side; farmers find no markets for their produce; the savings of many years in thousands of families are gone.
But it may be that an unprecedented demand and need for undelayed action may call for temporary departure from that normal balance of public procedure.
Indeed, one hour after Japanese air squadrons had commenced bombing in the American island of Oahu, the Japanese ambassador to the United States and his colleague delivered to our Secretary of State a formal reply to a recent American message.
Our Constitution is so simple and practical that it is possible always to meet extraordinary needs by changes in emphasis and arrangement without loss of essential form.
My friends, yesterday, on June 4th, 1944, Rome fell to American and Allied troops. The first of the Axis capitals is now in our hands. 
Yesterday, December 7th, 1941—a date which will live in infamy—the United States of America was suddenly and deliberately attacked by naval and air forces of the Empire of Japan.
For out of this modern civilization economic royalists carved new dynasties. New kingdoms were built upon concentration of control over material things.
For the trust reposed in me I will return the courage and the devotion that befit the time. I can do no less.
I am convinced that you will again give that support to leadership in these critical days.
These economic royalists complain that we seek to overthrow the institutions of America. What they really complain of is that we seek to take away their power.
I favor as a practical policy the putting of first things first. I shall spare no effort to restore world trade by international economic readjustment, but the emergency at home cannot wait on that accomplishment.
And without doubt. 
And this morning, the Japanese attacked Midway Island.
This is a day of national consecration… 
They were no more free than the worker or the farmer. Even honest and progressive-minded men of wealth, aware of their obligation to their generation, could never know just where they fitted into this dynastic scheme of things.
But always will our whole nation remember the character of the onslaught against us.
They have made me the present instrument of their wishes. In the spirit of the gift I take it.
Last night, Japanese forces attacked the Philippine Islands.
This I propose to offer, pledging that the larger purposes will bind upon us all as a sacred obligation with a unity of duty hitherto evoked only in time of armed strife.
Listeners responded. 
A small group had concentrated into their own hands an almost complete control over other people’s property, other people’s money, other people’s labor—other people’s lives.
The joy and moral stimulation of work no longer must be forgotten in the mad chase of evanescent profits.
The success of our whole national program depends, of course, upon the cooperation of the public — on its intelligent support and its use of a reliable system. 
It will be recorded that the distance of Hawaii from Japan makes it obvious that the attack was deliberately planned many days or even weeks ago.
We aim at the assurance of a rounded and permanent national life.
Finally, in our progress toward a resumption of work we require two safeguards against a return of the evils of the old order; there must be a strict supervision of all banking and credits and investments; there must be an end to speculation with other people's money, and there must be provision for an adequate but sound currency.
Primarily this is because the rulers of the exchange of mankind's goods have failed, through their own stubbornness and their own incompetence, have admitted their failure, and abdicated.
And while this reply stated that it seemed useless to continue the existing diplomatic negotiations, it contained no threat or hint of war or of armed attack.
FDR used the map to show listeners just how big and mighty the allied nations were. And he declared that all Americans were ready to fight for ideals and freedoms larger than any individual. 
In every dark hour of our national life a leadership of frankness and vigor has met with that understanding and support of the people themselves which is essential to victory.
I ask that the Congress declare that since the unprovoked and dastardly attack by Japan on Sunday, December 7th, 1941, a state of war has existed between the United States and the Japanese empire.
Political tyranny was wiped out at Philadelphia on July 4, 1776.
Nature still offers her bounty and human efforts have multiplied it. Plenty is at our doorstep, but a generous use of it languishes in the very sight of the supply.
It was to perpetuate their privilege that they governed without the consent of the governed; that they denied the right of free assembly and free speech; that they restricted the worship of God; that they put the average man’s property and the average man’s life in pawn to the mercenaries of dynastic power; that they regimented the people.
We do not distrust the future of essential democracy. The people of the United States have not failed.
It is the way to recovery. It is the immediate way. It is the strongest assurance that the recovery will endure.
And as a result the average man once more confronts the problem that faced the Minute Man.
FDR lost the use of his legs when he contracted polio at the age of 39. In public, he wore leg braces and gripped a cane or the arm of an aide or family member to maneuver short distances. 
With confidence in our armed forces, with the unbounding determination of our people, we will gain the inevitable triumph—so help us God.
We must act and act quickly.
The nation will expect all individuals and all groups to play their full part. Without stint. Without selfishness. 
They know only the rules of a generation of self-seekers. They have no vision, and when there is no vision the people perish.
Small wonder that confidence languishes, for it thrives only on honesty, on honor, on the sacredness of obligations, on faithful protection, on unselfish performance; without them it cannot live.
For too many of us life was no longer free; liberty no longer real; men could no longer follow the pursuit of happiness.
These measures, or such other measures as the Congress may build out of its experience and wisdom, I shall seek, within my constitutional authority, to bring to speedy adoption.
Yesterday, December 7th, 1941, a date which will live in infamy, the United States of America was suddenly and deliberately attacked by naval and air forces of the Empire of Japan. 
It is the insistence, as a first consideration, upon the interdependence of the various elements in all parts of the United States--a recognition of the old and permanently important manifestation of the American spirit of the pioneer.
And here are two simple rules for this rubber emergency. First, turn in all the old rubber – anywhere and everywhere. 
Today we stand committed to the proposition that freedom is no half-and-half affair. If the average citizen is guaranteed equal opportunity in the polling place, he must have equal opportunity in the market place.
We are, I know, ready and willing to submit our lives and property to such discipline, because it makes possible a leadership which aims at a larger good.
Only a foolish optimist can deny the dark realities of the moment.
Tonight, my single duty is to speak to the whole of America. 
They created a new despotism and wrapped it in the robes of legal sanction. In its service new mercenaries sought to regiment the people, their labor, and their property.
In private he used a wheel chair. So Eleanor was often a substitute for her husband. But she was not a natural-born public speaker. 
Restoration calls, however, not for changes in ethics alone. This Nation asks for action, and action now.
One up and two to go! 
I believe that I interpret the will of the Congress and of the people when I assert that we will not only defend ourselves to the uttermost, but will make it very certain that this form of treachery shall never again endanger us.
In such a spirit on my part and on yours we face our common difficulties. They concern, thank God, only material things.
The basic thought that guides these specific means of national recovery is not narrowly nationalistic.
I saw the workmen in the mills, the mines, the factories; the girl behind the counter; the small shopkeeper; the farmer doing his spring plowing; the widows and the old men. 
Second, cut the use of your car – save its tires by driving slowly and driving less. I know the United States will respond. 
Practices of the unscrupulous money changers stand indicted in the court of public opinion, rejected by the hearts and minds of men.
Happiness lies not in the mere possession of money; it lies in the joy of achievement, in the thrill of creative effort.
There are the lines of attack. I shall presently urge upon a new Congress in special session detailed measures for their fulfillment, and I shall seek the immediate assistance of the several States.
Yesterday, the Japanese government also launched an attack against Malaya.
There was no place among this royalty for our many thousands of small business men and merchants who sought to make a worthy use of the American system of initiative and profit.
It is to be hoped that the normal balance of executive and legislative authority may be wholly adequate to meet the unprecedented task before us.
With this pledge taken, I assume unhesitatingly the leadership of this great army of our people dedicated to a disciplined attack upon our common problems.
Governments can err, Presidents do make mistakes, but the immortal Dante tells us that divine justice weighs the sins of the cold-blooded and the sins of the warm-hearted in different scales.
Against economic tyranny such as this, the American citizen could appeal only to the organized power of Government.
Through new uses of corporations, banks and securities, new machinery of industry and agriculture, of labor and capital—all undreamed of by the fathers—the whole structure of modern life was impressed into this royal service.
And with only a few of the family and a few personal friends present… 
In their need they have registered a mandate that they want direct, vigorous action. They have asked for discipline and direction under leadership.
Mr. Vice President, Mr. Speaker, Members of the Senate, and of the House of Representatives:
I want to talk to you about rubber – about rubber and the war -about rubber and the American people. 
I can assure you my friends that it is safer to keep your money in a reopened bank than it is to keep it under the mattress. 
I want you to hear me tonight as I sit here in my own home, away from the excitement of the campaign. 
More important, a host of unemployed citizens face the grim problem of existence, and an equally great number toil with little return.
I hope you can see, my friends, from this essential recital of what your government is doing… that there is nothing complex, or radical in the process. 
Action in this image and to this end is feasible under the form of government which we have inherited from our ancestors.
As Commander in Chief of the Army and Navy, I have directed that all measures be taken for our defense.
This is preeminently the time to speak the truth, the whole truth, frankly and boldly. Nor need we shrink from honestly facing conditions in our country today.
Last night, Japanese forces attacked Hong Kong.
Stripped of the lure of profit by which to induce our people to follow their false leadership, they have resorted to exhortations, pleading tearfully for restored confidence.
Last night, the Japanese attacked Wake Island.
FDR was inaugurated on March 4th, 1933. The nation listened on radio. 
Our sons, pride of our nation, this day they’ve set upon a mighty endeavor. A struggle to preserve our republic, our religion and our civilization. 
The people of the United States have already formed their opinions and well understand the implications to the very life and safety of our nation.
I am glad to come here today to this great meeting. And I am especially happy, and I think for the first time in my life, I was introduced by my wife. 
I regret to tell you that very many American lives have been lost. In addition, American ships have been reported torpedoed on the high seas between San Francisco and Honolulu.
It is warfare in terms of every continent, every island, every sea, every air-lane in the world. That is the reason why I have asked you to take out and spread before you a map of the whole earth, and to follow with me in the references which I shall make to the world-encircling battle lines of this war. 
My friends, the most effective means of preventing such evils in this work relief program will be the eternal vigilance of the American people themselves. 
Let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself. 
It can be helped by insistence that the Federal, State, and local governments act forthwith on the demand that their cost be drastically reduced.
That victory gave the business of governing into the hands of the average man, who won the right with his neighbors to make and order his own destiny through his own Government.
The measure of the restoration lies in the extent to which we apply social values more noble than mere monetary profit.
There is a mysterious cycle in human events. To some generations much is given. Of other generations much is expected.
FDR was a master at using radio to reach the people, and to persuade them to follow his lead. 
In the field of world policy I would dedicate this Nation to the policy of the good neighbor--the neighbor who resolutely respects himself and, because he does so, respects the rights of others-- the neighbor who respects his obligations and respects the sanctity of his agreements in and with a world of neighbors.
Yet our distress comes from no failure of substance. We are stricken by no plague of locusts. Compared with the perils which our forefathers conquered because they believed and were not afraid, we have still much to be thankful for.
I am prepared under my constitutional duty to recommend the measures that a stricken nation in the midst of a stricken world may require.
It can be helped by the unifying of relief activities which today are often scattered, uneconomical, and unequal.
No matter how long it may take us to overcome this premeditated invasion, the American people in their righteous might will win through to absolute victory.
Through this program of action we address ourselves to putting our own national house in order and making income balance outgo.
It has met every stress of vast expansion of territory, of foreign wars, of bitter internal strife, of world relations.
The task can be helped by definite efforts to raise the values of agricultural products and with this the power to purchase the output of our cities.
It was natural and perhaps human that the privileged princes of these new economic dynasties, thirsting for power, reached out for control over Government itself.
You people must have faith; you must not be stampeded by rumors or guesses. Let us unite in banishing fear. 
My friends, I want to talk for a few minutes with the people of the United States about banking – to talk with the comparatively few who understand the mechanics of banking but more particularly with the overwhelming majority of you who use banks for the making of deposits and the drawing of checks. 
FDR had honed his radio technique over four years as governor of New York. He made frequent broadcasts to the people of the state. 
It can be helped by preventing realistically the tragedy of the growing loss through foreclosure of our small homes and our farms.
And so it was to win freedom from the tyranny of political autocracy that the American Revolution was fought.
For too many of us the political equality we once had won was meaningless in the face of economic inequality.
Radio allowed him to bypass the Republican controlled newspapers. In the 1932 presidential contest, FDR was running against the unpopular Republican incumbent, Herbert Hoover, who was not as effective at the microphone. 
I shall ask the Congress for the one remaining instrument to meet the crisis--broad Executive power to wage a war against the emergency, as great as the power that would be given to me if we were in fact invaded by a foreign foe.
I believe in practical explanations and practical policies. 
Last night, Japanese forces attacked Guam.
It is time to provide a smashing answer for those cynical men who say that a democracy cannot be honest and efficient. 
I am certain that my fellow Americans expect that on my induction into the Presidency I will address them with a candor and a decision which the present situation of our Nation impels.
An old English judge once said: “Necessitous men are not free men.” Liberty requires opportunity to make a living—a living decent according to the standard of the time, a living which gives man not only enough to live by, but something to live for.
But in the event that the Congress shall fail to take one of these two courses, and in the event that the national emergency is still critical, I shall not evade the clear course of duty that will then confront me.
It can be helped by national planning for and supervision of all forms of transportation and of communications and other utilities which have a definitely public character.
The attack yesterday on the Hawaiian islands has caused severe damage to American naval and military forces.
We must be the great arsenal of democracy. For us this is an emergency as serious as war itself. We must apply ourselves to our task with the same resolution, the same sense of urgency, the same spirit of patriotism and sacrifice as we would show were we at war. 
If I read the temper of our people correctly, we now realize as we have never realized before our interdependence on each other; that we can not merely take but we must give as well; that if we are to go forward, we must move as a trained and loyal army willing to sacrifice for the good of a common discipline, because without such discipline no progress is made, no leadership becomes effective.
These dark days will be worth all they cost us if they teach us that our true destiny is not to be ministered unto but to minister to ourselves and to our fellow men.
Under that mandate it is being ended.
The American people, in their righteous might, will win through to absolute victory. 
May He guide me in the days to come.
Since that struggle, however, man’s inventive genius released new forces in our land which reordered the lives of our people.
We face the arduous days that lie before us in the warm courage of the national unity; with the clear consciousness of seeking old and precious moral values; with the clean satisfaction that comes from the stem performance of duty by old and young alike.
That is why our constitutional system has proved itself the most superbly enduring political mechanism the modern world has produced.
Our international trade relations, though vastly important, are in point of time and necessity secondary to the establishment of a sound national economy.
The United States was at peace with that nation and, at the solicitation of Japan, was still in conversation with its government and its emperor looking toward the maintenance of peace in the Pacific.
Hostilities exist. There is no blinking at the fact that our people, our territory, and our interests are in grave danger.
In this dedication of a Nation we humbly ask the blessing of God. May He protect each and every one of us.
Good evening my fellow Americans, friends of the radio audience. I hope during this campaign to use the radio frequently to speak to you about important things that concern us all… 
In their blindness they forget what the Flag and the Constitution stand for. Now, as always, they stand for democracy, not tyranny; for freedom, not subjection; and against a dictatorship by mob rule and the over-privileged alike.
The money changers have fled from their high seats in the temple of our civilization. We may now restore that temple to the ancient truths.
Our allegiance to American institutions requires the overthrow of this kind of power. In vain they seek to hide behind the Flag and the Constitution.
This great Nation will endure as it has endured, will revive and will prosper. So, first of all, let me assert my firm belief that the only thing we have to fear is fear itself--nameless, unreasoning, unjustified terror which paralyzes needed efforts to convert retreat into advance.
If you will help, this can be done. 
Recognition of the falsity of material wealth as the standard of success goes hand in hand with the abandonment of the false belief that public office and high political position are to be valued only by the standards of pride of place and personal profit; and there must be an end to a conduct in banking and in business which too often has given to a sacred trust the likeness of callous and selfish wrongdoing.
The collapse of 1929 showed up the despotism for what it was. The election of 1932 was the people’s mandate to end it.
There are many ways in which it can be helped, but it can never be helped merely by talking about it.
If the volume dropped, he worried he was losing touch with the people. Bruce Miroff says that before Franklin Roosevelt took office, Americans did not have such an intimate relationship with the First Family. 
True they have tried, but their efforts have been cast in the pattern of an outworn tradition. Faced by failure of credit they have proposed only the lending of more money.
Japan has, therefore, undertaken a surprise offensive extending throughout the Pacific area. The facts of yesterday and today speak for themselves.
