It’s all manufactured and so, you know, our job’s done. It’s definitely an honour to be in a movie that’s received this way, but it’s also a little surreal.
Because it was crap . It just wasn't as good as it should have been. So, they gave it an overhaul and it came back a lot smarter and wittier.
I understand that unfortunately it was going to be in some people’s minds, but I didn’t find that a big enough reason not to do it.
So I was just going back and forth, back and forth, packing and unpacking. Then it got to the point where I was like, 'I gotta get out of Perth,' and bang - I moved out of Perth and just kept moving.
So yeah, as I said we had no intentions or expectations for this movie to reach such heights as it has now, in people’s hearts and minds.
I only really did research for Casanova out of curiosity. It's not Fellini's Casanova, but upon learning about his life, I thought how much I wanted to really do his life, and really try to connect with him, as he was a complex fellow.
It’s just another human being, it’s not painful,’ you know? Also what I knew I had to give to the story was, in those intimate scenes, I guess I had the easier job of the two.
No. I mean, myself. I do that going into any role, not this one in particular at all.
It's been in my nature from an early age. My parents were divorced when I was about 10, and from that point on I spent two weeks with my mum, two weeks with my dad, for the next four years.
I don’t think it’s as black and white as that. I think sexuality is a continuem and it was about just playing a human being who’s in love with another man.
Well, when the script was handed to me it was pretty obvious there were these invisible leaflets stapled to the script saying -˜risky’, -˜controversial’, -˜fear’.
Lures you in to following the story.
I bought the house in LA and before that I bought a 1970 Mustang muscle car with 450 horsepower. It's been in and out of hospital.
I don’t know, it baffles me. It’s just really immature I think at the end of the day.
I guess it stems from my parents and my family. They're big fans of keeping a good spirit and not breaking it.
My mom, she just works, she has a day job, she and her husband live elsewhere.
But he's also just such a gentleman, such a lovely, lovely guy, and that pleasantly surprised me. I do know that it's not everyone in his position is as friendly as he is.
And I thought that was going to be incredibly important and I just thought it was a good to try and open some people’s minds.
I love it and I take great pride in my music collection. A lot of it is Janis Joplin, Jefferson Airplane, Jim Morrison, The Cure, U2, Beck and Radiohead.
I had sixty-nine cents in my bank account and a bit of cash that my folks gave me.
I know they're talking about it, and I certainly hope they get Mel to do it again. And I think he would.
It had to be, because it’s a lonely story. But I’ve just grown to adore Ang after making this film.
He just really opened up to us and really embraced us now, which is really sweet.
No, I was really cool with it. I was kind of happy about it, actually. I had two houses, two sets of rules.
I hate to try and analyze it but it's more documentary. I'm documenting life. It doesn't really have a style or shape.
Yeah, but it's not like I come on board to the script and say, 'I want to have a scene where I sing.' It just happened and it was in the film.
Because with this awards season comes this false sense of success and false sense of failure at the same time.
I certainly had a mild understanding of it. But the characters are so incredibly described through the short story and the script that I didn’t need to refer to anything else, it’s just all there.
If Ang Lee's much feted western was his most intense film to date, Casanova sees Ledger in a lighter mood playing the legendary ladies' man in Lasse Hallström's whimsical Venetian tale.
It's a true story about his life and how this old man becomes his mentor. Most books I read I forget but this one stuck with me.
Yeah it does. I don’t mind being a part of that. It’s not really my job now to be representing a whole community, but I don’t mind it because even though it doesn’t directly effect me, it does disappoint me that there are still people in this world who go out of their way to protest and express disgust over the way in which two people choose to love one another.
He works as my PA.
Maybe I'd do something close to a beach . Other than that I'd probably take photos. I'd probably have to draw on something I could do, and that's photography, but I'd hate to ever think I'd have to turn a passion into a profession.
I knew that I didn’t have to hide anything I was feeling as an actor portraying it. I could in fact just be observed and I knew the camera would be able to capture something.
They really provided me with a comfortable environment for just being who you were, regardless, and not trying or wanting to be anything else.
Not really actually, quite the opposite. The banning in Utah -“ that’s one cinema in Utah. Salt Lake City actually sold out and all those so-called -˜red states’ in America are actually selling out and it’s quite the phenomenon.
Yeah I was. There’re two sides to Ang’s directing. There’s the pre-production side, and that’s where Ang is incredibly thorough and willing to express.
I was honored to be part of that and part of him. I was very excited to work with him, and extremely nervous.
Because it's for kids and for their parents, and the parents' parents - it's a Disney film.
It was.  It still is, I guess. An actor's a bit like a gypsy and I like that.
I don't know yet what it's like to live like that completely. To tell you the truth I don't think about it and I don't dwell on it.
Most people I work with become my role models, because growing up I didn’t watch many movies or anything, so I learn from them. 
Therefore we didn't have any schedule and we were shooting on a day-by-day basis.
But I also recognise that as a necessary part of me trying to convince myself to focus more and defeat myself and defeat my own anxieties.
And so there were no compliments, no nothing. You’d go home each day thinking you’re the biggest failure in the world.
I would do it, and we did as much of it as we could, but I'm really not willing to ride a horse towards another rider at full speed and hit them with a stick - or get hit myself.
But we never really went into it with any political intentions. I think had we have gone in thinking we were making this movie to change people’s minds we couldn’t have made the movie we were making, because we would have been aware of people’s opinions and judgements after the film of us and of the film and so therefore, just like any film, we had to make it as if no one’s going to see it, then it allows you to bare your soul and it doesn’t prohibit or restrict you from portraying.
But it’s a good thing, and if it does improve the way in which people perceive or look upon gay relationships then that’s a wonderful thing.
Yes, I guess. In the perfect world, I wouldn't have found the love of my life  before this movie.
That's the other thing, I'm so amazed and respectful of the fact that my parents are so lenient in the way of letting me follow my dreams and find my dream parts.
Yeah I enjoy physical roles. I do my own stunts. It’s fun. 
Then we take that away and digest it and process it.
It was a story I felt hadn’t made it to the big screen. I thought it was an opportunity to represent this form of love and to portray homosexual love -“ man on man or woman on woman love -“ as not being a disease or a plague or something that can be cured or a lifestyle choice.
Unfortunately it's not true. I'd love to do it. It'd be great.
It didn't bother me.
Yeah, till I was sixteen. Then I jumped in a car and drove to Sydney.
I don't believe anything that anyone says about my career or myself - good or bad.
But because of that you’d arrive the next day morning and want to do better, and kind of prove him wrong.
Yes, but I haven't had much time to in the past year. The last book I read was 'The Way of the Peaceful Warrior' by Daniel Mellman.
That's what Casanova was for me. I don't have to take myself seriously, I don't have to prove anything, I just wanted some fun, and that's what the script was.
Not really. I bought it ten months ago and I've lived in it for a total of about two months. But half of Australia has been there as all my mates have been over and stayed there while I was away, and I have a friend staying there right now who looks after things while I'm gone.
But I found him to be courageous because he stood against the systematic regime he was taught his whole life. 
I thought it was better to leave it for another day, when a film is trying to represent him.
It’s a pattern of mine. Whenever I want a role or get given a role I always try to back out of it and believe I can’t do it or shouldn’t do it.
They warned me, they said, 'If you go out and touch the fire you'll burn yourself,' and I went, 'Yeah, yeah.
He doesn’t speak that much. He’s a man of very few words, and the few words that do escape his mouth are quite often poetic and somewhat profound statements that mean the world to your character and the story and just kind of blows your mind.
Yes, but I don't know why I'm worried. If it all goes well, then fine. It'll be great.
More. It was wonderful, and the friendship was the stronghold of the movie. Brian brought us all into Prague a month early so we could rehearse, and we just spent a month drinking together.
I just go out there and do the job, and I had a great ensemble cast there to support me, so it never felt like it was just me running the show.
Maybe… Nah, I think it’s brilliant! 
That’s what I knew I had to give to those scenes. I knew it would be closer to something honest, purely because I wouldn’t have to hide as much, I’d be able to just experience it.
We all bonded and hopefully it comes over on screen.
I didn’t find it risky. Whether or not it’s controversial I think is completely relative to the person you are, and I never found the subject controversial, nor should it be.
I travel with 'the big pouch' - I've gotta have 'em all. And I love to go to live shows.
Jake had to be really comfortable with it and look as if he accepted it and had been there before. I had to have reservations and be nervous and have anxieties, like the character of Ennis.
Yeah, I did my final year mark a year early and I just left. Yeah, that train of life was flying by and I had to jump on it, I had to get out of there.
So rehearsals were just drinking and getting to know each other.
After reading the script, I realised it wasn't taking responsibility, so why should I. Also, I'd just come off Brokeback Mountain and that had been excruciating and Casanova was like my holiday.
I just show up for work and live my normal life.
Nothing. I'm going to take 6 months off. I've been working 18 months straight so I've got to balance it out a bit.
I know it was a big budget film, but between 'action' and 'cut' there's very little difference between a $50 million film and a $3 million one.
Kind of, but they don't really bug you. You're just aware of it and you feel like you're in everyone's peripheral vision all the time.
It's very open to suggestion and just capturing the moment, and I love doing it.
He is my brother. He is such a beautiful soul and has this huge presence. At first he is intimidating because he is so massive, but then you get to know him, and he’s so sweet and gentle. 
My dad is in the engineering industry in Perth, he designed a crusher, which crushes rocks and iron ore and gold and all the stuff in iron mines.
Yes, shooting the film entirely in Venice was like a four-and-a-half month tour of a city. Venice feels like it should only exist in your dreams, but it's real, and you really are floating in a boat to work in the morning.
But I do have an uncle who is gay and incredibly masculine. You’d never guess it in a million years, and he’s a really good friend of mine.
But it is overwhelming and I haven't been dealing with the fame and celebrity because I've just been working my arse off.
I do find the comedy in it and have a good laugh, and I think that's probably the only way you can deal with it.
I hope it does help.
Unlike Don Juan, who just had sex with them and woke up in the morning and laughed in their face.
It is, and I'll find out just how bad it is next week when I go back there.
I want to travel and just live.
And now I have just the two most beautiful girls in the world, who I fall deeper and deeper in love with daily.
And I've still kept moving up till now, and I do still enjoy it. I haven't found any one particular place as my one and only home.
In a sense it was almost like doing a bio-pic, because it was so clear, so clear how to play them.
Music. It's hard to live without music, but it'd be harder to live without sex.
I don't think I could do a regular 9 to 5 job. The only thing I've ever done professionally is acting.
I read it and that definitely kind of bled into my initial response. As I was sitting there and the story was sinking in all of that kind of disappeared and I realised that was kind of manufactured and sent to me from all the people in the past who didn’t want to do it -“ producers, directors, actors -“ and they weren’t my fears.
And in terms of the pressure of being the lead role, I just looked at it as having more time to arc my character.
Yeah, but only because I'm so fucking sick of work. 18 months, long f***king hours with no days off, and I really need a rest.
You bet. We hit all the bars. I think the cheapest beer we found was about 25 cents for a big flag on so a lot of fun was had by all.
I think they will. The timing is ironic, but I like that people are talking. 
I can’t say I wasn’t nervous. But once the first take was over the mystery was gone, and it was like, -˜Whatever.
It wasn’t hard; there was an interesting four weeks where we discussed the movie and the script. I prepared by taking a clean slate and starting from scratch and getting an understanding of the movie by talking about it. 
Why aren’t they using all that energy to go out and protest the ways in which two people would express anger and violence toward each other?
He's a blockbuster, he's a superhero amongst the industry. He's really just levelheaded, truly, he walked to the beat of life in such a wonderful way.
Then there’s the shooting side of Ang, where he just goes silent. It’s very clear that now is his time to create.
It is a gay story because it’s between two men, but it was important to have him just as a human being, filled out with human flaws and faults, and let the story carry.
I guess that's how they pushed me out into the world, and from there I just did that, and found my own lifestyle and way of living.
I learned a lot socially, and professionally about the industry and the way he tackles it. I guess I also learned a lot about just relaxing and relaxing on set, and not over preparing, not over thinking.
What I was left with once that all disappeared was this incredible story and one of the most beautiful screenplays I’ve ever read.
Yeah, you can't help but be worried. But it's all so new for me I don't quite know how I'm going to deal with all that.
I can’t say I thoroughly enjoyed the process because it was a really lonely experience making this film.
They have the attitude of letting their kids grow up and discover things for themselves and be happy with themselves.
The level of intimacy and emotion experienced within these relationships are exactly what happens within heterosexual love.
I wasn't that intimidated. I was more intimidated after I'd made the movie and saw my mug on the poster.
The script was completely destroyed and re-written two weeks before we shot the film. Which was crazy considering the pre-production.
The only time, quite honestly, that we think about it is like, today, when people keep asking. Otherwise I think it’s dangerous to think about it.
And just the pacing of it too. You’re never for one minute spoon fed a beat. It just draws you in.
Maybe it's a fashion thing. We're all in fashion now. Maybe we present new flavors and spices people haven't seen much before.
I've liked the changes it's had inside of me already, and the clarity it's given me in life. I'm so focused, and I feel like I'm finally synchronizing in life on a grand scale, it's wonderful.
No, with my best mate, Trevor. It's a long drive and it's one straight road with nothing between.
To attempt that would have been interesting. But because the story and film wasn't doing that, I kind of didn't want to attempt it.
Sensitivity and acceptance. She's a very warm, caring woman.
I really want to go to the Caribbean. I've never been there before and I want to explore all the islands.
I didn't want to take it seriously. Sometimes I feel I don't want to prove anything to myself. I just want to have fun and go on a working holiday.
Yeah, we were meant to, and we did. But ultimately Brian just wanted us to get there and become friends and create something that glued us all together on screen - and we did, instantly.
So you don't get bugged. It's just that and feeling self-conscious. And I don't take it all too seriously.
I certainly didn’t base it on him, but I’ve definitely spoken to him about what he’s going through in order to accept himself.
But I do like to sing. It's a part of me.
It is honestly, in our minds -“ we all received letters from Annie Proulx stating just that -“ that’s about as successful as we can get, we feel.
No, he's not an actor. I've known him since I was three, and we haven't spent two months apart. And he's like my brother.
They were really hitting each other. Unbelievable! So I'd like to have given it a shot, but.
I am listening to Sting right now. But I like almost everything. 
I bought a house here. But if I'm not needed here I go back home.
U2 and Bono were big for me. They were the first really influential band for me. But no actors.
No, purely because my philosophy was, you know, the character I was playing -¦ I don’t have to go out and find out how to play gay, because I think that’s what the problem is -“ labels.
Yeah, it's all overwhelming. But I haven't lived with it that long and I've been working pretty hard for the last 18 months straight, so it's all new.
I have Brooklyn now instead of fucking Hollywood, which I’m so happy to leave. Just happiness. Aside from the movie, just so much in my life has changed from making this choice, that I’ll just forever be grateful to Ang for hooking me up, so to speak.
It was just way too f***king dangerous. Stunt guys were getting injured badly. One guy had his jaw ripped back, and had 15 stitches and was back on the horse two weeks later - and it happened again.
I used to play a lot of field hockey when I was a kid, and I think that just went into this. I have wrists from playing field hockey and I've wielded a sword before in films.
I have loved, I have loved women. I know he was quite bi-sexual, he kind of flung himself around, and so that wasn't a similarity.
No. I couldn't. If I didn't do this I don't know what I'd do.
I don't know if i can describe myself. It's too hard.
All of them, but I have become attached to the role of Ned Kelly 
I want warm water and to go surfing. I also want to go to Indonesia. But there's plenty of surf in Australia - and sharks.
He’s very private. He takes us aside separately to inject us with this information. We don’t sit around a boardroom table and have conversations about each and every character.
So really, it's just my appreciation for love and being in love, and he did fall in love with each and every conquest.
2005 will undoubtedly have gone down as a pretty good 12 months for Heath Ledger. He starred in a whopping five films - The Brothers Grimm, Lords Of Dogtown, Brokeback Mountain, Casanova and upcoming Aussie pic Candy - garnering rave reviews and awards as he went, and, as if that wasn't enough, became a dad with Brokeback co-star Michelle Williams.
So it was to be expected, because that’s just part of today’s society. But I think it’s exceeding expectations, the level of acceptance.
They were never ones who pressured opinions on me or pressured me on ways of living life. They were completely open for me to discover that myself.
She was our greatest critic. She’s a tough one. And that was about the highest level for us, so we were definitely blushing on that.
It was wacky. I'd go to one place and when I was sick of that and needed a break I'd go to the other.
Every Tuesday night we played drums with a Sudanese band, and got drunk on red wine. 
' I went out and I touched it and I'd come back with scars and say, 'Yeah, you're right.' But I have a wonderful relationship with them, and they're like best friends of mine.
So it’s kind of up and down, up and down. I think it’s good to just breathe, not take it seriously, and kind of smile your way through it.
And Ang Lee was the director and I’ve always wanted to work with him.
No. I guess I'm sort of semi-based here in L. A.
It’s kind of surreal, the level to which this movie has just changed my life. The amount of synchronicity that has come from this one choice, one day, just deciding to do this movie.
Your time to create was in pre-production. By now you have to have it figured out, because I’m not going to help you any more.
Now it’s my turn. Now I’m gong to make my masterpiece while you guys just have to know what you’re doing, otherwise you’re miscast.
The character is epic. It starts in one place and ends in another. He is labeled as a coward on paper, using his wife as an excuse. 
And an opportunity to play this incredibly complex, lonely man. And so I was really excited.
God, when I first turned up on set I was literally shaking in my boots, but he just put me at ease straightaway.
And so there was definitely directorial manipulation, but because it’s Ang Lee you just allow yourself to be manipulated.
