Yes. Later -- before -- before I went to Marquette, I spent four years at the University of Wisconsin and played tennis there. 
No. No, not really. We had hoped, with the profits from the book -- we had to spend all of the profits on legal affairs. 
And after that, I played attorney a couple of times to protect myself. But we had hoped from the profits to have Fred Berlin  at the Hopkins Institute and a woman psychiatrist from the University of Arizona investigate, actually in person investigate, not just for an insanity -- purposes of an insanity trial establishment, but really get to the core of why he did this. 
He read a statement that -- at the end that he -- it sounded like he was remorseful. 
Yes. And that somehow set him off on a homosexual murder spree. KING: That eventually took how many lives? 
There doesn't -- I told him, There just doesn't seem to be any other way to go right now. 
But he didn't torture animals. He didn't fit the profile. Well, he fit some of the profile. 
Right. KING: When you see Satanic cult, isn't that some sort -- when you wrote in your book, "more than anything I allowed myself to believe there was a line in Jeff, I line he wouldn't cross. 
We arranged it. We arranged a meeting with her and Jeff at the prison. And then later, when he was murdered... 
And his mother, his natural mother, wanted the brain, the dead brain to be studied. I was all in favor before of having him studied by tomography  and while he was alive. 
And we signed an affidavit that this was not true, and it turned out this -- later, this fellow that appeared on "Geraldo" was a felon. 
We found out that he had been collecting at the age of 12 to 14 -- you know, when your hormones are ranging, puberty -- he was collecting dead animals, road kill, riding around the rural roads and collecting them in bags. 
You know, back in the '50s and '60s, especially with men, you weren't really taught to be a psychologist. 
I didn't think he got through it. I think -- I thought at that time it would take a long time. 
Yes. Yes. If they feel -- if it's obvious that the child feels very inferior and shy, doesn't want to interact, get some help. 
His mother didn't know. I didn't know. And apparently, none of his playmates knew. 
He had tendencies to denigrate himself. And he even told his grandmother one time, if I die, just throw me down the field. 
Thirty-three? Thirty-three. And for the second time I sat at my desk, totally numb, paralyzed, to get -- to get the news. 
Jeff told me that that was a very, very small part. It was a part. But very much overblown by the media. 
I hugged him. And said, Jeff -- and he said to me, I really messed up this time, which is an understatement. 
There aren't many. But I imagine it's extremely rough for them to go through this. 
That's what he felt. That's why he felt he could just do whatever he wanted to. That's quite different from knowing the cause. 
Even the psychiatrist that examined him at -- for the purpose of the trial didn't really know why he did it. 
Jeff was older. So yes, they enjoyed themselves as brothers, but there was always that seven years' difference in interests, so it -- they weren't as close as someone maybe that was one or two years different. 
And I believe that the Bible teaches that that is something that you should avoid. Just like too much food, too much drink, too much of anything. 
Jeff -- he -- at first it was extremely hard, but then he -- he sent away for 13 books. It's down in Alcahone , California, Institute for Creation Research. 
It affected him. Yes, he loved him. But many times, he just tolerated him because -- because his younger brother was so expressive and active that sometimes he got on his nerves. 
I was going to Marquette for my master's in analytical chemistry at that time. 
I can't either. To this day, I can't really see how I -- we both just sat there. 
It was right after the move from Iowa State University after I got my Ph.D. 
We involved him in all kinds of activities. We interacted at school. We tried to get him together with some kids. 
We talked -- we reached out with several of the families. Shari was so wonderful in that regard. I couldn't have gotten through this without Shari, first of all, let me say. 
Yes. His elementary school teacher tried desperately to get him to interact with the other children, but it just didn't work. 
And one of the things I'd like to tell parents is don't disregard shyness. Things can be fomenting in that young mind. 
And when Shari and I went and visited him at the prison, talked to him on the phone, he expressed how grateful he was for bringing us together, for sort of a rehumanizing... 
There is -- there is a -- there's a couple of guys named Ambler and Dickinson? 
He had a small circle of friends who liked to play gags and joke around a lot and... 
And we would walk her around and around. My mother and father would do the same. 
I -- this attorney said he was confident that it was something that was allowed to happen, as he put it. 
And ringing doorbells, tromping all over our yard and looking in, trying to see in our windows. It was horrible. 
My father was a schoolteacher and a barber. He brought himself up from the bootstraps. His father and mother died at a very young age. 
Before 12, there really wasn't -- I mean, if I had known about the roadkill, that would have been a red flag. 
Well, I'm not -- sometimes I feel like I do, in that, I mean, I'm not a participant in it, and yet I feel guilty that I didn't spend more time with Jeff, rather than on my -- with my wife. 
Well, I was desperately trying to keep the marriage together. My wife wanted to go off and find herself, she said, which means I don't know what. 
Actually, the eating part was more like, you know, how the Indians -- the ancient Indians used to eat parts of humans hoping that they would gather strength from that, you know. 
Not very well. I'm a believer in absolute truth. I think people that don't believe in absolute truth may be prone to be more liberal with error. 
I didn't know that. He was going down to his friend's house and taking from the liquor cabinet. 
He laughed, yes. It wasn't as if he was totally morose, Larry, you know. But after we moved from Iowa to Ohio, it seemed like the inferiority and shyness just was so exacerbated and increased to a great degree. 
...been called by Shari that there were a few involved in a homicide. I didn't... 
It's a very uncommon name, and I imagine that this is rough on them. There aren't many as you go from city to city and look at the phone books. 
And taking -- going to school. There was one brief episode where we found a pipe, at one point, yes. 
Yes. I would give him my car to go look for a job, and he would end up drinking and leaving the car. 
Well, I -- I played attorney, filed briefs and appeared in Wisconsin court and -- and won. The judge ruled in my favor, and not to turn this into a circus. 
It was a line dividing the harm he might do to himself from the harm he might do to someone else." 
He was very subdued, to say the least. And he walked around like a little old man -- I can still see him in his robe -- and complained about hurting very much. 
He served. He came back from boot camp looking like just a wonderful physical specimen, smiling, helped me out cutting wood. 
I have a very good ancestry, and I'm proud of the name. The only thing is when we go out, sometimes we'll give a different name so that -- you know, at a restaurant, for example, so that we don't cause a lot of people to change -- you know, to move their heads around and look, and, Oh... 
I told him about the place. And he bought 13 books that turned him from a -- an evolutionist into a creationist and from there into a Christian. 
Serial killers, yes. And, you know, there's a certain profile, of course: 34 and white and so forth and so on. 
Yes, talk deeply and intensely. It'll come out, I think, eventually. I wasn't tuned to that. 
How was he to me? He was -- I have things that he wrote from school expressing love. And he told me that he loved me very much. 
He got a note at the library one time where he was, and a note offering sex. And this was after five years that he was living with my mother. 
Yes, I -- we involved him in soccer and tennis and 4-H. We raised lambs and chickens on our two-acre property. 
He did have a small circle of kids. It wasn't as if he was just totally off in a corner. 
He hesitated at first, but later on, he really wanted to find out what was causing him to do these things. 
Why am I coming on to talk to you? I really want to tell parents about what I think they should look for in rearing their children. 
But he did tell me why he felt that he could do what he did. Why he felt free to do what he did. 
Yes. I would never have put him and us or anyone through this insanity trial if I had known that this was, I believe, a -- what would we call it -- a situation where they wanted to assuage the community. 
My wonderful ex-boss said but for the grace of God, there I go. But... KING: But do we have any exhaustive studies of... 
But there was one thing that was different with Jeff. He did what most all of us young males do when the hormones kick in tremendously, and he was doing something sexually with them. 
And I took it as something to be conquered, I felt. So I took him to a psychiatrist. And really it was for mostly, at that point, the drinking and the... 
That goes back to -- he did tell me that he felt that he just wanted to examine everything as -- every possibility as far as control, having control. 
You mean when he was finally arrested July 1991? No, he did not deny it. 
No, I -- I did not see him get angry with anyone physically. He would get angry at his younger brother, but not physically. 
Sometimes he would get an "A," and sometimes he'd get a "D." It was very up and down. 
Well, most of the media and the people who were harmed by Jeff wanted to sort of keep him at a distance, so it was Jeffrey, more formalized, instead of... 
And I said, Jeff, you really need help. The only way I can see is to have you judged insane so that you'd be put into a psychiatric hospital to really find out what's wrong. 
Get some intervention by a psychologist, minister or some type of social worker. 
I would have done something immediately, intervened. But before that, there wasn't really anything. 
There were a few cousins that wanted to distance -- yes, distance from us. 
And I think the neuronal connections, you know, made contact and sort of hard-wired Jeff, so to speak. 
I had moved out of the house, and he was left alone by his mother, who moved to northern Wisconsin. 
He was -- he was -- I'm sure, in talking with him, it wasn't just a jailhouse conversion. I really believe that. 
Well, he examined them and he cut into them, cut them open to examine the insides of the animals. And by the way, a lot of people have been telling me that they've done the same thing, but they didn't turn out like Jeff. 
And a friend of his played with him on the team. And instead of playing, you know, seriously, they would just joke around. 
No teacher told us about the time that -- we found out later that he had a six-pack at high school. 
For a while, it went very well. My mother cooked for him. And he finally found a job at a chocolate company. 
Right. Right. And some -- eventually, it got so bad that we sent him to his grandmother's house in Wisconsin. 
I tried to hook him up with another psychologist, but he didn't -- Jeff did not attend on a regular basis. 
Yes, he did. But he, you know, had a very rough time with her physical and mental problems. 
Yes. Yes, that's really my -- I have no other motivation, except to try to help people. 
Yes. His brother was very, very ebullient and outgoing, just wanted to talk to everyone, not shy. 
Not well. I sat with my mother and -- and our home was invaded by national as well as international photographers set up across the street with -- on neighbors' porches. 
But don't forget, during all this time when he was at Ohio State, he was drinking to cover up that first killing that occurred in... 
Well, you know, I -- I talked with an attorney who has access to that prison quite intimately. And what happened was there were -- there was about 20 to 40 minutes of time where no one, that is the staff at the prison, no one knew the whereabouts of this person, who took a barbell, the rod, the bar from weightlifting equipment, and hit it and bludgeoned Jeff to death. 
Yes. Unknown to us -- we found out all of this at the trial in Milwaukee, the so-called trial to establish his insanity so he could get treated properly at a psychiatric institution. 
Oh, yes. We hired someone, an attorney, to represent him. And I argued for a very firm follow-up on a psychological basis. 
Yes. Nothing seemed to help until we would have to call the doctor, administer barbiturates and... 
Well, we don't know why he killed. I really believe there was a chance of finding that out, had he not been murdered and he had been studied extensively. 
He did drink in his 11th and 12th grade, which we found out -- I didn't know anything about that. 
