Oh trust me. That is so far beyond common sense, Ruben. 
Give me his number and I'll crank call him. Some people just don't know how to appreciate what they've got. 
I just told her that I did. 
No, no I don't do that. 
Instantly, yes. He's a great guy. 
There's all these people watching you and unless that's -- you're in to that kind of stuff, you know, which I'm sure there are those types too but, you know, it's just it's not. 
That's what I hear. 
Because there are so many actors who are brilliant that should be working and they don't. 
I'm not talking about it. I'm not talking about it. 
We give them a movie, a television show, theater, you know. You buy your tickets. You go and see our work, if we're on the red carpet, we're at a premier, we're, you know, at a public event but when it's your backyard, when it's at your home, when it's... 
I don't read them. I just don't read them. 
No, she's in "Rumor Has It." 
It's just uncomfortable. 
She looks terrific. 
Well, it was a -- it was just a different part than usually comes my way so I was -- I was intrigued with the script. 
Oh, I got it, Ross. DAVID SCHWIMMER, ACTOR: You had no right to tell me you ever had feelings for me. 
You're the only person I knew who lived here in the city. 
Well, I was nervous, you know, going in just because of those reasons but Clive, Michael, everyone involved was -- I just, I mean that was gone in moments. 
I didn't know then. 
It was so fantastic and the cast, of course, and Michael Hostrum  and it was just something I hadn't done before. 
I'll take them down. 
I was the competition. I wasn't even the Bob's Big Boy. I was the bad, I was the, you know... 
They just want a photograph so they can make a buck. 
Yes, I did, yes. 
... someone, yeah. 
Yes. But it's also -- there's nobody sort of stopping it or corralling it in any way so it's kind of just a free for all. 
Butterflies and the audience and feeding off that energy is great. 
I think they're waiting for me, Ross. I can't do this right now. I am sorry. 
It's a bitch. It's not great, no. 
Oh, I would kill them. Are you kidding me? 
Oh, yes. Absolutely. 
I've been living my life, OK? I've been in good relationships and I've been in  and I've moved a lot and I've been happy and I've been sad and I've been lonely and that's what I've been doing, which is a lot more than I can say for some freak who thinks he's going to the get the Ebola virus from a bowl of mixed nuts. 
Some people don't. I do, it's a lot of work. 
None. None, as far as I can tell. 
...good comedy is just being -- you have to say it with, you know, believe it with every ounce of your body and that's the only way comedy is really good. 
Yes. And something editing -- anything. It can be just -- it doesn't always -- you know, the alchemy isn't always there, you know. 
The chemistry and good writing and hard work. 
I was. Everybody, all of us were, sure. 
Well they're -- they're uncomfortable. 
I have to get on the plane. 
That bastard. Do you want me to yell at him for you? Come on. 
You know, comedy, when they say comedy is -- you know it's... 
No, I know but I've talked about it. I think we've -- I've covered this. You know, I -- I because it's so behind me. 
KING: You know him when you see him, you know. 
How many of "Friends"? 
I just felt very safe, very comfortable and it was all very, handled very, you know, well. 
Sure. Don't we all have pain, my gosh? Everybody has pain. 
Oh, yes. Oh, my God that's our friend! It's naked Ron . 
And isn't it beautiful? 
Oh, Larry, let's not talk about this, come on. 
All three. No one getting lazy and the actors just loving each other, working well together. Just sort of, again, lightning in a bottle. 
I guess so. I guess so. 
It's a bummer. It's just sort of one of those... 
Yes, you know, it's -- you have to be in the moment, you're in the moment. I mean I'm not going to say that it's -- it's devoid of any emotion. 
You know what? I don't want to be with them either, but it's Thanksgiving, and we should not want to be together together! 
Are you here for couples' bowling? 
But I chose it. I also wouldn't trade it in for the world what I get to do for that. I mean just because of that. 
I think I do. I mean, come on, it's starting to get really dangerous. 
I'm laughing at something else. 
There's too many people. 
But you know what everybody knows what comes along with this business. You know if you've had any time in it at all you know what comes with the dinner. 
I do like Harvey. 
They're very uncomfortable. They're technical. They're, you know, there's people -- it is. 
The movie opens Friday. Don't go away. 
That's true. KING: And a critic of his best work that's fair game but he didn't -- whatever else he gave you was of his own volition, do you agree with that? 
What are the chances of that? 
I would, yes, if it was -- if I felt I could do it well. 
It's a couple that breaks up that, you know, sort of in the heat of a fight, they break up. And neither of them -- they both refuse to leave the condo that they live in. 
It's what you would imagine it to be. It's not great. 
Are you trying to talk me out of it? Oh my god. Ever, ever, rule your life. 
And I think, like I said... 
No, "Friends" actually never got boring because that was sort of a group of people that had... 
I know. We're having some fun. 
I know, and I think that's fantastic. I just, for me personally, I'd like to share that with... 
They chase you in cars, they'll run red lights, they drive on sidewalks. There are people, there's people. 
I don't know. When he's sitting on this desk you can ask him that question. 
That was the very first on camera thing, yes. 
Yes. Yes, you -- well, I'll always take them head on if they -- they cross lines anyway but when they really go too far, you know. 
I don't really think any, private life none but it's somehow got through the cracks and it's just -- it's just OK. 
How many shows? Oh, years, we did 10 years. 
I just did, yes. 
If it was -- you know, I don't -- I don't want to say never, but I just don't think I could ever top "Friends," what I -- the time I had and the quality of that show. 
Not that. It's not that complicated. 
I go to -- my characters? 
If I ever become that person please do something with me. 
Yes, if you package it, but you can't. And that's sort of the fun of it, the sort of experiment, you know. 
I feel very lucky. I mean I don't know, you know, I just feel lucky to be able to do things other than that character, you know, other than Rachel to be able to sort of move on into films and be accepted. 
He's a, you know, everybody, they're all big boys and big girls. Everybody knows what they're getting into. 
Just for every reason you just said, very intriguing. 
You just have to" because he... 
Yes, usually but it's -- I feel very fortunate that that's -- I've had some opportunities. 
Yes, you got to go do your, you know, go to work. 
That was the only commercial I ever got. I could never get a commercial to save my life and it was... 
Oh, yes, always. 
No, I don't. No, I read somewhere where somebody said something that they said "I have no regrets. I just have great experiences" and I do. 
You said he's a national treasure. He's a great actor. He's fantastic to work with. 
Yes, but like I said it's toxic. I don't want to -- I want no part of it and it's the only way you can really go through, walk through anything like that with any kind of dignity is to just not succumb to that crap. 
And the writers were so determined never to get lazy, you know, that it's easy for a show that was that successful to sort of sit back and rest on your laurels and not really -- but they just kept every year to year up until the tenth season they kept pulling out good stuff. 
There was nothing really -- you know, put mama to bed. I think she had enough. 
I don't know. It won't take long, trust me. He's known. 
Then, a layer of jam. Then, custard -- which I made from scratch! Then cranberries, more lady fingers, then beef sauteed with peas and onions, more custard, and then bananas, and then I just put some whipped cream on top. 
That worked and there was nothing boring about that. 
Yes and I bet I can do it in three drinks. 
It's finished and it was great. 
Nobody should ever be that large, truthfully. 
I hate everybody here. I hate Gwen. I don't know what the hell she's so happy about. 
I had never done -- worked with the company before so... 
It's a trifle. It's got all of these layers. First, there is a layer of lady fingers. 
Yes, I did and I had done a lot of failed television shows, I sort of thought that's what I did. KING: You were a failed television actress? 
I'm starting to understand why maniacs go out there and get shotguns and shoot everybody to pieces. 
Yes, you know, you do six episodes of this and then you go, all right, well that was a good year, go on to the next one, you know. 
It's in a movie. Yes you can. I'm just laughing. 
It's just not -- it's my past. I'm in a, you know, I'm here in a great place. I'm very happy. 
Yes, it absolutely was, same kind of but it was like opening night every Friday night. 
Don't you think you and I should discuss something first? 
OK, good, this is where I want to be. I don't want to mess this up again. 
The very first thing I did was a Bob's Big Boy commercial. 
I really -- well, I understand but I'd rather not. 
... you didn't, but you had the carrot... 
We knew there was something special. 
It just -- sometimes it is, sometimes it isn't. And you just do you -- you know, that's the thing. It's like you said, if there was a formula, we would all be guaranteed great movies. 
Oh, sure, yes but I think it's really... 
I think I would really love it. And I think she's fantastic. 
I was four years old and I was on the swing and then all of a sudden my hair got tangled in the chain and to get me out my mom had to -- had to cut a big chunk of my hair and it was uneven for weeks. 
I would actually. I haven't been asked that. 
Yes, absolutely. 
I was kind of hoping that wouldn't be an issue. 
Oh, my God, Ross no, hang up the phone. Give me the phone. Give me the phone. 
OK, fine, but you know what? If I was in 36d, we would not be having this problem! 
Yes, I guess it's -- I don't know. I mean it rolls off my tongue, rolls off a lot of people I know's tongue, you know, but I know what you mean. 
She plays my grandmother. 
Give me the phone. 
I mean, I don't think so. I don't think that's in our future. 
I think it's romantic. 
Oh, yes, absolutely. It gets so boring you know just to do the same thing over and over again. 
Gary , this is couple's bowling, and since you and I are no longer a couple, I think you should leave. 
The ending, you know, it was hard. It was -- it was emotional. 
Yes, that's true, because it is. 
It's hard but I think if they approached it not as a different animal than drama they would -- it would be easier. 
There's a lot of them. Let's see, who would I like to work with? Oh my gosh. 
Oh, we didn't hear anything about that. 
Oh, yes, completely but you know that's the thing you always -- you always wait for. It doesn't happen all the time where someone actually thinks this would be interesting to take this person, this personality and put them in this part. 
No, not really. I mean, you know, it's great to get to go to work but, you know, I -- I don't find myself escaping into my characters if that's what you mean. 
Mine just happened to be played out in front of everybody but that's I guess, do you know what I mean? 
Hey, I was doing great before I found out about you. You think it's easy for me to see you with Julie? 
Yes. It's comedy, but it's says some emotional -- a lot of emotional turns. 
Sure. I don't know. 
Oh, I've never seen a moon that big. 
You mean the career, he's had it. I mean he lives -- he's been in this business a long time. 
How did you feel when you saw all the Brady Bunch get back together? Wasn't that just a little weird? 
Part of the job. Even walking in and out of here. 
I had it. Oh, I can't believe this. 
Yes. Ridiculous, isn't it? It's silly. 
And she said, "Well, if you have an opportunity, if that can happen, you have to do it because he's unbelievable" and she was right. 
Yes, absolutely, don't you think, isn't it? 
You know Chicago is in my future though. 
I had never been a part of a show that went past a certain amount of episodes. But, there was definitely... 
I have, yes, well... 
I think you're just a little embarrassed that Richard kicked your ass. 
Well, she hadn't even -- it was just a very bizarre sort of quirk moment where we were on -- we were out in Italy and they were shooting a movie "Ocean's 12" gang and she just said out of the blue, I had just gotten the script delivered and I saw Clive's name and I hadn't even read it yet and she just sort of out of the blue 20 minutes later says "Has anybody worked with Clive Owen"? 
Well, if you consider death threats angry. 
You don't follow them to their private events and to their children's schools and to their family or friends' funerals or whatever. 
We were really having fun. We really had fun. So just like anything, it's -- it's an ebb and a flow. 
Yes, it's great. 
Because it's none of your -- I don't mean to say that. It sounds harsh to say it's none of your business but it's -- I've learned my -- you know you learn your lessons. 
I have it, I have it, I have it! OK, I can't find it, but I remember that I was in seat 32c, because that's my bra size. 
I'd love to work with -- I hate that question, Larry. I can't think that fast. 
There was a little quirk. 
Yes, the Weinstein Company. 
Oh, God. You know, I have to say, my favorite episodes are usually our Thanksgiving episodes. I can't pick one, but I loved our Thanksgiving episodes. 
You wanted me to take them down so I'm taking them down, okay? Rachel, Rachel! I'm OK. 
Yes, we love him. He's great. 
I don't think it would go into the thinking. Well, I'm sure there are some but, you know, it's not like my -- my intention here is -- my goal is I want to be a star and I want to have that lifestyle of, you know, whatever that involves. 
I wear it with a badge of honor. Nothing I'm embarrassed about truthfully. It's life. 
He's a national treasure. 
I'm on the clock. We're on the clock, we're working right now. I think when you're off the clock, you should be off the clock. 
I'm thinking about it. 
Oh, it's not really gambling when you never lose. 
I'm working with her! No, I am not. I would love to work with Julia. 
Oh, in finance, every day is a busy day. 
KING: Well, "Derailed" is really moving on. We'll be right back with Jennifer Aniston and Clive Owen. 
The grand experiment. Sometimes you have to be on board to have all of it. 
It was time. It was just done. It was done. 
Of course. There are definitely those days. But, you know, again, it didn't feel like a job. 
No. I think we do our job. We go to work. 
Come on. That's weird. 
They don't want you here either, Gary. 
You know I like you. I can't deny that but my heart belongs to Nick, OK? 
I mean, it's just -- come on, it's common sense. 
And I just went wow that's weird. Well I just got a script. And she just said, "You have to. 
No, I don't think so. I mean, again, never say never, but I don't think so. 
You can just unlock the door. 
Thank God Des Moines got it. 
I don't know what you're talking about. 
Friends will always remain friends. 
Always. It's weird. 
That just doesn't come along very often. 
Thank you. OK, good night. 
Oh, I'm drinking you under the bar mister. 
That's been and that means hard, fun, you know, every kind. 
