We both were just like, "I just knew." 
It took a few years to adjust. I didn't really realize how angry and distorted I felt. For, like, probably a solid three years. 
I just knew: "This bitch needs to write a movie for me." 
No, because then that's more exposure—that's just more me. I want less me. I want people to have less me. 
I hope I'm never seen in that light. 
Yeah. My mom always says she…wanted me to fail so that I could come home, because not failing meant me being in New York. 
I'll love him from afar. I don't, like, date a lot. I don't meet a lot of guys who I want to go on a date with. 
But all the actors were doing that. None of us were getting our  quotes. But the difference in who was getting a little less, and a lot less, than their quote was very vast. 
They're trying to realistically make this happen. You know,  my agent was like, "God, I feel like I look like a terrible agent." Well, no, because you have to do everything I say. 
ah yeah, famous people are everywhere. 
I have just always just been kind of uncomfortable with that. 
She lost a daughter, really, at 14. I mean, she's very proud of me. She got on board when she saw how happy it made me. 
I’ve realized the ultimate dream of any actress: be on top as a young actress, and in a short time.
She’s weeping all over the place 
I know it looks like a gag. It's really, really not. 
Yes, me personally. And that was actually really good for me to kind of put myself in a place, not as my character, to go to someplace that I wasn't going to go. 
It’s like a totally plausible reason to get mad at somebody “you gave me walking pneumonia… I don’t even know what to say” 
I've tried to absorb every director I've worked with like a sponge. I've been making notes for seven years. 
But these two women—and Amy—they're really lovely. And they're so normal. I feel like I'm hanging out with my friends—my friends that don't give a f--k about what I do. 
Adele and I are a bit harsher; Emma's never had a bad thought about anybody in her life. It's so weird; I don't like new people. 
yeah I'm a little sick, i'm a little drunk 
What do I do? What do I do? I'm just a girl, sitting in front of the world and asking them to forgive her for speaking. 
Wink!... and I was like “she did it” 
Um well I was sitting with my family and Bradly and David and everybody, but Adele was in the table that was, it was the next table over and I had such a high fever I felt like I couldn't move and I saw Adele and there was nobody in the way and she was sitting in the table BY herself and I was sitting, my dad was sitting next to me here and I just reached my arm out and went . 
But that's simply not true. And so we've fortunately proved that. 
There’s something going on… yeah 
And she — she gets ahead by using her mind. I find it empowering. 
Four months. Four months. I saw Trainwreck in July, and I emailed her. 
Not really anything else. You should see some of the people I find attractive. You'd be shocked. 
Yeah no I'm good, I got-I got, I just went to the doctor today I got a chest X-ray... 
I still have that feeling from being a teenager: "I'm good at this, and I like this." So I want to keep doing it, because it makes me feel good about myself. 
Uh well… the Hollywood foreign press 
It's so annoying, honestly. And now I've gone from the charming, like, "Oh my God, whoops, I fell"—now it really pisses me off. 
I love Emma. She cracks me up; she's so "theater." She's so adorable. And Adele and I met, like, a year or so ago. 
Even I've defended myself by saying I was in a relationship with a wonderful man for five years. But even if I wasn't, even if I  went on a date with a guy—it doesn't matter what the situation is. 
My dad and I both like react differently on camera, we both… my dad and I turned into compulsive red necks and my mother just turns into like the weeping willow… 
We shot it back-to-back with the first part, even though it will come out next year  but I had the time to train between shoots.
I wouldn’t say different approaches. Sometimes it helps me to think about how another actor would play my character.
I’m sorry but I really didn’t want to drink though… they, they… I was nervous and they were like drink this… 
It wasn't, until the X-ray. I think, I just hope that know one will see my breasts in that Xray. 
I… well I’ve never really had a problem with getting tickets for my family, which is weird because I think that’s like a… a big struggle with everything, normally you only get plus one but I… I think they’re in the mafia or something. 
Well yeah then you’d be in fights with a lot of people 
Truth to be told, in the first part of Mockingjay, Katniss doesn’t have to go back to the Hunger Games, so she didn’t have a lot of stunts or fight scenes.
Oh God… that’s sad yeah, well I don’t won’t to be that person so I just 
No but Brad… but David’s thing was he would… he would always be really close like we were doing a diner scene and he was literally… he was in… laying down in the booth right next to me like three inches away and I’m talking and doing this scene and I just hear him start to go “Oh God!”… “Oh I hate this”… “Oh it’s so bad” and I’m finally just like “Do you want me to do something else?” he’s like “Yes anything” 
Because I knew. Emma Stone and I—we stayed up until, like, six in the morning talking about it the other night. 
So you don't see me as a slutty power lesbian on the red carpet a lot, because I'm embodying the Dior woman, which is an honor.… But  I've got tits and an ass. 
Yeah I didn’t come over with a hundred“ I’m sorry” 
Well, I wonder how many people infected me. 
Your producer made me do two shots of tequila 
I don't feel like I'm misunderstood. I feel like I'm over-paid-attention-to. I'm not trying to be a GIF. 
The last two movies are a lot darker: it’s all grey, even in color. Katniss and her companions are suffering from PTSD.
I wouldn't have been able to get condoms and birth control and all these things I needed as a normal teenager who was growing up in a Jesus house. 
No, I don't. I'm not gonna bullsh-t; I don't do my own mopping. 
It had nothing to do with Hunger Games…. It had to do with the thing that came with Hunger Games. I still felt entitled to a certain life that I just wasn't allowed to have . 
Your producer made me do two shots of tequila. 
We finished our first draft today. We gave birth today! 
I wouldn’t say professional, but don’t try to break into my house!
Yeah. I'm addicted to work. And acting. 
Watching yourself from the outside is an essential key for every actor. I usually think about my character played by a particualr person in my everyday life, a man whose name I wouldn’t tell you even if you tortured me.
Oh my God… yeah… I would… anything 
But they do! They don't know that they do. But when they get more me, they'll hate me. 
I carried a whooole movie."  "How did I do it, getting a period once a month?" 
He's an amazing actor and is making this movie a lot better. 
No David and I our biggest problem… we’re the same person so neither of us can pay attention for more than three seconds so if it weren’t for Bradley we would never have gotten anything done 
yes I’ve been shaking a lot of those hands 
Her entire story is people trying to use her and take advantage of her and try to train her to use her body to get ahead. 
I was like, "First of all, yes, I did. Second of all, f--k you, yes, I did."  But I hate the "movie star blues." We are so lucky, and I love my life. 
And I said, "Settle." 'Cause I just wanted to do the movie; it wasn't about money to me at the time. 
Well how many people were infecting me? 
I'll find a guy attractive maybe once a year. But I'm not a lonely person. Me not dating someone is not a lack of anything in any way. 
They have a similar vision of the world, but their ideas about the way to change it are completely different.
We laugh all day…. He's like a chocolate Santa. He's just like if a dog came to life and was like, "I'm a great actor with a perfect face." And he's got the most lovely family. 
Oh good!... Oh Ok so everyone’s lying 
'Cause it's embarrassing now. So now I fall, and I'm like, "Stop looking at me! Don't take a picture!" 
It hasn’t been that many years, but they’ve been intense years. I had the chance to work with amazing directors and just as many amazing actors.
Two shots of tequila and a beer but the beer was my decision 
No, it's that I'm picky. I feel a spark very, very rarely. And it's really only about spark for me. 
She um… yeah I had just… I wasn’t even officially really offered the role yet or maybe secretly offered the… where it was very under wraps and don’t bring it up don’t do anything and I see my mother surrounded by reporters well my favourite book is the Hunger Games! 
But they were like, "You can try it for the summer, and then you have to come back and finish school." 
You saw her break the news about the a… Hunger Games a couple of years ago, at the Oscars 
It wasn’t until the X-ray, I think I just… I just hope no one will ever see my breasts in an X-ray, yes 
It’s great we’re a totally normal family, I’m drunk she’s crying 
And there are things that are made for skinny people—like a lot of embroidery, or it covers a lot—and those make me look fat. 
No because fortunately those people are glaring at me, while I’m… while I’m there 
Which makes him even more attractive. I love that he didn't call me. It makes him so much hotter. 
I've wanted it for a long time. My first director was a female director, at 16, Lori Petty . I got bit by the same bug that bit me with acting. 
That doesn't have anything to do with your family. That has to do with you. She has a gift…and she can't shut it up. 
yeah, no I'm good, I got... I just went to the doctor today, I got a chest X-ray, of my lungs and discovered that my breasts are uneven, um.. 
Now, my dream is to slack a little!
...of my lungs and discovered that my breasts are uneven  that was all I saw. 
If I was quiet, it would have seemed like I was ashamed. And I wasn't ashamed; I was enraged. Not once have I felt like I "learned a lesson." I didn't do anything wrong! 
Joy's lovely. Both Joys are lovely. My Joy  and  Joy. 
That was...that was all that I saw, I think my lungs are fine... 
Whether it's pay or harassment, yes. They want to work. And so they don't have the same power to walk away from a job, so they don't have the same negotiating power. 
The next day she wrote back with a story line, which is unheard of. And now it's complete, and it's good! 
We're not politicians."  my business is based on everybody buying tickets and seeing my movie.… It's not smart, businesswise, to be opinionated. 
I imagine I'll have children and then my whole life will just seem complete. 
Diane politely threw it out, and then we're sitting at the dinner table with her family, like, "We shouldn't be here." Anyway, Amy's always wanted to live on Martha's Vineyard, and we saw this house, and we're like, "This is where we're gonna Grey Gardens, and we're gonna grow old and crazy together." That's our life plan. 
There were a lot of things about this that kind of scared me. And she was being put in physical situations that I was uncomfortable with, just me, as a human. 
Obviously." And I just wouldn't shut up about it. I had already saved up babysitting money. So I was like, "I'm going." 
It's back. I'm officially a virgin. 
It surely is the most revolting thing I ever learned. I think I am the only actress alive who knows how to skin a squirrel.
Nobody knows or cares about designers. I care! But I didn't used to. 
Once I read the script, I knew that I had to do it. And then the only thing that was really holding me back was just the — I haven't really been wanting to be seen in a sexual way. 
And then, when I told my parents when I was 14 that I wanted to move to New York and become an actress, they were like, "Well, no. 
I felt like it was important to show support, because that's how all of these people who have suffered abuse felt comfortable coming forward, was because of this outpouring of support. 
A young actor or a less experienced actor doesn't have the same opportunity, the same power to say no. 
I don’t react that way cause I’m not normally on two shots of tequila… normally… 
I don’t have a clear-cut idea: I’d just like not to have to work for a little while, be on the fringe, on the outskirts of Hollywood, hopefully driving around in a minivan .
I was...I was like standing there with these doctors and they're were like looking at my lungs and then I was just like, I couldn't... 
Yeah, we broke that record, and I didn't even realize. As women we don't know we're at a deficit because we have vaginas. 
Yes! I masturbated to it. Joking. 
And I am, at the end of the day, I guess, a f--king lunatic. So if you record what I'm saying, it's gonna be goofy. 
But I want it!" But he's also a great actor. 
I feel completely fulfilled. Yes, when I spark with someone, it's exciting, but I definitely don't need that. 
and my dad goes like “wow Jen! What’s the matter?” and I was like  “that’s Adele”…. “that’s Adele right there” 
I'm not trying to be a picked-up-on-Twitter quote. All I'm trying to do is act. And I have to promote these movies. 
Where… Oh hey! Sorry, Oh my god you gave her a microphone that’s worse than giving me one 
I spilled milk this morning. Last night I spilled red wine all over the rug. All I want to be able to do is just walk from one place to another without falling! 
Now I know! It is at my mom’s! I wanted to hide it, but she said we had to show it off, keep it in plain sight.
It's your body. And you can do whatever you want. 
And I wanted to write about how I got in my own way. 'Cause I assume that in negotiating, the men were tough as balls. 
My mom was really religious with me when I was young. She's not so much anymore. And I wouldn't have been able to get birth control if it weren't for Planned P. 
They… I’ve never had a problem getting my family tickets 
Yes. Three months. "Oh, it's my three months off. 
You can't photograph me." I would love to be able to control being photographed. Then I wouldn't have a new headline out today that I wore the same jeans three days in a row. 
Because Sony's a business. You're not gonna give somebody more money if they don't ask for it. They've got to fit a million movie stars into one movie. 
"Slutty power lesbian." That is literally what I say to a stylist. I don't know if that's offensive— 
Well, first of all, Dior is its own house that's very feminine and beautiful; this past press tour every dress was just phenomenal. 
That was what was exciting about the story when David pitched it to me. It's all four seasons of success—before, when you don't believe in yourself; when you do believe in yourself, and nobody else does; and then all of the awful things that come afterward. 
Maybe I’ll take some additional lessons with my trainer for the series .
Thank you. But seriously. What harm comes from supplying people with birth control, condoms, Pap smears, and cancer screenings? 
Different directors gave their personal view to Katniss’ story. Gary Ross began the work, and Francis Lawrence carried it on.
so I can… I can just look around and… and… and see… yeah, exactly they’re all right there so it’s easy to remember 
I haven’t… no I’ve started this new… it’s like my only superstition of not preparing anything to say cause when I start… when I… the first… it feels cocky, to just like… 
I don’t know I have any secrets . I love my job and that makes me really happy. But acting is a small part of me, I’d say more or less 3%.
I was like standing there with these doctors and they're like looking at my lungs and I was just like-I couldn't-It felt like an elephant in the room. 
Well, I didn't know "with" at first. I emailed her and was like, "Write something for us." I've never done anything like that before. 
I don't think it was Sony's fault . I don't think it was anybody's fault. I wanted to open up about how my mentality got in my way. 
Oh yes! Famous people are  everywhere 
Umm well I was sitting with my family and Bradley and David, everybody but…but Adele was in the table that was… it was right… it was the next table over and I had such a high fever and I couldn’t… I felt like I couldn’t move and I saw Adele and there was nobody in the way and she was sitting on the table by herself and I… I was sitting… my dad was sitting next to me here and I just reached my arm out and went heheh…. 
Two shots of tequila and a beer, but the beer was my decision. 
It's really lovely. Very nice. ... 
But I am happy I know how to do it, it could come useful later in life. You never know…
When I met Anna , I was like, "Go f--k yourselves." I mean that in the nicest possible way. They're like a Nicholas Sparks novel—just like, "Ewww! 
It's so awful…. It isn't an attack on abortions; it's an attack on women. Because Planned Parenthood is so much more . 
Everybody has this idea: You have children, and your entire life is complete. That's how I imagine it. 
I’d say all the scenes with Julianne Moore, who plays President Alma Coin. She and Katniss are two strong and determined women.
But you can have children and love them with all your heart and soul, and love your family, and it's still OK to have a fire in you. 
Yeah. But I'm a little meaner. Chris Pratt is always in a good mood. 
I have Joy Mangano hangers all over my closet. They're brilliant. I have her steamer too. 
That’s another story! It will be an action movie, because it’s focused on the final war. There are a lot more stunts, violence, fights and gunshots.
No. It was the opposite. I grew up in Kentucky, so nobody was like, "You're gonna be a movie star."  There just wasn't a possibility. 
I didn’t agree because every time somebody came over, it just seemed like I wanted them to see it. So we compromised: the Oscar is at my parents’ house.
It was so personal that it was scary.… I keep going back and forth on being opinionated. I completely agree when there are actors who say, "Actors should stay out of politics. 
In my country, if you don't matter to the men in power, you do not matter. 
I committed to become an actress in five years. Otherwise I would have been a nurse. Or a doctor.
After Catching Fire they have to find themselves again and regain their strength.
Sure. I don’t have much time to train, except for when I train for the movies, but learning how to shoot better is always a goal!
I have to show the lumps. If you have boobs, you have to show, like, "These are boobs. This isn't cellulite."  Not that there's anything wrong with that. 
No never I’m just like “stop crying woman!” 
I've always been a real stickler with money. I wouldn't buy things from the concession stand. I never knew what I was saving for until New York hit my mind. 
I think I think pretty cruelly. Never act on it. 
I don't know how to describe it—reading a script is like a map. it's on set, finding that character, feeling the emotions, getting that adrenaline—it is such a rush. 
Yeah but… but it works… I guess it’s 
When she came over this morning, she was crying. She had just…seen the news about the shooting at Planned Parenthood. 
yeah, I'm a little sick, I'm a little drunk 
Why? Are we going to become friends? 
I was told to take a man to a hotel. They said he was an enemy of the state. 
My point of view on that essay was really just my own mentality on the whole thing. You know, why did I not feel like I deserved to be paid equally? 
The first chapter will focus on my character more emotionally than physically.
My cousin and I were talking last night about what we wanted to do with our dead bodies. And I'm like, "I want my ashes scattered on Lake Cumberland." And when I said it out loud, I was like, "Wow. 
yeah I hope I’m never seen in that light haha… 
Yes, I did. And now  I am a successful woman who has not had a pregnancy. 
Pretty recently. I think I had to take control.… It was like, if I don't start getting an opinion, I'm just gonna be like a puppet that's being dressed by everybody else. 
Of course. And the women's pay gap is a real thing that a lot of people don't know about. It hasn't been in our consciousness; it wasn't in mine. 
Amy and I have a life plan—we were with Diane Sawyer in Martha's Vineyard for Thanksgiving. Not to brag. 
But then what's the point in having a voice at all if I'm not going to use it for what I truly believe in? 
I gave Larry David my number. And he never called. 
I felt like an elephant in the room, then I was like "are my breasts uneven" and they were just kind of like stifled and uncomfortable obviously and then so I kept thinking "well I'm going to dig myself out of this hole by bringing it up again" so his like "alright well our radiologist will get back to you about, you know, your lungs” and I was like “and my breasts” and he was just like “well bye” 
We had to take a week off every month.… I had to go to my red tent in the desert and wait it out. … I think there was this studio mentality for a long time that women and girls can relate to a male hero, but boys and men can't relate to a female hero. 
You really are still rooted in your redneck ."  But basically it's a certain grit. Everything's very family oriented. 
And I was like, "are my breasts uneven?" And they were just kinda like, stifled and uncomfortable-obviously. 
Yeah I didn't come over with a hundred 3D *ughagh* I'm sorry! 
Francis gave a dark turn to the series, as he focused on the characters’ psychology. There are emotional and charged-up sequences which alternate with an in-depth analysis of characters’ behavior.
I felt like I had the right to say, "I don't want to be photographed right now, I don't want people outside my house right now, I don't want my nephews in People." I felt so much anger of "Why can't I just do my job?" And then you just get used to it—and it just is. 
It wasn't until they had a headline like, "Even though she's a woman!" And I was like, "Oh. I didn't know to be looking out for that."  "How did this wittle vagina manage that? 
And then I was like, "That's what I've been saving for…. I'm going." And they were like, "Well, we don't want her to die."  my brother came with me…. 
Developing a character is the only thing in the world I feel 100 percent confident in, that I understand. 
That's why it's embarrassing! That's why I want to be able to stop doing it. When I fell the second year at the Oscars, I was just like, "F--k." 'Cause I would think the same exact thing. 
Yeah it’s a terrible feeling… yeah… yeah… yeah… that’s why you just go into everything thinking like “I’m a loser” and then… and then… and then it’s like “whooh I got a nice surprise!” yeah 
Katniss is, with no self-consciousness, a threat to President Coin. I think that their relationship is very interesting and intense.
And so then I kept thinking, well I'm gonna dig myself out of this hole by bringing it up again. So then he's like "Well our radiologist will get back to you about, you know, your lungs." And I was like, "And my breasts." And he was just like "Uh, bye". 
My Dad was like "Whoah Jen what's the matter?" And I was like "That's Adele". 
And I liked the beginning, when she wants more than what life has bestowed onto her. She has this frustration that's not very likable, to lie next to your children and say, "I feel like I'm in a prison." But it's true. 
yeah it’s just like “argh that seems presumptuous I not going to do it” then we start like get in the car and I’m like everyone asking me like “are you… do you have anything prepared?” I’m like “stop” like cause it just stresses me out. 
Katniss has to adjust to life in District 13. She isn’t looking very good, and isn’t very healthy or strong.
But it's definitely not a politically correct film. …Amy's the most empathetic person I've ever met in my life. 
I wouldn't take any of it back for anything. So I don't like complaining about it. 
