And then what happens is, you know, she's - she's - she's about to give up. I think the character is really - she's - she's just at - you know, I think everybody's been at a point in their life like this where they just feel like, damn, I keep trying and trying and keep trying to make something happen and make something move and work. 
And so I'm not saying, like, I have all the answers. That's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying is there is something to the way that you think and the way you approach life - how it turns out for you. 
I’ve been of the mind a long, long time that the way it’s done in Hollywood and the way artists are kind of handled and taken care of, that there was something wrong with the fact that we bring. 
It has been an incredible journey of dreaming my wildest dreams, and then kind of watching them come true.
And that’s just the nature of what we do. Maybe 400, who knows at this point. But it’s definitely a feeling that I’m familiar with, yeah. 
The universe is infinite, and so is what we can accomplish together, with love and trust and understanding.
...OK? - all of the positive thinking I can have, realizing that we live - life is hard, but we live in a beautiful world. 
I think you're being forced to be better about it because we're making a big stink about it now. Women are making - and rightfully so... 
And I know I’ve had that in my career, and that was after I was successful. So that is a really true, honest thing that everybody can relate to, of where you get stuck and almost give up. 
And that was from God. And I feel like things like that happen all the time. And I feel like Penelope was a little angel, in that moment, for me. 
And we were kind of like, “Oh, thank you.” There’s this thing with artists where we feel so much gratitude to be able to do what we love to do, that we don’t give ourselves a value and worth that we deserve. 
I did some tours abroad, and then I came back here and I got a job as fly girl on In Living Color. And then I started studying acting. 
Yeah, I'm not. I don't - I feel like it's useless. Guilt, anger, fear - those are useless emotions. 
And there was a few people like that over time who, you know, just - they say things to you in passing, and it affects you so much. 
I think, you know, when I had two little twins and got divorced, and thought that, that would never happen. 
You’re doing this out of fear instead of out of love. That’s usually when it went winds up in misery. 
But, I do know that if you just wake up every day and go, this is what I’m going to do, this is what I’m going to be. 
And so yeah, I’ve been looking more at that lately. 
And kind of money you can get anywhere in a sense, right? In private equity world and in the business world it’s like, “Oh, it’s just money, right?” And you’re like, “Really? 
And listen; it was a learning curve for me. And I'm glad it happened then because then I realized, like, OK, I have to be responsible with my - with what I say and how I say it. 
I have to say I love you, and I thank you, to Benny Medina. For 20 years! 20 years!
I really believe that. They create our life. They create our health. 
There's so many people I gotta thank. For the last 20 years, my core people have been with me. These past few decades.
And tell you the truth, it’s really about, I’m looking for a hard worker, a hard worker who’s not afraid to work like 24 hours a day. 
There’s no actors that I talk to that go, “Oh, we all started at acting school and then from there, we did plays. 
And for six years, she’s been the assistant manager and she knows she deserves a promotion and she’s made the store better and she adds all this value. 
...You know what I mean? Like, I was just a nobody at that time - you know what I mean? - just like - I had done one or two movies. 
And his trainer's saying, who's a champ? He says, I'm the champ. Who's a champ? 
Stand up, Francis Lawrence. There you are. Dave Meyers, I know are you out there, too, Dave.
You know, the premier is always great. You know, seeing it with an audience... 
And that, like I said, was a journey for me to start believing that. So the fun in it now, to me, is going, yup, see... 
And she said, you know, I'm going to do the I'm the champ thing here. 
And I feel like it also has to shift for artists. And they need to understand their worth and value as well. 
I met her at - she was friends with my - with Emme and Max's dad, Mark. And she came to his premiere when we first started dating, and we met at the premiere. 
I don't think about it a whole lot. I just keep it - I just keep trying to be better. And I don't - and I do that for myself, not so much for anybody else but for myself because I want to prove to myself that I belong here and that I deserve to be here. 
Maybe this is it for me. I grew up on this block. I was born here, and this is where I'm going to die. 
...And to feel like, you know what? Tomorrow I'm going to try to do a little bit better. 
My good practice for controlling that is all those affirmations all over my house... 
Thank you for listening to a little girl who had crazy ideas.
I can't tell you - when we talk about junkets, going junkets abroad and, you know, these journalists sitting there and straight out disrespecting you, talking about your ass, talking about da, da, da, da . 
And sometimes we hit a wall and we don’t know how to get past it. And we realize at the end of it, hopefully, you get to the point where you realize the only thing that’s stopping you is you. 
We maxed out. I don’t think between me and my team, there was anybody who’s doing it in a more successful way as far as I’m concerned. 
It’s hard because there is no one set path for any one successful person. I feel like everybody takes a different path. 
...Make me every day. Like, I don't have hair and makeup every morning and - do that. You know, if I'm working, I do. 
It’s a yes and no question, right? It’s great if somebody has an amazing education. But I know from my own experience and my own life and other people that I work with, that you don’t have to have a degree to have value or to be of tremendous worth to different businesses. 
Oh, yeah. Well, that was that time I was telling you about where you just - I just felt like... 
Well, I'm a quick learner, you know? And honestly, I'm not a bad person, so the adjustment was easy to make. 
Right. I think after, like, when the tabloids started and Ben and I were on the tabloids and then we broke up and that fell apart. 
I got to stop talking like a motivational speaker. 
And I thought, you know, OK, there's something that I need to look at here. What am I not doing right? 
I'm the champ. And we do that - she would do that before, like, a show for me. 
Like, I still go to bed at night and think to myself, God, I could have been better there. I could have been a little bit more, went out of my way a little bit more there... 
And so forgive me if I sound, you know, trite or preachy or any of that. I'm not trying to be. I'm actually not that type of person. 
That classic movie. If you don't know it, children, look it up. But it's a classic Robert De Niro movie. 
And getting better at what you do and I think that gets you there. Where that will take you, I cannot tell you. 
...Once he realized that I was so green and that I would talk about it - nobody would do that. 
I went to give a quick shout out to the directors who helped me to make all these videos. Francis Lawrence, are you out there?
And so when I look back at it now, I go - you know, I never wanted to hurt anybody. I didn't realize that my words could impact people that way.... 
And I bring something to the table there instead of being like, oh, well, thank you so much for giving me that. 
You belong here. You have - you deserve all the great things in the world just like everybody else on this planet. 
Paul Hunter, Jessy Terrero, Joseph Camp, and so many others, thank you for your artistry, and collaboration.
And it's just maybe - maybe I'm not supposed to... 
...And is still growing and evolving and trying to be better every day. 
My life is sweeter and better with you in it because tou make me realize that every day, the sky is not the limit.
My God. Yesterday, we started at 10:30, and we went straight through till about 6, just interview after interview after interview. 
And then I was trying to kind of, like, get my career back to get - you know, like, there was a time when everything just felt like it was - I was like maybe I just shouldn't do this anymore, maybe I should just stop singing and stop making movies and do something else. 
You have to kind of keep on going. Failure is not falling down and making a mistake, or choosing the wrong movie, or doing the wrong thing at the wrong time. 
And I have to say what I mean. And trying to make a point, sometimes, is not worth it, you know what I mean? 
And I always say, Leah's superpowers are helping people and making them laugh. That's what she loves to do. 
And that’s my favorite thing about being an artist in general. Is that you can inspire people to dream their own biggest dreams. 
You know, I don't know if I deserve it, but thank you. It's a different mindset. 
...Thought. And then, through a series of events, like you said, something happens. And she's given an opportunity to show what she can do. 
And until you stand up for yourself and go - you know, say something that puts them in their place, and then they go, oh, I can't mess with her like that. 
Right, you’re the product. I knew there was something wrong, I just didn’t know what it was. It wasn’t until, really Alex came into my life and had such a nice grasp of the business world, and so much experience in his own life in real estate and in business, and dealing with private equity firms and things like that. 
And now, today, I stand here stronger and better than ever. So thank you, Max and and Emme. There is so much more to do, and I know in my heart that the future is even brighter than anything I could have accomplished up to now because of you.
I don't know. I mean, there was so many different things. Like, literally, like, 10,000 things are shooting through my head right now. 
That street smarts, that experience, that just kind of internal kind of creative know-how is just as valuable as a degree. 
I like doing - you know, I like going and visiting the morning shows and the evening shows. Those are always fun. 
You had to break through a couple of more barriers, and you have to believe in yourself that much more because it doesn't come as easy. 
...To go into the - to go tell this guy off. And I said, OK, OK, cool. Yeah, do whatever you want. 
For many years now. Yeah, for a lot of years now. 
And I only came home. Literally, I don’t even know what the percent… it had to be like 5% of that. It may be less, much less. 
...You know? We don't want to be marginalized. We don't want to be harassed. 
And she did it, but then she started slapping me... 
There’s a time in all of our lives where we want to get ahead, where we have an ambition, where we want to do more, where we want to succeed further. 
And you can break through any barrier. But sometimes that’s a long road, that’s a hard journey. 
There so much more to do and to experience, and there is nobody I would rather do it with, baby. You are my macho, and I love you.
You lift me up every day. I never want to imagine this journey without you. You are priceless to me.
I never did, I have to tell you. I never did. I always went more with vibe and energy. 
I think women do have this problem as well. And I think now and in this moment in time, in this day and age, it’s shifting for women. 
...To be there. You expect those type of people to be like the valet guy or the person working in the kitchen... 
And what they bring to the table, and need to own the things that they do as well. 
I mean, she's an incredibly naturally funny person and, you know, she's translated that into a great career. 
And at the end of the day, she’s looked over by somebody who has an Ivy League degree. And that really is her last blow. 
You have to - no, Jennifer, we all look at you, and we - and I was like, wow. And it meant a lot to me. 
Well, she's been married this many times. She's a mess. She can't sing. 
I want to thank Tommy Mottola, and Corey Rooney. They taught me what it is to be an artist, to be a musician, what it is to be in a studio, to give everything that you have to music.
And we all don't have the same starting points - some of us start in a worse place than others, some people have terrible circumstances in other countries, you know? 
It could be a million - I don't know. I can't even think of what they are right now. I'm just so used to seeing them there. 
...For me. And then finally when I was just like, wait a minute, what are you doing? Like, you're doing great. 
I think that she’s given up a little bit. I think she’s gotten to the point in her life where she’s been at this value club shop for 15 years. 
Jimmy, Tara, Natalie, all my dancers, my band, my whole crew backstage. Bruce, all of you. And to my girls, Anna, Lauren, Leah, Jay Ray, all of you.
Thank you to everyone I work with, Kevin Huvane, Debbie, Tiana, Tabitha, Napoleon, Kyle, Kimbers, Kevin, Tiesley, Stevie, Macky, Beezy, my glam fam, Rob, Mariel, Scott, Chris, Tom.
...God talking to you. Well, I just believe that, you know, God speaks through people. You know, you're driving on a road and you see something on the side of a milk truck that you really needed to. 
And she gets this opportunity to show that her street smarts, her hard work ethic, her heart, all of that is worth something a lot more than she thought it was. 
We just - we have to learn how to not let them control us. 
Yeah. It's amazing. I really felt like if we could capture the very special relationship that we have in real life and get that on there, like not act when they said action but act in the best way, which is where you don't act, where you really bring the reality to it, it would be special, and we did. 
I know where I came from. From "In Living Color" and movie scripts to On The 6, to J.Lo to this headline clips, I stayed grounded as the amounts roll in. 
There was a process to it that I couldn’t have predicted or planned or have said, “I’m going to do this, this, this and this.” It just all happened the way it happened. 
I know I didn’t, nobody I knew growing up did, and still a lot of us have been successful. 
Oh, so many. I mean, everything. You know, I am a sensitive person. 
And then from there, I got my first television show, and my first development deal. And then from there, I got my first movie. 
And without us, nothing can really happen because they need the ideas, they need the performer, they need all of this stuff, they need to creative and all that kind of everybody is adding is the money. 
Why not?' So, I kind of had to to force my own path, make my own rules. And I was obsessed like that I liked it that way for a while.
You know, I'm a girl from the Bronx who just feels, you know, really, really happy to have made it through her own dark forest, in a sense... 
Thank you for this moment, MTV. And thank you, Bruce Gillmer, for believing in me.
And I think that’s what this movie deals with a lot, which is a great thing because most people don’t have the privilege of getting that type of education. 
Each person should be valued for their character and their - what they bring to the table, their work. 
We tend to focus on the negative things people say, not the positive things they say, you know? And for me, it seemed for a long time that there was a ton of negative things being said about me. 
It's the people - yeah. He's - there - it's all people. So I have tons of people, but, you know, I don't need people to... 
You expect these type of people to be there, you don't expect these type of people... 
Yeah, that was a crazy profile. That was my very first interview for a magazine, and I learned very quickly that a lot of things you say can be taken out of context. 
She can't dance. She can't act. She can't do anything. 
I want to thank you for your love and support and even to this day, you are writing me today, both of you, you will never be forgotten to me.
Yeah. She does the you're the champ thing. And we do the - who's the champ? 
That’s the thing, I think that is the best thing to think about in those moments. It’s like, am I doing this because I’m afraid of something or am I doing this because of love? 
Music, acting, performing, this career has always been kind of an obsession for me. When people have said, you know 'You're doing too much.
It was like, oh, OK, I'm sorry. That's not what I meant. That's not how I wanted to - that's not who I am. 
You know, I think people learned that when I was on "American Idol" that I cry at the drop of a hat. 
And then you can share a life with somebody, and then you can have a family and then, right? 
They just stopped. If they were to keep going, they would've eventually got there. 
I think my favorite thing that people have said is that they leave the theater inspired. They leave the theater inspired. 
We are the scarce asset and we bring so much to the table and we usually get the smallest piece of the pie. 
We're realizing that we have worth and value, and that we deserve everything that we want. 
But for some reason in my mind, that's what I - and it was reflecting back... 
That's how you should be - as a person, not because of the color of your skin or who you like to sleep with or... 
And also it wasn't even so much people on the outside. It was me. 
Well, because - but that's what my life is about. Like, this movie, "Second Act," is about that. It's about, like, the only thing stopping you is you. 
You get rejected a lot. I say for the 40-something movies I’ve done, I’ve gotten 100 no’s in between. 
And then from plays, we went to television.” There’s like no one way to do it. I started as a dancer, and then I thought I was going to do Broadway and I didn’t. 
...And you're, like, trying to explain it, and you're a nice person, you're trying to explain it in a certain way and it comes out a different way, it's a mess, you know what I mean? 
...That - yeah. That idea translates through everything in your life. And you go, oh, I actually do deserve to get this or have that or get paid that or deserve to own part of that. 
I look at them now, and I think you really just plowed through those. And that’s the thing, it’s like you can’t stop. 
And I'm like OK. She goes, because I'm, like, hyping you up... 
And I think that's where I'm at in my life, too, where I finally realize my - and I think women are at this point in society right now, what's happening in the world. 
And today this is the thing that I’m doing to kind of keep going in that direction, eventually you will get there. 
And I think all you can do is know where you want to go and take steps every single day in that direction, whatever that is. 
I'm not gonna take too much time. You know, I grew up on MTV. This is really like, a tremendous honor for me.
Loyalty is everything to me. Anybody who knows me knows that, you have won me over forever, thank you, I love you.
It says all kinds of stuff, from you are my sunshine, my only sunshine on a pillow to, you know, life is beautiful, the happiest place on Earth is right next to you, you know. 
We were hitting on all cylinders. But deep down I knew that when I made a company almost $2 billion. 
Give yourself some credit. Like, seriously girl, what is going on with you? And - but you need to dig and you need to figure out why you allow that stuff to affect you. 
Yeah, we were on a plane together, and we started talking, and I was just like, I just don't know. And she was like, you are crazy. 
There is my mother, Lupe, the original dancing queen. Anybody who knows Lupe knows that that's where I get my skill from.
Yeah, yeah. So she gets passed over for that manager job in a sense. 
...You know? Like, I do. I - it makes me happy to do that... 
I always tell my kids - my kids are like, I know you work hard. And I go, no, I don't work hard; I work harder than everybody else. 
And that's one of my things. And the other thing is just don't stop. The people who are not successful are the ones who stopped halfway through somewhere. 
What is she doing, you know what I mean? It felt like that sometimes. And I'm sure that's not what it was all the time. 
We really weren’t driving hard deals. I think we were the ones who were like, they were driving the hard deals and getting all the money. 
...Be one of those successful people. Maybe I'm not supposed to, you know, have a different type of life. 
And Alex. You are like my twin soul. We are like mirror images of each other.
We don't want to be made to feel like we don't deserve something or get less pay or - you know, none of that - no, no. 
I don't know. You know, I don't dwell on those things... 
My lovers, my dreamers, my friends, my family, who helped me to never lose focus. You have to stay focused.
Where he was like, “Oh yeah, you’re right, it is wrong.” This licensing model that we had been doing and quite successfully. 
Nobody would ever talk about those people. I wouldn't do it now. They would never. 
If that sounds crazy, it’s because we are. I am and everybody who works for me as well. And then recently as I’ve gotten more into kind of owning businesses and going from a licensing model to an ownership model, I realize I need people who have more business experience. 
I mean for me, there’s been so many times because this business is pretty unforgiving when it comes to being rejected. 
It gave me a lot of notoriety in the moment, and then it made a lot of people in the industry really pissed off. 
Oh, yes. She wants - she wants to progress. She's been the assistant manager - she's been at the store for 15 years... 
Like, who the hell was I? So I was still in that kind of fan mentality back in the Bronx. And then you go, oh, wait a minute; you have responsibility, you know, to present yourself in the way that you are and not let people interpret it in a way that could be - that you're this hurtful, callous person. 
...happening? I mean, I think it was - it's just that. It's just, like, realizing that you have to love yourself first, that you cannot look for your happiness or somebody else to fix you, that you have to fix yourself and be your own best friend and stand on your own two feet and be happy on your own. 
...In a different way because if you say it and they can take that one sentence that sounds really provocative... 
He was a shark. He saw blood water, and he annihilated me. 
...What you believe religious wise or - you know, any of that... 
And you just - you get to those crossroads in your life. And I remember there - it was another actress who said to me - I was like, I don't know, I was thinking about maybe I'll keep doing movies, but I don't know if I'm going to keep singing. 
But it wasn't until I had two little angels come into my life, that everything changed. You know, I knew I had to be better.
Yeah, much less than that. That there was something wrong. 
I knew I had to go higher, I knew I had to be stronger than I had been before. It was through that unconditional love that my career, that my whole life became clearer in every way.
Right. Find your passions, and pursue them relentlessly, and don't stop. I mean, really, I think it's just about working hard. 
Of fighting for me, and loving me. And believing in me. Every day since the day I played you that rickety demo of the first song I ever wrote.
I just feel like it’s every person. Somebody says, “Oh, it’s the every girl or the every woman,” but it’s every person. 
...Because those people work just as hard to give their kids all the opportunities that we have in this country, right? 
You have to work harder than - everybody works hard. Everybody's out there grinding. You got to work harder than everybody else. 
It would be not here if it wasn't for you. Elaine Goldsmith Thomas, my three-eyed crow, my touchstone, my twin.
The fancy education. And she didn't, you know, grow up, you know, around the people that you need to know. 
And a special thank you to the fans, oh my God. You have touched my heart and my soul, and become a part of me.
You know, because he's such a - he's a sports guy so, everything is team. But it's true. 
My father, my rock, daddy, David. My sisters, Linda and Leslie, for their unending love and support.
Oh, yeah. Well, that's what made me realize I had to. 
It’s stopping. Stopping is the failure not continuing forward is the failure. Not keeping going until we don’t listen to our gut enough, telling us this is not the right thing for you right now. 
I'm real. I thought I told you. I really been on "Oprah." That's just me. 
And then you - and in doing that and kind of becoming that whole person, then all of a sudden your work transforms because... 
...So I learned to be more responsible - so, yeah. 
It’s just money. So I’m actually the thing that you need.” 
I waited - yes. I waited a long time to have kids, and when I finally did, when I was married and thought like, OK, this is going to be my - this what's my life is going to be for the next 50 years and it didn't work out that way, I knew that I had to exam - start examining things because I wanted that more than anything. 
...Is probably the best time to see how they react, especially when you're doing a movie like this where people laugh and cry. 
Yeah. I think, you know, I'm drawn to the characters that I'm drawn to because I see myself in them, in a sense. 
You can only do one thing.' I always had it in my mind, I was always a person who was like, 'Why not?
