But he's lying! He's lying. You acknowledge what he said wasn't even true.
We’re growing entire new industries. We’re at 695, I think it is, or 85,000 new manufacturing jobs just since I’ve become president of the United States. 
But the reason I'm running is I think so much is at stake that these are the things that have been in my wheelhouse.
He said, "You're too old." He said, "You're too old. I can't vote for somebody as old as you." I said OK.
But winning the war? The damage it’s doing, and the citizens, and the innocent people are being killed, it’s awful hard to count that as winning. 
I can think of some, I can think of several women who are, in fact, lost races recently who are completely capable of being vice president of the United States.
That's why, you know, I think I was able to get the republic for the first time in God knows how long to raise taxes by $600 billion when we're going to shut down the government in a deal we made.
Because I'm realistic. Guess what? You're going to find $33 trillion in 10 years.
It has been barbaric, what he’s done. His attacks on civilian, everything from civilian hospitals, to old-age homes, to neighborhoods where just ordinary people live- 
We’re in a situation where manufacturing is coming back to the United States in a big way. And look down the road, we have massive investments being made in computer chips and employment. 
The fact of the matter is we better figure out how to get this done. And I'm confident. Look, one of the things I learned a long time ago, if you don't question a woman or a man's motive, but just question their judgment, you can still find room to reach compromise.
I no more think of myself as being as old as I am than fly. I mean, it’s just not… I haven’t observed anything in terms of… There’s not things I don’t do now that I did before, whether it’s physical or mental or anything else. 
They agree with my position on education. They agree with, and so the idea that there's something that, "I am moderate."
Donald Trump is the reason why you need someone who knows what they're doing. Donald Trump. Name me somebody who's going to be able to stand on the world stage and immediately command the respect of everyone in the world.
Well, you know, you sound like you know a lot about Iowa. You know, they don't make up their minds until after Thanksgiving.
And I got a call from my oldest granddaughter, named after my deceased daughter. She's in law school in New York.
You saw, have you ever seen a time when you have a president of the United States and a group of world leaders who are our allies, making fun of the president?
How can I walk away? I'm not joking. I'm not saying I'm a savior.
And at the same time, make sure that we are able to continue to grow. 
The fact is that we’ve created 10 million new jobs since we came to office. We’re in a situation where the unemployment rate is about 3.7%, one of the lowest in history. 
You think I would tell you if I knew exactly what it would be? Of course, I’m not going to tell you, but it’ll be consequential. 
Each of my, each of my grandchildren gave examples of what they knew was going to happen. But they said, "Pop, you gotta run.
Winning the war in Ukraine is to get Russia out of Ukraine completely and recognizing their sovereignty. 
Look, if I were to say to you, “I’m running again,” all of the sudden a whole range of things come into play, requirements I have to change and move and do. 
What happened was one of the reasons Barack Obama picked me as vice president is because he lacked the background in foreign policy — he's a brilliant guy.
I just have a different view than other people do. And if you notice, the vast majority of people agree with my position on health care.
Period. And so, you know, maybe I shouldn't have kidded with him about that — "No, let's do pushups." It's like I was out here in a parade, a Fourth of July parade.
He'd say it's a lucky a person gets up in the morning, puts both feet on the floor, knows what they're about to do and thinks it still matters.
Again, I’ve gone to every one of those places. And in Uvalde, I spent time with every sing… Four hours, four hours in the pain, the pain, and it’s just so, so unnecessary. 
By that I mean, names of people who helped, or et cetera. And it’s just totally irresponsible. 
I think that… I don’t, when I sit down with our NATO allies and keep them together, I don’t have them saying, “Wait a minute, how old are you? 
There isn't an enthusiasm gap! What the hell are you talking about?
Well, my son was dying, so I guess that's why he said it, because my son was on his deathbed. But that, that's not the reason why — they should have told me.
People think the most important issue, based on the polling data I've seen, I think from The Des Moines Register, don't hold me to it, but I think it was they said the most important thing, they want someone who can beat Trump.
But nationally, it's not changed. Nationally we've been had double digits, and we're way ahead in South Carolina as well as in Nevada, and so it's, you know, it's early.
One of the things that I wish I had that label when I was running all the times for the Senate, I was a moderate because I was always rated as one of the most liberal senators in the United States Senate for all the years I was there.
I'll ask you rhetorical question, you can't answer. Do you think it's remotely possible to raise $3.5 trillion a year, more than every single penny we spend on every single thing in the federal government on a yearly basis, without raising taxes on the middle class?
The reason why the historians are writing about Barack Obama and I having the closest relations of everybody is we trusted each other completely.
You hear them, you hear anyone else talking about, until recently, unifying the country? Every time I'd be onstage talk about unifying the country, they'd make fun of me.
Name me one thing all the rest of the candidates combined have passed that's got major things done.
Think about this. If we don't figure out how to bring the world together again, reassure our allies, making sure that our, that those who are opponents know we understand what they're about and we're gonna do something about it.
I love my son, number one. He fought an addiction problem. He overcame it, he wrote about it. 
I have not a little tiny bit of a problem picking a person of color or a woman.
Ukraine, through their… With significant help we and our allies are giving them, and the incredible bravery, and the incredible determination of the Ukrainian people, are not losing a war, and they’re making gains in certain areas. 
And in the meantime, we created all these jobs and prices have gone up, but they’ve come down for energy. 
You all told me it's impossible. Come on, give me a break here.
And so things are beginning to, you know, move differently.
If you think I don’t have the energy level or the mental acuity, then that’s one thing. But it’s another thing to just watch and keep my schedule, do what I’m doing. 
I know him. He knows I know who he is, and he knows who I am. There's no misunderstanding about who we are.
No, no, I got that. But you still can't cooperate. Look, after he was elected, I was able to get $8, almost $9, billion passed two weeks before he got sworn in in January.
And she said, "Pop, we want a family meeting." And I said, "Who?"
This year, it’s going to be over $1.5 trillion dollars reduced the debt. So, to continue to put people in a position to be able to make a decent living and grow, and grow, and increase their capacity to grow. 
And it comes from an exchange we had when he knew he was dying, he knew he had months left to go. We sat at his kitchen table.
By the way, we’ve also reduced the debt and reduced the deficit by 350 billion dollars my first year. 
I got all the incoming, and they say  from y'all. And, and now other people are as they move, beginning to look at them as well.
I mean, I respect the fact that people would say, “You’re old.” But I think it relates to how much energy you have and whether or not the job you’re doing is one consistent with what any person of any age would be able to do. 
You could still find room. And one of the things that, that I've always been taught is that you have to let people know you understand what their limitations are, what you can't ask them to do that are beyond their capacity to do and work out things from that vantage point.
Look, number one, I'm not sure I'd be running if Trump wasn't the president. I think the country is in such danger.
Well, I’ll tell you what I think about this. We were able to get a bipartisan $1.2 trillion package done for dealing with the whole question of rebuilding the country, the roads and the highways. 
No, I will not yield to what everybody is looking for here. And that is to take the eye off the ball.
And schools, it’s just outrageous. So the price the Ukrainian people are paying for this war is extremely high. 
You can't know that. But there's plenty of people of color. There's plenty of women who are not, who haven't run.
They both sat down, in my view, and they were in the office today saying, “Well, we finally figured it out. 
Well, look. What Donald Trump says, he makes fun of people. He belittles people.
So, I mean, they're, they're bright. They're honorable people. But again, all the things we're talking about, none of it matters, even if you defeat Trump, unless you can pass it.
Well, look, I’ve had tragedies. I lost part of my soul when I lost my son Beau, and I lost my wife and my daughter in an accident. 
When I got in office, when I got elected, only two million people had been vaccinated, I got 220 million… My point is, it takes time. 
And so there’s a lot of uncertainty out there, a great deal of uncertainty. And we lost a million people, a million people to COVID. 
He knew what he wanted to do. He knew how to get it done. But notice, every time we had a problem on Capitol Hill, who went up and got it fixed?
No, I don’t think so. We hope we can have what they say, a soft landing, a transition to a place where we don’t lose the gains that I ran to make in the first place for middle class folks, being able to generate good paying jobs and expansion. 
What do you say?” I mean, it’s a matter of that old expression, the proof of the pudding’s in the eating. 
Look, my intention, as I said to began with, is that I would run again, but it’s just an intention. 
You let everybody not answer that question for the longest time.
And not raise tax? Look, you all are beginning to be little more honest than you have been. You're looking at now and saying, OK, those of you for "Medicare for All," you're going to have to raise taxes on the middle class.
So it’s still a way to go, but I think we’re making some progress. 
I got that. But guess what we are, we’re in a position where for the last several months it hasn’t spiked, it has just barely… It’s been basically even. 
He was able to give me entire chunks of responsibility where I didn't have to report back because he knew I knew what he was thinking.
Now you're starting to ask these people the same questions you've asked me from the beginning. Tell me how you do it.
Well, there’s a couple things we’ve done. For example, remember I got some criticisms for releasing a million barrels of oil a day from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, and then along came the industry saying they’d produce another million barrels a day by the spring. 
I have not personally spoken to anyone in that regard. I’m sure, my administration is aware of all of that and so is the National Security Council, but I have not. 
No, I’m not saying it is good news, but it was 8.2 before. I mean, it’s not… I can make it sound like all of a sudden, “My God, it went to 8.2%.” It’s been- 
And he’s looking up, and what’s he say? He says, “Why me, God?” And the next scene, a voice from heaven, “Why not?” That’s my dad. 
The appearance looked bad and it gave folks like Rudy Giuliani an excuse to come up with a Trumpian kind of defense, why they were violating the Constitution.
We agree with what we signed onto a long time ago. And that there’s a one China policy, and Taiwan makes their own judgments about their independence. 
Think of how that has changed everything, people’s attitudes about themselves, their families, about the state of the nation, about the state of their communities. 
I've done those things. Why do you think the president of the United States is spending $12 million running negative ads against somebody 60 days before, 90 days before, the start of before the first caucus and the Democratic Party?
"The kids. And with you and Nana." And they came and we had a family meeting and they said, "Pop, you know, daddy would want you to run, and dad wants you to run," the two, two fathers.
He came along. What was he saying? He said he's entitled to do this.
And he was challenging me what kind of shape, and so I kidded. I said, "Want to do a pushup contest?" I was joking.
And the fact of the matter is, my son testified and did an interview saying if he, looking back on it, made a mistake, he made a mistake although he did nothing wrong.
Sure it's devastating. But what are they saying? I have the most progressive plan out there.
This is a really difficult time. We’re at an inflection point in the history of this country. We’re going to make decisions, and we’re making decisions now, that are going to determine what we’re going to look like in the next 10 years from now. 
So wrong. Who the hell… Don’t get me going. But I met with every one of those families and the extended families for four hours. 
You have to be authentic." I may be wrong about a lot of things. That's worthy debate, to have a debate about.
And look, I've gotten more. I know all of these world leaders, even the ones that we don't like very much, like Putin.
Because here's what I know about vice presidents — you have to have someone who works with you, who believes exactly like you do on the strategic notions that you support.
I’ve had six Republican senators, I promised I’d never say their names, and I won’t, come up to me in the last two years and say, “Joe, I agree with you, but if I vote this way they’re going to primary me and I’m going to lose an election.” It didn’t used to be that way, but it’s coming back a little bit. 
Everybody knows the issue here is not what I did, because no one has a proved one scintilla of evidence that I did anything other than do my job for America as well as anybody could have done it.
This is a Trump gambit he plays. Whenever he's in trouble, he tries to find someone else to divert attention to.
The generic point I'm trying to make is that I think that I don't, have you found many Republican senators or Republican congressmen who say that I've not been honest and level with them and that they can't work with me?
And the reason I'm running is because this man, the future of my grandchildren, if he's reelected, are gonna be marginalized in ways that I don't think anybody fully understands.
If, in fact, someone is able to get past, in the United States Congress, a, a Obamacare with a public option that provides for a limitation of $1,000 deductible on, on, on any bills someone gets, makes everybody available to everybody who's on Medicaid, to be able to get involved free, reduces drug prices significantly, turns around and provides for early education, which I'm the only one that's laid it out clearly for everyone, 3-, 4- and 5-year-olds, which will fundamentally change their prospects of succeeding, gets climate change moving.
He meant he was worried that I would do what my inclination was, to walk away. Not about running for president, just walk away from things I've devoted my whole life to since I've been 24 years old.
I think you’d agree that the impact on the psyche of the American people, as a consequence of the pandemic, is profound. 
They’ll become more of a pariah in the world than they ever have been, and depending on the extent of what they do will determine what response would occur. 
And everything he's done, has done to demean people, to make fun of people, making fun of a reporter who has a physical ailment, making fun of people, talking about people in terms of, the day he announced, coming down an elevator saying, "I'm doing this because we're going to get rid of those rapist Mexicans, and we're being invaded by." Have you heard him speak out once against white supremacy?
What makes you so different? Just get up.” My mom’s expression was, “Just get up. Get up. 
And the NRA continuing to push the sale of assault and semiautomatic weapons is bizarre. 
Are you kidding? What do you mean you're going to have wind out here creating hundreds of thousands" — I mean — "millions and billions of dollars in revenue and thousands of jobs that are good-paying jobs?"
It's not just a national shame — it goes to, right to our security.
One of the things that happens in negotiations, particularly if they’ve been elongated like these have, is people say and do things where their pride gets engaged as well, and it’s awful hard to back off of some of these things. 
And now we're starting to happen is because I had the most name recognition of my move right to the top in all the polling data.
I've always done that. This is who I, the country has to look like, the administration should look like the American public.
And my little one, Hunter Biden, named after his uncle, but my Beau, my deceased son's child, took out his cell phone and showed me a picture of me walking out of the church, my hand on a flag-draped coffin with my son, reaching down and pulling my little grandson under his chin and whispering to him, and the caption said, "Biden molests another child." He said, "I know this is going to be ugly, Pop.
It’s about motive. It’s not about, I disagree with you on the subject matter. And secondly, I think it’s fair to say that we’ve not had a president like the last president, who has made all of it so personal. 
Tell me how you pay off $1.7 trillion in student debt. Tell me how you provide community college for everyone, no matter what their income, for free.
The fact of the matter is this guy stood up, and he was in fact lying. And I just pointed out, "You're a liar." It's a fact: He lied.
He said, "Dad, I know no one loves me in the whole world more than you do. But, Dad, I'm going to be OK no matter what happens.
And so I, look, I could die a happy man never having lived in the White House and never having heard "Hail to the Chief." But as Barack would say to me, basically on which you're gonna make up your mind, I got to know when I walked away, looking in the mirror, that I walked away not because it was going to be hard, not because I didn't think I could do it, but I walked away because I didn't think it was necessary — someone else would be able to do it.
I agreed I would not tell them what to do, and not, in fact, engage in telling them how to prosecute or not. 
I think our democracy is in danger. And it wasn't about how tough it's going to be — it was about how dirty it would be.
Our enemies as well as our adversaries, as well as our allies. I know all these people. This is the only reason why I'm running this time is because of my experience.
I don't know what the experience is to let you know, to let people know that we can get this done.
And he inherited a God awful circumstance where everything had collapsed.
"That was the old days. That's the way it was then. I'm going to by executive order." Executive orders are abuse of power when you don't have the constitutional authority to exercise it.
What I've done my whole life. Every election requires a different set of, I think, assets for a president.
No, I’m telling the American people that we’re going to get control of inflation, and their prescription drug prices are going to be a hell of a lot lower, their healthcare costs are going to be a lot lower, their basic costs for everybody. 
I get up in the morning and I know what I'm doing matters, and it gives me purpose. It gives me purpose.
It’s not who we are. And we’ve gotta stop it. We’ve got to stop it. 
Walk away. And, and I said anyway. And so this is about, this is about, you know my dad used to have an expression.
For example, we passed the most extensive gun legislation in 30 years, although I’m not gonna rest till we get assault weapons banned, which I did once before when I was a senator. 
You're going to stand up and say, "I'm gonna spend $34 billion, and no one's taxes are going to go up?" You're going to stand up and say, "You have to be honest with people.
How that could possibly happen? How anyone could be that irresponsible. And I thought, what data was in there that may compromise sources and methods? 
Do you think there will be national security arrangements we have with European countries? What do you think?
But we’re gonna stay with them as long as they need our help. 
Watch me. And honest to God, that’s what I think. Watch me. 
What good does it do if we cannot reach a consensus on issues relating to health care, education, climate change, dealing with guns and assault weapons?
It's a great facility. No, I really mean it. It's one of the only ones where there's really genuine news, you constantly promote.
Travel with me. Look what's happening. You know, you interview a lot of people on NPR.
Oh, it’s focused. Look, I have trouble even mentioning, even saying to myself in my own head the number of years. 
No. I'm not going to let you take the eye off the ball here. Everybody knows what this is about.
But he’s been trying that for a while, he’s not going to succeed. Anybody want to go to Washington, jump in. 
We're gonna make sure, by the way; I'm the only guy who's done anything. I would, in the Recovery Act we fund $100 million, reducing the cost of making sun and, excuse me, wind and solar competitive with the price of coal.
What it is now, is they're looking for somebody who can actually bring the world back together and get us off this precipice.
Continue to grow the economy, and we’re growing the economy. It’s growing in a way that it hasn’t in years and years. 
Well, I don’t think it’s impossible, but it’s changed. What we do today, think about it, it’s all personal attacks. 
Look at all the polling data. Show me where the Democratic Party doesn't want somebody like me.
Well, first of all, let’s put this in perspective. Inflation rate month to month is just up an inch, hardly at all. 
They're looking for someone who can actually get things passed.
They’re defeating Russia. Russia’s turning out not to be as competent and capable as many people thought they were gonna be. 
He's different than any other president. We are, we're in a battle for the soul of this country, for real, for real.
And look, I'm in a situation where, look at my staff. I have the most diverse staff of anybody running.
Sure he is, but we, the United States, are in a much better shape than anyone else is, and relative to Russia, particularly. 
I have not asked for the specifics of those documents because I don’t want to get myself in the middle of whether or not the Justice Department should move or not move on certain actions they can take. 
This is absolutely a guy who is damaging us around the world. And the issues that need to be dealt with now are issues that have been in my wheelhouse my whole life.
Their energy prices are going to be lower. They’re going to be in a situation where they begin to gain control again. 
Assault weapons banned. There’s no rationale. Deer aren’t running through the woods wearing Kevlar vests. 
Look, our kids should be learning how to read and write, not duck and cover. Think about that. Think of the mental impact on these kids going back to school. 
If you answer that question, then I'm ending the interview because you know it's not true. You gotta raise taxes.
It will change the face of war unlike anything since World War II. 
He said, "No, Dad. Promise me. Give me your word as a Biden.
We were left in a very difficult situation. It’s been a very difficult time, very difficult. 
Fundamentally change the way in which we approach things. For example, we're gonna make sure that we have doubling immediately the wind and solar power.
What people were looking for when Barack came along and he's brilliant, brilliant, looking about reestablishing a sense of hope and optimism.
And so what I’m doing is I’m doing my job, I’m going to do that job and within the timeframe that makes sense, after this next election cycle here, going into next year, make a judgment of what to do. 
Number two, we're gonna make sure that we continue to subsidize. When I was out here talking about wind 10 years ago, all of you were looking at me like, "What?
We'd go home every weekend to be with him. And he said, "Dad." He asked his wife to put the kids to bed, the little kids, my two grandchildren.
But you're not nearly as progressive on health care as other candidates in the race —
I say the fact of the matter is that's not the case. The case is, look, the next person we elect to be president has to be able to pass something.
You got senators. I can think of four women senators off the bat that would be great vice presidents.
It's not the status quo before Donald Trump. It's a totally different world. Look, I promise you.
And no, there’s not a single thing that I’ve observed at all that would affect me or the United States relative to my son, Hunter. 
Continue to grow the economy and continue to give hard working people a break in terms of, we pay the highest drug prices in the world of any industrialized nation, making sure that Medicare can negotiate down those prices. 
But is it a firm decision that I run again, that remains to be seen. 
Making sure that we, in fact, got rid of a corrupt prosecutor who everybody, including our allies and including our allies as well as, as, as the IMF and everyone else said has to go.
They really don't even do it till after Christmas. And you still have in the Iowa polling or favorable rating is still very high — it's in the 70s.
This is fair on both sides.” And it took that time to focus. And the alternative was just not thinkable. 
Come with me on college campuses. You don't see that. You guys keep saying that.
But they're the issues that were in my wheelhouse my whole life.
I have had incredibly supportive family. There’s so many, literally, heroes getting up every day putting one foot in front of the other with no help, I constantly think, what would Beau want me to do? 
Where do we go? What happens in five years if this, if the president's reelected? You think there'll be a NATO?
I think of all the people who’ve gone through what I’ve gone through and a lot more without what I had. 
Answer the question. Who went up and got it fixed? See you're not, you know the truth.
And yet, look at my record. I've gotten a lot of really progressive things done. Now that doesn't mean no one else can do it.
The pandemic is over. We still have a problem with COVID, we’re still doing a lot of work on it, but the pandemic is over. 
In terms of election laws. And it’s much too early to make that kind of decision. I’m a great respecter of fate. 
Anybody who tells you they can eliminate carbon in the air by the year 2030 has no notion of the science.
We are not moving, we’re not encouraging their being independent. That’s their decision, 
Find me one scientist in the world. You guys, you guys know better than this.
If you noticed, no one’s wearing masks, everybody seems to be in pretty good shape. And so I think it’s changing, and I think this is a perfect example of it. 
The fact of the matter is we’ve gotten a lot of things done bi-partisanly, when everybody said, “We’re not gonna do anything, don’t let Biden have any successes,” et cetera. 
There's going to be no time for on-the-job training. I mean really and truly, no time from the day we take office, because this president's put us in such a deep, deep, deep hole.
No one's going to build another coal plant in America because of the work we did in our administration.
But look, it's like, you know, a moderate. What's moderate about my wanting to make sure everybody has health care?
None of the mainstream media believes any of that was true.
Look. Every morning I get up, I ask myself, "Is Beau proud of me? Am I doing?" I wrote a whole book about my son, because he was so remarkable, and the title of the book is Promise Me, Dad.
My, we have a tradition in our family. You can call for a family meeting, not a joke. Anyone can and is taken seriously.
But promise me, Dad, promise me, Dad, you're gonna be OK."
If, in fact, they’d gone on a strike, the supply chains in this country would’ve come to a screeching halt. 
And I tell ya, there's such enormous opportunity that exists for the country. But you have to have some authenticity.
