But I think the series is at a point that it will please somebody like that but it'll also do a really good job of informing someone who knows nothing about exactly what we do.
I’ll tell you, some great matches. I’ll tell you, the best matches I can remember there were matches between Bruno Sammartino and Ivan Koloff, the “Russian Bear.” When those two men collided, the Garden went nuts. 
Absolutely not. There is no proven knowledge. And I think that's why Bret speaks so intelligently when he asks someone to prove it. 
I think a few years ago, I don't think I would believe the same hype that I do now, which is a testament to how Roman has evolved.
It only helps out the sports entertainment audience so I get why he doesn’t come back.
And if I really want to change perception, I have to take control of that, I have to commit to something as much as I commit to that.
And a lot of that is based on being so familiar with the look. So in The Suicide Squad, you’ve got twenty to twenty-five characters, and I wanted to make mine familiar.
I don't -- I don't see an out of control rage being responsible for that. But then again, I don't think we'll ever find out what exactly caused this. 
He, to me, is what professional wrestling is all about. There’s no doubt that Bruno Sammartino is the best in the business. 
To start from square one, and go again — Peacemaker’s been a great vehicle for that. Walking the streets of Bogotá, everybody said “Peacemaker”.
Just don’t f*** me around and tell me that you love this when you are just doing this to do something else.
If you have any chance of success, you have to really, really prepare as much as you can. And if you feel you don’t have a head start, you’ve just got to put rubber to the road and work your ass off.
The reputation that Vince McMahon himself has; Vince is an unbelievable human being. But so, so few get to see those moments because of the reputation he has and how he carries himself in a business atmosphere.
I was so dedicated to it that meme culture ran with it, in multiple different varieties: the invisible John Cena meme, the unexpected John Cena meme.
They’ve done some pay-per-views there. If not, would it ever be in the Boston area? If Vince McMahon — again, who I have to repeat is, in my mind, a mastermind when it comes to this business — is going to do MetLife Center in New Jersey, I don’t see why he couldn’t do Foxboro. 
I mean this -- this was a tragedy. This was an unexplainable tragedy that lasted for nearly two-and-a-half days. 
So I asked to do all the press in uniform, and they couldn’t believe that. But I wanted the audience to know who Peacemaker was before they saw Peacemaker.
He’s got a place down there at Hyannis next to the Kennedys, who frequently borrow money from him. He’s got yachts, women, and he also manages champions. 
A lot of the longstanding successful performers, you don't see anything other than the performer. You very rarely catch a candid moment.
I guess that’s when you stop the Coca-Cola and start using the Jack Daniels. I don’t know. He’s got a brain. 
That's a great question. That's one on everybody's mind. The WWE is biased to entertainers. 
Look, I have nothing against it. When you go to Florida for WrestleMania — next year it’s going to be in New Orleans, which is really nice — when you go to Florida, it rains. 
That’s a tough question. The second WrestleMania as we all know, that was 1986. April 7th, I believe, was the date. 
Let's hope so. 
Sure. Johnny Fabulous’ job is to agitate, is to get the bad guy to win, get the bad guy over. Johnny Fabulous is, as you know, the character is the richest man in the world. 
It's weird. There aren't too many of those moments and I think it's that line that sports entertainment walks like no-one else.
I can be a bad guy, be a good guy, run away from explosion, cause the explosions, tell jokes, laugh at myself, be sad.
He truly lived for the business. He just -- he did -- he did everything for it. 
I miss it every day. Every single day. But I’ll be 45 on April 23rd, and I was very fortunate to make it as long as I did with only a minor list of injuries.
Well, the term Hollywood has such a mystique and lustre around it. If you’re skilled at doing one thing, and then you transition into doing another — really, it sounds the same, but it’s a completely different thing.
They completely cancelled the telecast for feelings of all the talent involved. They figured that that was the right thing to. 
He knows where he’s going. I’m sure this will be a tremendous success. If it’s not at the Boston Garden — because there’s another pay-per-view coming to Boston this year, I believe — I think you’ll see it in the Massachusetts area, definitely. 
He’s a very good actor, he’s very successful, he’s done very well for himself and associating with sports entertainment doesn’t do much for his acting career.
It was kind of a fun thing. It was kind of a show thing. It was a spectacular. 
I went through a brief period of  maybe ten, twelve years ago, but right when all the “Prank Call John Cena” started, the “Uninterrupted John Cena Meme,” I embraced all that stuff.
I’m trying to do something a little different, and I can’t because this is who you’re used to.
I think that you can take non-wrestlers who have contributed significantly to professional wrestling and induct them on a secondary level into a secondary Hall of Fame, if you will. 
I hope that invisible joke goes on for another 100 years. I don’t care how many times I gotta wave my hand across my face.
So they saved me from me. And I'm very glad they did because I know that the WWE universe who admires these performers for whatever they do, virtuous or non-virtuous, I think they were happy that we didn't pull back all the way.
It ruins that moment.
I mean, I would consider myself hard working. And given this year will be my 20th anniversary with the WWE, I think one could also use the word “committed,” or “loyal”.
I would say, if not the Garden, s stadium that can hold it. There’s only one in my mind that can hold it, and that’s Foxboro. 
By no means am I trying to score runway points, I don’t have any style aside from wearing a suit and tie, so you might as well wear the costume that people are going to see on screen and have some fun with it.
Brock is really what you see right now, and it's really good to see him having a blast. And I think it gives a whole new dynamic and a whole new interest to fans.
I was thinking, there's certain buildings and arenas that are like the “heel towns,” “the heal arenas.” The crowd the day after WrestleMania is so wise and so smart.
And the reason, like, there’s the perception of John Cena, “Oh, he never changes” — yeah, I don’t. Because it’s the concept of uniformity.
It was a boxing match, I believe. It was Mr. T, was it against Rodfy Piper with Joe Frazier? 
I think that's just not a way to go about interacting with other people.
So that’s kind of where I’m at, dipping my toes back into the screen side of entertainment rather than live events.
I think those are three safe words that you could clump together and say, Hey, this is who I am as a human being.
That’s Johnny Fabulous’ thing. He only wants the best, does the best, and feels very sorry for the working class. 
And I realise I’ve got my work to do, and I’m just trying to work as hard as I can to catch up to everybody else.
No, absolutely not. And I think, if you ask anybody who knew Chris -- I strictly knew him professionally. 
He had ultimate respect for his workplace. He was a model employee. I have no idea where any of this came from. 
And that’s all they know. And that’s what they’re comfortable with. And if I can’t appreciate that, if I get apprehensive, or aggressive, or mad that that’s how they know me, it ruins that fantasy.
They didn't push forward and just have the show for the sake of having the show, which I think it was a great call by the World Wrestling Entertainment. 
You had Liberace, you had Muhammad Ali, you had Cyndi Lauper. Mr. T was there and Hulk Hogan of course. 
No. He was a great guy. He was a great guy to be around. 
So does that make that audience "evil?" Is John Cena going to be on Season Two of Evil to discuss how virtue is not a desirable trait anymore?
That's great, but I think a lot of people don't have the perspective of, like, there's more than that to who I am.
You dry out. In April, when you’re in New Jersey, if it rains — and I’m praying it won’t, it will be a nice day — but when it rains, you chill to the bone. 
So you very rarely get to see a moment outside of that universe.
Or, I see now where they like big numbers. The 96,000, the 79,000, and of course you know the Garden holds more than it did before. 
What I kind of get peeved about, and I guess this is my flaw, my Achilles heel, I hear it every day with young talent, with midcard talent, with people aspiring to make it in this business; I hear “I’ve wanted to do this my whole life.
It was the place where the ice was down, the floor was over the ice, the ring was laid. You knew it was there because you were cold in your seat. 
We heard of it about two hours before we went on the air. And it was such sudden and disastrous news that the right thing to do was to cancel the show. 
I could be shooting myself in the foot here, but I do believe at some point, you may see WrestleMania come back into the Boston Garden. 
Explain to me why he can’t come back for a 15th Anniversary show or why he can’t make an appearance at Wrestlemania.
I think now, being a full-time touring performer might start to hit that point of diminishing returns, and I have to be realistic when I look at that.
Anytime. Let me know. I’m sure the Fabulous One will send you a ticket, just to see you in person so he can tell you how poor you really are, how you can borrow some money at 9000%, and maybe, just maybe, if you’re nice, I’ll let you go on a date with one of the women. 
I loved the conversation. I would engage with people— would ask me, “When are you going to turn heel?" And I tell them, "I get booed in every building that I'm in." And they said, "Yeah, but when are you going to turn heel?" I say, "One could argue that I'm in this right now."
Nobody is forcing them to get into the ring. It's a job that they all want to do. Hopefully, the job that all love to do. 
Wow. If you weren’t sober up there, you were definitely a goner, I’ll tell you. Those are the things that I remember. 
And actors, certainly the journey for them is to assume other roles constantly. That's the fun I'm experiencing now.
There's a lot more dynamic approach when you can essentially hop in the skin of another character.
But the guy was iron clad. He was real quiet. He kept to himself. 
I was up so high sometimes, I’d bring oxygen. That’s how bad the old Garden was. You hoped when you walked down, or you walked up, you wouldn’t tumble forward and go over the edge. 
I think that is the greatest aspect of what we do. It's entertainment, but it's the most athletic form of entertainment you can see night in and night out, without re-runs. 
That's what makes it beautiful. We let the crowd in. We allow the crowd to sit down and be entertained while we perform. 
Larry, we were actually in Corpus Christi, Texas getting ready to do our regular Monday night "Raw" broadcast and it really just really caught everyone by surprise. 
You can go on and on with this list. Steve Austin. 
I was everywhere in them. And people come to know that’s who you are.
I'm never apprehensive about that. I get apprehensive when people don't treat you like a human being, when they treat you like an object.
It's the same with Undertaker, with Ric Flair, Hulk Hogan, Steve Austin. I could go on and on. How long has the joke been going on about John Cena where I'll take a picture with somebody and somebody will be like, "I don't see anyone else in the picture." Or the words “Hustle, Loyalty and Respect,” which I've probably spoken on TV less than five times in 15 to 20 years, but those words are attached to who people believe that I am just from seeing me act, seeing me behave both in front of the camera and in my private life.
Wow. My answer is yes. I think that the Garden is big enough. 
Larry, since February 2006, I've been tested six times. 
And you have to feel like you know me. In the WWE, you couldn’t catch me at an appearance without jean shorts, sneakers, a t-shirt, ballcap, and a bunch of wristbands.
It’s given me a great life. It’s allowed me to do what I do passionately, and it’s allowed me to meet wonderful people throughout the world, it’s given me the perspective I have, and I will never get tired of that.
And on top of that first and foremost, he'll never know exactly what caused this. 
Yes, they do. Through the whole Benoit tragedy, even to this day, they still have a grief counselor coming to all our events, as well as television broadcasts. 
I love WWE, and I love sports entertainment. I have such a passion for it. I guess in sports entertainment, you can't have a virtuous character without an evil character.
I don’t know. I’m going to say yes. I think it will be back. 
I think I’m just less argumentative than a lot of folks out there. I think “respect” is also a word that can define my human personality, as much as the fictional creation that bears my birth name.
That’s the only thing that gets me really pissed off.
And he very much leads by example and certainly would want everyone to be as passionate about the WWE as he is.
One of the best. You ask anybody, they'll tell you the same. He was one of the best. 
People have to understand, the first WrestleMania Bruno Sammartino was in, he was there with his son David. 
And this idea was hatched a while ago. We started talking about the idea and I said, essentially, the context of your question, I'm like, "This is a great idea that they'll never make it because we're giving away too much." When WWE got it, they were really excited about it and Peacock was really excited about it, but I wanted to give away too much.
All of those questions are really why I wanted to produce and be involved.
KING: If it was 'roid rage, why would there be a space of time between the death of the wife -- 
I 100% agree, because they’re a persona. There’s not a better example than someone who’s being inducted into the Hall of Fame this year, The Undertaker.
Absolutely. It's like Chris said, he was a mentor. He was a big brother. 
Primary Hall of Fame: The greatest wrestlers the world has ever known, Andre the Giant, Jimmy “Superfly” Snuka. 
Athletes perform and they can have a Muhammad Ali-esque persona, but they do get some time to themselves to be themselves.
He put his heart and soul into professional wrestling. 
I think that was it. Piper had Cowboy Bob Orton. To take a non-wrestler and put him or her into the wrestling Hall of Fame — I guess I’m going to get killed for this — I think discredits professional wrestling. 
But Mark backstage is very much like The Undertaker — like, that’s how dedicated he is. He’s very stoic, and very calculated, and does speak softly and carry a big stick, until like now.
Nothing that has changed the trajectory of my long term health. I’m strong, flexible, and in really good shape externally, internally.
Yes, I did watch that show. I guess the one thing that stands out in my mind, and I’m sure you go back a little bit so that you can envision what Vince McMahon envisioned. 
It’s fuckin’ unreal!
So how can you feel you don’t know this guy? Because it’s like, it’s my name. And so many people will be like, “I don’t know who I’m talking to, I can’t even see you,” because I spent fifteen years waving my hand in front of my face.
It's the psychology of WWE and I think that's something that is tremendously undervalued and often overlooked in what we do.
As a performer, I think Brock Lesnar... And here's your quote—I think he's the greatest performer of all time.
Not at all. Not at all. I went through my phase, probably in 2010, 11, 12, where I felt “I’m a human being, and I’m entitled to be known as more…” But I am so far past that.
And that's -- that's the, ultimately, the strangest thing about this whole thing. No one saw this coming. 
If you remember that match, he was against Brutus Beefcake, with Luscious Johnny Valiant. That match went obviously to a no-contest. 
That's really where... 
I don’t know whether it was a work or not, but I’ve got to tell you something: It certainly shocked a lot of people. 
I really think these are two of the best performers that we'll be talking about for years to come and as long as WWE exists, those two names will have to be in the conversation.
Rock falls into that category. He, at one point, loved wrestling and wanted to do this all of his life.
I don't think there's a performance bigger in my mind and memory that's bigger than Brock and Roman.
Talk to the D.A. and he says I don't know if they're going to see a psychiatrist, I don't know if they're still holding the body. 
I remember, my son, John, all these kids. People don’t believe it, but we bought the nickel seats, if that’s what you want to call them. 
Simply put it’s because he wants to be an actor. There’s nothing wrong with that, there’s nothing wrong with that.
People standing in line, waiting. The Garden was always sold out when Bruno Sammartino came to town. 
I -- I really -- I take great offense to not only people of the media pointing to this as being a case of 'roid rage when there hasn't been any proof of that, but also pointing a finger at the WWE as a whole, saying that we're all just a bunch of steroid monsters. 
Thanks again. Great being with you. 
That's like one of the most coveted tickets a fan can get is the RAW after WrestleMania. Because they're loud and they're proud and they'll go against the storylines, and they'll cheer for the bad storylines.
What we do is entertain. 
He is just now becoming a human being, and people are weirded out by it. I remember when I started growing my hair out, I didn’t know how to wear it or cut it, but people saw me with longer hair and would barrage me on social media — “you ruined my childhood, I can’t believe you’re doing this!” — I’m growing my fuckin’ hair out, what little I have left!
Obviously after that, Hulk Hogan battling the Iron Sheik, and Bob Backlund. But nobody ever did to the Garden what Bruno Sammartino has done. 
I couldn't agree with you more. This is just really an unexplainable tragedy. 
I certainly do. I enjoy what I do for work. I love what I do for work. 
He just -- he taught you very much about respecting the workplace. 
As long as you have the ability to put people in the seats and make them enjoy the event. That is what we do, and that is what we do best. 
I think you make a good point that the really dedicated members of the WWE Universe are in on it, and then they know they're also part of the performance, which is fantastic.
Think especially of entertainers like me, we’re John Cena, Randy Orton, Brock Lesnar, Batista — those are our real names.
And I totally have great respect for that, and I know I’m not gonna have the same opportunities to live in a sense of normalcy, but I’m also going to have great luxuries and opportunities that normalcy doesn’t provide.”
Nobody was waving their hand in their face. How cool is that, to be able to live that journey twice?
This is my take on The Rock, and he’s a genuinely nice guy. I’ve met him; he’s a fantastic human being.
It's so good to see Brock Lesnar—you want to talk about not being able to show sides of your personality?
Two years ago, he started relaxing, letting loose, and having fun. But that role consumed him. And that’s what led to his long term success, his ability to be like: “This is who I am, this is who I’m gonna be, because it entertains people.
As you know, this was the first Rock ‘n’ Wrestling show ever put together. Vince McMahon, who in my opinion is nothing but a genius when it comes to professional wrestling, put everything on the line here. 
I believe that professional wrestlers, WWE specific and across, they all know what they're getting into. 
I can go on and on and on. “Mr. Wonderful” Paul Orndorff. 
And you use the word positive to describe my Twitter presence — I mean, we could go back and forth and discuss that because I talk about failure, frustration, loss, and heartbreak.
There are a couple of matches there. I think I spoke to you earlier about one where Sammartino and Gorilla Monsoon were battling. 
The ring actually collapsed. The professionals that they are, they kept battling right under the canvas. 
And it really, really hit everybody like a ton of bricks. 
I started doing that with The Suicide Squad. You know, I learned very early on in my WWE career that the greatest characters with the most long-term success — we just dropped a show on Peacock called Evil, which profiles eight of the top WWE quote-unquote “heels” — and a constant thread in all of that is dedication to character.
Then, he just kind of went on. I always remember going to the Boston Garden, seeing the great — I mean, this guy is my idol. 
You could get the seat behind the pole. 
Absolutely not. Like I said, I'm at a loss just because I knew him as a professional. And he was one of the most consummate professionals I've ever been around, like Chris -- 
I would say 99 times out of a hundred, that happens. And I know there are some people who get apprehensive about that because you do something well and people recognize you.
The thing that I remember about the Boston Garden was it was the place to go. As they say in our business, wrestling business, it was the old school of entertainment. 
