You become the focus of others. So, therefore, your ability to observe is tainted. You know it's a little bit -- yes. 
And that's the one sort of thing, you know, as an actor in terms of job necessity is the ability to be able to watch people, to observe, to be the observer. 
But you know it doesn't mean that every single moment you have to be sort of OK with it. I certainly am not one of those guys and would -- you know, can't stand the idea of, you know, one of those guys who whines about, you know, how horrible success is. 
That was fine really, yes. 
We got along like a house on fire. You know. Instantly. 
And I still to this day, you know, have the -- the same love, you know, first love feeling for music as I did when I was 12. 
Probably the most important film that I've ever done, just in terms of the -- the transition for me, you know, from basically at the time, you know, being known as having come up the ranks as a TV actor, essentially, in the minds of Hollywood. 
"Scissorhands" was the one that sort of put me on the road that I wanted to be on. So for me that one's -- yes, that's probably the most important of all. 
For sure. No, this was -- this was fulfilling a commitment to hunter. This was absolutely a major promise, we are going to produce this thing together. 
I realized that this was the voice of truth. He was without question I mean, I think the most important nonfiction writer of the 20th century. 
I was pumping gas, most definitely. Printing T-shirts and selling ink pens, and you know anything and everything. 
And I probably work too much. If I could change that, I'd love to be able -- 
As a journalist, you know, to observe. And it's one of my favorite things, to sort of pick apart, you know, various traits. 
It's a very strange thing the state of Arkansas presented to them. Essentially, you know, to say, OK. 
And you just -- you just start to travel, you know. 
She sent me to read for a part. And got a call back and then they hired me for the gig. You know that was the first "Nightmare on Elm Street." That was 1984? 
You know, the band and stuff. And we went on the road for a little bit. And that was all fine. 
Oh, yes. All the way through, man. Until, you know, his last -- his last breath. 
I suppose he'll have to. 
You know, I mean -- I'm up. What's the line, you know? That would be a real drag. 
You know? And it was something that we'd talked about here and there. But I knew that that's what he wanted. 
They were actually contemplating subtitling the film, you know. 
I knew instantly that they were wrongfully accused. And the more research I did and the more people I spoke to, it was absolutely apparent. 
But, yes, yes. What I'm hoping is that the investigation will continue outside the courthouse right now and we will be able to prove the real killers. 
Yes. "Pirates" was a complete accident, you know? I mean prior -- 
Basically, yes. It started when I was 17 I got my first tattoo. And every single one means something and they all -- 
I don't know exactly, you know? 
I still feel like in terms of character, Captain Jack is one that I'd like to explore. 
Yes. They're OK with it, you know. Yes, I mean they're sort of used to it by now. 
Why wouldn't it be? You can make it lying. You can make it not lying. 
And I'm still running. So -- 
He says, I'm nuts, but he's really -- like, he's certifiably nuts. 
A gas. You know, I mean, just a gas. Again, one of those things where you get a call from Tim and he says what do you think about this? 
I think it's totally -- I think it's totally right, yes. It's lying. It is lying. 
I don't want my kids to experience me as a novelty. I want my kids to know me as dad. 
And one of the funniest human beings I've ever known in my life. 
But, I mean, in terms of making a living, it was pretty straight -- you know pretty close to the bone there. 
Kids are great. So fun. As you know, they just grow up so fast. 
It feels like another Captain Jack to me. 
No. I mean, thank god. You know, early days, you know, they tried to sort of slop me into those things but now not so much. 
And it's not any different than the year before, or the year before that. 
Well, I had watched it as a kid, you know. Religiously. I remember sprinting home from school to see it. 
Not for Tonto. KING: I see, he doesn't get -- 
You know it's -- you can find your own truth. But it's still a lie. You know what I mean? 
I said, hey, I made this painting of you. You know? And he's, you paint? 
Yes. Built a cannon. He -- it was his last request. 
Yes, I do. I do because I'm fascinated with people. I mean, I'm fascinated -- I like to watch people. 
You know to the point where Disney wanted to -- wanted to fire me. 
It going to be Army Harmer. Looks like it's going to all come together in January. 
I mean, he was a dangerous element. He remained a dangerous element. 
I don't know. There's a -- you know, there's a strange thing, you know. I'm OK when I'm a character. 
I don't like to watch myself. I think, you know, I maintain a hunger, but not an ambition. You know, I -- I'm very happy to explore all possibilities of a character and really, you know, dive into the role. 
Yes, yes. Oh, yes. You know, there was a guy who I worked with many years ago. 
Well, Marlon early on, I mean, Marlon reinvented -- Marlon reinvented acting. He revolutionized acting. 
It's a strange job for a grown man. Right? 
Well, prior to "Pirates of the Caribbean," you know, the first one in 2003, that was -- I mean I had been essentially known within the confines of Hollywood as the -- you know, as box office poison, you know what I'm saying? 
Right. You know? He's not going to eat a giant chicken leg and chuck it somewhere and start screaming "wench". 
It took a little while. And you know, years, years happened. And then Hunter made his exit, you know. 
It's -- you know, I suppose it's what I -- it's the card I drew. So I'll deal with it. That's fine. 
Yes. Exactly. No, that becomes the problem. 
Well, I don't know -- throughout life, and many things, but I mean certainly, you know, losing Marlon, you know, took me down. 
And we built -- we devised a cannon of 153 feet in the shape of the gonzo fist that would shoot Hunter into the stratosphere. 
I don't go out very much, you know. I stay at home a lot. Or when you go out to eat, you know, you've got to -- it becomes a strategic sort of plan. 
It's like sport. It's like hunting or something. 
That's when we met and we got along like a house on fire, you know, instantly. And that's where we got very -- we got close doing "Don Juan." 
I'd moved to Los Angeles in 1983 and was living here playing -- you know, playing music. And we did a couple of good gigs. 
All the time, yes. Constantly. Still, yes. 
Yes. And then the fact that you have a 20-year career of failures and then you do a pirate movie and that buys you an island is pretty -- the irony of that is pretty good. 
KING: Does Tonto get to say kimosabe? 
You know. So I just -- you know, the first two or three, four films to me were just, you know, a lark. 
Yes, yes. We basically try and spend -- spend sort of half and half. But with the kiddies in school we do a lot here. 
Losing Hunter took me down. Because, you know that these -- these friends, these mentors, these teachers, these father figures, you know, these -- someone who you really -- it was amazing to be accepted by them and to -- and to be loved by them. 
Not yet, you know. Not yet for me. I mean, maybe -- maybe to the masses. 
Right. And I couldn't stand that always. And my approach to Tonto is that he's this sort of -- there's sort of a crazy like a fox stoicism to Tonto, you know, that -- that Tonto probably believes that the Lone Ranger is his slave, his sidekick. 
I've really arrived at something, you know, different here, you know. And Tonto feels right on par with Captain Jack. 
I was told -- you know I was always told it was Cherokee growing up and stuff. It may be Cherokee. It may be Creek. 
And I just found it very uncomfortable. So it's weird. 
And I knew that that had to be done at whatever, you know -- at whatever cost. So I met with some -- you know, some kind of architectural wizards and stuff. 
No. He didn't care. No, he was fine. 
He came down all over all of us. You know we were covered in Hunter's ashes. But the idea also is to take Hunter -- you know, his ashes and then mix that in with gun powder, there was something so poetic about that. 
Sure. I mean, I've been very -- like I said, very, very lucky, you know, in a sense that, you know, I mean, how ironic is it that, you know, as I said you get -- 
When I come home with a new one they're like oh, yes, that's good. Nice one, dad. 
The kids are great, you know, they just -- as you know they just grow up so fast. It's just shocking. 
He was without question, I mean, I think the most important nonfiction writer of the -- of the 20th century. 
Yes. Maybe. I tell you why. 
As Marlon said, he had -- Marlon had the best definition of acting that exists, you know. It's a strange job for a grown man. 
There is a script. There's a very funny, good script. 
Yes, they're OK with it, you know. Yes. I mean they're sort of used to it by now, you know. 
Yes, I didn't shelve it. You know I owned the North American rights. And I just thought, you know what? 
All you have to do is say that we have the evidence to convict you again, and -- but we'll do time served and you're out. 
I mean, what's the point? You know? 
Yes, yes. There is a part of me that wants to do it. But at the same time, you know, I -- I suppose the reason to do it is because it just scares the absolute, you know -- 
Otherwise I will go sideways. 
Because I -- I knew immediately, you know, when I -- when I first started to get, you know, kind of familiarize myself with the case, I knew instantly that they were innocent. 
OK, we're going in the back. We're going to walk through the slippery kitchen and we're going to go into the private room or, you know, that kind of thing. 
I'm still reacting, you know. I'm still sort of dealing with it. I don't think it's anything you ever get used to, you know. 
There's a dangerous element. You never know what to expect from him. 
And we were talking about success and money and all that stuff. And he told me this one thing. He said, you know, money doesn't change anybody. 
Didn't want to miss, like, a minute of it. Ironically, you know, Tim had gone through the same experience. 
You know? When I come home with a new one they're like, oh, yes, that's good. Nice one, dad. 
You know, for a crime that he did not commit. 
You get to a place at a certain point where you're more comfortable in front of a camera doing, behaving, living in front of a camera than you are in normal life. 
But I don't want them to have to live through and experience that kind of attack, you know. 
But, I mean, I just know that somebody handed me the ball at a certain point. And I was hungry enough to keep running. 
And it's a very exciting possibility. Because it's a sort of combination of live action and -- 
I haven't changed. I'm still exactly the guy that used to pump gas, you know. I'm still the guy that was a mechanic for a minute, you know. 
There's humor. Yes. There's a boat load of humor. 
And I even so far as to have -- you know I mean Hunter had his chair on set every day with his name on it. 
Will I do my own Tonto makeup? 
I had met her before. But very briefly. And then it was '98 when I went to do this film with Roman Polanski in Paris. 
For one reason only. It's certainly not a perfect film. What I will say about that film and what I will say about Marlon in particular, it's one of the best performances he's given since "Last Tango." It's one of the performances where he dug down deep and gave of himself so monumentally. 
He was a wonderful man. You know? He'd give you anything. 
Yes. We got the budget down, yes. 
You know I think they kind of -- after almost 14 years of Vanessa and two kids I think they kind of -- 
Yes. I try to avoid, you know, any and all, you know, press or -- especially that nature. You know, just to -- yes. 
A highball glass filled with rocks. And we'd bang in the Chivas. We had his Dunhills, we had his cigarette filters. 
I think it's a little more than that. I think -- 
-- to spend more time. Yes, you can. But once you've committed to certain things. 
It's still up and running. They -- 
That he would have loved. So I mean it was -- again, it was something that I knew that had to be done and we got it done, yes. 
You know basically I'd built a career on 20 years of failures. 
Don't regret any of it, no. No. Everything that I turned down was -- it was -- weirdly, it was more important what I turned down than what I accepted in terms of films. 
I could never -- for many years I could never sort of put my name in the same sort of category as the word "famous" or anything like that. 
You're going to go to the craft service table. You're not Henry VIII, man. You're not going to have some Fritos or whatever, man. 
He came down over all of us. You know we were covered in Hunter's ashes. It was something that I knew that had to be done and we got it done, yes. 
You know it's something so kind of symmetrical about Hunter becoming basically large bullets. 
Yes. He's absolutely right, yes. 
It was one -- one conversation with Marlon where he said -- he asked me how many movies I did a year. 
You're the one dressed in the funny outfit. You do it. 
And at the time I said, I don't know, maybe three or something. He says, too much, kid. That's too much. 
He made it -- it was not about behavior in a sense as it was just about being in a moment. And he was a dangerous element. 
It was just a gig. You know I just thought, well, this will get me through, you know, until, you know, the music picks up or whatever. 
Absolutely fun. Yes. Really fun. 
Yes. He was fine with it. 
But you know what I mean? 
If I'm playing a character, I can do, you know, virtually anything in front of a camera. But if I'm just me, I feel, you know, exposed and sort of, you know, it feels awkward. 
Well, I need to have the brain occupied for sure. You know, the brain canopy occupied at all times. 
Yes. Because he's -- because he's fun, you know. It's his fun. 
You will always remember this as the day that you almost caught Captain Jack. What are you doing? You burned all the food, the shade, the rum. 
I think -- what I like about Tonto is the idea that this character who's thought of as the sidekick, you know, it was the thing that bugged me always about "The Lone Ranger" is why is the Indian the sidekick? 
I was sort of rushed to take it to the Cannes Film Festival. Took it there. And then -- 
Not "Cat in the Hat" so much but the characters. The characters will certainly have a role. 
Like a journal. You know. 
Well, unfortunately I have a tendency, you know, especially these days now when -- you know the way the work is coming, I work a lot. 
I'll tell you what, I'll send you a picture of it. 
I don't want my kids to experience me as a novelty. I want my kids to know me as dad, you know. And already, you know, if they have access to the Internet or whatever, I mean they understand what the deal is. 
It was -- KING: From a cannon? 
It changes quite radically. 
Yes. You don't have the protection of cut. But also you just walk out there and suddenly just go -- line. 
Why does he have to go get you that thing? Why does he -- 
In retrospect, no, you know. In retrospect, no. Because it's -- I suppose had that become my bread and butter, as they say, you know, the main gig, I would have probably fallen out of love with it on some level. 
Yes. We got the budget down. 
Thank you. What a pleasure. What an honor. 
Oh, yes, yes. A lot of people. 
We only have so many faces in our pockets, you know. I said, OK, I get it. He said, why don't you play Hamlet? 
It's just there and that's part of it and that's it. 
Yes. There's certainly elements of that, yes, for sure. You remember it well. 
Yes. Very much. That was the first. 
Yes. There is a part of me. There is a part of me that wants to do it, you know. 
Admitting guilt, maintaining your innocence. So it's a very -- you know, it's a really floppy piece of ground to stand on. 
No. I'm just not very good at it, you know. Never have been very good at it. 
You know basically had built a career on 20 years of failures. 
Yes. "The Brave," yes. 
You should play Hamlet. 
You know, he was -- he was a dangerous element. You never knew what to expect from him. 
It's a license to be totally and utterly irreverent and get away with it. 
I just knew, you know. I -- it was just -- it was ugly and -- and a raw deal from the get-go. Back in '93. 
It was kind of praised. The first night was really wonderful, you know. I mean you had Bertolucci there and Antonioni and Kustavitza  and all these filmmakers that I really admired and have admired for years, you know, saying bravo, bravo. 
I was in the hotel lobby sort of getting my messages. And I turned around and was walking back towards my room and then I saw -- I saw across the room, I saw this back, this sort of skin of this back and this neck attached to it. 
I had been essentially known within the confines of Hollywood as the -- you know, as box office poison. 
So he's like, go get me the thing. No, no, no. 
No, not really, no. No. And so I met his agent. 
And you're thinking of these three kids, you know, one, Damien Echols on death row for 18 years. Ten years in isolation. 
He might be right. But he's -- I mean, he's really -- I mean he says I'm nuts but he's really -- he's like certifiably nuts. 
I don't. I don't look at my films. But what I do is -- the strange thing is what happens at a certain point, it's kind of like that thing Marlon said about being observed and having been the observer. 
I truly don't understand. I think it must be just this kind of -- I don't know. It just feels like this kind of gluttonous, horrific sport. 
Somebody hands you the ball and you run, you know. And then if you get hit, you get hit, or maybe you make it through, you never know. 
It's something, yes, something we're developing. With Seuss's widow, you know. Guisele's widow. 
I've done some tests. I'll send you a picture of it. Because it's -- it's a little -- it's a little different than that. 
I suppose, like, for example when you're doing something organized like a photo shoot, essentially amid the faux pas of, you know -- there was a piece in "Vanity Fair" where I should have used the word "violated." However, you know, in my -- in my lack of vocabulary in the moment I used another word, which I've, you know, apologized for radically. 
And suddenly they're gone, you know. Yes. Those are pretty down times. 
There was that kind of thing. Yes. But I just knew. 
That is to say, like, out at a restaurant or something like that. You know, the camera becomes sort of just part of the -- 
They couldn't understand what I was doing. You know? They didn't understand the character. 
My sister, yes. Christy is my best friend in the world. She's always kept me alive since I was a little kid. 
That becomes the problem. 
And then, you know, and then the next day the American press just absolutely lambasted, you know, me and the film saying it's the -- you know we haven't seen a weirder group of people since Bunel and, you know, and all these kind of strange things. 
What I like about Tonto, what I feel good about in terms of Tonto is that I feel like he's, you know, when I -- when I came up with Captain Jack, I thought, OK. 
You lock in and you're in the scene and stuff like that. But you know, as soon as cut comes, you go, Jesus Christ, man. 
I mean, it would be wonderful. I don't -- I think he's probably got a few other things on his mind at the moment. 
I'm still exactly. I just happen to have a weird -- weirder job at the moment. 
He had his script there with his name on it. He had -- there was a bottle of Chivas there every day. 
I don't know. Maybe. I don't know. 
Money reveals them, you know. Same thing with success. 
Right? You know? And that's not -- 
Hugely. I had no idea. 
I have faith in my kids. 
The kids are great. So fun. 
You know running home from school. And then back when we were doing Sweeney, we were doing "Sweeney Todd" a couple of years ago, it -- one day we're just sitting there talking, and I said, you know, we should do a vampire movie sometime. 
Yes. Although when you're working with Pacino, you know he's great. I mean in that moment, you know, of course you lock in, as he said. 
