The construction of workable federal institutions required still another generation. The greatest works of our nation’s founders lay not in documents and in declarations but in creative, determined action.
So it is not surprising that some would have us stay where we are a little longer, to rest, to wait.
To aid its progress has been the basic object of our foreign policy for 17 years. We believe that a united Europe will be capable of playing a greater role in the common defense, of responding more generously to the needs of poorer nations, of joining with the United States and others in lowering trade barriers, resolving problems of commerce and commodities and currency, and developing coordinated policies in all economic, political, and diplomatic areas.
For they gathered to affix their names to a document which was above all else, a document not of rhetoric, but of bold decision.
If there is a single issue in the world which divides the world, it is independence. The independence of Berlin or Laos or Vietnam, the longing for independence behind the Iron Curtain, the peaceful transition to independence in those newly emerging areas whose troubled some hope to exploit.
This prophecy has been borne out. For 186 years, this doctrine of national independence has shaken the globe and it remains the most powerful force anywhere in the world today.
I think the needs of politicians have changed. I think there has to be a good deal of serious interest in the complexities of the problems which face the United States and people aren't as interested in back-slapping politicians. 
I don't think it's a great issue, though, in 1960. 
But of course this is the great test. 
He has been successful and wants us to have a chance to do it ourselves, but his interest is constant. 
Well, I think there are three points to it. First, that I think that all of us who live in the prosperous areas of the West must make a concerted national and international effort to assist the people of the underdeveloped world--who have their political independence but who live on the marginal edge of existence in many cases--to move toward a better life. 
I've answered every question. My public record is spread out over 14 years and yet, I spoke about it again in my acceptance speech, spoke about it in Houston, but it seems difficult to ever give some people the assurances that they need that I'm as interested in religious liberty as they are. 
I think the religious issue is frustrating in that I've made my views clear month after month and year after year. 
No. Actually I don't think he ever would have thought he would be nominated. There were other potential candidates for the Democratic nomination and of course there was no indication that President Roosevelt would not run. 
I would like to have worked in the government, to be of some service. So that I feel that probably his success in business has made me more anxious to be of some - to work in the government. 
No, I don't. Time has moved on. I once said that I thought that - I think he would have done very well and would have been very successful, but I have sort of made my own career now. 
I think they are both very able and they both worked extremely hard. My brother Bobby was my campaign manager in '52, and he has been my campaign manager since I started to run and he is terribly single-minded in his interest in public affairs and being of service and I would hope he could be. 
After you go into politics, I probably voted on thousands of issues, making decisions every day that Congress was in session one way or another and in a decision that was very close involved many factors, so I think you begin to feel that - I find that the more people you ask for advice the more confusing it finally becomes, so I think you do better making up your own mind. 
So that we have not been as encouraged as we hoped we would be. But we will keep working at Geneva, if we can make a success there, then we can move with greater confidence into the disarmament conversations in July and August. 
Well, I think I've had - a historical view of the United States and of its relations through the world. 
It was, it is true, a document of protest, but protests had been made before. It set forth the grievances with eloquence, but such eloquence had been heard before.
And ultimately we can help to achieve a world of law and free choice, banishing the world of war and coercion.
Thus in a very real sense, you and I are the executives of the testament handed down by those who gathered in this historic hall 186 years ago today.
If we fail at Geneva, on nuclear testing, then our problem of disarmament will be that much more serious. 
Yes. Well, we've been campaigning for a long time. I ran in seven primaries and of course the responsibility is much greater and therefore the pressures are greater. 
Well, Friday he had gone - he went to Europe the next morning, he was at the Convention the night I got nominated, and I think he felt that was probably the climax. 
The theory of independence is as old as man himself and it was not invented in this hall. But it was in this hall that the theory became a practice, that the word went out to all, in Thomas Jefferson’s phrase, “That the God who gave us life gave us Liberty at the same time.”
Well, I suppose that they've made it - my primary interest of course is to work in the government. I think my father did well in this country, he started out with - without any resources and he has done extremely well. 
And the spirit of that new ethic is the same spirit which gave birth to the American Constitution. That spirit is today most clearly seen across the Atlantic Ocean.
This is the easiest kind of agreement to reach, because it's possible to patrol it most effectively. 
I always wanted to write or practice law. But now I've run and I don't - people are very - particularly in recent years I think they are interested in politics in the sense of being concerned about the issues which affect them and their lives, and so they are friendly and interested and I don't find it difficult to go around. 
Because that goal will serve to organize and measure the best of our energies and skills, because that challenge is one that we’re willing to accept.
I just don't feel that, on the whole, I don't feel that I have been - the people make the judgment, and I have been fairly judged so far. 
Hope that in due time, the weight should be lifted from the shoulders of all men and that all should have an equal chance.”
The danger in Southeast Asia--as we have seen in Laos and we see now in Vietnam-is not .of overt aggression across boundary lines by foreign armies but rather by the effective use of guerrillas, which have--for example in Vietnam--have assassinated in the last twelve months two thousand civil officers of the government and two thousand local policemen, and are carrying on a very vigorous effort to seize control of the Government by guerrilla means. 
Only five years ago, man learned to write and use a car with wheels. Christianity began less than two years ago.
Do you mean the Soviet Union or the - 
Today 186 years later, that declaration, whose yellowing parchment and fading, almost illegible lines, I saw in the past week in the National Archives in Washington, is still a revolutionary document.
But I'm not, in fact I would say, looking over the United States Senate, that the old-time image of a back-slapping politician is faded. 
And then he was killed in the war and I came back from the war and I was in the hospital for a while and his seat became vacant. 
So that - but neither one of them have run and I don't think my brother Bobby will run, but he did work for the Rackets Committee. 
So that while his name appeared in the paper, I don't think he ever inhaled the atmosphere. 
He was in Los Angeles watching on television. I think he thought that was the climactic moment. I think he is anxious to see us all make good on our own. 
On Washington’s birthday in 1861, standing right there, President Elect Abraham Lincoln spoke at this hall on his way to the nation’s capital.
He worked for the Department of Justice before that. And I think he continues to like to devote his life to some kind of public service. 
I don't think - I don't think the word "moral" applies to the Soviet Union, as I think they have to feel that we have the physical power and will - the will. 
On this fourth day of July, 1962, we who are gathered at this same hall, entrusted with the fate and future of our states and nation, declare now our vow to do our part to lift the weights from the shoulders of all, to join other men and nations in preserving both peace and freedom, and to regard any threat to the peace or freedom of one as a threat to the peace and freedom of all.
So we are very much behind your efforts in that regard. 
Because our system is designed to encourage both differences and dissent, because it’s checks and balances are designed to preserve the rights of the individual and the locality against preeminent central authority, you and I governors, both recognize how dependent we both are, one upon another for the successful operation of our unique and happy form of government.
But I do think it's the will, the sense of public support for, public willingness to serve the country and to maintain our commitments and to recognize that we live in a hazardous world. 
So far, however, we have not made the progress we had hoped to make. The insistence on a veto on all inspections makes it extremely difficult for us to set up any realistic, effective inspection--and responsible inspection--system. 
So that I would say that commitments have to be very clear, you have to draw the line of where you will protect your interests and where you won't in a very responsible manner and maintain your commitments with the strength to back them up, and then I think you ought to try to indicate your desire to live in peace, once you have that strength. 
It's been good to have you with us. Thank you. 
We choose to go to the moon in this decade and do the other things not because they are easy, but because they are hard.
I think it's good to get other opinions, but you have to choose what opinion you want to go with. 
But you can't treat people with indifference, in Latin America, which we have for the last years, or in Africa, and then suddenly expect in a moment of truth that they are going to feel that you're their friend. 
Walter, I'm glad to see you. 
In most of the old colonial world, the struggle for independence is coming to an end. Even in the areas behind the curtain, that which Jefferson called the disease of liberty still appears to be infectious.
My brother has been a great support to me, but I will say finally that you have to decide, yourself. 
Only last week, we developed penicillin and television and nuclear power. This is a breathtaking pace and such a pace cannot help but create new ails as it dispels old.
Today, Americans must learn to think intercontinentally. Acting on our own by ourselves, we cannot establish justice throughout the world, we cannot ensure its domestic tranquility, or provide for its common defense, or promoted to general welfare, or secure the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity.
- physical and moral strength. But you know, I am Chairman of the Subcommittee on Africa of the Foreign Relations Committee and we have really given very little attention to Africa and now suddenly 25 per cent of all countries in the General Assembly are going to be African. 
In urging the adoption of the United States Constitution, Alexander Hamilton told his fellow New Yorkers to think continentally.
I ran against Senator Lodge back in '52, which was eight years ago; and I met some of the same problems then. 
I think they've had a great influence. Once I came into politics and political life, then of course you are on your own, and your judgments are your own. 
Thank you very much. Won't you sit down and perhaps we can talk right here. 
So if you have reasonable confidence in your own judgment, you probably have given the matter more thought, I would say that you, by and large, in the final analysis, have to stick to your view. 
Financial resources, Franklin Roosevelt had financial resources and did well, Harry Truman had none and did well. 
And I think that that spirit has been built into all my brothers and sisters. I hope we do well, but I think the idea of making, putting your best effort into whatever you do has been pretty deeply ingrained. 
The United States looks on this vast new enterprise with hope and admiration. We do not regard a strong and united Europe as a rival but a partner.
To read it today is to hear a trumpet call, for that declaration unleashed not merely a revolution against the British but a revolution in human affairs.
Building the Atlantic partnership now will not be easily or cheaply finished. But I will say here and now, on this day of independence, that the United States will be ready for a declaration of interdependence, that we will be prepared to discuss with a United Europe the ways and means of forming a concrete Atlantic partnership.
The printing press came this year. And then less than two months ago, during this whole 50 year span of human history, the steam engine provided a new source of power.
But why some say the moon? Why choose this as our goal? And they may well ask, why climb the highest mountain?
There are those who are grappling with overpowering problems of illiteracy and ill health, and who are ill equipped to hold free elections, but they are determined to hold fast to their national independence.
No, I've been cutting it the same way for about six or seven years, but - even longer, but unfortunately, when you run for the Presidency your wife's hair or your hair or something else always becomes of major significance. 
Well, I think it's important--when there are so many serious issues which involve us both, involve the West with the Sino-Soviet bloc--that we should have some communication with Mr. 
And when the Congressional seat became vacant, as I had grown up in an atmosphere where government and politics were followed by both my grandfathers and my father and my brother, and there I was so that I never would have imagined before the war that I would have become active in politics but everything seemed to point to it in '46. 
I think a, of course, a sense of responsibility, and a sense of great interest in our country, and also a sense of the historical past here and through the world, I think are very valuable for the future. 
We hope it will spread through Europe. I think it offers the greatest security for us all in the years to come. 
Others may confine themselves to debate, discussion, and that ultimate luxury, free advice. Our responsibility is one of decisions for the governors to choose.
Most of them are quiet and serious and interested in their work. It's a very - the issues we deal with, compared to the issues which were before us in the Nineteenth Century, Daniel Webster and Calhoun, all the great figures in the Nineteenth Century, really dealt with about four or five great issues in their whole career - tariff, the expansion of the West, slavery; and we deal with matters which are extremely technical and sophisticated, they come across our desk day by day and week by week. 
Politics or really government work is, I think, the most fascinating career. In the first place, all of us are concerned about what is happening to our country and all of us have strong feelings about what our country should do and should be and therefore the decisions of government are going to affect the security of us all and it's natural that any young man who has been exposed to government life and who is deeply concerned would want to play a part in it. 
We see in such a Europe a Partner with whom we can deal on a basis of full quality in all the great and burdensome tasks of building and defending a community of free nations.
I think that Lincoln said, "Until you know where you have been, you don't know where you are going." And that's the way I feel. 
For it stressed not independence but independence, not the individual liberty of one but the indivisible liberty of all.
As this effort for independence, inspired by the American Declaration of Independence, now approaches a successful close, a great new effort for interdependence is transforming the world about us.
The necessity for comity between the national government and the several states is an indelible lesson of our long history.
Well, one of the most encouraging post-war developments in the entire free world has been the economic and increasing political unity of Europe. 
The nations of Western Europe, long divided by feuds far more better than any which existed among the 13 colonies are today joining together, seeking as our forefathers sought to find freedom in diversity and unity in strength.
Newton explored the meaning of gravity. Last month, electric lights and telephones and automobiles and airplanes became available.
Merci beaucoup. 
We shall send to the moon 240,000 miles away, a giant rocket, more than 300 feet tall on an untried mission to an unknown celestial body, and then return it safely to Earth.
I worked for a newspaper for a while and I decided to run, and - here we are. 
But joined with other free nations, we can do all this and more. We can assist the developing nations to throw off the yolk of poverty.
So we will attempt to assist the governments which want to remain free to maintain themselves, but it's going to be a very hard and difficult road for us all in Southeast Asia. 
I don't think there is a common denominator, tracing the history of our Senate, Governors, and the Presidency, that you can find any one ingredient. 
No, actually the family has been tremendously mutually supporting, but I do think that there was constantly drilled into us, as I say my mother and father were both very strict and firm, the necessity of doing each task in the most competent and effective manner, so that that - there was a constant drive for us for self-improvement. 
For the Atlantic partnership of which I speak would not look inward only, preoccupied with its own welfare and advancement.
Even those unwilling or unable to take part in any struggle between East and West are strongly on the side of their own national independence.
Then about 10 years ago, under this standard, man emerged from his caves to construct other kinds of shelter.
It's frustrating, but after all, the Presidency is a powerful office, and I'm asking their support. 
Well, I suppose you have what - I've gotten along reasonably well. As it is, I think the people can make a judgment as to whether the candidate is able to meet the responsibilities of whatever office he holds. 
They are not going to be interested in our, they may be impressed by the moral force of the United States and so will other countries and that is a very important part of our strength. 
The building of the new house of Europe has followed the same practical, purposeful course.
The first order of business is for our European friends to go forward in forming the more perfect union which will someday make this partnership possible.
Khrushchev. This is a dangerous time for us all, and if we can, by having a communication, lessen the chance of miscalculation--which could lead to a very dangerous situation, and hazard for all people--I think that we should have those conversations. 
Well, I grew up in a very strict house, and one where - there was no, there were no free riders, and everyone was expected to do, give their best to what they did. 
And today this nation, conceived in a revolution, nurtured in liberty, maturing in independence has no intention of abdicating its leadership in that word wide movement for independence to any nation or society committed to systematic human oppression.
However, I haven't been - on the whole, I've been fairly treated. 
I had been a reporter at the United Nations Conference and then at the Pottsdam Conference in Germany in '45. 
Merely because I happened to hold office I don't think should bar him. We are going to need all the people of dedication we can get. 
The United States has supported strongly this movement, because we feel that a strong Europe strengthens freedom, and we have been much impressed by the leadership which France has given to that movement. 
So, this is a very critical time for these efforts. 
Because, if they feel they cannot do it under a system of freedom, then they will turn to a totalitarian system. 
With the passing of ancient empires, today less than 2% of the world’s population live in territories officially termed dependent.
But it's true there; we've seen in Laos and we will see in other parts of Southeast Asia as time goes on. 
Theodore Roosevelt's "speak quietly and carry the big stick," I think sometimes we have reversed that, and speak loudly and our strength isn't as big as it should be. 
And I think, I hope that - I think my brothers and sisters are trying to do the same in their families. 
A mutually beneficial partnership between the new union now emerging in Europe and the old American union founded here 175 years ago.
It’s authors were highly conscious of its worldwide implications and George Washington declared that liberty and self government were in his words, “Finely staked on the experiment entrusted to the hands of the American people.”
My skin has gotten thicker over the years and I don't really - I can't say that I've been particularly, I don't think I've been unfairly treated in the last months. 
If the Germans had realized in World War I that the British would come to war if they invaded Belgium, or if they had realized ultimately we would have come in, I don't think we might have had a war in World War I, and might not have had in World War II. 
And he paid a brief but eloquent tribute to the men who wrote, who fought for, and who died for the Declaration of Independence.
Why 35 years ago fly the Atlantic? We choose to go to the moon. We chose to go to the moon.
But condense, if you will, the 50,000 years of man’s recorded history in a time span of about a half a century.
I've been against nearly every legislative act that came up, so I don't - but those things, they say everything about everybody. 
But after giving the answers and after my public record indicates that what I say I mean, then it becomes somewhat disappointing that I am not able to get it across more effectively. 
If this capsuled history of our progress teaches us anything, it is that man in his quest for knowledge and progress is determined and cannot be deterred.
One we are unwilling to postpone. And therefore, as we set sail, we ask God’s blessing on the most hazardous and dangerous and greatest adventure that man has ever gone.
There are those struggling to eke out a bare existence in a barren land who have never heard of free enterprise, but who cherish the idea of independence.
Our system and our freedom permits the legislative to be pitted against the executive, the state against the federal government, the city against the countryside, the party against party, interest against interest, all in competition or in contention one with another.
But then I always feel that he would have done very well indeed. 
No, no. Neither one of them have run. If my brother Teddy does into politics, I think he is going to move out West and start on his own. 
But, I was, at the end of the war I was interested in politics, at least in the issues the country faced. 
We meet in an hour of change and challenge, in a decade of hope and fear, in an age of both knowledge and ignorance.
You ask people for advice but you get as many different pieces of advice as you ask different people, ordinarily, especially if it seems difficult. 
While Eisenhower was in the service all his life, and he has done well. So I don't think that that is a common denominator. 
Well, I think that if the United States is strong, I would say that, of course, militarily so that it can't be challenged successfully in any military action, or at least there is not much hope of success, if we make our commitments very clear and precise - I think World War I and World War II showed the great danger of not making very precise commitments. 
Yes. He was going to be a politician I think. In fact he was a delegate to the 1924 - 1940 Convention when he was only 24. 
No, I don't. My grandfather, I guess, was a much more natural politician than I was, I'm told. When I was at school I never thought of going into politics. 
To speak as President of the United States to the chief executives of our 50 States is both an opportunity and an obligation.
I think it would probably be unwise. But I would hope that if I were successful that they would contribute - be able to contribute their services. 
Theodore Roosevelt was younger than I was when he became President, but of course he became because of the death of  and he was Vice President. 
All this will not be completed in a year, but let the world know it is our goal.
It must look outward to cooperate with all nations in meeting their common concern. It would serve as a nucleus for the eventual union of all free man, those who are now free, and those who are vowing that someday they will be free.
Our task, your task in the state house, and my task in the White House is to weave from all these tangled threads a fabric of law and progress.
The reason, in my opinion, that Khrushchev, in fact more than any other, is coming to the United States is because he realizes that they stand in a very powerful position today, and we have ignored them for years, and yet they will be voting on all these matters and he wants to extend his influence to them. 
No, but I - I never would have run for office if he had lived. I think he was - destined to be very successful in politics. 
I'm the first person of my faith, the second one to ever run and they have a right to ask me questions and to have reassurance. 
But what distinguished this paper from all the others was the final irrevocable decision that it took to assert the independence of free states in place of colonies, and to commit to that goal their lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor.
So, I have not met Mr. Khrushchev, and we meet in Vienna. 
It is a high honor for any citizen of the great republic to speak at this Hall of Independence on this day of independence.
I've been interested in it really since I was very young, and I think a sense of the past where we have been in this country, the relations in Europe, will be a great help in the future. 
As apt and applicable as the Declaration of Independence is today, we would do well to honor that other historic document drafted in this hall, the Constitution of the United States.
A great new edifice is not built overnight. It was 11 years from the Declaration of Independence to the writing of the Constitution.
If we can reach a greater understanding, on the question of testing and disarmament, perhaps on Laos, perhaps on the general matters which divide us, I think that it would make it easier for us to look forward with hope for the future. 
Oh, there isn't any doubt, of course, that it's a great deal of help to anyone, but I don't know whether it follows necessarily. 
I remember a story about many of the papers prepared by some talented young men at the Versailles Conference, on the future of Europe, were based on recommendations by Tallyrand at the end of the Napoleonic Wars at the meeting at Vienna. 
There is no sense in trying to do anything unless you give it your maximum effort. You may not succeed, but at least the effort and dedication and interest should be there. 
Governor, Governor Powell, Your Excellency The Archbishop, Governor Lawrence, Mayor Tate, Senator Clark, Congressman Green, distinguished governors, ladies and gentlemen, citizens of Philadelphia.
Well, the French know more about Southeast Asia perhaps than certainly any Western people and they know the difficulty of the problems involved there. 
It would be premature at this time to do more than indicate the high regard with which we view the formation of this partnership.
We can balance our worldwide trade and payments at the highest possible level of growth. We can mount a deterrent powerful enough to deter any aggression.
Well, I'm most hopeful that the conversations which are taking place now at Geneva, on the matter of securing an agreement with the Soviet Union on the cessation of nuclear tests, will be successful. 
The greater our knowledge increases, the greater our ignorance unfolds. No man can fully grasp how far and how fast we have come.
I don't think of it - after all, poor man, rich man, middle-income men have succeeded. Some have succeeded and some have failed. 
Stated in these terms, we know very little about the first 40 years, except at the end of them, advanced man had learned to use the skins of animals and cover them.
And for the support of this Declaration, with a firm reliance on the protection of divine providence, we mutually pledge to each other our lives, our fortunes, and our sacred order.
So that I think we all have to make a greater effort--in the United States, in Western Europe, in all free countries that are moving ahead themselves. 
It’s essence, he said, was “Its promise not only of liberty to the people of this country but hope to the world.
Well, I think the family atmosphere has been, my mother and father, I think, have been, in the sense that I have already described. 
Yes. I think that no one is ever right all the time, but you have to have some confidence in your own judgment. 
No, because I - . 
