It's- we're gonna do everything we can to bring her home as soon as possible. That is for sure. That is for sure. 
We will win, we will win reelection. There is too much at stake and the American people know it. 
-- Members of the Republican Party are also proposing a national ban. The thing that-- 
And the probably permanent sense of fear that the children and the people of that community will have about their vulnerability to weapons like the one in- that was- that were used. 
And we thought that was settled with Obergefell. Well, if you read the decision in Dobbs, I do believe that that right to privacy is at risk-- 
And that does have to happen and we should not allow ourselves to- to minimize the significance of that, which is Congress needs to act. 
And so we- we are all outraged in such a fundamental way because this really does hit at the heart of- of the principles upon which our democracy was founded, principles that are about the freedom and liberty that Americans should be entitled to have. 
Listen, this is not new. There's nothing new about that. I mean, listen, I am-- in my career, I was a career prosecutor. 
-- They are absolutely- yes they are. 
I don't understand the question. 
So, that is what we want. 
I mean, listen, I start from the point of experience of having served in the Senate. I never believed them. 
Listen to President Biden. He intends to run. And if he does, I intend to run with him. 
So clearly, this is an act of desperation on the part of Russia, but it would be a huge mistake for Korea to do this - for North Korea to do this. 
And so you are right, the President and I and- and Jake Sullivan and others have been in touch with Cherelle Griner, Brittany Griner's wife, to do what we can to lend support. 
It's not about pulling out, but it is about ensuring that we are protecting American interests, and that we are a leader in terms of the rules of the road, as opposed to following others' rules. 
So we are on track with the bipartisan infrastructure law to remove all lead from pipes and also from paint in the next ten years. 
-- The Republicans are also-- 
And you can support the Second Amendment, I support the Second Amendment, but we should agree we should not have weapons of war on the streets of America. 
So we have designed our government that there are three co-equal branches. The court, Congress and then the executive branch, the president. 
We've seen this in the past, if you think about the Voting Rights Act-- 
-- No, no, no, no, no. Let me be very clear-- 
And then we passed the Voting Rights Act to ensure that we would be able to enforce that principle. 
So there you go. 
And a lot of those demands have been met in the first year-and-a-half. There's still more work to do without any question. 
They feel the need to attack because they're scared that we will win based on the merit of the work that Joe Biden and I, and our administration, has done. 
We're delivering for the American people. And the reality of it is that, unfortunately, very few of those who challenge our administration actually have a plan for America. 
There's no question that we are very concerned about the Chinese government's actions on the South China Sea and how that is impacting the security and the future prosperity of the nations that are affected. 
And I think that we have more on the line now than we have had in recent memory, in terms of fundamental rights, and again, fundamental rights around freedom and liberty. 
I did. And- you know, I was there within about 24 hours of that tragic act of extreme violence, and I made a point of spending time with the first responders and talked with them about what they've witnessed, the absolute tragedy of it all. 
But they hope that there will be an avoidance of conflict. And that- there's a great symmetry between that and our policy toward China. 
Which we did and in the first year brought down Black child poverty and child poverty in general by about 40% in America. 
There's no question that people, working people, are paying more for gas main- paying more for groceries and that is why for our administration, it is one of our highest priorities to bring down the costs. 
The court gutted it with Shelby v. Holder in 2013. And now you see states across the country that are intentionally making it more difficult for people to vote. 
There is increasingly an understanding that China may not be the best bet when you are looking for stability, when you are looking for an investment in- in a place where there is an adherence to and respect for international rules and norms. 
You're welcome. Thank you. It's good to be with you, Bob. 
-- Let me be- let me be very clear. From day one, the president has been clear, I have been clear. We need to put back the protections that are in Roe v. 
So it is our highest priorities to bring down costs in particular for working people in our country and it is- it's a real issue. 
I mean, sit back and think about that for a moment. The highest court in our land just took a constitutional right that was recognized for women to make decisions about their own bodies. 
We're not trying to do something new-- 
What's on the ballot? We are- we are without any Republican support in terms of when we're trying to get these bills through, trying to bring down health care costs, trying to bring down the cost of prescription drugs including insulin saying it should be $35 a month. 
So what does this mean? It means that we're looking at elections coming up, in 120 something days, they're going to be about who serves in Congress, and we need a pro-choice Congress. 
But that's why we have elections. And that's why we are seeing, around this country, that when this issue is on the ballot, from Kansas to California, people vote in favor of upholding basic freedoms. 
We're saying working families shouldn't pay more than 7 percent of their income in childcare costs. 
Yes, of course. 
I think the issue that is most present here among the Southeast Asian leaders is that there be a respect for and enforcement of international rules and norms. 
When it comes to changing the laws, when it comes to writing and then putting, in effect, laws that create accountability and greater fairness in our system, be it our criminal justice system, be in our health care delivery system, all of that. 
Let people make the most intimate decisions that are about what I call heart and home, which includes contraception, which includes same-sex marriage. 
I am being precise. We need to put into law the protections of Roe v. Wade. 
We are now on track to ensure that all families in America will have access and it will be affordable to high-speed Internet. 
Under Joe Biden's leadership, we have transformed and are in the process of transforming America's infrastructure with an historic investment in, not only roads and bridges, but high speed internet, what we are doing around issues like lead pipes, and I could go on and on. 
Which is ridiculous-- 
I believe that we need- you're right. I mean, but again, the- this is the- the- there is a cycle, there is a connection between what we are- what we want to have happen and the power of Congress to actually make it happen. 
So that we can have a humane and appropriate approach to this issue, including of course, what we will continue to do in terms of prioritizing border security, but understanding we also need to create a pathway. 
But that does not mean that we are seeking conflict. 
Overall, we are seeing progress, but there is- we're not going to have a constant, there are going to be fluctuations. 
Can you imagine what this is going to mean? And who- and what other cases there will be that maybe we won't learn about that will occur? 
Let them make that and be free to make those decisions without government interference. 
But I will say this, what we have also seen is that, Black Americans and all Americans said, look at the United States Supreme Court, there is never in the history of that court been a Black woman to serve. 
Well, what now, we need to understand that states are passing laws because of what the Supreme Court has now allowed to happen. 
We will win reelection- 
Our democracy is on the ballot. Truly. Truly. 
If you look at an issue like choice, it's on the ballot. A woman's right to make decisions about her own body and potentially what can happen in the not-too-distant future around issues like access to and- and making decisions about contraception or same-sex marriage. 
No. That's right. And that's why I do believe that we are living, sadly in real unsettled times. 
And that is about going back to where we were before the Dobbs decision. 
Wade into law. Since the Supreme Court took it, Congress has the power and ability to pass legislation to put those protections back in law and Joe Biden will sign that bill. 
So first of all, we take very seriously and we've been very clear, Brittany Griner, and there are sadly other Americans who are being unlawfully detained around the world, and it is on our highest priority list to bring those folks home. 
So, there are demands that were made by voters saying, these are the things we want out of this administration. 
Yes I am, if necessary. But Joe Biden is going to be fine. And let me tell you something: I work with Joe Biden every day. 
That's what we need to do with Roe and the principles behind Roe. 
States are passing laws, I think there are about 12 states, for example, I think there are about 12, who have said there's no exception, even for rape or incest. 
Listen, we- I think all of us share a deep sense of outrage that the United States Supreme Court took a constitutional right that was recognized, took it from the women of America. 
We thought that was settled. Same-sex marriage, I was a long standing commitment to fight for the civil rights of people to love and marry the person they love. 
We, as you know, have released the Strategic Petroleum Reserve so that we're releasing a million barrels of gas a day, of oil a day to bring down the price. 
So there are many reasons for why this is happening and- and America is- is not immune to that. The point has to be then to understand what we must do to deal with, one, ensuring that we have a secure, humane and orderly policy about the border, but also what we must do in the long term to address the root causes of migration. 
We have capped the cost of insulin for seniors at $35 a month. Capped the cost of prescription drugs on an annual basis at $2,000. 
We're not trying to- we're not trying to do anything that did not exist before June of last year. We are saying-- 
We do not invite conflict, but we absolutely are prepared to and engaged in what is necessary to compete. 
-- And it's ridiculous. 
Well, first of all, Black Americans, Americans in general should be demanding and rightly, that we pass legislation that addresses these issues that you have mentioned. 
I didn't believe them. It's why I voted against. And– 
And, Margaret, on that matter, I- it is very clear that Russia has clearly- they're very desperate, they have already experienced a strategic failure. 
It's an absolute violation of one of the most important agreements that we have around the world in terms of international rules and norms, which is the importance of sovereignty and territorial integrity. 
That is normal, just like the weather fluctuates and- and circumstances fluctuate, such as elections in those regions and what that might mean. 
And first thing they say is thank you and thank President Biden for what he has done to restore America's role of leadership and partnership on the globe. 
It's no secret that China is experiencing economic problems. And- and what you will find is - certainly in my conversations with American business leaders - is that they are looking at the future in terms of their capital investments and taking into account which countries are engaged in practices that are about abiding by the rule of law and international rules and norms in a way that they can be guaranteed that there will be some stability so they can make long-term investments. 
The work that I've been doing in that regard has been to build public-private partnerships to the extent that we have now raised over $4 billion to invest in the countries in that region. 
You know my philos- 
Around the globe, we are seeing an increase in irregular migration. And there are a number of factors at play: an increase in authoritarian regimes, what we're seeing in terms of extreme weather occurrences, what we're seeing in terms of, in many places around the globe, increasing food insecurity. 
You look at the street, that long street where that parade was taking place. It's a community like any other community, small business owners, shops, people out in their lawn chairs, turned into not only a crime scene but a warzone in terms of the kinds of damage it did, the chaos it created. 
I was an author of the George Floyd Justice in Policing Act. I believe very strongly that we should have accountability in all systems, including in policing. 
People said, I want to see that you're going to get lead out of pipes because it is causing irreparable damage and particularly to the children that are drinking water out of those pipes. 
And so now we are looking at a situation where the government can tell a person in our country what they can and cannot do with their own body. 
I also believe very strongly that for both Russia and North Korea, this will further isolate them. 
My point is that focusing on root causes, and doing the work that we have been doing to bring U.S. investment into those countries, in a way that is supportive of their economies and supportive of fighting corruption, actually works. 
I think he is absolutely an important player in this region of the world. And if he comes, then that will be, I'm sure, something that could be productive. 
It really does get to that, and by the way, you don't have to agree on the issue of , you know- you don't have to agree that you want to, or would advocate that you or a loved one would have an abortion, to agree that the government should not be making that decision for any individual woman-- 
The- what is happening in terms of unprovoked actions against the Philippine interests in the South China Sea is significant and we have been very clear that we stand with the Philippines. 
I- and I can't even imagine what this is going to mean for the life of that child. 
Certain issues are just settled. 
–you don't have to abandon your faith, whatever that might be, to agree the government should not be making that decision for a woman and so that's why I say, let women make those most intimate decisions. 
But when we think about the- Russia's aggression in Ukraine, we're- many- most are very clear also. 
People marched and fought, broad coalitions of people across race and religion and ethnicity and- and- and gender, to say that, you know, fundamental principle of our- of our democracy is everyone- should have access, who are entitled to have access, to vote. 
Because those weapons are available. And we have to stop allowing those weapons to be available to civilians, living in communities of people who have a right to believe that they are not in a war zone. 
It means state offices, governors, secretaries of state, attorneys general. It means local races, who's going to be your DA, who's going to be your sheriff, enforcing laws that are being passed to criminalize medical health providers, and maybe even the women who seek the service. 
And so over $5 billion has gone into because they voted into supporting these institutions. People said, I want to see an extension of the child tax credit. 
We, as the United States, in our policy, it is not about decoupling, it is about de-risking. It is about understanding. 
I would suggest that so called leaders focus on solutions instead of attacks if they really are concerned about a problem, and that includes on the issue of immigration, passing a pathway for citizenship, fixing what, in particular under the prior administration, was a badly broken system. 
They said, I want to see more support for some of our finest educational institutions that are called HBCUs, and MSIs. 
-- For seniors-- 
We need to put back in place the protections of Roe v. Wade-- 
Well, we exchanged pleasantries. Yes, yes. 
Not only is there a treaty relationship, but the very basic issue that the American people will experience and feel if we're not- if we're not on top of it is what that will mean in terms of commerce flowing freely through those waters. 
And elections matter. The people who are elected, especially to the United States Congress, will decide the outcome of all of these issues- voting rights, the ability of us to pass voting rights legislation, the John Lewis Voting Rights Act, the Freedom to Vote Act, will be a function of who is in Congress. 
Yes. I have- and I've actually met with President Xi as well-- 
We thought that was settled. We thought that was settled at least by law in the 60's. We look now at the issue of choice. 
We're seeing prices come down, slowly, but it seems maybe surely. We are doing what we need to do to say that we've got to bring down the cost of of childcare and that includes a tax cut that we were able to pass yet not one Republican in the Senate voted for, which is an $8,000 tax cut for families raising children so that they can have a tax cut for food, for medication, for school supplies. 
He's focused on doing everything that we've discussed, bringing down the cost of gas, dealing with- seeing through what we need to do around getting roads and bridges fixed in America, focusing on what we have continued to do under his leadership, which is to improve and strengthen the relationship the United States has around the world. 
It doesn't mean that we keep our foot off the gas, we have to stay focused and understand there has to be a long-term strategy, as well as a short-term strategy. 
He did it before. So I- you know, listen, honestly, right now, let's focus on what we got to deal with right now because I know that's how the President is focused. 
There would be a Ketanji Brown Jackson on the United States- Justice, excuse me, Ketanji Brown Jackson on the United States Supreme Court. 
The vast majority of Americans agree that the government should not be making this decision for the women of America. 
Again, you don't have to advocate or believe that this is right for you or your family, but don't let the government make the decision for her family, whoever she may be. 
I was a United States senator. I represented one in eight Americans, and I'm now vice president of the United States. 
All signs point to good work having happened but more work to get done. 
People said, especially during the pandemic, it is- it is- there is extreme disparities in terms of how a child can be educated through something like a pandemic based on whether they have access and can afford high-speed Internet. 
Absolutely not. What it means is that we have to stay focused on a number of issues related to the irregular migration that again, we're seeing around the world and America is not immune. 
You know, I've traveled the world as Vice President, where, you know, I've been to Europe now, I think at least three times in connection with a number of issues, including Ukraine, and these leaders, foreign leaders will come up to me and I think nearly three dozen meetings that I've had. 
So let's just go right to that assault weapons. Assault weapons were specifically and intentionally designed to kill a lot of human beings quickly. 
We are advocating without any support right now in Congress to bring down the child care costs in terms of paying for a childcare provider. 
Well, it is important to the order of things, if you will, the stability of things that we keep open lines of communication. 
Congress has the ability to put back in place the rights that the Supreme Court took from the women of America. 
And you know, I- listen, for a large part of my career, for most of my career, I was a prosecutor. I have looked at autopsy photographs, I have prosecuted homicide cases and when you meet with first responders, when you meet with families of these victims, you cannot avoid the reality of what the impact of this gun violence is on a community, on families, on people who- who love their community, who love their family member, and assault weapons. 
Our allies are telling you- us, about their concern about what's happening in terms of North Korea. 
I don't think it's as simple if you will, as whether there's tension. Yes, there's tension when you are in a competition of any sort. 
You look at what we have accomplished, Margaret. We have created over 800,000 new manufacturing jobs in America, 13 million new jobs, unemployment at record lows. 
Yes and we're very clear about that. So one could argue that there's tension there, but you look for example, at trade, 99 percent of our trade is not influenced by what we are doing in terms of the restrictions on exports. 
I was the first woman attorney general of the second largest Department of Justice in the United States and reelected. 
And here's the- the bottom-- 
Understand- I mean, in peace loving communities. These weapons are- are transforming those peace loving communities into war zones. 
--of being attacked. 
--Congress acted, Civil Rights Act. Congress acted because where there was any question, especially through the courts or any other system, about the sanctity of these rights, we decided as a nation, we would put it into law. 
But at some point, it's just a step too far. 
I was the first woman elected district attorney of San Francisco, a major city in this country and reelected. 
We are now looking at a case where the government can interfere in what is one of the most intimate and private decisions that someone can make and should be able to make with their pastor, with their prince- with their priests, with their rabbi, with their loved ones and now the government is telling women what they can and cannot do. 
I believe that we should put the protections of Roe v. Wade into law, and the way that will happen is if we have a United States Congress, who regardless of their personal view for themselves or their family, would agree that the women of America should be trusted to make decisions about their life and their body based on what they know to be in their best interest. 
I think that, to be very honest with you, I- I do believe that we should have rightly believed, but we certainly believed that certain issues are just settled. 
And I think it's important to not conflate the two. Do we have disagreements, for example, very serious disagreements about what's happening in the South China Sea? 
We are all absolutely clear and unequivocal about our goal of the complete denuclearization of North Korea. 
We need to restore the protections of Roe v. Wade. 
For example, I was recently in the Philippines and I've been spending a lot of time with President Marcos. 
In that case, well known, sadly, a toddler lost both his parents. When I got to the scene, I was greeted by the mayor and- and the chief and the first responders who told me that story. 
And the court has now acted. The President acted this morning again with an executive order around what we will do through the executive branch to ensure that women have the ability to- to travel freely unencumbered, that women will have access to the medication, but we also need Congress to act because that branch of government is where we actually codify, which means put into law, the rights that again, we took for granted, but clearly have now been taken from the women of America. 
-- And it's a mischaracterization of the point. No, the point is-- 
It's that simple. 
It is a weapon of war. If you've ever looked at, if I may be so blunt, an autopsy photograph to see what it does to the human body and the fact that we can't get Congress to renew -- it's not like we're pulling something out of our hat, we've done it before as a nation -- to renew the assault weapons ban, is outrageous. 
There now is because people stood in line in 2020 for hours, demanding that of the things that they would stand in line to see happen. 
There's no question about it. 
For a- for a woman or a girl to have access to an abortion and this medical procedure. Most recently a 10-year-old child who is the subject of a clearly a sexual assault, having to go through and endure that kind of injustice and violence and then having to travel to another state and this is just in the first two weeks, I think since after the decision. 
I think it would be a huge mistake. I think it would be a huge mistake. First of all, when you look at Russia's unprovoked war on Ukraine, and the idea that they would supply ammunition to Russia, well, it's predictable where that ends up. 
You know, you look at it in terms of, there's another example of this point voting rights. You know, my parents were active in the civil rights movement. 
I can't talk to you about the details, what's happening behind the scenes, but I can tell you that it is one of our highest priorities to bring these Americans home. 
And, and that's where I think everyone should be focused if they're actually concerned about solutions instead of flame throwing. 
