These people are actually magic and they are magic because they are living their truth. Oh my goddess, what a revelation … and not the last chapter of the bible.
If you look at the long-term graph of any artist, they've always had a moment where they've revolted or rejected or pivoted, and that was my time.
Many friends and loved ones from the LGBTQ family have raised me into the woman I am today and I want to dedicate this award to one of my greatest champions of my life, my manager, Bradford Elton Cobb III.
This is where the character was built. This is where the making of me showed up." Because I don't think you really know who you are until you get thrown down the stairs of life and/or just punched in the face a couple of times.
I guess authenticity is probably the No. 1 word or characteristic that I have leaned on my whole life because I was raised in a religious world where you weren't really allowed to talk about your feelings; you weren't really allowed to investigate curiosity or questioning  even as simple as getting hurt.
I think that’s what the research and development this week is going to be all about. So I’m going to have like, I’m going to a really fun party. 
All the videos had been canceled — everything had been canceled — and I was just thinking, "Well, how am I going to do this?
Without them, I’d be half of the person I am today. My life is rich in every capacity because of them.
Lizzo, Billie Eilish, Dua Lipa. They are the next wonderful generation. 
Priceless lessons have been learned. The path of discovery has made me, has tested me and forever changed me.
We had similar struggles breaking out of our suppressive shelves but we kept inspiring each other, challenging each other and retiring our past frame of mind.
But it's about how you are in those valleys which takes you to the next peak. I think maybe I'll look back and I'll be like, "Oh, this is where the expansion happened.
And mine was really loud; especially when you have to be quiet, it starts getting really loud.
I prefer this. 
I turned in the record in  middle of March and I started mixing and mastering from my car. I would just go drive to the beach and I was listening to the music.
They are trusted allies that provide a safe space to fall, to not know it all and to make mistakes.
When I was growing up, homosexuality was synonymous with the word abomination and hell, a place of gnashing of teeth, continuous burning of skin and probably Mike Pence’s ultimate guest list for a barbecue.
He really did! I know we really connected on a soul level though because we came from the same upbringing where it was difficult to be our authentic selves.
I had been on an upward roller coaster. You're just going all the way up, but you know eventually this thing has to come down.
All control freaks are spiraling right now, and I'm definitely one of them.
It's fine! Maybe you should reframe.
What time I get out the door. It takes a minute for me to get out the door because I’m always doing so much. 
I’m just a singer-songwriter, honestly. I speak my truths and I paint my fantasies into these little bite-size pop songs.
I’m going to meet some Bollywood people. I’m going to be hearing some incredible bands and you know, it’s been a long time since I’ve been here. 
I'm just going to be a mom, but I'm definitely one of those moms that's going to continue to do what she loves.
Well, my future goals are definitely to do shows like these where I can really, I can spend more time and really, you know, give the fans more quality time rather than going in and out, in and out. 
I am here, bitch. Finally, you’ve waited for so long. You have waited for so long, and I will take that and… I have taken that into account. 
14, but because of the times of the world and manufacturing, we had to bump for two weeks. I don't know if the baby's coming first or the record, but it's all up to the stars.
My hope is just to provide an example of resilience, maybe, during this tough time through my own experience and to talk about it very .
Food that I could never give up? Chicken nuggets. Chicken fingers, but chickens don’t have fingers, so they do, but it’s more like… 
But for me, what I’ve noticed is that its balance. 
Whatever your sexuality, your gender, your preferred pronouns, blossom to be, we all know it ain’t so black and white and I will continue to champion the people that have been a champion for me.
Right and wrong were taught to me on felt boards and of course through the glamorous Jan Crouch crying diamond teardrops every night on that Vaseline-TBN television screen.
I think it’s almost, like, 15 years because he believed in me before it all. Secretly paying my rent for years and bringing me leftovers from hamburger .
I definitely associate with this kind of phoenix from the ashes, learning from failing. Unfortunately, I have to do some of that in the public eye, but I just decide to get back up every time.
My narrative was always "You're not enough. You're not really invited to this party. You're not really in the club, you just got kind of lucky."
Therefore, I’m going to give you a feast for your ears and your eyes, and we will make it a night to remember. 
The conversation on mental wellness is so necessary right now. Let's talk about it. I think that takes some of the pressure off of the pipes a little bit.
So I'm going to go and work on my foundation." I really rebuilt the way I think about myself because we all have that CNN ticker of negative thinking going on in our head at all times it feels like.
There will be obstacles, but we all know everything good takes work, but we can’t let our past get in the way of our brilliant future.
And I've been able to have this exercise of what it's like to be in the same room for weeks on end.
Thank you so much.
I did a lot of stuff to get to this place of acceptance and surrender. When I wrote "What Makes a Woman," it was kind of like a trick question.
I created a stronger bond with my family than I ever had. I think our silver linings have been just the bond that's been created out of intensity, maybe, and also I've been able to find my own balance and stillness because I'm a fiend.
Shopping, eating. 
It's a long process.
I’ll never cease to be a champion, an ally, a spotlight and a loving voice for all LGBTQ identifying people.
You're only as conscious and aware as you can be in your early 20s. It just takes time. I will look back at myself now, speaking at 35, when I'm 55 and go, "What an a******.
I wrote this song before I had conceived but this whole record is a product of me going through quite an emotional, spiritual, mental journey since 2017 and rewiring how I think about life and a lot of those negative ways that I thought about life.
I stand with you and I know that we stand together against discrimination whether it be in the LGBTQ community, or our Latino brothers and sisters, or the millions of Muslims in this country.
I don't know what the definition  is. This is just a chapter in the book and the book is  "still unwritten."
No way, no way! I wanted the pearly gates and the unlimited fro-yo toppings. Most of my unconscious adolescence, I prayed the gay away at my Jesus camps, but then in the middle of it all, in a twist of events, I found my gift and my gift introduced me to people outside my bubble and my bubble started to burst.
You have no idea what's coming to you and life is not how you see it, missy."
Here is the thing about that woman, we’ve kind of like raised each other. I’ll get into it in a second, but basically one time, I said, “I’m not a feminist because I don’t grow hair underneath my arms,” and stuff like that because I really didn’t understand what that meant.
I've always been very resilient. I'm a bit of a Scorpio. I'm kind of a Libra-Scorpio cusp, so I've got some pragmatism.
People can change. Believe me, it would have been easier just to stay the whipped cream tit, spring, poppy, light, fluffy, fun, anthems by the way of animal totem singing girl who was basically somewhat neutralist in a stance and just thought more hugs could save the world.
They’ve taught me pretty much everything I know. Shannon, actually, I used to sleep on her couch. I was couch-surfing on her couch and I used to eat her frozen chicken tenders from Trader Joe’s.
Well, if you know how to measure a woman, you may not be a woman, first and foremost. But it's an amazing, beautiful thing and I feel this  about bringing in a little girl to the world.
I set up a little studio in my bedroom. My brother-in-law is also a music producer — we don't work together a whole lot, but we ended up putting the finishing touches on my record.
You don’t get to choose your family, but you can choose your tribe. Many of the people I admire and trust, and work with belong to the LGBTQ community.
Make some noise if you know who I’m talking about.
Honestly, I haven’t always gotten it right, but in 2008, when that song came out, I knew that I started a conversation that a lot of the world seemed curious enough to sing along to.
They stimulated my mind and they filled my heart with joy and they freaking danced all the while doing it.
My secret to happiness is that… it’s a constant journey. There is no there, there. It’s not a destination. 
And people like Jacqueline. It seems like, I feel like she’s definitely going to take me shopping at least, right? 
Will you re-prioritize? Would you reframe? And it was all getting so real, so it was very emotional at that moment.
I feel ready, figuratively. Literally, I need to put the car seat in. I was supposed to have the record come out Aug.
So I think this is going to be the beginning of the wholeness of me, not just one part.
This song "Only Love" talks about what happens if life were to hand us a curveball. How would you look at the things that are important?
This community here tonight has achieved more progress toward a more perfect union in a short amount of time as any group in our history.
The tradition and religion. 
But it's not very important, obviously. There's much bigger things going on in the world." But I've been able to stay super creative during this time, which I'm really grateful for because whether or not we're in a pandemic, watching the hands of time go by while you're pregnant is not fun.
I was like, “What? This whole time? I’m a feminist.”
"You will be healed by Jesus." So everything felt like it wasn't authentic. I was thirsty for authenticity; I look back and everything has had genuineness about it, but I was raised in a whole different mindset and I've had to peel the layers off year by year.
I think it's a really old narrative that you have to give up life and just become a mother. I'll have interviewers ask me: "What, are you just going to go away?" I'm like, "You know Beyoncé has twins and another child!?
I got to say there is no other community that has done more to shape who I am today, and there is no other community that I believe in more than you.
They were so good.
So I did it, but I wasn't really getting quote-unquote "high" off of my own supply anymore. It's like I had gotten too used to the view from the top of the mountain and the universe decided it was time to serve me a little humble pie — which I hated at the time but looking back, obviously, it was so necessary for me to grow and become grounded and more expansive as a human being and not just be on this forever-loop of trying to ring the bell of  "being the best pop star ever" but not knowing how to literally boil water.; having no other dimension in life and just being so single-minded it started to wear and tear on my mental .
My secret to happiness? 
My favorite or film star. Mm… I mean, I should say, Jacqueline… Of course. 
I don’t have to tell you that we have a lot more to do. We have to create a safe space for us to ask questions of ourselves and others and to keep the conversation going because the loudest voice in the room or on your TV set isn’t always right, but that little voice inside of you, pushing you to discover who you are is a trusted friend.
I mean, me saying anything to them, they’re doing just fine. You know, I’m just excited to meet anyone that is interesting and has a great perspective and, you know, has a care and kindness and empathy for the world and wants to do compassionate artistic things. 
She lovingly pulled me aside as the strong woman she is and great friend, and those are great friends, and she goes, “Hey, this is what the word ‘feminist’ means.”
I actually went to this place called The Hoffman , which really changed my life. My fiancé, Orlando , had done it before me and a few other friends and I had resisted because I was like "I'm good, I'll just turn to my old tricks of being validated by the outside world." And then when that turned on me, I was like, "OK, I'm not good!
Let’s take a trip down memory lane for one second. My first words were mama and dada, God and Satan.
No way. No longer can I sit in silence. I have to stand for what I know is true and that is equality and justice for all, period.
While in the middle of a pandemic, while in the middle of a race revolution, while in the middle of an election year?
Right? That’s sleep. That’s a mirage of sleep on my face. 
But Witness was a little bit of my way of just "OK, I'm not a saccharine sweet pop , there's some edges here and I'd like to show them off." It wasn't a huge shift, although the music industry has changed seismically since I first started.
These days, I get an incomparable high from finally knowing myself and it feels more real than any story I was ever told on a felt board.
Suffice to say, it’s been a long road for me and I’m sure a long road for many of you out there.
What I did know is that I was curious and even then I knew sexuality wasn’t as black and white as this dress.
Great. This is where I always get in trouble. 
I think in this job, you have to roll with the punches, or just know how to ebb and flow, bob and weave — all the sayings.
I love her so very much and I love all my friends that teach me everything that I’ve learned today so thank you so much for this incredible, humbling award.
These are the people I hold dear. See, I hope I stand here as real evidence for all that no matter where you came from, it’s about where you are going and that real change, real evolution and real perception shift can happen if we open our minds and soften our hearts.
I love zipping around the world. I love going from Australia to Europe like, twice a week like a lunatic.
This one was a bit more sonically experimental. It's exactly what I wanted to do. I wanted to break out of the loop of the idea of what people thought I could do, musically.
I had 10 years of just  insane rocket-fuel ride from 2008 to 2017. I put out a record; it was a different record, it wasn't like the past three.
Thank you, everyone. Thank you for your time. I appreciate you. 
One thing I can never settle on? 
It feels sparkly as f*ck. Truth be told, I think a lot of that has to do with the magic that has rubbed off on me from all of you.
Nuts, huh? Thankfully, I was able to put most of the work in pre-March, but I was in Australia and I flew home March 13, that Friday the 13th where everything started to feel a little .
For instance, I kissed a girl and I liked it. Truth be told:  I did more than that and …  how was I going to reconcile that with a gospel singing girl raised in youth groups that were pro-conversion camps?
People that survive and are still artists their whole lives, they haven't always had an upward trajectory, it's been peaks and valleys.
Well, I’m excited to watch some of the other people that are going to be on the bill. Some of the other bands, because I’m not as familiar as I should be with them, and I’m totally excited to immerse myself in the culture. 
I believe, even now in my last trimester of pregnancy, it's like "Man, women can handle so much and are so diverse and so adaptable." It's a song that tries to pose a question about how do you define a woman?
That’s why the HRC is so important and I am so grateful for them being on the front lines every day from civil union legislation, to repealing ‘don’t ask, don’t tell’, to getting rid of DOMA at the Supreme Court which paved the way for marriage equality across the country and continuing to fight for trans equality amongst all things.
Thank you, guys. A little back story. Shannon Woodward, one of my best friends … A lot of my best friends are here tonight because I love them and I’m obsessed with them, and I’m loyal.
None of us have the answers, or all of them at least, but it’s time to lead with empathy and grace and compassion now more than ever to find the unity we need now.
But this year is definitely a year of the loss of certainty and for me, it's learning how to surrender.
Yeah, of course. 
I know it doesn’t always feel safe to live out who you are, but here’s the thing though, I would have not chosen a different road.
The gatekeepers have changed, the platforms have changed, the way that we digest music has changed since 2008, so of course it's going to change and I just have to manage my expectations and figure out what that means for me and go along with that change.
We broke the cycle and now we’re living our best most authentic lives. I love you, B. Cobb.
These people were nothing like who I had been taught to fear. They were the most free, strong, kind and inclusive people I have ever met.
