They have given me life. They have provided life. And I am very grateful to the people who have enjoyed these films.
If it’s a role that has been offered to me, or any project, it’s about the “why?” of making it. If there is an answer to that “why?”, then I’ll go forward with just trying to do the script work that Chris is talking about. 
But there is never enough time and there is never enough money. It’s circumstance. For me, the most takes I’ve ever had have been in action sequences in the Matrix films where you are just trying to get what I call “super perfect” and we had a chance to do that. 
I guess it starts with the script and the character but also what the story is. Who is involved with it matters too and it all comes down to personal taste.
Two days in and it’s going great. 
Yeah, except they don’t let anybody come visit me on the shoots. Well, we had some table reads and James was really cool about coming to my house and doing a table reading of the script. 
To Lionsgate, I thank you for your support and the opportunity to be here. Thank you Joe and to all involved at Lionsgate.
The only way I am here is working with artists and people such as yourselves. I am not here without working with such talented, beautiful artists and people.
I try to understand who I am, who the other characters are, and what’s my place in the story. You have different obligations as an actor sometimes. 
I think it’s a creeping express train. Which means that they’ve done pre-production, we’re still working on the script, they’re done pre-viz, and they’re doing location scouting. 
It’s something my partner, Alexandra Grant, is really interested in, so I’m kind of riding her coattails. 
Even if you’re a car person, there’s some cool and specific stuff going on. And I had some great teachers. 
I don’t know, to me, it’s just another way to make a movie. 
People in power don’t want that, you know? So that’s not your lifetime, that’s like your next birthday. 
You see a close-up of a wonderful performance with emotions and storytelling that touch you. Whether it’s horror or action or comedy, you’re seeing a face that’s, you know, 20 feet tall. 
Literally – I would not be here! So, thank you. I am forever grateful.
They’re having such cultural, sociological impacts, and the species is being studied. There’s so much “data” on behaviors now. 
That was the fundamental base. 
So, there’s other stuff trying to get done. 
Um, I never got that kind of direction. 
Your support, your love… It has been an honor and a privilege to have the chance to work with you and I am so grateful for your friendship, mentorship, spirit, soul and wisdom that you share with me.
How do we replace nature? 
And to be on the forecourt, in the front of this legendary movie palace with John Wick? With John Wick?
Oftentimes because we didn’t know the sets because we were on a kind of time crunch. I learned that fight scene with the female assassin two hours before we shot it so that scene in the nightclub, I was still learning my way around the set and it was actually pretty intense.
I had one of those in my apartment. It was set at 17 degrees Celsius. During the action stuff I would be sitting in that when I got done and almost never come out just to try and recuperate. 
I’m interested in the storytelling of humans and their interactions with technologies. 
They’re bad people. But they’re also super moral and ethical. Well, not even ethical, but there’s a code. 
In terms of exploring it further, I mean I’d love to play the part again but it’s up to the audience…
Technologies are finding places in our education, in our medicine, in our entertainment, in our politics, and how we war and how we work. 
I’ll just say this: there’s an Australian company called iCool, and they make these tubs that chill water. 
You are the best of the best. Laurence Fishburne.
And I want to thank my mom! Who, when I said to her, when I was fifteen — “Is it okay if I am an actor?” She said, “Do whatever you want to do, darling”… and so it began!
And then, Erwin introduced me to an agent. Not just any agent, but a spectacular agent and a person Hildy Gottlieb.
Now let’s go play in some cement.
For this I had to go through 3 months of training with the different techniques. On The Matrix movies I would be fighting hundreds of Agent Smiths and I’d be training with the stunt men for 6 weeks.
I was, like, “YES!,” but then to make that work to bring character and action together in the right mix, time sometimes becomes one of the things that gets sacrificed. 
I want to thank my friends who are here today. Claire, where are you? Josh, Robert, Janie, Alexandra, Cheryl.
I think the principle, the ideas behind an independent currency, are amazing. These are amazing tools for exchanges and distribution of resources. 
The directors wanted to do long takes with me doing as much as I possibly could and I was like “YES!” because it brings character and action together and I think that’s a really enjoyable mix.
It’s kind of a romantic-comedy. I’m working with a writer named Kristen Gore on another project called Psyched about two psychics who fall in love. 
I am so grateful. Thank you, man. You are amazing!
Where are you? Hello, Meredith. Chris and Keith – Thank you for being here and for all that you do for me and for helping me to continue to have a career.
Are you talking about time or are you talking about…? 
And to you, the director and our visionary of the film, Chad Stahelski — To you, Ian — Where are you?
I met Chad in 1998 on the first Matrix and then met Dave on the second two. We continued to stay in touch and work together. 
It’s this sensorium. It’s spectacle. And it’s a system of control and manipulation. 
It’s ready to go. It’s a bullet train in waiting. 
Erwin, without all of your belief and support and without all of what you did for me, I would not be here.
I mean, for me that’s the fun of it. He’s a mythical assassin, so he has to have a certain kind of efficiency that I liked. 
I started acting when I was fifteen-years-old in Toronto, Canada and I traveled in my first car when I was twenty years old across the country to Los Angeles, California… to Hollywood – with a dream.
So that was great. They’re such excellent actors and I thought they enjoyed the roles. I mean, when was the last time you saw James Caan do a comedy like that? 
I loved that opening where we see John’s grief and how it turns into a kind of determination. So it was a really fun role to play and to have a lot to chew on.
I was secretly hoping, though, that they would direct it. Then they shared with me and our producer, Basil Iwanyk, and they all together just had a great take on it and vision for the film, not only in terms of the action, but the world that they created. 
Yeah. The directors knew that they always wanted to shoot in New York because the film is based in New York, and they knew they wanted long takes and not a lot of cutting, and they wanted me to do as much as I physically could. 
Yeah, digitally. I don’t mind if someone takes a blink out during an edit. But early on, in the early 2000s, or it might have been the ’90s, I had a performance changed. 
It’s basically the relationship between him and two call girls. He’s the driver and he ends up stealing a video camera and hanging with them in an apartment. 
You know, if there is some kind of job or if there is some kind of headspace. What are the emotional parameters and concerns? 
Without your support, I am not standing here. Actually most of the people who are standing or sitting here are not here without your support.
Cheryl? Hello, Cheryl. Cheryl — I love you.
That dream! A dream I share with – I am sure – so many here and probably with most, if not all, of the artists memorialized and celebrated in this remarkable place.
It definitely was “action improv,” yeah. But that’s where the directors’ experience comes in and knowing who to play off of and hiring the right people for the job. 
It’s just shorthand and trust. We could work things out fast, but it’s intense. It’s a high wire act to a certain extent because you only have so much time. 
It’s a different kind of presence and presentation. I also try to familiarize myself with whatever the character does. 
We’ve developed our own playground. 
I love movies. Gosh, I love movies! I love watching them and I love making them.
He’s funny, right? 
The only way I am standing here is to have worked with such beautiful, wonderful artists in the past.
I’m working on this film but it’s all with my partner Stephen Hamel who is doing our production company, Company Films. 
You root for John Wick. 
The people who are paying you for your art would rather not pay you. They’re actively seeking a way around you, because artists are tricky. 
We went in on the weekends to try and get that right. You just prepare. Do you sometimes want more takes? 
It’s like they’ve created more land. There’s more land for sale. It’s wealth creation and it’s opportunity. 
There’s a sequence in the film where Henry says to Max that he can’t go forward with the plan. That he can’t do it and leave the girl. 
They added a tear to my face, and I was just like, “Huh?!” It was like, I don’t even have to be here. 
The dream! To be in pictures. To be in movies.
Yeah! I liked that aspect and it’s nice to lay a rich, full-blooded character and I liked the emotion of John.
But I have to do something, I have to bridge the relationship to the whole film and to these characters. 
Sometimes you can get picked up by Sony, or Fox Searchlight. Sometimes, they make films, but not all the time. 
To be included amongst all of the incredible artists who have made their mark here over the past ninety-two years, to be a part of this Hollywood tradition started by Sid Grauman all those years ago and which continues to this day.
It’s dreams, right? And immersion. I think the power of cinema—part of it is its novelty, but also its scale. 
Chad and Dave started an action design company, a stunt company, of sorts. Then they started doing second unit directing, and after that they started developing some stories. 
It is an honor to be here today to celebrate – in this Hollywood hallowed ground – pictures, movies, films, cinema!
Yeah. Takes are good. Like on Henry’s Crime sometimes you get two or three takes. 
He played a Smith in The Matrix so we have a fighting history so there’s this shorthand and trust where he’s like “OK so we’re gonna do this and then you’re gonna do this” and so on….
We didn’t have to go cast another movie star. We were lucky that James Caan responded to the material and Vera loved the script. 
I have been a part of some films that have been embraced and I am very grateful. They have changed my life.
Yeah, the world very much lends itself to that and I think the way we watch stories now we consider that aspect.
Yeah, where you might get twelve if you want. You know, you’re boarded differently  The amount of page count that you have to do a day is different. 
I want to thank all of the artists, teachers, agents and friends I had the opportunity to work with and to learn with in Toronto, especially Rose Dubin, who oversaw the theater program at the JCC where she created what was a haven for young artists to learn.
I want to thank my stepfather Paul Aaron, who as a director shared with me his world of the theater and film, who inspired him to dream and train as an actor and provided the opportunity to get in that car and have a safe place to land, to start.
Man, I love John Wick.
But what’s the intention behind that synthesis? 
If you look at my performance in Something’s Got to Give, my role there is that I’m basically not the lead singer and I’m not the chorus. 
Which is cool, because that’s what artists do, right? We take our influences and we synthesize them. 
And the guys, the directors, are all very detail oriented and focus on specific techniques, so if that’s the kind of thing you’re looking for – how does he have time to reload, the judo, some of the transitions into Ju-jitsu. 
It’s kind of about the interpersonal dynamics of this family. 
Basically, it’s “What are they thinking? What are they feeling? What are they doing?” And then you try to figure out as much as you can and after someone says “action” you’re going to know what’s going to happen. 
If you go into deepfake land, it has none of your points of view. That’s scary. It’s going to be interesting to see how humans deal with these technologies. 
He has this great moment where he’s like “Look. You ask me to help you, I’m going to help you.” and looking at him I was just like “Yeah. 
They set me up with some great instructors. We worked ahead of time for about three months, and we were still learning as we went along. 
I’d keep adding to that as I would be working with this Army Special Ops guy who’d be showing me different techniques and I’d be like “WHAT’S THAT?!?” So Wick does a whole different bunch of techniques.
I have to play my part, which is a different kind of thing than what I have to do in The Day the Earth Stood Still, or to go way back, The Devil’s Advocate. 
The writer I know had some interests in what happened to John Wick but when making the film we didn’t really go into it.
I like the rules and the code; it just had something fresh about it.
It’s also a fascination—it seems for us, the animals on the planet, like, How do we defeat death? How do we change the weather? 
We are hopefully going to make 47 Ronin. 
Yeah. But then sometimes the process is that you’re not supposed to have takes. It gets a little zen out there. 
Yeah. Absolutely. I’ve been working with a writer named Mark Hyman on a project called It’s Not Me It’s You. 
Yeah. You’re, like, there. The intimacy of that. 
So, I don’t know where it’s at right now. 
They started making decisions for you. It became our world. 
It’s where I had the chance to play Mercutio at sixteen and where I was seen by an agent and so started my professional career and my love of Shakespeare.
And before then, they’re going to challenge how much they pay you. So everyone’s gonna be an independent worker. 
I’d train from 9 in the morning until 5 in the afternoon. For this I got trained in certain moves like throws and how to be thrown so I gained what we call a “toolbox”.
I had met with them about a few stories before, so I sent them the script as soon as I got it with hopes they would at least do the action. 
A couple of these guys I had worked with before. Daniel Bernhardt, who I do the renovation fight with and who throws me over the balcony, played one of the Smiths in that Matrix fight, so we already had a fighting history. 
I love to learn. I love when character can be… what is it that Harrison Ford says? “Physical acting!”  But you take that physicality and put that back into the character, 
I thank you. I thank you very much.
Attention to detail, worldbuilding, and having ideas as nourishment in your entertainment. That exists in John Wick 4 too—the idea of freedom, the idea of choice with rules and consequences. 
Well, we had about 40-some-odd days to film the picture and we probably shot about 18 days that were action days. 
Hildy, I thank you for believing in me and giving that kid a chance, an opportunity for opportunity.
What’s frustrating about that is you lose your agency. When you give a performance in a film, you know you’re going to be edited, but you’re participating in that. 
To me, it was not out of circumstances, but trying to have another way of performing and getting material. 
And I’d like to thank my agents who are here today. Meredith… Where are you, Meredith? Meredith?
For this, I really liked the character of John Wick and I really liked the tone as well where it’s this real world aspect mixed in with this underworld of criminals.
And to my agents in the past – Kevin, Jimmy and Patrick – I thank you. I thank you very much.
Or to the side. I’m sorry to go on here, Chad. 
If we’re gonna compare them, they both were original ideas with visionary filmmakers. 
To be in films. To be in cinema… but first, I had to get an agent or a manager, and in my case it was a manager – Erwin Stoff.
I am very grateful.
Humans are messy. 
John has to register in the middle of a fight, “Oh, fuck! That’s happening!” 
To me, you just really have to know. Like with Henry’s Crime, you have to really kind of know. We rehearsed theater stuff trying to get the blocking with the plays. 
We’d speak more about the “impossible mission” that Michael Nyqvist’s character spoke about. “So I gave him the impossible mission.” *laughs* We were always like well what WAS that; this 3 day battle, so we would speak more about that.
Yeah. About 7 years ago I decided to try and develop my own material, and here we are in 2010. Making this film in 2009, while having a script, trying to raise the money, and go independently. 
It’s kind of what you look forward to; the film’s an action movie but it feels like it has a lot of soul to it and also has a lot of fun.
Yeah, we did. We went out with your agenda of action as part of storytelling. And character. 
Lance… Laurence… Halle — Where are you, Mark? Mark. Asia — To the producers — Basil, Erica.
He’s an old school guy. He does whatever it takes. 
Lana  thought you were perfect for the role. 
So to pooh-pooh crypto, or the volatility of cryptocurrency, it’s only going to make it better in terms of how it’s safeguarded. 
Thank you so much for being here, Laurence Fish and for your kind, gracious, over the top words.
In this “new environment” you don’t have domestic distribution. That’s part of what being an independent movie is. 
I helped set up the launch. We’re trying to take this technology that people are interested in and give opportunities to artists with different viewpoints. 
To the TCL, the Chinese Theater… It is a great honor to be here and to be invited to this remarkable, historical, magical place.
Look at all the independence you have! Let’s not have unions. 
I will be forever grateful.
Yeah! It was awesome! 
Passengers is a spaceship in waiting. 
Thank you. To David, the co-director of the first John Wick.
With all of the artists who have made their mark here of the past, the present and the future and with you.
What we were trying to do with Henry’s Crime was to make this kind of existential, romantic-comedy, caper movie. 
I love you all. Thank you.
I haven’t heard anything back. They turned in the script and it was very expensive. I don’t know if they’re going to…it would cost, like, half a billion dollars to make that script. 
We’re on our knees looking at cave walls and seeing the projections, and we’re not having the chance to look behind us. 
That’s James Caan right there. He’s a movie star!” It’s admiration and it’s gratitude. 
Yeah. It takes place over 24 hours. You follow this character named John. 
That’s cool. See how long that lasts. Fingers crossed. 
Well, we had the financing with me. We didn’t really have any real financing issues because of the scale of the film. 
That is so — You swore! – F*cking awesome! I mean, I love John Wick!
but it’s very much a high wire act because we only have a certain amount of time.
How are you trying to break out of the system? John Wick has got a cool thing because everyone is bad. 
But that’s what gives the film both its formalism and grace – because he’s good at what he does – and this improvisational immediacy that I think really comes off the screen in different ways. 
When you watch John Wick action scenes, it feels different. There’s so much choreography. It’s out on the edge. 
It’s cool because it excites curiosity, like we’re curious about these other people and these other places which shows how well they’re realized.
Absolutely. I was part of developing the screenplay. So, I’ve been with the project from the ground up. 
