And Kourtney and Khloe took Miami to open one up there. And now, we did New York, just to kind of expand our brand. 
So I don't think it was risque at all. 
There's a charity that I work with a lot that I donate money all the time. 
Yes, I was going to say, Leo's pretty cute. 
And I'm dating around. You know, I'm enjoying this time just to be selfish and focus on work. And I'm having a good time. 
I was just going to have a drink every once in a while when I turn 30. But I think the single life came a little bit before that. 
And we -- yes. I signed a contract for everything. So when that did happen, he was a very strict parent to where we had to really, you know, take responsibilities for what we've signed. 
I think that the way that I am -- I'm such a hopeless romantic -- 
And I think a lot of girls would be lying if they, you know, said they didn't. 
I think being an entrepreneur is definitely a skill. And if you ask me, like, what my job title is -- 
I never think it's, like, good to boast, or -- 
But I think everything happens for a reason, and I think that right now I need to focus on work. And that's what I'm doing. 
You know, I know she gets a lot of flack, so I -- I don't know, I just tend to -- I don't typically like to say anything if I don't really have an opinion either way, to be honest. 
I think she looks beautiful, and she loves modeling. She loves it. 
Chris and I have only been seen out, I think, two times together. And all of the sudden, we're on this full-on whirlwind romance. 
And then Kourtney could care less. She's just along for the ride and she's the -- has to analyze everything. 
Absolutely. I was married first. I was married when I was a teenager and -- 
So I Twittered two pictures, and I said I want my fans to design my bottle. You choose the two colors. 
Indianapolis, we love you. Oh, my gosh! 
We don't know. He's not answering his phone. 
Yes. I mean, I think, last year was probably -- 
That's just, kind of, how we are. So, if there was something -- I think physically, we're pretty confident girls. 
Wait. Really? He's -- I -- I thought he was, like, one right behind me. 
And it was. It really made me who I am today. 
Absolutely. And we always -- we put one that's like a crazy wish goal that we don't -- we know we will get there one day, but we don't think it'll be in the year, and we always get to it. 
Because it has a little bit of vodka. That's the only like real alcohol I can have. And the Kaluha tastes like chocolate milk. 
The show has actually just taught us so much about ourselves. And it kind of forces us to deal with whatever issue that we're going through, because for us to sit there and ignore each other, you know, all day with cameras on, we also know isn't really beneficial. 
But so far, we've not taken any content out because at the end of the day, I mean this is -- if a story's going to get out that we're nervous about putting it in the show, somehow it gets out to the tabloids anyway. 
We own, you know, three successful clothing stores. 
And it's probably completely twisted. So why not be able -- this is like our way to tell our story through our own eyes. 
It's so fun, though. It 's like walking down the street and he, like, picks up my hand, and I feel like a little kid that used swings, you know? 
Kourtney, like, really takes her time and, you know, -- Scott has stopped drinking for about a year. 
Ryan is so easy to talk to. He just gets it. Like, he completely trusts us and our vision and we, you know, him the same. 
You know what? I must say that I am pretty content. You know, I -- I definitely wear, you know, body shapers and stuff underneath clothes to, you know, make me feel more confident when I go out on a red carpet, for sure. 
Whatever it is, I give 10 percent away to the church. And that's what I was taught. 
You know, from the start, we decided as a family if we're going to do this, we're going to show everything. 
But he was also very fun. Like, he had the good balance. He wasn't the strict parent that was -- that you were afraid of. 
So I turned 30 this year, and I just -- I only have one White Russian, and I'll just get a little bit of a buzz and then I get really tired and fall asleep. 
Or there are so many personal things. And what's so cool is our relationship with the show is from the start, they've always said we have, you know, the right to edit and to approve all the footage. 
Kourtney and I kind of, you know, were -- we were best friends growing up. So we're extremely close, a year and a half apart. 
Fashionable. I mean, I -- I like to think we're very determined and hard-working. And I think our brand is a brand for the fans, for sure. 
I like tall. I like good teeth. Teeth and hygiene are important. 
You'll see me -- you know, I think I've had the same boyfriend for the whole first four seasons. So you'll really see a different side of me. 
And then sometimes we look back at things that we might not be so proud of, or arguments we had, and it like, you know, brings us back to that place where it's like, okay, we never want to get there again. 
It's weird. Dating is just really awkward. I'm a relationship kind of girl. 
So, you live and you learn and you move on. 
MORGAN: When we come back, I want to talk to you both about ambition, about who you idolize, and about Twitter again. 
He was, you know, very family oriented. 
I mean, it's all, you know, everything that we do now, it's all bitter-sweet. We all wish our dad was there to watch it, whether it's, you know, her giving birth to Mason, or, you know, whether we buy our first home. 
And we do what we can to make ourselves feel the best inside, which, you know, could be on the outside as well for us. 
No, I was just thinking about it and then I was like, you know what, I never talk money. How much I have or anything. 
Like, we only take on projects that we love and are passionate about. 
And you never know. If you change your mind or, you know, on the Kardashian Show, it might be better in his home family environment. 
Let's see how many followers we can bring by one tweet. 
Then all the guys would go golfing and so -- 
Yes, it's like, we just started dating. 
That's why I need to find the right person that accepts it all. Because then you can do -- if anything, if you have a strong partner with you, then it motivates you to be even better. 
Season four. Season five? Actually, season five is. 
Justin Bieber has this swag to him. I'm serious. He has this -- he's charming. 
But I also use it, you know, for, like, business, like, my fragrance. I couldn't decide what color pink to use on the bottle. 
Yes, I think we all go all out on holidays and get each other really nice gifts. 
Play video games at all hours of the night. 
Absolutely. I mean, I've been really private on -- on the show -- relationships. I only show very little bits and pieces. 
They're both really sarcastic people and they love to battle and say really rude, crazy things. 
If he were 18, I don't know. I don't know. That sounds really creepy. 
I think being an entrepreneur is definitely a skill. 
I would never move in with anyone unless I was engaged or married. I think Kourtney and I -- 
And I really feel so connected to all my fans. But it is funny when people, you know, they do assume that they know everything about you because, you know, we live our life so publicly. 
I think that it definitely -- when people say -- I mean, I get the statement when they say "more money, more problems" -- I definitely get that. 
And he always taught us so much about, like, credit. And just so many things that he taught us, you know, it's all kind of paid off. 
Kourtney could care -- I always say to everyone, Kourtney could care less about fame, about anything. 
She has her opinion, she's firm on that, and we all respect it. But I think I've always been cool with Scott. 
Kourtney doesn't care what people think, so it's cool, I mean-- 
Combined, I would say, I don't talk dollars. 
I don't want to date another football player. 
Well, Kourtney is -- either she's a zero. 
So we moved in both with my dad. And-- 
And I really have to, like, you know, give it up to Kourtney for being so courageous. I mean, I couldn't show that, if that was going on in my relationship. 
Yes, she has no patience to tolerate anything, but she's very calm. Khloe tells it like it is, will say anything, but she's super sensitive and has a really good heart. 
I don't think it's ever appropriate to talk money. I don't know why. I've never been comfortable about it. 
Kourtney's the kind that'll just say anything to you, hoping that she gets that reaction out of you. 
And I've always, you know, gotten along with Scott. I think out of everyone, you know, Khloe, there's like really no reasoning with her. 
I was married for like three years. I loved the whole idea of marriage. I love being in a long-term relationship. 
Everything they ask us -- because I think I'm -- I know -- and my sisters were heavily involved in our blogs and our Twitter and our Facebooks. 
No. Kourtney and I are definitely looking around. Kourtney's boyfriend is from New York, so he's here and they split time. 
I would absolutely say that marketing is a skill. And I think that, you know, fashion as well. I mean, we -- we each -- each sister has been stylists at some point in our lives. 
Yes, but I understood. I don't agree in therapy. I don't know why. 
I think that when anything that kind of arises that you're not happy with, you know, whether you gain some weight, you hit the gym harder, or whether you aren't at a, you know, goal that you feel, you know, comfortable at at work, you try and work harder and get there. 
Yes, but I got a really good deal on it. I traded two in for it. So, technically I was out of pocket about 50 or 60. 
Kourtney found out by looking on the Internet, and finding my marriage license and e-mailing it to my mom. 
And so far, there hasn't been anything that we've taken out. 
He would have to be legal. Let's just say that. 
I posted the pictures on my blog. I thought she looked beautiful. I think for her being 14, 5'10", she's gorgeous. 
Exactly. Well, I think on the New York season, you'll definitely see a whole different side of me. 
I don't know the last time that's happened. 
Yes, absolutely. So now, all you need is shoes, fragrance -- 
I love having that best friend that, you know -- but so I've learned a lot. But I definitely want to get married. 
I can have one, you know, loosen up a little bit and then that's it. I still am not the biggest drinker, so I would never -- 
I really can't. I mean, it seems like yesterday we, you know, Ryan Seacrest and my mom came up with the idea. 
And I let her think that, and I'm just very, like, passive. So, whatever. 
It's refreshing sometimes. But not too long. 
He was the new guy in our life, and after my parents got a divorce, so it's understandable. Every kid goes through that. 
There's a lot that we wouldn't show. I mean, I'm really particular on what I show about, you know, any relationship that I may have. 
Kourtney used to brutalize me as a kid. 
And Bruce's scars on his hands from Kourtney's nails? 
Oh, I don't think so. Isn't he married or engaged or something? Or has a serious girlfriend. 
If I can just meet someone and fall right in love and be in a relationship, I would love to do that. 
She text messages me, like, she'll write a guy's name with a question mark. Is this true? 
Yes. And so, that was the color of my fragrance bottle. 
It's pretty crazy. I mean, you know, you can send out like a little Twitter and people will show up places. 
Bruce has scars on his hands from Kourtney digging her nails into him. 
She had a really hard time talking to him at that time. 
So absolutely. I think that you can excel even more if you have someone that believes in you 100 percent. 
But I don't think people expected her, you know, to be modeling in swimsuits. But that was a requirement from the modeling agency and she was -- you didn't even see anything. 
you should see the one I made for my dog. It's amazing. 
He is going through a phase where he just feels like, you know, being that irresponsible, 20-something-year-old sleeping in. 
I was on "Dancing with the Stars", and my partner was Mark Ballas, who was Bristol's partner. And he had, like, the most amazing things to say about her daughter. 
It's the only drink that I can have. I love a White Russian. 
I hated it, yes. There was -- I think -- it's so funny because, I think, a lot of the time there's a lot of plastic surgery rumors that swirl. 
He picked me up when I couldn't pick myself up. And he, you know, and that's what my family was for as well. 
See that's a misconception. I love all candy. 
If you try with one of us, there's always another one right there to see what we don't see. 
She's -- Khloe's super tall. I'm kind of in the middle. She's really tiny. 
No, no, no, I just thought -- I'm doing a lot of things now that I never thought I would be doing. So it's a trade out. 
I would say, it was probably something that I didn't realize at the time, like a family ski trip with my dad and my mom. 
Well, how do I frolic with the Bieb? It was tough to get his hair wet. That part was challenging. 
But I don't think -- Kourtney would be just as happy, you know, being a school teacher or whatever else she wanted to do. 
That's fine. I'll -- I'll give it to her. 
Or you can just have dinner with a friend or say hello to someone in, you know, a store and people assume that you're dating them or -- it's crazy that -- you know, I love letting people in on my life. 
Yeah, I said I've always been really uptight, I'm not a drinker at all. I never have. So I made a promise to myself. 
Kourtney is -- OK, Kourtney is the cheapest. I'll spend the most. 
My mom gave me 24 hours to tell my dad. So I did. 
Someone that, you know, family is an important value to them. Religion or faith is really important to me. 
We're going to be 100 percent real. And I think that's what's come across to the audience. And I think that's why, you know, our show has done so well, because people really can relate to at least one of our personalities on the show. 
And I think that I was so lucky to find a boyfriend at that time in Reggie -- that we were together for four years -- and that was something that he really helped me through. 
Yes, and it just kind of happens that way. It's always like a -- I just don't know -- 
It was a very, you know, different atmosphere than what he -- you know, it wasn't his home. 
I Twittered a picture of myself at -- when I was 13 or 14 years old in a bikini. And I think everyone got the picture. 
I love to make like scrapbooks and organize them. Such a neat freak, so I love everything totally organized on my free time. 
But I think that we have a great team of people that help us manage everything and, as long as we just give back and try and help out any organization that's close to our hearts -- 
Scott and I've had a different relationship that you probably haven't seen on the show. 
Kourtney is the most practical. I think that she, you know, -- I've always kind of just gone for it and made the wrong decisions. 
Khloe loves it. She works really hard. She'll take the deals that my mom kind of -- 
I don't think it's risque. She's in a bikini. Like what do you want her to be in, like a gown from head to toe. 
We're glamour girls. We love the hair. We love the makeup. 
Absolutely. No, absolutely. I mean, there's this, you know, embarrassment and shame and so much that comes along with it. 
I thought I'd get married before them again. 
A moment that involved my dad. But it's crazy how you probably don't realize it at the time, but it could be one of your best moments of your life. 
And to stick up for my dad at the time. 
So, we think it would be a good decision for our store and everything to look for a more permanent residence here in New York City and split the time between the two. 
We are taking it to a Kardashian level, which basically means that -- 
It's actually brought us a lot closer together. Just when we think like we can't get any closer, you know, 'cause we're just always together. 
And I got a job, you know, at 16 working in a clothing store. And I think we've always worked. 
And I'm the first one to be super-honest. And so, everyone was talking about -- ads saying that they must be, you know, fake. 
I'm having a good time and he's a really good person. And I think this time around, you know, I've learned to be a little bit more low key and private. 
And we have -- my mom has helped create a church. So we help fund that. And it's in Calabasas. 
And I can't even believe that it's gotten to season five. 
Absolutely. I'll put back on my styling hat. 
Let's see how influential Twitter can be and you need to follow @PiersMorgan. 
But when they get there, they see we are so normal. We've all had -- you know, it's like our dad used to make us -- as an attorney, he used to make us sign contracts for everything. 
She would, no. She's really weird. She'll be like -- it's so funny, because Scott, you know, he'll pull up in, like, a new Lamborghini. 
No, he's the cutest, most adorable kid and he's just a good person. That was a lot of fun that shoot. 
And I could stand next to, you know, someone else and they would automatically take a picture. Soy think people -- you know, on "Keeping Up" season five, you'll definitely see all my dates and the different -- I'll mix it up a little bit. 
I think you see me in a whole different way that I'm excited. 
No. It was -- you know, I was just young. That's all it was. 
But I learned so much from that experience that it totally shaped me to who I am today. 
I love women like Elizabeth Taylor and Sofia Loren and Ava Gardner. I mean, those are the kinds of women that I -- 
And I'll be like "oh my God, that's the coolest car ever, let's go on a ride". Kourtney will be like "This is so embarrassing. 
If we're together, you don't text other  whores. 
But they became really close, you know, later on, my dad and Bruce. And we would have fathers' days all together, eating breakfast at my mom's house. 
And I'm, like, a four, six. And Khloe's -- you know, it's like we're all such different body types. 
I think I'd be lying if I said "no". You know, like, yeah, I'm going to reject him. 
Yes. MORGAN: -- what the correct one would be. 
Well, there's -- you know, I use Spanx and masking tape before. 
And, so, yes, I've always liked Scott. 
Yes, I think I'm about seven husbands and lots of jewels behind, but you never know. 
We never want to go there. So it really is therapy for us. 
I wouldn't be able to be so strong to watch the episodes back, hear everyone blogging about it and commenting in cover of cover of tabloid on stuff that they really dealt with months ago. 
But to have your own brand, you need your own -- 
Absolutely. I think that they see we girls in Hollywood, in Beverly Hills, there's this glitz and glam factor that they, kind of, like, want to vicariously live through. 
I was young, so, you know, if anything, you have to take a lesson learned from every situation and, while all my friends were in college and drinking and getting wasted and partying, I was at home being a wife and cooking and -- KRIS JENNER: A teenage wife. 
I think my mom and I have the same ideas. We set out and we have these goals and we do these goal sheets and we make it all happen. 
I feel like because I have a baby. But if he's with me, I could ditch my phone. 
No, it was like three years. It was three years. At 19 I got married. 
We have so much heart. We're an extremely close family. And I think if anything, the show is like the best therapy for us. 
I don't just go out and buy it. I will definitely have a goal list and I have, like, a personal goal list. 
We've always hung out. And so I've always, you know, tried to be the mediator and listen to his side and Kourtney's side. 
So it just kind of forces us to really deal with our problems. 
Absolutely. There's a lot that we wouldn't do. 
I think he would have been extremely proud of us. And his, you know, brother and sister and, you know, dad and everyone lets us know that all the time. 
Who am I seeing? You know, I think what's so cool about season five of "Keeping Up" is for the first time you'll really see me single. 
We're just opening up a clothing store, which is our store, Dash, that we -- we started one in L.A. 
I like to believe and trust in anybody. And sometimes I think that's been my downfall. And that has been my issue, but yes. 
It changes. Sometimes I just write really random and say teacher. 
And every time they ask us for something, whether it's a lip gloss to a pair of shoes or a skin care product or a weight loss product, I try and give them that, what they're asking us. 
absolutely. But what's so funny is I could stand -- I could literally be like full on making out with a white guy in the middle of the street and no one would even care, take a picture. 
And we have the right to. And I think we have such a great relationship with our production company, Bunim Murray, that they've given us that power to be able to edit. 
When I -- when I'm a little heavier because my body is petite, I see -- go to, you know, my thighs or something. 
No, I used to think that a few years ago, but I never thought -- 
Kourtney's here more than I am and I think it would be better, probably, to help out with the store more and, hopefully, start filming again -- to possibly have a place here in New York. 
