I hope I get higher. I am very ambitious. But, yes, I am in a great time.
It will be accompanied by their respective shows and we will be able to play live again, I really want to feel those songs and those choreographies.
I do not know. Men have always been marking territories. Now we women begin to make them see us a little more. 
There are other themes that are also a horror but that do not attract our attention when they are used in fiction.
There are also characters like that of Andrés Gil, a great actor, who plays Tamara's boyfriend at the beginning of the series and has the narrative and emotional arc of the heteronormative male and its contradictions. 
I did it remotely and, months later, the casting manager told me that she had seen me sing and that she had something to act.
I don't have an Orthodox Jewish background, but I empathise with Tamara. I have an economic reality, an absolute privilege for the country in which we are; I am an artist, I am an actress, I create a character. 
There is always an audience there that should not be underestimated, the pop audience that likes electronic music and other rhythms when they are at a party.
With Yany the same, she is a Latin sister and we have a lot in common. She has a lot of strength, she has fought a lot and has earned her place.
As a citizen, I have to express my opinion about some causes, otherwise I wouldn’t forgive myself.
For me, for Lali, it was a reconnection with my body from another place. My body served me to tell that, not to be pretty.
It seems to me that in physical exposure we all continue to have taboos. Every time I had to get naked there was a tension.
Yes, it’s like getting up late with the alarm clock. Even though I get up in a hurry, I try to order the industry’s rush, add my feeling of what is natural.
Now we are making our mark: "We are here." It is not a "you and me", but a "me too". We have this female lead, we have this showrunner, spectacular directors like Leti Dolera and Coca Novick. 
Tamara, who is a middle-class girl, a worker, has three jobs because one is not enough for her. In fact, one episode states that the true taboo of this generation is money and not sex. 
When she googled me, she found out that I also acted. There she contacted me, it's something very crazy because I came to the series through music and the character has nothing to do with it .
We got into that dark real world. I was shocked that someone dared to make entertainment of a subject that nobody wanted to touch.
I thought I had worked a lot in life  but making this series was one of the hardest things of my life.
I thought it was a very brave proposal and I wanted to participate.
His character is involved in a mad escape after the murder of the pimp Romeo , an event that will put Moisés  and Christian  in the footsteps of the girls.
We should realize that everything is universal and that it’s not divided by gender. We’re heading that way.
These shows are a springboard for a lot of artists. In my personal experience in 'La voz', I saw how those guys who sang in their rooms suddenly had a fandom.
Mainly what you say. I hadn't acted for a long time and none of the proposals that came seemed to me to be decisive on an artistic level.
I can tell that he is going to have a bond with Wendy and that he appears at a height of the action.
I want to thank you from my whole heart for all the love.
To all the people who wonder why such a theme is used in fiction, I would ask: "If I made a documentary about trafficking in women, would you watch it?" I think the answer is no".
It's satisfying because it was a bit risky. If you work with a sound just because a lot of people like it, you end up betraying your way of feeling music.
It's an album with guests and that also gives it a lot of character, mainly to those artists who join in so generously.
I think there's something about that that pisses off a lot of people. It is a fact that is not funny.
It was a bit chaotic because I started later than my colleagues, I had a tour that I couldn't and didn't want to cancel.
Often I see series and movies that have nothing to do with me, but I can empathise with what happens to those human beings that I see, beyond the context of their life. 
The character is more loving, but maintains Tamara's way of thinking, in her books, her ways, her experiences. 
There’s the song, which is mine, but we haven’t recorded it yet.
It is a piece for everyone to identify with, but mainly the modern feminism of an underground Buenos Aires without mirrors to look at.
It is the fictional version of the true story of Tamara Tenenbaum, a former Orthodox Jew who goes out into the world to live it all when she abandons her religion.
I'm going to say something with absolute respect. I'm not saying that all the negative opinions regarding the theme used in the series are without reason, but I think that in general there is a lot of hypocrisy behind it.
I think you will like the ending, but decisions have had to be made. We will have to see what people think.
You have to work hard, it's difficult to stay as a relevant artist. They serve as a school, but they are very hard.
Everyone came to me in order to speak about you and how you’re a devoted fan. Let there be no doubt, the next time I come to Israel you will be in the front row, enjoying the performance.
I was starting to work on the adaptation of the book 'The End of Love' when the casting for 'Sky Rojo' appeared.
I think that, in this way, you can better read what is going to come later. There is also a visual connection between the videos, I liked the idea of ​​proposing something different.
She deserves it, she is a great actress with a lot to give. We made a beautiful communion between the three of us and I think you can see that on the screen.
She has helped me a lot, I came from another country to work and she has embraced me from the first day.
I have worked all my life but in a certain context. This series has reached places that I never thought it would participate in any way in fiction and I am noticing it a lot.
I don't think I could do a contest like that. Amazing opportunities come to those who keep going. For my finalist, Nico, it changed his life.
It's a super team of women. Where are the men? They are there and I hope they also watch this series. 
You may or may not like the series, that's subjective, I'm just saying that the choice of theme is brave from my point of view.
It touches on a subject that is clearly delicate, but at this level of growth that fiction already has we can't feel that something is too delicate.
We set up a life for you, but we are not telling you the purchasing power of that character, we are telling you what happens to her, that Tamara’s middle class is a place from where we can stop to talk about social things. 
As a society we are always trying to cover the delicate. It seems to me that mixing the delicate, with which no one gets too muddy, with the concept of fiction that entertains and keeps you in suspense, that balance of Sky Rojo is what makes it the original and brave series, "adds the actress.
It was born from something as genuine as reading a brilliant book. As producer of the project, she thought that at a Spanish-speaking level there was nothing that spoke to people my age, to those 30-year-old girls from the city who live and things happen to them.
We are in the age of song.
First, I thought that I had to do the character from the Tamara that was in front of me and with whom we did the back and forth of the scripts. 
I think it's a concept. It seemed more fun to me and a better cover letter on the eve of the next album.
Who more or less has followed other Vancouver series , knows that they try not to go to the obvious.
The series does not focus only on this feminist protagonist and the female characters, but also on what happens to the man with Tamara’s exploration. 
The Vancouver documentary filmmaker  provided us with a lot of material with interviews with prostitutes, victims of trafficking...
Listening to 'Disciplina' with 'Diva' and 'Como tú' isn't the same as listening to just one of the three.
I love it and I feel comfortable.
I forgot to show you this from my last Friday Yes! We train Friday at NIGHT For the objective.
It's quite complicated, but I'm a crazy lady . It is the rhythm that I know, whoever sees it from the outside will think that I am insane, but I always mixed those artistic universes.
At the level of feminism she teaches me all the time, I always have my eyes and ears wide open when I talk to her.
Hello Eden, this is Lali, I’m sending you a big, big kiss. I think you must understand something in Spanish, because I understand that you are a fan of mine and all the works I took part in.
It’s mainly that, being friendly with the new platforms. I used to listen to music in cassette tapes, and I remember that when we saw the CD for the first time at home, it was like “Wow!”
Why? It's the same as other series, but dealing with a topic that arouses a lot of hypocrisy.
They called me to tell me that I was one of the protagonists and that I had to be in Spain the following week.
There are some things floating around. Everything that is entertainment, and more if it has to do with music, is always welcome for me.
Well, “Una Na” has no collaborations, but I’ll have one in the new record. I can’t say it yet because we still have a few things to confirm.
The series gives a real fact: Spain is the first country in Europe in consumption of prostitution and the third in the world.
Let’s not forget we are below the entire continent and that it is hard to reach those artists. My third single will reveal the mystery of the Latin artist who’ll work with me.
Only then they’ll hear the songs from my first album, and that’s something natural. That’s how artists become known.
There’s something in pop fusion that catches the eye, especially to those who didn’t notice me before.
Where the man is in this series does not concern me; the man is always there making decisions; they are the executives of Prime Video. 
I love you, kisses.
When I started working with Leti Dolera, the decision was different: I decided that I was not going to imitate her. 
Yeah, but when I was making the songs, it wasn't the first thing I thought of. Some genuinely felt it to invite colleagues that I respect a lot.
I feel the industry is enthusiastic with me playing live. I think it is essential to be able to share in a live setting.
We are all learning to say 'no' when we are uncomfortable, or when something doesn't seem fun or pretty to us.
I started at a very young age making soap operas that had music. As I grew older I began to separate the two worlds, it is difficult to reconcile it and you have to work hard, but it is not impossible.
I built my own character, which according to Tamara Tenenbaum, is much more empathetic and likeable than she is. 
If I put it between popcorn and with characters that seem to be taken from a comic, maybe an 18-year-old boy or someone 30 years old sees it with his partner.
It will be out in the middle of this year. I'm still working on some songs and deciding the next steps before releasing it.
Every project has its own special aura, and I perform magic to join them all together. With a lot of passion, my schedule finds its place.
There’s something in pop fusion that catches the eye, especially to them, who didn’t notice me at first.
He is also a very good guy, as they say here, he is very nice. Working with him has been very pleasant, I think people will be surprised to see him in another role other than the musical one.
Veronica is my favorite person since I met her, she is a spectacular being and a wonderful actress.
Now they listen to songs such as “Una Na,” “Boomerang” or “Ego” and can imagine me on those stages.
He had never acted and the first days he was nervous, but he is a guy with a lot of angel and a lot of charisma, he is doing it impeccably.
What happens when one is an artist at a certain label, as I am for Sony, that is delegated to the person who can help you the most.
Guns and drugs don't shock us, but if a girl carrying a gun is shown being raped in a comic book series, some say she's a fucking piece of shit.
With a hit like 'Narcos' no one is horrified, it can even seem cool. People dress up as Pablo Escobar, but that doesn't surprise anyone.
