I would say. I would say. And me under -- I understood that -- at a young age that it's not always what's just about on the court, it's all about off the court, also. 
So I -- I just started over. I didn't go in with a cocky attitude, saying I'm the best prepped basketball players in the world so now I'm the best NBA player in the world. 
We won, you know, the Eastern Conference Championship. We won, you know, the regular season wins two years in a row. 
No, I -- I never went in with that mind set. 
You've got to get more chairs out here, too. 
But I'm not one to go into the off year and say this is who I want my coach to be. Now, there are some coaches, that, you know, if I had an opportunity to play for, I would be delighted. 
Yes, yes. Predominately white. I didn't see any prejudice at all. 
Certain money is not always good money. It could be just being at the wrong place at the wrong time. 
But as far as what I do in the community, that has a lot to do with it, because what I do in the city of Akron and what I do in the city of Cleveland means a lot to myself. 
Oh, absolutely. And it's a -- it's a Cleveland-Akron team, because I grew up in Akron. I mean Akron is less than 30 miles south of Cleveland. 
He kind of looked at me like I don't know if he'd believe me, but it's true. 
So for me, the team that I decided to go toward  in Cleveland, that ultimately has -- has the best chance for me to win a championship not one year, but multiple years. 
Absolutely. I think more importantly, I learn from winning, because it's -- it's much easier to point out things when you lose. 
Yes, he did. He did. And that was more gratifying and it was just very humbling that he knew who I was. 
Yes, absolutely. He was part of my decision. My mother, my four best friends, they were part of it. 
The first time on a basketball court was later on that year. Football season is always before basketball so I played in my first recreation league, I played for the Summit Lake Hornets, where I grew up playing basketball in 8-10 league. 
I mean, if you have your priorities in check then for the most part it's easy. 
That's what keeps me humble and that's what keeps me away from temptation because I understand that it's not always and it's not just about LeBron James. 
By understanding that when I wake up everyday and I go out in public everyday, I'm not just representing LeBron James, Sr. 
You hear a lot of police sirens, you hear a lot of gunfire. Things that you don't want your kids to hear growing up. 
Oh, absolutely, it's a happy pressure. To be -- to be in control, I think, you know... 
But it's a -- it's a very -- it's going to be a very interesting summer and I'm looking forward to it. 
Absolutely. I mean and -- I mean the mayor of New York is -- he's great. I mean he's -- he's done some great things. 
No, I cannot play forever. And that is absolutely right. But the team that I go to or -- or, you know, whatever the case may be, will have an opportunity to win championships in multiple years and not just because of LeBron James. 
So I had gifts on both days so there was no reason to even ask, mom, where's my father, where's my dad, because she was doing it all. 
You know, the Cavs would be much better. You know, all ... 
And I think we wanted it more than anybody else. So it's unfortunate. I wish him the best and I think he's going to have a great coaching career in . 
Absolutely. Temptation is around everybody. 
Because I lived in it. When I say, I didn't stay away from it, I didn't mean I was associated with gangs or I was associated with drugs. 
Well, the kids got all the say. Let's... 
So I haven't -- I haven't began to, you know -- I've thought about it, but I haven't began to strategize exactly. 
Even though you're playing the game of basketball and even though I'm coaching in the game of basketball, we're going to use this game to create other things. 
So it wasn't hard. But a lot of people would always tell us that, you know, we was -- you know, we was beyond our years and, you know, we was mature for our age. 
-- you know, go to Chicago and you have other cities and -- and other people wanting you to be a part of their city, wanting you to be part of their franchise. 
And just played March Madness, I would have been all for it. 
I didn't know that was the rules. 
That's not -- no, not really. You know, I think that a lot of great coaches. You know, a lot of great coaches have been part of this league for years. 
See, if I could have skipped the -- the whole season... 
Absolutely. Every day. As a kid, we would drive up and down 77 North -- that's our highway -- there would be office buildings on the side of the highway and I'd be like, that's what my house is going to look like when I get older. 
I was just, wow, I mean, Michael Jordan was just my inspiration. I mean, the things that he was able to do out on the basketball court, I loved. 
I didn't. I had no idea. Now that I look on it, when I look back and say, wow, my mom had me at 16, I don't know how she did it. 
No, I don't think so. I don't. I think, you know, for me, to a certain age it really didn't kick in me not having a father because I always seen my mom. 
You know, when you have Paul Pierson and Ray Allen and Kevin Garnett, you kind of forget about Rayjon Rando. 
And -- and it's not just about the basketball court. 
He's got to give me a call. I'm ready. 
But it's me having a -- a , you know, older guys, a 40-year-old guy, a 35-year-old guys who wish they could be LeBron James or Kobe Bryant, but they come to my camp and, you know, they have a lot of the same privileges as the NBA guys. 
With some really good players. And I think everyone in Clipperland is looking forward to Blake Griffin coming back... 
And, you know, the person that has to be in control of , you know, is the entity. And that's myself. 
How big a house? Pretty big. I'm not sure. 
I have a good feeling. I learned that from my mom. I'm a good judge of character. 
For life. So it's not about the money. It's all about winning for me. 
No, I didn't. It wasn't affordable to go to a Cavs game. If you could catch a few on the TV, you'd be lucky. 
But I think the alternate competitors can point out a lot of things when you win. 
No, I never feel sad. But I do wish I could have been part of March Madness. It's -- those are fun games and those are fun times to watch them. 
I met Michael Jordan, my first time, I was in the 10th grade. I went to Chicago and they played at a gym called Hoops. 
When you're there and you know your mother's not home, you never know if those police sirens are for her. 
Well, the money is going to be there. The money is going to come. I mean it's not -- it's not -- it's not about the money. 
Figure out a way how we can make ourselves... 
Absolutely, because you definitely want to be a part of a team that can give the best opportunity to win. 
Absolutely. Absolutely. A lot of my drive and what I do is because of her. 
But a team consists of individuals and, you know, there's a lot of individuals that can help myself win and I can -- and I can help a lot of these other guys win, too. 
I think so. I think the nature of the school is one family. You know, when you're an eighth grader and you're going into circumstances you haven't been part of, you automatically think it may be some prejudice, but it wasn't any. 
So, absolutely. My whole family is here. You know, when I played high school basketball, where I grew up, in the projects, a lot of -- a lot of things mean home for me here. 
Sometimes you didn't understand exactly what he was saying, you know when you're 12, or 13, or 14. But now, at 25, I understand exactly what he was doing. 
I mean, me being an Eastern Conference guy, I like Boston. I mean, I played against those guys and lost to them in the second round. 
Once or twice. I have -- I had an opportunity to go and go by the White -- go by the White House. And he's a -- I think he's a great person. 
But now that I look back on it, I have no idea how she did it. 
I really am. And just to be where I'm going to play in the fall. It's going to be -- it's going to be fun. 
Absolutely. It was definitely frustrating for me knowing the competitor I am and knowing why I work out in the off season and know what I do and the things that I do on the regular season. 
And, you know, if our -- if I don't do these things that I do on the community, locally, I will feel -- I will feel bad because I feel like, you know, any time when I was growing up, if I had ever got an opportunity to make it, I will always give back. 
But we still connect on a lot of things. 
And they did a good job. I mean we're a really good team, but they were better than us in this year. 
When did I know I had talent? I think it started when I first started playing sports, organized sports. 
Absolutely. I'm looking for -- I'm waiting for the call. Loren Michaels has got to give me a call. 
Hopefully I could still be a part of basketball in some way. 
"Ballers." Like basketballers. But it's about -- it's a comedy with me having ... 
You can't pull the trigger. When it's right for you and you feel like it's the right situation, then you should be able to do it. 
Well, he will give me -- he will give me a -- a lot of -- a lot of insight on -- on big ventures and things like that. 
And I think, you know, and then he's going to be able to -- to in -- to put what he wants ultimately in the . 
Where I grew up -- I grew up on the north side of Akron, lived in the projects. So those scared and lonely nights -- that's every night. 
My memories of those days was -- you know, every day that you woke up, you knew it was going to be a struggle. 
Yes. I don't -- I don't -- honestly, I haven't -- because July is still a month away, less than a month away. 
Oh, he gives me a lot of advice. 
But it is humbling, and not just from the mayor of New York, but, you know, you had a president saying... 
And if you just look at the team that we've had and you look at the -- the wins that we've had, he's proven himself. 
Yes. Sounds a little bit more elegant. 
Even though we had the better record. 
Yes, but the fact that he could go straight to the NBA and -- and be in -- and be what -- with an NBA uniform, he was on my wall all -- all my wall had Michael Jordan, I had Kobe, I had Allen Iverson. 
But for me to continue to get better and help that team win, I think, ultimately, would be my decision. 
Oh, yes. So we'll figure it out. 
Am I weary? I think -- of course. There are always people always asking you for something. 
I've never thought about it. I do think it's great that he owns the team. You see a former player in our league and you see Mike and the things that he was able to do on the court. 
Well, I think as far as saving the city economically, I can't get too involved in that. I can't let that be a decision of mine or what I do with my future. 
It's about winning. And I mean if you put me and Bosh on the same team, if you put me and Dwyane Wade on the same team or a lot of these -- me and Joe Johnson or -- or a lot of these guys, a lot of teams would be much better. 
Growing up? No I wasn't. I was a Chicago Bulls, Michael Jordan fan growing up. 
Yes, he's really good. He's really good at shooting. 
But you don't want to rush into it. 
And it would be a floor full of stuff, you know, it would be bags full of stuff for my birthday. Christmas is December 25 and my birthday was December 30. 
I'm doing a movie called "Ballers." 
And I think right now, my biggest is, you know, shooting the ball, continue to -- to improve. And I've improved over the years, but I'm going to continue to improve just on touch and -- and in being more consistent on shooting the ball. 
Well, we kind of advise each other. We know we can't spend as much time together as we did in high school because everyone has their family and their own goals. 
Coach Dru Joyce was a lot. Not just because of what he helped me out with basketball but he was like a father figure on me growing up and understanding that there's more than just the game of basketball. 
But I think this is the most -- this is the most sought out summer in -- in basketball history, because of all the free agents. 
When did I know? I think I started to get a love for the game around the middle school days. You know, we were going to an AAU tournament, me and my best friend, and my high school coach eventually, but he was our AAU coach, Coach Dru Joyce. 
Oh, absolutely. I mean -- I mean he was a great coach, five -- five great years we had together and we turned a franchise that hadn't seen a lot of things in a lot of years. 
But sports carried me away from being in a gang, or being associated with drugs. Sports was my way out. 
To see him still being successful off the court I think is awesome. 
I played football for a team called the East Dragons on the east side of town. We only had six regular season games. 
That was the first time I met him. It was like he was walking on water when he came towards me. 
No, it wasn't, because the group of guys that I hung around, we were all the same age, all of us. My four best friends, we were all the same age in the same grade and everything. 
Ultimately, that one person is me. You know, if I -- you know, even with the discussion with the rest of the free agents, with my friends, those free agents, with my supporting cast, ultimately, it's going to -- it's going to be me. 
It was a struggle. But at the end of the day it made me become who I am today. 
Well, I think I had a great understanding for the game. And I understood how to play the game the right way. 
Absolutely. Because, you know, this city, these fans, I mean, have given me a lot in these seven years. 
For me, already being part of a single parent household and knowing it was just me and my mom, you'd would wake up times and hope that the next day you'd be able to be alongside your mother because she was out trying to make sure that I was taken care of. 
I'm going to start making my house look like this. Sometimes when I look at my house now and it's kind of bigger than some of those office buildings. 
It's possible. I mean I think that's great. You're still in basketball and you're also showing your business side. 
I stay humble, absolutely. I mean, this is an opportunity that I don't think I could have dreamed of. 
Or if those gunshots were intended towards her. So those are the nights, almost every night, that would stand up hearing those sounds and hoping and wishing that it wasn't your parent on the other end. 
But at the same time, I know my game and I understand that me going out there and doing the things that I can do on the basketball court, one game is not going to define who you are. 
I mean, I think they -- they're going to support what decision I make. You know, of course, they have a say, but, you know, they feel like, to this point, I've been able to might -- make the right decision in my career and they're going to support whatever I do. 
And that's exactly happened at times. You know, he kind of controls the whole ship that goes on in Boston. 
I think they accepted us for us being students, for being students and athletes and I didn't see any at all. 
As a kid you don't know. I know that's my mom. She may be 25, she may be 30, I don't know. 
We did a -- I mean a lot of great things. But ultimately, we both, myself and Mike Brown, didn't accomplish what we wanted to, and that was the NBA championship. 
He told he'd do it on the basketball courts on campus, so I want to go by there and play. 
No, if -- if we could, you know, we would -- you know, if it was like baseball, we would all go to the same team. 
Yes. I mean I had the opportunity to -- when you're playing for your respective team in the NBA, that's the -- that's the small thing of it. 
And -- and tell me that, you know, some investments are better than others. And the ones -- the ones -- the best advice he gave me is that -- to kind of just truly follow your gut. 
Oh, I mean, and in certain situations where you may be able to pair with a -- with a goop  one or two guys and -- and better that franchise and guys better these franchises. 
Their team was just, I think, a little bit better than ours. And they took advantage of some of our weaknesses. 
It was a -- it was a choice between Ohio State and North Carolina when I was coming out of high school. 
Well, we -- we're doing the casting now. So hopefully we can get some great -- some great people in it. 
But I feel like I have a foundation, I have a supporting cast where it doesn't bother me too much. Now in the position I'm in, I understand, I could see people who's here from me and people who's here for the intangibles or the things like that. 
And six games I played tail back and I had 18 touchdowns in six games. That's when I knew I had some athletic ability. 
But I'm not as far as -- as picking a coach. 
First of all, I think, you know, I love my kids. My girlfriend, she's great. But I think when you think of marriage you understand you have to take your time. 
Well, first of all, this is humbling because I know where I come from and I grew up as a kid 10 minutes away from where I am living today. 
So I was like, I thought this is how it was, you know, until I had some friends and I was like, oh, you got a mom and you got a dad? 
But Kobe Bryant, I was like you know what, I was in high school, man, I look up to you. You know, I told him that on a -- on the Redeem team. 
It makes me more focused. It just -- it continues to humble me, honestly. You know, when I have a bad game, it continues to humble me and know that, you know, still have work to do and you still have a lot of people to impress, you know. 
Mary, which is a Catholic school -- 
What area of the game I think I have to improve? I think, for me, going into a season, I always looked at what -- what are you going to bring to this year? 
Oh, she's an unbelievable performer, unbelievable talent. And she has a great -- she has a great following. 
I don't know to that extent, but it will be fun. It will be fun to get all the free agents together and, you know, figure out a way how we can make the league better. 
Well, my own maturity came way before the high school to -- to the NBA move. It -- it started young, when you -- when you understand that you've got to become the man of the house very, very young -- at six and seven. 
-- our destiny. Exactly. So I'm looking forward to it. 
Absolutely. I think throughout the years I've had coaches, I've had family members. My mom's two brothers, she had a younger brother and an older brother that was around, too, that helped raise me. 
So that has a lot to do with it. 
I didn't -- I wasn't around white Americans until the ninth grade when I went to high school. There was no prejudice growing up. 
I think he can. He's a really good coach. He prepares his team well. 
I mean I think right now, if I stopped playing the game of basketball, I'm set. My family is set... 
I just built it and built it and built it. 
I understand that my last name is a responsibility for my two boys, my family, my mother, rest in peace, my grandmother, a lot of people. 
Growing up? No, not really, because growing up you was around African-Americans every day. And there was no prejudice. 
It's not even always girls, though. It could be girls, it could be other situations, it could be money. 
No. Too -- it's too -- too expensive to own your own plane. But I have -- I have a . 
I don't think so. When I went to St. Vincent-St. 
We'd go on AAU tournaments and they was fun. The competitive nature of the game, winning and losing and dominating one team and things like that is something that just kind of gravitated towards me. 
Yes, absolutely. I have an NBA agent. I have -- I also have a manager, too. 
Right. Absolutely. There are a lot of these teams that would be much better. 
It's very humbling, because I work very hard at my craft and what I do. So it pays off. 
And -- and you hear fans say, you know, go -- go Boston, go Lakers, go this. But we -- when we won it for the -- for our country, you had a lot of those same fans come up to you and say thank you. 
We can be like a little committee? 
I was nine years old and we won the championship. I was one of the best players on the team back then so it was pretty fun. 
You know, don't -- if you -- if this is a decision you're going to make, go with it and don't second-guess yourself. 
Free advice. Absolutely. Free advice. 
And, you know, for me, it's comfortable. So I've got a lot of memories here. And -- and so it does have an edge. 
But when you live in the projects and you live in those circumstances there's nothing you can -- you can't get away from it. 
Absolutely. I'm looking forward to some people maybe -- you know, maybe, you know, Kevin James and, you know, maybe Gilford or, you know, Chris Robinson, you know, a lot of these good -- very, very good actors going on today. 
I'm going to have to sit down and say where do you want to play? How do you going to -- what's going to be your future? 
Everybody wanted to fly like Jordan, pull up and hit a game winner at the sound of the horn like Michael. 
-- and being healthy. I mean, Chris Kaman, they've got some really good players, Baron Davis. Some really nice, solid pieces that, you know, if they add a free agent here or a free agent there, it could be a really good team. 
Well Romeo Travis is playing professional basketball in Germany. Dru Joyce is playing professional basketball, he's in Poland. 
Willie McGee is a grad assistant at the University of Akron U. And Sian Cotton is also working towards his school project and still trying to play professional football. 
No, nothing. But it was a dream for me. I dreamed about those days a lot, you know, being in those arenas, 17,000 18,000 20,000; the cheers from the home court, the boos from the -- from the -- from the away court. 
They felt like, you know, it was a decision that ultimately I would make but they definitely helped me. 
So we'll see, you know, how it plays out. 
But everything that I've gotten over these past two years I've embraced. 
I mean he does a lot -- he's continuing -- he's continued to do a lot for this country and I think the first -- the first full term for him it's going to be rebuilding term. 
You know, absolutely. I mean we all, at some point, want to be in control of our... 
Just the caliber of players they've got, the winner that they've got, I think they have a great opportunity to win. 
A lot of my grade school coaches and my high school coaches helped. 
And how do you make yourself be the best NBA player in the world and don't give yourself a time limit, but how do you -- how do you do that? 
You never want your season to end in May. 
I haven't -- I haven't had an opportunity to play against him in basketball. But I'm looking forward to it. 
It wasn't always about just me as an individual. It was about the team aspect of the game. And I had a great respect, also, for the history of the game -- the guys who paved the way before me. 
No, never. Because for me, she was doing everything I could ever dream of. It was times where, you know, Christmas would come around and my birthday would come around and I'd think, I'm going to have one or two presents, or I may not get anything because I understand the struggle. 
Absolutely. You know, sometimes he doesn't even know, but I told him on an Olympic team that I -- in high school, when I was in high school and growing up, I had pictures of Kobe Bryant all on my walls, because he was like -- you know, Kobe Bryant went straight to the NBA, so he was my inspiration. 
Those were the opportunities and those were the -- the dreams that I had. And I was -- it was -- those were the reality. 
I  -- all the fines that I used to get. 
It's great. To have the opportunity to see my kids grows and for me to be there on a day to day basis is awesome. 
I'm going to do what's best for me and my family. 
You've got to start doing things that not six or seven year olds do, like 13 and 14 year old kids got to do, because you are the man of the house. 
I think that helped a lot. And ultimately, me having the right mind set, saying I know I'm the best high school player in the world, but once you get drafted, it's time to start back over. 
But all I cared about was her being home. 
Well, I mean, to me, I think my ultimate -- my ultimate goal is winning championships and -- and I understand that me going down as one of the greats will not happen until I, you know, win a championship. 
It's a great city. It's a great city. But at the same time, like I said, it's not always about the city. 
You wanted to do commercials, you wanted to have his shoes. You know, everything that he did, I wanted to do. 
I was able to win a championship of football and basketball in the same year. 
