Learning is the only thing that never disappoints us.
I have been impressed with the urgency of doing. Knowing is not enough; we must apply. Being willing is not enough; we must do.
Blinding ignorance does mislead us. O! Wretched mortals, open your eyes!
It is easier to contend with evil at the first than at the last.
Why does the eye see a thing more clearly in dreams than the imagination when awake?
Painting is poetry that is seen rather than felt, and poetry is painting that is felt rather than seen.
Necessity is the mistress and guide of nature.
Once you have tasted the taste of sky, you will forever look up.
Nature never breaks her own laws.
Why does the eye see more clearly when asleep than the imagination when awake?
You do more of what works. If it works big, others quickly copy it. Then you do something else.
Art is never finished, only abandoned.
The greatest deception men suffer is from their own opinions.
While I thought that I was learning how to live, I have been learning how to die.
Although nature commences with reason and ends in experience it is necessary for us to do the opposite, that is to commence with experience and from this to proceed to investigate the reason.
Be a mirror, absorb everything around you and still remain the same.
Beauty perishes in life, but is immortal in art.
There is no object so large but that at a great distance from the eye it does not appear smaller than a smaller object near.
There are three classes of people: those who see. Those who see when they are shown. Those who do not see.
As a well spent day brings happy sleep, so a life well spent brings happy death.
Iron rusts from disuse; water loses its purity from stagnation ... even so does inaction sap the vigour of the mind.
Learning is the only thing the mind never exhausts, never fears, and never regrets.
The knowledge of all things is possible.
Life well spent is long.
I have always felt it is my destiny to build a machine that would allow man to fly.
There are three classes of people: those who see, those who see when they are shown, those who do not see.
Learning acquired in youth arrests the evil of old age; and if you understand that old age has wisdom for its food, you will so conduct yourself in youth that your old age will not lack for nourishment.
He who loves practice without theory is like the sailor who boards ship without a rudder and compass and never knows where he may cast.
Wherever good fortune enters, envy lays siege to the place and attacks it; and when it departs, sorrow and repentance remain behind.
As every divided kingdom falls, so every mind divided between many studies confounds and saps itself.
As you cannot do what you want, want what you can do.
Life without love, is no life at all.
Experience does not err. Only your judgments err by expecting from her what is not in her power.
Study without desire spoils the memory, and it retains nothing that it takes in.
The trick is the doing something else.
Every action needs to be prompted by a motive.
He who is fixed to a star does not change his mind.
They went out and happened to things.
Common Sense is that which judges the things given to it by other senses.
Intellectual passion drives out sensuality.
He who possesses most must be most afraid of loss.
To discover the soul living in somebody’s body, we watch the surrounding of the body, and if it’s messy and disordered, so is the soul.
Time stays long enough for anyone who will use it.
A well-spent day brings happy sleep.
Anyone who conducts an argument by appealing to authority is not using his intelligence; he is just using his memory.
In rivers, the water that you touch is the last of what has passed and the first of that which comes; so with present time.
Beyond a doubt truth bears the same relation to falsehood as light to darkness.
Human subtlety will never devise an invention more beautiful, more simple or more direct than does nature because in her inventions nothing is lacking, and nothing is superfluous.
People reveal themselves completely only when they are thrown out of the customary conditions of their life.
It had long since come to my attention that people of accomplishment rarely sat back and let things happen to them.
In time and with water, everything changes.
People react to fear, not love - they don't teach that in Sunday School, but it's true.
Poor is the pupil who does not surpass his master.
The truth of things is the chief nutriment of superior intellects.
Art lives from constraints and dies from freedom.
As a well-spent day brings happy sleep, so life well used brings happy death.
Not to appreciate life, all of life, is not to deserve it.
He who truly knows has no occasion to shout.
Simplicity is the ultimate sophistication.
Our life is made by the death of others.
A wave is never found alone, but is mingled with the other waves.
All our knowledge has its origins in our perceptions.
I love those who can smile in trouble, who can gather strength from distress, and grow brave by reflection.
‘Tis the business of little minds to shrink, but they whose heart is firm, and whose conscience approves their conduct, will pursue their principles unto death.
A beautiful body perishes, but a work of art dies not.
Where the spirit does not work with the hand there is no art
Nothing can be loved or hated unless it is first understood.
Every action needs to be prompted by a motive.”  – Leonardo da Vinci
I love those who can smile in trouble.
Just as courage imperils life, fear protects it.
It's easier to resist at the beginning than at the end.
Realize that everything connects to everything else.
Tears come from the heart and not from the brain.
Truth was the only daughter of Time.
Whatever you do in life, if you want to be creative and intelligent, and develop your brain, you must do everything with the awareness that everything, in some way, connects to everything else.
Marriage is like putting your hand into a bag of snakes in the hope of pulling out an eel.
Just as a well-filled day brings blessed sleep, so a well-employed life brings a blessed death.
Nothing strengthens authority so much as silence.
It is easier to resist at the beginning than at the end.
You do ill if you praise, but worse if you censure, what you do not understand.
Nature is the source of all true knowledge. She has her own logic, her own laws, she has no effect without cause nor invention without necessity.
The noblest pleasure is the joy of understanding.
Life is pretty simple: You do some stuff. Most fails. Some works.
One can have no smaller or greater mastery than mastery of oneself.
Make your work to be in keeping with your purpose.
Learning never exhausts the mind.
Where there is shouting, there is no true knowledge.
He who thinks little errs much.
Obstacles cannot crush me; every obstacle yields to stern resolve.
A painter should begin every canvas with a wash of black, because all things in nature are dark except where exposed by the light.
Our body is dependant on Heaven and Heaven on the Spirit.
The painter has the Universe in his mind and hands.
For, verily, great love springs from great knowledge of the beloved object, and if you little know it, you will be able to love it only little or not at all.
Iron rusts from disuse, stagnant water loses its purity, and in cold weather becomes frozen; even so does inaction sap the vigors of the mind.
All our knowledge has its origin in our perceptions.
Wisdom is the daughter of experience.
You can have no dominion greater or less than that over yourself.
