Come over all of you, Ney said. We took photos, they kept telling me, come over to PSG and we joked, that was all.
I don’t really know what happened, but at least it served as a lesson to make sure it doesn’t happen again.
I felt that I needed a change and new goals, new things.
We try to look for each other on the pitch and in training.
I said it at the time that we were not given the support to win the Champions League. Actually, now I don't know what will happen.
It was not to make a mess, or to go against the club, but the way to make it official because my decision had been made.
When I heard about it it was like a cold shower. It was hard to hear it. We are still getting used to it in whatever way we can.
No, the system was different. We played with one striker and I played just behind him, with two wingers out wide.
I didn’t understand why I couldn’t play.
I would have liked to win another Champions League, that semi with Liverpool, the one vs Chelsea … but this happens.
My sons, my family, they grew up here and are from here. There was nothing wrong with wanting to leave.
It did not come because of the Champions League result against Bayern, no – I had been thinking about the decision for a long time.
It also helped me to see the truth in people. This world of football is very difficult and there are many false people.
The squad is great, other players will arrive, players come and go, the club is more important than anyone as Laporta said.
I always said that this was my home and it was what I felt and feel. To decide there was somewhere better than here was difficult.
We will do something.
A bit of everything, my friends, money … many things that have been said have hurt. I always put the club before anything else.
Yes, Mateo is still little and he doesn't realise what it means to go somewhere else and make your life a few years elsewhere.
He told me all the time: 'We'll talk, not now,' this and that, but nothing . The president did not give me a clue at what he was really saying.
It is a possibility, but I have not agreed anything with anyone. I have different clubs who are interested.
My wife, with all the pain of her soul, supported and accompanied me.
I don’t really know what happened. We lost a Champions League semi-final against Manchester United and we lost the league to Real Madrid on goal difference.
Over there it was lots of running and not much more.
There was another way and it was to go to trial. I would never go to court against Barca because it is the club that I love, which gave me everything since I arrived, it is the club of my life, I have made my life here.
But my people will be close and I will continue playing football. When it all starts it’ll feel better.
No … I didn't feel alone. Not alone. There are those who have always been by my side.
Or that they came to think that I could go to trial against Barca in order to benefit myself. I would never do such a thing.
When I leave here today it will be even harder.
I looked further afield and I want to compete at the highest level, win titles, compete in the Champions League.
Last year I didn’t want to stay, and I said it.
I repeat, I wanted to go and it was entirely my right, because the contract said that I could be released.
People know me, they know I am competitive, I want to keep winning.
But apart from that, the president always told me, 'when the season is over, you decide if you stay or leave', he never set a date, and well, it was simply to make the club know that he was not , but not to get into a fight because I did not want to fight with the club.
I always admired  Aimar; he came from River and I followed him a lot.
All this time it has been hard for everyone. I was clear about what I wanted, I have said what I felt I wanted.
Sending the burofax was making it official that I wanted to go and that I was free and the optional year – I was not going to use it and I wanted to go.
The reality is that after the elections, I went for lunch with the new president and we spoke and after that meal I was convinced that I was going to stay and there would be no problem to do so.
Everything that came later was amazing but I'll always remember that moment that everything started.
No doubt, this is the hardest moment. We had hurtful defeats but football gives you a chance to avenge that.
I always said I wanted to end here and I always said I wanted to stay here. That I wanted a winning project and to win titles with the club, to continue expanding the legend of Barcelona at the top level.
People will get used to it. It might be strange to start but they will get used to it.
I had a bad time this year, but it is hypocritical to say that if you compare it with people who have really had a bad time with the coronavirus, with people who have lost relatives and who have lost many things.
My contract was never a problem. But it was not possible.
I grew with values of this club and I wanted to be recognised that way.
Pure coincidence. I was going to meet Paredes and Di Maria. Ney  called me, come over.
I don’t know. Right from the start I was lucky enough to have them by my side. I will be grateful to them for my whole life; them and  Motta and Sylvinho.
Firstly, because after the defeat in Lisbon  it was very hard. We knew Bayern Munich were a very difficult opponent, but not that we were going to end that way, giving such a poor image of the city and the club of Barcelona.
As usual, I am going to give my best, I will do my best to fight for all the objectives and hopefully I can dedicate myself to the people who have had a bad time.
We have to take it and move forward.
I told the president and, well, the president always said that at the end of the season I could decide if I wanted to go or if I wanted to stay and in the end he did not keep his word.
Barca gave me everything and I gave it everything. I know that it never crossed my mind to take Barca to court.
My last years I want to fight for titles. Congratulations to Dani Alves, I want more titles than him, I am near and will keep at it.
It was incredible to hear that he had said that. He’s a coach who has won so much and it was very nice that he should say that about me.
Lately I have not found happiness within the club.
That start was hard.
Hopefully I can give my best and dedicate victories to all those people who accompany us and their families, to be able to dedicate the best to those people who are having a bad time and that we can overcome once and for all we can overcome this virus and return to normality.
What is certainly true is that I learnt a lot in the youth system. The way we worked here was different.
I don't know, what I have very clear is that I did everything I could.
Not really, it was all agreed. From our side we were honest. It has not happened for the reasons we know.
And I said, I am with Paredes and Di Maria.
I told the club, including the president, that I wanted to go. I've been telling him that all year.
I feel very sad now as I have to leave a club that I love. I did not expect this. I always told the truth.
You can win or lose in it, because it is very difficult, but you have to compete. At least compete in it and let us not fall apart in Rome, Liverpool, Lisbon.
He cried to me and said, 'let's not go', I repeat that it was hard, really. It was understandable. It happened to me.
I had to start again, new team-mates, new friends. I also couldn’t play at first because of injury and because there were problems with the paperwork.
My style of play has always been the same. I never tried to develop a specific style. From very young I just played this way.
That is enough for me and strengthens me. But I did feel hurt by things that I heard from people, from journalists, from people questioning my commitment to Barcelona and saying things that I think I didn't deserve.
I felt a lot of pain that my commitment to Barcelona was doubted, with how grateful I am to this club.
Everything became very difficult for me and there came a time when I considered looking for new ambitions.
This happening has helped me to recognise many false people. It hurt me when my love for this club was questioned.
What they say is that I did not say it  before June 10  – but I repeat, we were in the middle of all the competitions and it was not the  moment.
It's difficult to choose just one moment. But maybe the time I made my debut. That was my dream come true.
We had everything agreed but, at the last minute, it couldn’t happen . I’ve heard lots of things being said about me, this year I wanted to stay and I couldn’t.
Last year I wanted to leave, this year I did not want to leave.
I love Barcelona and I'm not going to find a better place than here anywhere. Still, I have the right to decide.
And the truth is that there has been no project or anything for a long time, they juggle and cover holes as things go by.
But there is no turning point to this.
No, never. I always thought about carrying on training and working, chasing my dream. I was lucky that when Tito came I began to play more often and from then on my career changed in the youth system.
All that led me to think about the decision that I wanted to carry out. As I said, I thought and was sure that I was free to leave, the president always said that at the end of the season I could decide if I stayed or not.
I had the possibility of leaving Barca many times. The money? Every year I could have left and earned more money than at Barcelona.
This year I wanted to stay. I did everything possible but the club couldn’t do it because of La Liga.
I was a mediapunta. It’s not a case of the false nine starting with that team because we didn’t play that system.
Of course, I had a hard time deciding. It does not come from the Bayern result, it comes from many things.
I have been in the first team for 16 years and to start from scratch is hard for me and my family especially.
What I can say is that I'm staying and I'm going to give my best for Barcelona.
That was a tough moment, but fortunately it was resolved quite quickly. I wanted to play, I had the chance to make the step up to the first team and they wouldn’t let me.
I will continue at Barca and my attitude will not change no matter how much I have wanted to go. I will do my best.
Of course. It will not be the same. The moment was now, but for this club I am willing to do anything.
And it is not 'I'm leaving and that's it'. I was leaving and it cost me a lot. I wanted to go because I thought about living my last years of football happily.
My first memories are from when I was very little, maybe three or four years old playing in my neighbourhood at home.
It’s everything that Laporta said.
And nothing is definitive but clearly we are talking to them.
Clearly. If I didn't send the burofax, it's like nothing happened, I have the optional year I had to have continued all year.
I always want to win, I'm competitive and I don't like to lose anything. I always want the best for the club, for the dressing room and for myself.
I have nothing to say to him, I have no problem with him.
When I communicated my wish to leave to my wife and children, it was a brutal drama. The whole family began crying, my children did not want to leave Barcelona, nor did they want to change schools.
No, I never had any problems with my height. I was always the smallest kid, at school and in my teams.
It has hurt me a lot that things are published against me and, above all, that false things are published.
I was going to look for new goals and new challenges. And tomorrow I could go back, because here in Barcelona I have everything.
And this is the reason why I am going to continue in the club. Now I am going to continue in the club because the president told me that the only way to leave was to pay the €700 million clause, and that this is impossible.
I felt very sorry because I always said that I wanted to finish my career here. It was a very difficult year, I suffered a lot in training, in games and in the dressing room.
We understand each other very well and we know each other well. It’s easy to play with Cesc because of the style he has.
I can picture myself with the ball at my feet from a very young age.
Now they cling to the fact that I did not say it before June 10, when it turns out that on June 10 we were competing for La Liga in the middle of this awful coronavirus and this disease altered the whole season.
We will adapt to what comes next. We have to accept it.
Both. I was happy to be living in Barcelona and experiencing all those new things. On the other hand, it was hard to be so far away from people.
I did everything to stay. I can’t add anything else.
The burofax was to make it official in some way. Throughout the year I had been telling the president that I wanted to leave, that the time had come to seek new goals and new directions in my career.
I want to win another CL.
I needed it, the club needed it and it was good for everyone.
I always had the same style of play. I didn’t really worry about people kicking me.
Many things get in my head and I am a bit blocked. Until today it has not sunk in yet.
He’s the same person who coached us in the cadets team. I was little and I don’t remember that much from that time, but he’s the same and he treats us as he did then.
There is a new coach and new ideas. That's good, but then we have to see how the team responds and whether or not it will make us compete at the top level.
As I said before, I always thought about the welfare of my family and the club.
We gave a very bad image. It was wrong, I didn't feel like doing anything. I wanted time to pass and then come out to clarify everything.
No matter how much I go or stay, my love for Barcelona will never change.
But in fact people can remember me whatever way they choose. Titles and also defeats made us grow, we had more happy moments than unhappy.
There was a lot of contact with the ball and a lot of work on the tactical system. I came from Argentina where we didn’t do anything like that.
I know we couldn’t agree because of La Liga, the club debt and the club did not want to increase the debt.
From my side, I did everything to stay, that is what I wanted.
Thiago yes, he is older. He heard something on TV and found out something and asked. I didn't want him to know anything about being forced to leave, to have to live in a new school, or make new friends.
I believed it was time to step aside. I believed that the club needed more young players, new players and I thought my time in Barcelona was over.
It is very difficult to make a decision.
