Why are you always ...Actually I brought something, to like make a point... 
It wasn't until we went back and looked at the piece of paper that said his name, we're like no, that's too weird. 
Well I wasn't very happy. What kind of a gym could you possibly carry? 
Listen, all you do is talk about my sex life on your show, so now you don't want to talk about my sex life when I'm on your show. 
Well, I was dancing for years in Manhattan and not making a very good living. And I started auditioning for a musical theater, and somebody saw me at an audition singing and dancing and... 
Well, it was a long distance relationship for a while because he lived in England and I lived in America. 
It's just some perverse thing in me, right? So, but then I thought about it and I said, you know what? 
It was strange, and Adriano felt strange too, but we tried to just kind of jolly each other along through it all. 
Well, I'm going to try my damndest to make sure that doesn't happen. 
And they took me to Paris and they kind of put me into this star making machinery, but I wasn't ready for it. 
Yes, I think I pretty much -- I mean, the main thing I learned was that I was always, you know, jumping to conclusions, making decisions too quickly, and chasing people for the wrong reasons so... 
You've been a showgirl since you were 5, and I don't remember it, but I guess... 
Obviously it's been, you know -- unfortunately Christianity has taken certain things out of context. 
And after six months I flipped out and had to come back to New York. 
Fish. Grains, some kind of grains. Some kind of cooked vegetable. 
Don't read the newspapers. Don't read magazines, and don't watch TV, sorry. I'll watch this interview though. 
I met him at a lunch at a sort of garden party in the middle of the summer in the backyard of Sting and Trudy's house in London in the English countryside. 
It's, you know, they're all manifestations of God. They're blessings that we get, but they're not -- they're not -- that's not what's going to make us happy. 
You do man, you're always kissing up to like all, I see all these, like you know movie stars coming here and you just all ga-ga, you should just give people a hard time. 
I think everybody does. It's like the old watching the car accident thing. You know, you can't take your eyes off of it. 
Well, it's, you know, it's great to have that luxury in life to not have to worry, to know that, you know, I don't ever have to worry about where my food's going to come from and the roof over my head. 
First of all, like I said, there's no dogma, and, I mean, things like -- things like eating kosherly or honoring the Sabbath. 
When you're on stage you say the line wrong, that's it. It's out there, it happened, and I like the immediacy of it. 
They read books. They hear what we have to say. They have friends. 
Yes. I did. I mean, I think I had a -- I had moments of chaos and sometimes I suffered. 
Almost done with it. I'm going to finish it in the next few months. 
Yes, yes, yes, no, I woke up to my nanny crying and telling me what was going on at 6 in the morning. 
And then it was Madonna. And then it -- I mean, I didn't want to like rock the boat, I guess, in the beginning. 
How do I fit into the big picture? I know there's more to life than making lots of money and being successful and even getting married and having a family. 
I mean, you don't have a job. You can't -- taking care of children is a full-time job, and I have total respect for women who do it completely on their own. 
Yes. It's important to see the end and the beginning. KING: How did you deal initially with fame? 
I thought you were going to ask me if it hurt something else, but, I thought you were going to continue the Charles Barkely line of questioning. 
For the experience. I mean, I don't need the money, and I'm in -- I'm in a very luxurious place in my life. 
Yes, and I'm very close to my father, and I didn't want to accept change... 
Girls, you know, dolls and dresses and putting makeup on and wearing high heels and, I mean... 
Father, and then eventually he remarried and my stepmother, yes. 
But money is like everything. Money is like sex. It's like food. 
... and they said hey, sweetheart, we're going to make you a star type of thing. And they were French. 
Jesus was a rabbi. And essentially Christianity took a very important concept of the Kaballah, which is love thy neighbor as thyself, and that became the foundation of Christianity. 
Everyone tells me I did. I mean, when I talk to my relatives they all say, you know... 
I'm only here cause there isn't a Knicks game, don't get excited. 
It probably started off as a song on the radio, and then it -- and then I think it was an appearance at the MTV awards, where I think I was rolling around on the stage in my underpants. 
Well, actually I have seen the show, but I've never, I mean I've always been doing something while I was watching the show. 
Well, by the time we hired him we knew it, but when he auditioned for it we didn't know it. Even when we were watching the videotapes of the auditions we didn't know. 
No, you're not allowed -- well, it's not good to eat toast because it's... 
OK. Otherwise you might have a whole tribe the next time I come back. 
What's it all mean and why's there so much chaos in the world? And is this just the way it goes? You know, and I wanted to know the answers. 
I'm sure I'm guilty of it, you know. I'd like to say, you know, I do find myself -- I hear a little bit of a snippet of gossip about someone and then they go, oh really? 
Well, macrobiotic means big life and it means getting the most of life -- most life out of your food. 
I'm serious, no urine is like, is like, is like an antiseptic, it's all got to do with the enzymes in your body. 
I gave him, my, come on, I gave him my underpants and he won't smell... 
I like people that are hungry. And I like to take old things and reinterpret them in new ways so... 
No, that's why when I'm sneaking and I'm having a moment of decadence I eat toast with strawberry jam... 
The adventure is just starting for you, my friend. Jsut wait until my lawyer speaks to your captain. 
I mean, at the end of day I just don't -- it's not going to do me any good. I mean, most of it is sensationalists, television, magazine, press, whatever. 
Well, no, I hemmed and hawed about it for a while because just for that reason though. Everybody wants to do the theme song of a James Bond movie, and I never liked to do what everybody else likes to do. 
You know you really changed since the last time I was on the show. 
There's a 1 percent reason, the reason that we -- that most Jews know about and even Christians know about. 
Yes. Well, I, you know, I introduced it to him because I study it and he was curious, and he was very skeptical at first being a Darwinist and not at all interested in spirituality, but... 
I know, but I'd rather -- I'd prefer that they read books and that they communicate with each other. 
Huge difference. The biggest difference is that they're just from the minute they can express themselves. 
I just was living in the moment and living like an instinctive animal. 
No, no, no, no, they saw me out of my underwear, they haven't seen me in my underwear. 
So for a year it was long distance angst, a very high phone bill, and a lot of trips back and forth on the Concorde from New York to London and vice versa. 
When I was a teenager I wanted to be a dancer. I wanted to move to New York and be a dancer. That was my goal, and that was my dream. 
And so I have no complaints. I'm very lucky that all turned out really good. 
Tape? Why can't we just talk to each other, why do we have to have all of this contrived ? 
We shot the movie in Malta in Sardinia, and obviously it was, you know, a huge benefit that I was married to the director and so we were together as a family the entire time. 
I think boys are harder in the beginning, and I think they become more independent later. And I think it's the reverse. 
I don't know. It just seemed like a good idea at the time. I was very impulsive in my youth. 
Yes. Yes. I thought I he thought -- I think he thought he could make it more modern and funnier. 
Oh, so "madam" is it now? Changed our tune now that we're on land, haven't we? 
It's weird, but, you know, I suppose they're interested in all celebrities' personal lives. 
Will you shut up please, can we... let's get to the tape, I brought a tape to prove that he's obsessed with my, obsessed with me. 
Yes. Yes, but it was a fantastic experience, and I enjoyed every minute of it. 
Because there's a lot of junk on TV. KING: Oh there's a lot of good things though too ain't there? 
I mean, my mother died when I was little, and that was difficult for me for a while. 
Yes. Well, I mean, and it's implied for a reason. I mean, you don't need to see it. 
What are you doing haunting our corridors when you have beautiful there? 
But obviously you and I both know that that's not the most important thing in the world. I mean... 
Sure, I mean, when people start chasing you down the street, and I never had a moment of privacy, you know, or when people started taking shots at me and being nasty in the press. 
It's called "Die Another Day." It's just the same as the title of the film. 
Before, wait, wait, wait, before we cut to a commercial, I just want to know...um is that a rug? 
You can't get through a show without talking about me or thinking about me. 
He'd just say, you know, wife, over there. You know, over there. 
I don't know. I'm thinking of a nice Hebrew word. What do you think? 
He's been a camera operator for eight years. He's been -- the movie he did with us was his second film. 
But I think people have misinterpreted and/or have left out the true and deep metaphysical reasons for all of those things. 
I live -- I live a highly scheduled life. There's absolutely no time wasted. I'm very focused. 
I think we should get...don't you want to show everybody the underwear. 
Totally. And then -- and then suddenly things turn around and he becomes the villain. And then for the last third... 
Yes. My emphasis -- my priority is my family, absolutely, 100 percent. But somehow we make things work. 
I was looking for something. I mean, I'd begun practicing yoga and, you know, I was looking for the answers to life. 
Yes. They're really good. Guy is really good at casting, and I love all the characters on the boat. 
Well, I wear the Jewish star, but I'm not -- I haven't converted to Judaism and I'm not -- I'm not -- I'm not Jewish in the conventional sense because the Kaballah is a belief system that predates religion and predates Judaism as an organized religion. 
Exactly. So was it weird? Yes, it was totally weird, especially with the man I love directing me. 
You know,  the tape,  the list, everything....you know what I'm saying? 
I can do things because I want to do them, because I want -- I want the experience. 
I mean, when I started -- when I got signed to a record deal I was Madonna Ciccone. And then...it just got shortened. 
Yes, I'm always looking for something new, a new inspiration, a new philosophy, a new way to look at something, new talent. 
I mean, there's no point in killing people if they don't become Christians. That's not -- it's got nothing to do with loving your neighbor as yourself. 
I mean, truthfully, I didn't accept my stepmother when I was growing up. In that retrospect I think I was really hard on her. 
Yes, for a song called "What It Feels Like For A Girl," and I loved working with him on that. And that we did a five minute commercial for BMW for the Internet, and we really enjoyed working together. 
No seriously, peeing in the shower is really good, it, it fights um um athletes foot. 
I just, you know, I felt -- it felt really surreal like it wasn't really happening. 
I like how real it is. I like that you are really out there with no protections. When you make a movie you get a chance to do another take. 
Well, I thought it was fun in the beginning. I mean, I didn't mind it at all. 
... I ask the same question. How do people do this all the time? 
It was surprisingly easy I have to say because, I mean, we have a shorthand with each other in terms of communication so he didn't have to beat around the bush and say, oh, can you, you know. 
