Then when I was about 10 years old, my divorce parents scraped enough money together to send me to a performing arts camp, and my life changed.
The next thing you know, they're lying to the world, saying that you had an affair and had a relationship with them. 
It was very sad. And -- and I was not told that the casket was going to be there. I didn't know. 
And so we put it together. And it sort of means, like, songwriting, this and that, it's OK. Believe me, I know I'm not perfect. 
It was sky above my head, but most importantly, it was an opportunity for me to invest time and training into my dream, to be a singer and songwriter, a vision I’ve held since I was four years old.
I wrote that song for all the children who saw things they shouldn’t see, who were forced to grow up too soon.
He -- yes. On the Teen Choice Awards. They were giving me an award and he said, "OK. 
I don't think it's a contest. And I don't even know that I am more famous. I don't know that that makes -- I don't know. 
...as the guy in the video. And who are you depicting and blah, blah, blah? 
Yes. Size zero, which is a fabulous invention that we all love. 
Thank you so much. God bless. Thank God I had these.
See, I just wanted Larry to sing. 
It's in my genes. My mother was an opera singer. I'm clearly dramatic. 
What I just read to you, or actually what I was, whatever reciting to you were the lyrics from my song close my eyes that I wrote for my album Butterfly.
No. Nobody bugs me. Look, if someone's not a fan and they're saying something that's disrespectful, I mean, I just brush it off. 
Weiss, I had to -- I had to be strong -- as strong as the character. And the -- the lady she's playing is quite evil. 
My audience is something that I think -- you know, at the -- there are the diehard fans and then there are people that like a specific song. 
I just wanted to make music so I could feel worthy of existing. If I've learned anything, anything at all in this life, it's that truly anything is possible with God.
I wear Forever. Do I have it on today? I think -- see, I put it there, because we have a dabber, so you can dab and dab and dab. 
Thank you so much for this gorgeous award. It's going to look fabulous in my New York apartment. No, I'm just kidding.
And I was waiting for someone to tell me if I should push my hair back, but no one did. 
Ellen did that to me and tried to put me on the spot with the some alcohol. 
Reflection is an interesting thing. Yes, when I was very young, I was like, this is amazing that somebody wants to take care of me and help me and la, la, la, la, but not realizing it was a two way street and I was doing the same thing for them. 
But it -- it wouldn't -- I wanted it to be something where basically everybody, like -- but mainly like, you know, young girls or kids just growing up in school, would understand that, like, it's OK not to be -- try to be perfect, like the people in the magazines and everybody that we see that weighs two pounds and things that are unattainable, you know what I mean? 
And then they said, all of a sudden, first -- Mariah, you're going on first. And I was like -- I didn't know what to expect. 
And I had to stop myself at one point and just wipe that tear and pretend like the camera people did -- I didn't want anyone to see this. 
And we go to Aspen every year. And he comes to the house, and I have real reindeer, live reindeer at the house. 
And so, you know, it's the way it is. I can't help it, darling. It just doesn't work any other way. 
You shut up and you let him abuse your daughter. 
Those were some truly iconic words, indeed.
It's like you -- you befriend somebody, you listen to all their problems. You know, they talk about their stuff, you talk about yours. 
I had to be very serious and specific and blah, blah, blah. And after work, I just call somebody and laugh and do whatever. 
But what is -- what has happened to me that -- 
This camp empowers these children with the knowledge that all things are possible. You don’t have to be defined or confined by your environment, by your family circumstances, and certainly not by your race or gender.
I'm so nervous. Seriously. Thank you, Billboard, for letting me grow up on the charts with you and for this incredible honor.
Like, I worked from the inception. 
And Mo'Nique is incredible in this movie. The whole cast is really amazing. But I have to really discuss Mo'Nique, because when I played Ms. 
No, but that's just her, how she kind of would speak. She meant it like she's a diva and she's talented. 
Being around other kids who shared my passion for music and having professionals who nurtured us and saw us as serious artists gave me the support, I needed to pursue my career full on at an early age.
And so, you know, it was kind of... 
So, on behalf of her, Ms. Monroe, Roro as we call her, on behalf of her, I want to thank each woman in this room and all the women who have come forward with their truths, their harrowing experiences, and above all their triumphs over the Misogynistic society of corporate asses that we deal with every day.
Today, I want to focus on the children in the room, every little girl, living inside each of the amazing women here.
He protects me. He and several others. 
I have to thank for team Ashana, Jenny Morgan Thou, and the late Suzy Newhouse, who, she was an angel.
It's not fun. And I never wanted to be a grown up. But then I have to go into my business. 
Okay, so I was 18 years old when I got my first record deal. A lot of very powerful men controlled my career.
Never, because I have so much faith. And I'll never lose my faith, ever. Hebrews 11, if anyone wants to look it up in the bible, is very important to me. 
That's why, before we get started, I was like, "Kee Kee?" 
Her master? Well, let me take some of the vodka next to me. 
... The same time. And -- and really been devoted to both things. 
And they may be older for that, you know, for that song. And then when it's a song that I may do, like a collaboration with perhaps a rapper or I just do my own song that's kind of like -- like the "Obsessed" song that's out there, then it's -- then it really skews younger and more ethnic. 
I was told by Elizabeth Arden -- and this is true -- that I am the hardest-working person they've ever met in terms of even a designer or a celebrity that worked on their fragrance. 
It's not going to make it for this Christmas because I'm barely -- I mean, we're at, like, Thanksgiving now. 
Oh God. I started this camp 25 years ago. And if you don’t see what an accomplishment that is for a two-year-old child.
You know, I don't really follow all the tabloidy, you know, gossipy Internet, whatever, stuff, because when I worked with Whitney, I had a great experience. 
My fragrance game is pretty -- it's doing good. 
There's been a few memes. I guess I've always felt like an outsider, someone who doesn't quite belong anywhere.
It's out of control, because I've never promoted a -- a movie and an album at... 
You know, it's not like an entourage of people that are, like, "You're so this. You're so nice. Oh, you do that so well. 
And it's like, you know, for me, at this point, I'm not sure that that's -- anything is worth it unless somebody like spectacular comes along who, you know... 
I still feel like that lost interracial child who had a lot of nerve to believe I could succeed at anything in this world.
Good afternoon, powerful women. And all those who are here to support us. It really is such an honour, such an honour to be here with all of you.
No, it's moderately priced. But I picked out the bottle myself as well. I helped work on all that stuff. 
But you allowed him to hurt her. 
And it was a total nightmare. I would elaborate more, but we’ll all be here till dinner. Needless to say, it didn’t work out.
I knew sort of. I didn't know what he was going to say at the end. And I participated and then was, like, oh, the diva thing, that's new. 
No, you're not. But it was -- it was very tough for me. I just saw "This Is It," though. 
You know what? I did a cover of Foreigner's "I Want to Know What Love Is" on this album, for the people who really -- 
John the Divine, in Harlem in 1994 to prima Ballerina, Misty Copeland joining me at camp just a few months ago to the many camp counsellors, the administrators, the kitchen and maintenance staff, it takes a village to run a camp.
Like, we both like roller coasters. Where he -- he rented out Six Flags for me and had a party. And... 
Thank you, Fresh Air Fund, for allowing me to realize these dreams and for the powerful women who fight like warriors and champion the important work of the organization.
And people that have -- like, nobody in my family or anything like that, but just certain things that also make me identify with "Precious," the movie. 
And talent was always in there. 
And that is one of the greatest honours of my entire career. From my first Christmas concert fundraiser at St.
Icon? I really don't think of myself in that way. I started making music out of a necessity to survive and express myself.
You guys are all a beacon of hope. And I stand here with you in sisterhood, knowing we’ll continue supporting each other and keep fighting in tandem for equality, for us all.
I'm not doing this unless I can give this to Mariah." 
Oh my God, okay, okay. I’ve been blessed. I mean, it’s true.
And it provides direct access to people doing all kinds of wonderful things with their lives. People across all industries and backgrounds share their journeys and stories of success with inner city kids who come from impoverished backgrounds.
Yes. But this particular moment -- and by this particular moment, I mean this month or next month -- I'm probably -- I'm not sure what I'm doing, but my schedule is out of control. 
I did get along well with Michael, I think. We had several -- all kinds of different conversations and... 
But, you know, so I said, "OK, fine." 
It's this really good stuff. I'm going to market it. It's called, "I want to be in the movie and this is what's required." I've been working on my craft for a long time. 
What's the first thing that comes to your mind when you think about home? 
When I was a little girl, I made a promise to myself that I would never forget what it felt like to be a child, camp Mariah helps me keep that promise.
But they are not really suits. They're cool. Like, L.A. 
It was a very nice surprise, because, like I said, I'm eternally 12. And I like festive moments. I don't -- I really don't like being a grownup. 
Yes. I mean, I'll always be show biz. Come on, I can't help it. 
We love men, but you know, they could never understand or embrace the essence of who I truly am. Now as a mother of two, a boy and girl, I realize my daughter’s going to have a different set of struggles than my son, and I’m doing my best to prepare her for that.
Camp was a reprieve from the unsafe and unpredictable environment I was living in. It was a solid ground beneath my feet, fresh air to breathe.
Even through all the ups and downs in my career...We've all seen them, we all make mistakes.
You didn't call me and invite me. And -- and every time -- though every time I watch you in "America's Sweethearts," I just -- it was classic. 
I've got three, Larry. You haven't been following my fragrance game. 
And when it's your show, it's your show. 
You know what? It's necessary at this moment in my life. It won't always be that necessary. 
Oh, thank you. Are you telling me they took a leap down now? 
Yes. And then I also sang with him on stage a couple times. 
And if I was just allowed to be, like, young and with a young boyfriend who's also a star, and you're working and you're both -- I don't know what goes on. 
Sweetie, talk about the abuse in your household. You know what I'm talking about. 
And I’m so thankful for them doing the day to day. They are the real heroes of camp Mariah.
And the abuse that happened was beyond intense. So they want a check from me. And I -- and I -- you know, I was very emotional during the scene, because Lee makes us go over it and over and over. 
I do it every day if I do my own makeup. Joking. 
Her letter touched me because I wrote that song from a very real place. I wrote it and many other songs to work through my own trauma.
No, I didn't -- did I record -- I recorded, actually, on a song that he had written after 9/11. And... 
I don’t know, I’m just going with a narrative of what’s been happening tonight. Thank you, variety for creating this gorgeous moment where we can all celebrate and inspire each other.
And she's say, "Oh, so and so is very much the diva." 
Yes. And I wrote that song on a little Casio keyboard, whatever. 
Well, it's scary. If someone -- I mean, there's other things and other times in my life and things that I will eventually talk about when I write my book. 
You're going to have to talk to somebody if you want your check, sweetie. 
Well, here's what he said -- I'm going to make you -- I'm going to make you under and then we're going to make you over with some couple of things, like a little moustache on the sides and a little... 
They try, but see that man sitting over there? He kind of -- 
Now my daughter will never have, well she’ll, she’ll have some barriers, but there’ll be fewer barriers to breakthrough in order to achieve her full potential.
Well, I had written a song called "Imperfect." And I sort of wanted it to be -- it didn't make the album. 
I’ve been blessed to witness thousands of kids have a space to breathe, run through fields of green grass and believe in who they can be.
I mean I have to make the song and believe that it's a hit. And sometimes we disagree on which is the bigger hit. 
Well, this -- like, in particular, the picture with the curly hair and the microphone is new. I just -- I just did that. 
It would be the happiest thing in my life. But what I'm saying is right now, with this movie coming out and with the next few singles from the album and those things that I'm doing, I -- I need to focus on that, because I cannot do the having a child thing half way. 
Writing songs and singing were my escape. It was my release. It was how I survived.
... And a little red, you know, stuff that's really pretty. And I love it. 
Yes, it's the one song I didn't write. And I've only done, like, a few remakes -- three, maybe, "I'll Be There," and, you know, that was Michael's, and "Without You," Harry Nilsson. 
Going to camp was an incredible learning experience. I performed in a production and even got a leading role as huddle in Fiddler on the Roof.
... CEO of TeenNick -- Nickelodeon. That happened very quickly. 
Like, all my singing friends, like that I -- that I really revere and think are good, we always say, we can't imagine singing in a funeral, because your throat closes up and, you know, especially if you're emotional. 
Nothing like the real thing, baby. 
It took a lot of hard work, inner strength and believing in myself. But slowly, I gained the courage to emerge from that stifling control by a group of men.
And I just trust him. And I -- I really believe he knows what's right when it comes to his projects. 
Also, with the lower-priced one, you can spray if you want. 
You never know. KING: Aha And it did happen. 
She's a find like I've never seen before. Like, she's an amazing young talent. And this is her first film. 
...but my mannerisms, the way I speak... 
You know what? They usually are because you've got to make your -- 
You could find someone that you may be with forever if you want to. 
I want to thank all the people who've been with me on this journey, through the highs and lows, to the struggles to your struggles and mine.
Oh. KING: "Who does Mariah see as her audience, still kids and teens or more mature?" 
I was thriving, until the racist choir director saw my black father, and then I never got a leading role at that camp again, but that’s another luncheon.
For me, to really get out, it was difficult, because there was a connection that was not only a marriage, but a business thing, where the person was in control of my life. 
It is kind of hot in here. I'm going to go get a soda. 
And usually I'll do something charitable with kids and that whole thing, because they really freak out. 
But my fans that are my fans real fans -- nobody has better fans than me. 
And I'm trying to be there, because I love Lee Daniels. He really took a chance with me... 
... Really great movie and you were a good sport. 
So when I came up with the title for this, I was just actually talking to Nick, my husband. And we were just thinking "Memoirs," because I'm always writing little things and I never finish them -- and it's, you know, moments and things. 
Well, I had just worked with Lee Daniels on another independent film, which I feel like that was our learning experience of how to work together and our -- you know, we're very close friends now. 
That doesn't work for me. I don't -- I don't believe in it. 
It’s been said, it’s hard to be what you can’t see. Camp Mariah is a career awareness camp, giving kids the opportunity to see what they can be.
He does several things. And he hates when I talk about him on TV, so I won't. 
I'm getting my skills together for my first Thanksgiving dinner in L.A. with Nick's family and maybe some of my family. 
Congratulations, Aquafina, Bree, Dana, Jennifer, and the legendary incredible Shaka, Shaka, Shaka.
Then there's the gourmand note, so it's something -- I think Karl Lagerfeld used the scent of bread, because he was into something. 
When I was a little girl, I would go on walks alone and come up with melodies and words and sing to myself.
Reid is a -- is a great producer. He writes songs. He -- you know, he -- so I can -- we talk to each other more creatively. 
And to anyone who's ever told me a song I wrote helped save their life, I thank you because you saved mine and I'll be eternally grateful.
Smelling, deciding. You know, they first thought it out to see what I like, and they try and trick you, to see if you just don't know what you like. 
And the one on the bottom is from my first album, the back of the first album. That's the front of my first album, a little picture in the middle, and then the -- and actually Nick had suggested to do this, because he said, "Who else can -- can do the same look like at this point?" Because he's sees me at home, and it's a no make-up 12-year- old thing that he likes of me. 
No, because we're both the same. We both like the same things. We both like -- we are really both big kids. 
Well, who knows who's screaming at who? I don't know. 
And that is the truth. But I did believe because I had to. The truth is I've dedicated my life to music, my saving grace, and my fans who are unlike any other entity that I've ever known.
And to anyone who doesn't allow themselves to be broken and keeps getting up and keeps holding on and keeps standing tall and keep on believe, I celebrate you tonight.
Well my -- one of my very dear friends and someone I love a lot, Mr. L.A. Reid, the Chairman of Island Def Jam, he didn't really like that song that much and I had so many songs. 
What I wore, who I worked with and every aspect of my overall image. Believe me, that can be very intimidating and confining to a young girl, just getting started, trying to express herself artistically.
Well, I don't want to call any of my fans crazy because I love them all. They are my extended family. 
You know, I don't think I'm more particular than other people, but maybe I am. I don't know. I mean, I know what I like, like you know what you like. 
Notes. So you'll have, like, the musk note, which is more of the male situation. But we put in the females, too. 
I think they started -- I don't know when. Honestly, I don't know when. I just grew up hearing my mother talk about certain opera singers that she knew. 
...swig of my scotch and let you know. 
And this -- that necklace is from him. That's the only difference. It's the MCC. 
Yes. So my prep time was -- and... 
It is. It's really cool. But the funny thing, everyone always asks me, like, how -- why did you dress up as a stalker, as the -- you know... 
Nobody's perfect, but guess what? I like that. That's festive. 
And you have to act, but for real, because he really wanted to lose every inch of me. 
Well, you know, it's funny. At the label that -- where I am now, which I'm very happy being there, you know, but the music business is like all askew. 
Well, they're different. And I don't want to go on a tangent, but there are different notes, as they call them, ironically. 
Yes. He directed me in the movie. 
And I was really on it. So they're like, OK, we want to work with you more and more on these fragrances. 
Don't say that. People get freaked out. 
And it still is. My mother was a gifted opera singer who is also a bit Bohemian, if you will. She sent me to a publicly funded sleep away camp because we’d never had money.
You -- yes. Based on knowing you, I would bet on 11. 
Well, I'm sure they like it. But they've got to work to make that happen, too, because it's not just me. 
It was a little stifling, yes. And other situations I was in, like puppy love and it didn't really... 
I think that I can't imagine if I had been let -- I was very, you know, sequestered when I first started out. 
And I delicately ask, "Will you guys please listen to me just sometimes -- just sometimes, when I really believe in a song?" 
And they've always been very successful for me. 
Well, technically, a diva -- and I know this because -- like I've said a zillion times, my mom sang opera and other styles of music -- a diva, probably the first definition would be a talented vocalist, usually an opera singer. 
You know what, I think it would be nice. It would be nice. My problem is I can't really trust people, because you never know where their agenda -- what their agenda is. 
People never want to let go of the whole glitter, dah, dah, dah, dah. I'm like, it's eight years later, people. 
And I would join in with you, but I haven't slept in 18, 23. So -- 
I think that he -- look, he's really talented. My two favorite films he's been, his performances in "Bobby" and in "Drumline," that's -- you know, I knew him as a -- you know, his film work. 
My audience -- well, there's some -- some of them are outside right now. 
She guided the Fresh Air Fund for many, many years, may she rest in peace. I’m grateful they have blessed not only my life, but the lives of more than 15,000 wayward children for the past 25 summers.
I wouldn't just be like, oh, I'm having a child. Yes. Let me get a nanny so I can give her the baby. 
Well, I do say I would like -- well, I have my own dog. Actually, she's pregnant. I have two dogs. 
I wasn't really -- like, he had several shows he's created. 
I'm traveling around with a bunch of people. It's my show. 
Have we not been in this room together for like a year discussing your life? 
And later you'll sing the Mariah song for me again? 
It’s really interesting. These monitors, you like reading backwards and then you’re reading forwards.
No, I'm 11 years old, almost. I'm actually 12. KING: Oh. 
I can't speak for you. I can only speak for me. And I do like you. 
Shortly after it was released, I received a letter from a fan, a young girl in Germany who shared that she had been abused by her stepfather and that closed my eyes, helped her get through the trauma.
Yes. But I put a Christmas tree -- I love Christmas. Like, I'm obsessed with all things -- I actually have a Santa Claus -- because, of course, he exists -- and he comes to the house. 
