I love a natural look in pictures. I like people with a feeling one way or another — it shows an inner life.
This life is what you make it. No matter what, you’re going to mess up sometimes, it’s a universal truth.
For those who are poor in happiness, each time is a first time; happiness never becomes a habit.
We should all start to live before we get too old. Fear is stupid. So are regrets.
There isn’t anybody that looks like me without clothes on.
In Hollywood, a girl’s virtue is much less important than her hairdo. You’re judged by how you look, not by what you are.
A wise girl kisses but doesn’t love, listens but doesn’t believe, and leaves before she is left.
Girls will be your friends—they’ll act like it anyway. But just remember, some come, some go. The ones that stay with you through everything, they’re your true best friends.
I’ve often stood silent at a party for hours listening to my movie idols turn into dull and little people.
Respect is one of life’s greatest treasures. I mean, what does it all add up to if you don’t have that?
It’s all make-believe, isn’t it?
Sometimes you just have to throw on a crown and remind them who they’re dealing with.
mathiesen avatar
Your clothes should be tight enough to show you’re a woman but loose enough to show you’re a lady.
Instead, they would invent a character for me. I wouldn’t argue with them. They were obviously loving somebody I wasn’t.
I’m very definitely a woman and I enjoy it.
A wise girl knows her limits, a smart girl knows that she has none.
Sometimes I think it would be easier to avoid old age, to die young, but then you’d never complete your life, would you?
Millions of people live their entire lives without finding themselves. But it is something I must do.
Arthur Miller wouldn’t have married me if I had been nothing but a dumb blonde.
A woman can’t be alone. She needs a man. A man and a woman support and strengthen each other.
A career is born in public – talent in privacy.
I’m a failure as a woman. My men expect so much of me, because of the image they’ve made of me– and that I’ve made of myself– as a sex symbol.
But the good part is you get to decide how you’re going to mess it up.
You might as well make yourself fly as to make yourself love.
Acting isn’t something you do. Instead of doing it, it occurs. If you’re going to start with logic, you might as well give up.
Dogs never bite me. Just humans.
How wrong it is for a woman to expect the man to build the world she wants, rather than to create it herself.
A friend tells you what you want to hear; a best friend tells you the truth.
Same, Marilyn. Same
Just because you fail once doesn’t mean you’re gonna fail at everything.
I don’t mind living in a man’s world as long as I can be a woman in it.
A man is more frank and sincere with his emotions than a woman. We girls, I’m afraid, have a tendency to hide our feelings.
If you’re gonna be two-faced at least make one of them pretty.
I believe that everything happens for a reason. People change so that you can learn to let go, things go wrong so that you appreciate them when they’re right, and sometimes good things fall apart so better things can fall together.
You believe lies so you eventually learn to trust no one but yourself.
It’s not true that I had nothing on. I had the radio on.
The nicest thing for me is sleep, then at least I can dream.
I won’t be satisfied until people want to hear me sing without looking at me. Of course, that doesn’t mean I want them to stop looking.
The body is meant to be seen, not all covered up.
Not real glamour; it’s based on femininity.
I love to do the things the censors won’t pass.
To all the girls that think you’re fat because you’re not a size zero, you’re the beautiful one. It’s society who’s ugly.
It’s far better to be unhappy alone than unhappy with someone — so far.
Fame is like caviar, you know—it’s good to have caviar but not when you have it at every meal.
A girl should be like a butterfly — pretty to see, hard to catch.
Most importantly, keep smiling. Because life is a beautiful thing and there’s so much to smile about.
Sometimes I feel my whole life has been one big rejection.
I don’t forgive people because I’m weak, I forgive them because I am strong enough to know people make mistakes.
Who said nights were for sleep?
Anything’s possible, almost.
The most unsatisfactory men are those who pride themselves on their virility and regard sex as if it were some form of athletics at which you can win cups.
I think one of the basic reasons men make good friends is that they can make up their minds quickly.
I’m trying to find the nailhead, not just strike the blow.
She just can’t do it by herself.
Beneath the makeup and behind the smile, I am just a girl who wishes for the world.
Men are always ready to respect anything that bores them.
You can have conscious preparation, but you have unconscious results.
This is supposed to be an art form, not just a manufacturing establishment. The sensitivity that helps me to act, you see, also makes me react.
If you can make a woman laugh, you can make her do anything.
I’ve never fooled anyone. I’ve let people fool themselves. They didn’t bother to find out who and what I was.
The way you carry yourself is influenced by the way you feel inside. You must feel attractive to be attractive.
I think that when you are famous every weakness is exaggerated.
Creativity has got to start with humanity and when you’re a human being, you feel, you suffer.
All a girl really wants is for one guy to prove to her that they are not all the same.
I don’t understand why people aren’t a little more generous with each other.
If I play a stupid girl and ask a stupid question, I’ve got to follow it through, what am I supposed to do, look intelligent?
If there is only one thing in my life that I am proud of, it’s that I’ve never been a kept woman.
Looking back, I guess I used to play-act all the time. For one thing, it meant I could live in a more interesting world than the one around me.
I want to grow old without facelifts… I want to have the courage to be loyal to the face I’ve made.
Give a girl the right shoes and she can conquer the world.
I know, because I turned down the first offer often enough and held out for the fifty.
I don’t consider myself an intellectual. And this is not one of my aims. But I admire intellectual people.
I think that love and work are the only things that really happen to us.
Ever notice how ‘What the hell’ is always the right answer?
Boys think girls are like books, if the cover doesn’t catch their eye they won’t bother to read what’s inside.
Fame will go by and, so long, I’ve had you, Fame. If it goes by, I’ve always known it was fickle.
Fame is fickle, and I know it. It has its compensations but it also has its drawbacks, and I’ve experienced them both.
One of the best things that ever happened to me is that I’m a woman. That is the way all females should feel.
It’s often just enough to be with someone. I don’t need to touch them. Not even talk.
I like to see that there’s something going on inside them.
Sisters make the best friends in the world.
Before marriage, a girl has to make love to a man to hold him. After marriage, she has to hold him to make love to him.
Dreaming about being an actress, is more exciting than being one.
I am trying to find myself. Sometimes that’s not easy.
I always felt insecure and in the way, but most of all I felt scared. I guess I wanted love more than anything else in the world.
Always remember to smile and look up at what you got in life.
A girl doesn’t need anyone that doesn’t need her.
I don’t want to make money, I just want to be wonderful.
But if you can’t handle me at my worst, then you don’t deserve me at my best.
Women who seek to be equal with men lack ambition.
I’m one of the world’s most self-conscious people. I really have to struggle.
Don’t let go of them.
An actor is supposed to be a sensitive instrument.
If I’m a star, then the people made me a star.
Maybe I’ll never be able to do what I hope to, but at least I have hope.
You’d never wholly know you.
Fame doesn’t fulfill you. It warms you a bit, but that warmth is temporary.
Most men judge your importance in their lives by how much you can hurt them.
I restore myself when I’m alone.
This is a free and democratic country and no one has a monopoly on anything.
When it comes down to it, I let them think what they want. If they care enough to bother with what I do, then I’m already better than them.
I don’t mind being burdened with being glamorous and sexual. Beauty and femininity are ageless and can’t be contrived, and glamour, although the manufacturers won’t like this, cannot be manufactured.
It is a woman’s spirit and mood a man has to stimulate in order to make sex interesting. The real lover is the man who can thrill you just by touching your head or smiling into your eyes or by just staring into space.
Be real, be yourself, be unique, be true, be honest, be humble, be happy.
In spite of everything, life is not without hope.
I have always been deeply terrified to really be someone’s wife since I know from life one cannot love another, ever, really.
I have feelings too. I am still human. All I want is to be loved, for myself and for my talent.
I never wanted to be Marilyn — it just happened. Marilyn’s like a veil I wear over Norma Jeane.
I don’t mind making jokes, but I don’t want to look like one.
You just feel ashamed.
No one ever told me I was pretty when I was a little girl. All little girls should be told they’re pretty, even if they aren’t.
Men are climbing to the moon, but they don’t seem interested in the beating human heart.
I’m pretty but not beautiful. I sin but I’m not the devil. I’m good but I’m not an angel.
The real lover is the man who can thrill you by kissing your forehead or smiling into your eyes or just staring into space.
What do I wear in bed? Why, Chanel No.5, of course.
I don’t look at myself as a commodity, but I’m sure people have.
People had a habit of looking at me as if I were some kind of mirror instead of a person. They didn’t see me, they saw their own lewd thoughts, then they white-masked themselves by calling me the lewd one.
With fame, you know, you can read about yourself, somebody else’s ideas about you, but what’s important is how you feel about yourself – for survival and living day to day with what comes up.
Imperfection is beauty, madness is genius and it’s better to be absolutely ridiculous than absolutely boring.
It takes a smart brunette to play a dumb blonde.
They expect bells to ring and whistles to whistle, but my anatomy is the same as any other woman’s and I can’t live up to it.
Success makes so many people hate you. I wish it wasn’t that way. It would be wonderful to enjoy success without seeing envy in the eyes of those around you.
We are all of us stars, and we deserve to twinkle.
Always, always, always believe in yourself. Because if you don’t then who will, sweetie?
It's not too much fun to know yourself too well or think you do — everyone needs a little conceit to carry them through and past the falls.
A career is wonderful, but you can’t curl up to it on a cold night.
I live to succeed, not to please you or anyone else.
For life: it is rather a determination not to be overwhelmed. For work: the truth can only be recalled, never invented.
I’m selfish, impatient, and insecure. I make mistakes. I am out of control and at times, hard to handle.
Pirates of Zen Pants 1 year ago
A feeling passes between you both. You’re not alone.
I don’t know who invented high heels, but all women owe him a lot!
A strong man doesn’t have to be dominant toward a woman. He doesn’t match his strength against a woman weak with love for him.
I don’t stop when I’m tired. I only stop when I’m done.
I am not a victim of emotional conflicts. I am human.
Everybody is always tugging at you. They’d all like a sort of chunk out of you. I don’t think they realize it, but it’s like ‘grrr do this, grr do that…’ But you do want to stay intact and on two feet.
That’s the way you feel when you’re beaten inside. You don’t feel angry at those who’ve beaten you.
A woman knows by intuition, or instinct, what is best for herself.
I read poetry to save time.
Hollywood’s a place where they’ll pay you a thousand dollars for a kiss, and fifty cents for your soul.
I think that sexuality is only attractive when it’s natural and spontaneous.
He matches it against the world.
My work is the only ground I’ve ever had to stand on. I seem to have a whole superstructure with no foundation but I’m working on the foundation.
It is better to be hated for what you are than to be loved for what you are not.
Always be yourself. Retain individuality. Listen to the truest part of yourself.
Sometimes things fall apart so that better things can fall together.
Keep smiling, because life is a beautiful thing and there’s so much to smile about.
I’ve been on a calendar, but never on time.
She was a girl who knew how to be happy even when she was sad. And that’s important—you know.
First, I’m trying to prove to myself that I’m a person. Then maybe I’ll convince myself that I’m an actress.
I knew I belonged to the public and to the world, not because I was talented or even beautiful, but because I had never belonged to anything or anyone else.
If I’d observed all the rules, I’d never have got anywhere.
You never know what life is like until you have lived it.
