I felt powerless in that image. I didn't feel powerful. It ate every other part of my personality, not for me but for how people saw me, because there was nothing else to see or know," Fox told the men's magazine.
"So your life must be so great. What people don't realize is that fame, whatever your worst experience in high school, when you were being bullied by those ten kids in high school, fame is that, but on a global scale, where you're being bullied by millions of people constantly.
I have a vision in my head that I'm trying to achieve, so we'll see if it pans out for me.
There's never a point in my life where I loved my body, never, ever.
I’ve spent my entire life keeping the secrets of men, my body aches from carrying the weight of their sins.
"But I think it’s sinister. I think it’s evil.
It feels like a lot of energy coming through the top of your head – I'm going to sound like such a lunatic – and then your whole body is filled with this electric current.
I have social media, but I don’t personally use it. I have somebody who posts for me and I decide what I want to say,” she told the outlet.
"The idea is that it's a language that only God understands. It's the language that's spoken in heaven.
I don't think people understand. They all think we should shut the  up and stop complaining because you live in a big house or you drive a Bentley," Fox told Esquire.
I thought that 2013 might be the year that I finally blossomed into a social networking butterfly, but as it turns out, I still hate it.
I'm not sure, and it definitely wasn't environmental because I grew up in a very religious environment where bodies weren't even acknowledged.
I came home, and my whole life changed. I got a divorce and I started working more and doing more things.
I have seen magical, crazy things happen. I've seen people be healed. Even now, in the church I go to, during Praise and Worship I could feel that I was maybe getting ready to speak in tongues, and I'd have to shut it off because I don't know what that church would do if I started screaming out in tongues in the back.
"That devalued me. Because I wasn't anything I was an image. I was a picture.
It's called 'getting the Holy Ghost.'
My freedom lives in these pages, and I hope that my words can inspire others to take back their happiness and their identity by using their voice to illuminate what’s been buried, but not forgotten, in the darkness.
I started reading about her and realized that her life was incredibly difficult. It's like when you visualize something for your future.
I’m so proud of my kids. Noah is an unbelievable pianist. He can learn Mozart’s concerto in an hour.
What I most want people to know is that I'm a genuine soul who is hoping to actually belong to something and not always have to live as a misunderstood outcast.
So far, we’ve done a really good job and we maintain their innocence in a lot of ways, but I know I can’t protect them forever, though I do have a child that suffers.
That night, I stayed up and promised myself that I would never live one more day of my life from fear.
I didn't want to visualize something so negative," Fox told Esquire. "She wasn't powerful at the time.
I can’t control the way other people react to my children. I can’t control the things that other children – that they go to school with – have been taught and then repeat to them.
Shooting Sports Illustrated Swimsuit is definitely a lot of pressure.
We may look at somebody and think.
So I have a lot of worries about that, because I just wish that humanity was not like this. Although my kid is so brave and my child is so brave and I know that they’ve chosen this journey for a reason.
She had all the potential in the world, and it was squandered. I'm not interested in following in those footsteps.
When I was little, that was an obsession I had of, like, ‘But I should look this way.’ And why I had an awareness of my body that young?
I want people to see that, but I also don’t want the world to have access to this gentle soul and say all the things that we all know they’re going to say.
It’s just hard as a mom.
And you just start speaking, but you're not thinking because you have no idea what you're saying. Words are coming out of your mouth, and you can't control it," the actress explained to the publication.
The journey of loving myself is going to be never-ending, I think.
She was sort of like Lindsay. She was an actress who wasn't reliable, who almost wasn't insurable....
These poems were written in an attempt to excise the illness that had taken root in me because of my silence.
I have body dysmorphia — I don't ever see myself the way other people see me.
