I only went to one game in almost 21 years. One game at Notre Dame that I drove down for from Chicago in my second or third season with the Bulls. 
Once you leave college, you are a complete basketball player. Athletically, you are complete. And you know how to utilize that athleticism, and you know how to play the game within the team concept. 
Coach Smith knew that plan. But Chicago started losing games. In those days, if you lost games, you could move up in the draft. 
Anybody going into the paint was going to get knocked down. If you got stitches, you got stitches. Those are the types of games we had. 
I think it's between the Knicks and the Lakers. 
You could go, too, with John Paxson, who was next to me in the backcourt in Chicago. Clutch. He doesn't have the best form. 
I'd never heard of that before. It was a great pitch. It gave me an opportunity to learn more about the shoe industry, and they gave me an opportunity to create. 
Yeah, I watched him play. He was an all-around player, but I wouldn't say he was one of the best shooters. 
Hopefully I can go in and contribute and maybe turn it around. I’m looking forward to that. 
Steroids have never been prevalent in professional basketball. But you got a lot of marijuana smoking and drug use like cocaine. 
Then Nike came to me about creating my own shoe. They wanted to put my name on my shoe, and  have input into the design of the shoe. 
Sometimes you have to follow your dream. Their decision also depends on what Coach  Williams advised them, and about what pick they would be. 
I have a strong passion for the game of basketball. 
I played for very few coaches. 
We were trying to maintain what we were. Every battle was magnified. Patrick  was a good friend. 
I wouldn't say that. I wouldn't say it's worse. There is some drug awareness out there. 
Other than that, I'd never been to a Carolina basketball game. To go there and see the tradition and see that everything was still the same was great. 
I say it. I have no problem speaking out publicly about issues. But for personal things, and for things about personal selfishness, or wanting more money, I don't do that. 
It doesn’t matter really. Whatever can contribute to the team. If I have to play small forward, if I have to play guard whatever the team needs. 
They were just 45 minutes to an hour away. They were a strong team and they constantly kept beating us. 
That was totally unselfish. It's the kind of person that he was. He could have said, "You should stay for your senior year. 
But if Houston won the coin flip, they said they were going to take Hakeem Olajuwon. And that's exactly what happened. 
That's exactly what I'm saying. I'm a firm believer in that. You can argue a lot of different situations, from social to financial. 
I could have easily gone back to the fifth pick. But then we got assurance from Houston that if they lost the coin flip to Portland, they'd take me—it was a coin flip between the top two teams to determine the first pick. 
I knew that was coming. I don't want to second-guess Isiah. I'm not taking over for Isiah Thomas as general manager. 
And, I was the highest-paid rookie at the time. 
My parents weren't knowledgeable about it, either. And it was a great opportunity. Coach Smith felt that it would be the best opportunity for me to make it in professional basketball. 
If you don't take the time to teach those values, they will make the same mistakes. Is it still prevalent in sports? 
He taught me a lot about the game. Not just about the athleticism required to play it. I'm a firm believer that when you come out of high school, you are strictly athletic. 
You've got a lot of athletic talents. Very few players are taught the game the right way in high school. 
When I came into the pros, I never knew anything about the business aspect outside of basketball. All I focused on was basketball. 
Practice is work. You're working on the idiosyncrasies of what your game needs, so when the game comes, you showcase it and you utilize it. 
He loves L.A, and he has a great connection with L.A. I think he would consider that. 
I just want to go in and contribute the best way I could and I just look forward to whatever the coaches want. 
Once he researched the situation to find out where I would go in the draft, then I started weighing the pros and cons. 
We have a great team with some great new recruits." Kenny Smith and Brad Daugherty were coming on. Our team was going to be really good. 
I don't think New York was in the picture. I don't think they had a pick that year. But at that time, you just want to get in the league. 
I think things out well. When I speak, I speak with conviction. If I feel like it's something that best suits me and my person, I deal with it. 
You get the chance to mature in college. They get a chance to deal with a lot of issues in college. 
It's in life. It's in business. It's everywhere. 
But my true heart was with Carolina. And I think the fans understood that. They weren't bitter that I was supporting Carolina or that I was wearing the Carolina blue. 
But you got more and more young guys doing it. I am a firm believer that something is affected by leaving college early, or not going to college at all. 
Charles Oakley used to be in Chicago. John Starks, Charles Smith, Anthony Mason—all these guys. When Detroit was winning, everybody had adopted the physical type of game. 
New York became that way, too. You go in the middle, you're going to get hit. Patrick was a fierce intimidator. 
At the time, Jonathan Kovler was the owner. My agent, David Falk, went in and asked for that. Kovler said, We're not going to give him an attendance clause because if we draft him at the three spot, he'd better put people in the seats. 
Billy Cunningham was the coach, and he was a Carolina guy. He said based on where we are right now in the third slot, Michael won't go less than three because we'll take him at three. 
My happiest moment? There were so many. Do you want me to start early in my career? 
The beauty was what my agents, David Falk and Donald Dell, did back in the Bulls days. They took what I did on the basketball court and attached a marketing value to it, and connected me to companies that had the same values that I had from the basketball standpoint. 
Eventually, you're going to have to deal with those things anyway. 
It was truly a rumor. We had one occasion when there was a dialogue. It must have been in 1996 or 1997 because of my contract situation in Chicago. 
Maybe there has to be some type of arrangements, or agreement between the NCAA and the NBA, for those kids who are not financially stable. 
They have a tough team. They have a lot of injuries and a lot of big contracts. First of all, you have to find some commodities that you feel will benefit the New York Knicks, but when you do that, you can't just think one way. 
And it's very tough because I'm friends with a lot of players today. 
Financially? People are going to love this. It was a seven-year deal. 
Once I give my word, that's it. I don't go back to renegotiate. I don't renegotiate my contracts. 
The fans' attitude was "wait until next year, wait till next year." 
Once we started winning and got past Detroit, the Knicks became our biggest rivals. They were trying to get where we were. 
In that respect, I think the players should have stayed in school. Just from a selfish aspect, I wanted to cheer for my university. 
But he was one of the best all-around players, in the same category as Magic Johnson, who could rebound, assist and score. 
Well, it was a little different because of Illinois playing in the finals. I live in Illinois. It was the first time  had been to a title game in so many years. 
You have to find some team that feels that the players on the Knicks will be a better fit for the other team. 
But he felt like for me, personally, going to the NBA was the best thing, and it was the best opportunity. 
Well hopefully I fit pretty well. I’m looking forward to it. I played with Enos when I came out of high school so I’m looking forward to playing with him again. 
It's not that way. There is very little teaching in the pros. You don't have time to teach. 
No, we had some rivalries. Early on, it was Milwaukee. We couldn't beat Milwaukee. 
You got a lot of these kids coming out of high school who never really had the right coaching. They think they can get by with just athleticism. 
Thank you very much 
Some people take it in a negative way, and some people take it in a positive way. 
The camaraderie. The sport. The former players. 
The Knicks came later. 
To some degree, it is working. 
If a phone call didn't come in 30 minutes from Chicago, we had already given assurances that we would have gone to the Knicks for less money. 
It was Coach  Smith's call. I relied so much on his knowledge. The NBA was an area where I wasn't too knowledgeable. 
That's a very good question. It's going to be somewhat biased because I didn't play back in the days of Wilt Chamberlain, Bill Russell, some of the great stars prior to me. 
Not only that, you have the most dominant big man in the game today. You don't just send him away because you got some problems. 
I can't pick Coach Smith. I would take him because of my own preference. But Phil 
All over the world. And today, Brand Jordan is a $485 million business. 
I averaged about $850,000 a year. The first year's compensation was $650,000. There was no signing bonus. 
I'm pretty sure he does. But you can't blame one guy. It's a combination of both of them. 
Coca-Cola, Gatorade, Hanes, Sara Lee. Those type of things. They built a connection from a puzzle that they pieced together because of what I portrayed on the basketball court. 
The Knicks don't have any cap space to create a different team. When you look at the Lakers, they may have one or maybe two sustaining long contracts. 
But once we overcame them, then we knew we could do anything. There was no one else beating us, or having that kind of rivalry with us. 
The lifestyle. Just the mental and physical demands of the NBA that these kids are going to be dealing with are tough. 
There's the education aspect, too. College teaches you a lot. It teaches you about being on your own, making decisions and even handling bank accounts. 
All that stuff has been in the NBA. We've been able to curtail it and try to eliminate it, but it's very tough to eliminate. 
Personalities got involved after they'd had some success. It becomes about individuals—individual goals that they wanted to achieve. 
No, I maintain my independent endorser status. But I approve all the decisions for Brand Jordan. 
Hakeem Olajuwon went to Houston, and Portland went to its fallback pick, which was Sam Bowie. If Portland had won the coin flip, they would have taken Hakeem, and I would have ended up in Houston. 
For them, there will always be pressure for going to the pros, to take care of their families. 
Anything less than that is potentially bad. You've got a lot of things you have to take into consideration. 
But you're talking about one player, LeBron James, who's been very successful in his first two years. 
If you've got success in your house, you find a way to manage so that everybody prospers and everybody is viewed as champions. 
Sure. They'd be easier to fix. 
You could think of a lot of players like that in the pros. But to pick one, who would have the biggest impact on a game where you had a chance to win, that would be Magic Johnson. 
Drugs have been in the game for a long time. They were there when I was in college, and even in high school. 
That team had accomplished a lot in winning a championship. That's the ultimate prize. I think what my mother would have told me, as long as you go back and get that degree, then I can understand the sacrifice that you make to leave school. 
I would have never gotten rid of Shaq . It's as simple as that. You've got three championships with a big man, and big men are hard to find. 
I never wore a Nike shoe until I signed with Nike. I wore Converse in college, and I was a big Adidas fan. 
Then the rivalry went from Milwaukee to Detroit. And that was brutal. Isiah  was from Chicago, and he wanted to come back and show he still dominated Chicago. 
What's the purpose of changing if you've got the right mixture that's working? Give me a seven-footer and I'd probably still be playing right now. 
So once Chicago moved into third place, Philly moved to fifth because Dallas was coming in as an expansion team and they had the fourth pick. 
It was an exciting time. It was just fun. 
The executives. Everything was the same. It was good for me to go back, and it was good for my kids to see. 
Back in those days, the draft was based on wins and losses. So at the time, Philly was in the third slot. 
I was the new guy in Chicago, and people were supporting the team. It became a dogfight between us. 
That's one of the reasons I went, was for my kids. 
For the Knicks, it isn't a financial issue; they are still taking on a lot of contracts. 
You've got 82 games in a season. 
Yeah, because I had a great time in college. It was the first time I'd been away from home. I'd met new people and made new friends. 
Until you find the right situations for those players, you have to wait until their existing contracts expire or buy them out of their contracts. 
Moses . No doubt it was Moses. 
When you have a passion, you want to do it as much as possible. Addiction means you can't help yourself. 
The way that I'm protected, I am as close to normal as anyone could be. In terms of my accolades and the way I played the game, those things had something to do with it, along with the marketability of Michael Jordan. 
I was taught to do it that way by my parents, and by the way they approached their daily activities. 
Nope, that was my deal. 
That depends, too. I'm a firm believer that a player should be 20 years old or older before going to the pros. 
I sat down with the designers and I talked to them about my personality and things that I like and things I feel people may like. 
Yes. I have to stay away from it because of it. I wouldn't say it's an addiction, but it's a passion. 
On shooting, on going left or on using your left hand—those types of things that help you get better. 
Not really. At that time, I just wanted to be drafted. 
We put all those thoughts into a brand, into the Jordan brand and into the shoe. 
But the coin flip came up Houston, and that put me back to third with Chicago. 
When you go into these college programs, which was the best thing that happened to me, they are going to teach you all aspects of the game of basketball so you can apply that to your athletic skills and develop them. 
The Knicks have four. 
If Chicago had not made a significant offer, New York was next. We actually had a dialogue with New York. 
It starts with the kids of tomorrow, and how those kids are brought up and what their values are. And how the parents teach those kids those values. 
Well hopefully that becomes true. I’m not looking forward to going in and trying to live up to everyone else’s expectations. 
We tried to get an attendance clause. They were averaging 6,000 people a game. So we thought, OK, we're going to ask for an attendance clause. 
You build your game on it. Practice wasn't just a place to take time off. You work on things in practice. 
There was some real hatred there. On the floor, it was that whole physicality of the game, and that's what was happening on the basketball court. 
Not really. I’m looking forward to meeting coach Loughery and looking forward to his coaching ability 
Pure shooter, I would say Brian Winters, who played for the Milwaukee Bucks. He had the most beautiful stroke of all the people whom I can think of. 
So they never gave us an attendance clause. 
I must admit, it's still prevalent. But it's not worse. They've tried in the NBA to implement some provisions to monitor drug use, to eliminate it and totally get rid of it. 
Kobe , Kevin Garnett, Tracy McGrady, Jermaine O'Neal—all those guys took at least three years before they adapted to what they had to do as professional basketball players. 
At the time I committed to go pro, because of Coach Smith's research, I was projected to go to Philly because Philly was in the third spot. 
Be it Kobe leading the league in scoring and carrying the team by himself, or Shaq proving he can win without Kobe. 
I didn't watch much pro basketball until I got into college, so I just wanted to play in the NBA. 
But nothing ever really materialized. 
But I don't have the understanding of what the family situations were for these players, or what motivates them. 
Making the playoffs the first time was the biggest thing for me because that franchise hadn't experienced the playoffs in a long, long time. 
But they've taken on a lot, too. They are not going to be under the cap any time soon. 
If I had been a freshman or even a sophomore, no matter how good I was, I don't know if I would have been ready for what I had to deal with in the professional ranks. 
Best shooter. Oh, boy. That's a great question. 
You ask me, and I wouldn't know. My personality is my personality. I'm very real when people see me. 
Is that good? I can be biased from the outside looking in. I'm very supportive of the university, and I would like to see them have the opportunity to defend the championship. 
But Reggie Miller. Or maybe Jerry West; it's hard picking one. 
Even when we got in the playoffs, they kept beating us. Then we got to a point where we started beating them. 
And I don't quit. I'm a very competitive person. That could be taken in a lot of different ways. 
I think marijuana is still strong in the NBA. I'd like to see that paid more attention to. I think  David Stern has done a great job to eliminate all those issues, but no one is going to be able to eliminate it completely. 
No. Drug use was hidden in a lot of sports a long time ago. Now it's out in the open, be it steroids in baseball or steroids in football. 
No, I wasn't unhappy. Money didn't drive me at that time, so I wasn't worried about it. Once I signed my contract, I felt like, Let's go out and earn the money. 
It wasn't half-assed. So I practiced like I played. So when I played, playing was fun. 
I haven't seen you in shorts yet. 
And their whole maturity level, not only for basketball but on the personal side, too, has to be taken into account. 
