And here are two men, fighting each other and they bleed and hurting each other. What they mad about? 
And if the white man ain’t the devil, he’s been aiming at the history of the Americans. He didn’t mention anything about Europe or Sweden or Canada. 
I missed four but I predicted, which is almost a miracle. 
As bad as he was, I wasn’t really mad at him. Because he was brainwashed by the establishment. I gave him a whooping and a spanking because I was looking towards those who backed him. 
I just won the gold medal and I couldn’t eat downtown. I said, ‘Something’s wrong.’ And from then on, I’ve been a Muslim. 
No, I’ve never noticed that. You see movies of gangsters or fighters and somebody come up and hit him. 
Now Ali lands to the right. What a beautiful swing. And the punch lifts Frazier clean out of the ring. 
Things are getting much better, but I always wondered when I went to church on Sundays. I’ve always been one to... 
But I just try to stay half way decent looking. Boxing’s a rough sport and you get hit a lot. Right after a fight I run right to the dressing room and right to the mirror and make sure I’m still, you know, presentable. 
I see the cameras and I see millions of people. The Frazier fight was seen by ten hundred million people. 
If I was still in Louisville, Kentucky and never was a boxer I still might get killed next week in some kind of freedom struggle and you’d ever hear the news. 
I won three days, I fought for this country in Rome, I won the gold medal, and I’m going to eat.’ And I heard her tell the manager, and he said, ‘Well, he’s got to go out.’ They put me out. 
‘And still, the heavyweight champion of the whole world, Cassius Clay’. And I thought about that as I rode off in the rain. 
So I can beat Joe Frazier singing. 
I want everybody out there to know’. He was getting all mad and saying. ‘I’m sick and tired I’m getting off this show’. 
If I say the man’s going to fall in round five, like your man Henry Cooper here, he was stopped in round five but it was on a cut - it wasn’t because he was out. 
A couple. I can remember a couple of real fights when I ran. Because they were kinda dangerous. 
A lot of things that I feel are going to happen, like we might go half a year without a plane crashing. 
Second class? Oh no. Sixteenth class. 
One judge was so outrageous he gave Frazier eleven rounds and I only won four rounds - and even the least boxing fan would know that was totally impossible for me just to have won four rounds. 
And I always asked my mother, I said, ‘Momma, how come is everything white?’ I said, ‘Why is Jesus white with blond hair and blue eyes? 
Something they can look forward to - a goal, a purpose to work towards. Something to achieve. Keeps them out of trouble. 
But Elijah Muhammad teaches us the truth of God beautified the planet by separating everybody in different countries for themselves: Chinese in China, English in England, Puerto Ricans in Puerto Rico, Ethiopians in Ethiopia, Arabians in Arabia, Egyptians in Egypt, and Americans took that country and stole it away so there’s always going to be trouble and chaos. 
Yeah. I tell you what I really fear. I fear aeroplanes. 
No. One punch. He was a nice fella. 
Three bouts. I’d had about 35 fights so I came up on this show. I was so busy I didn’t have time to run in street gangs. 
And I’d have whooped the world for America. I took my gold medal, thought I’d invented something. I said, “Man, I know I’m going to get my people freedom. 
And they say, ‘if you don’t get him in round seven I lose my house, I lose my car’. So I say, did you really believe when I said that? 
He got him a big band to travel the world with his new title thinking that he’s gonna sell ‘em all out. 
They prowl the streets day and night - they shooting, hitting, it’s crazy. And I understand that the worst people in England at a time were ran to America, for some reason. 
It’s a rough sport being punched on all the time. A lot of people’s features change. Mainly when I fight them. 
And a little skinny kid from Kentucky, maybe about 85 pounds, small and in the rain on my bicycle, could hear the man say. 
Because I look at two other men fighting and I think, ‘I must be a fool’. Here are two men like two roosters - you know, cock fighters - and they put knives on them and they are mad and fighting and don’t even know each other, just to please somebody. 
Why is the Lord’s supper all white men? Angels are white, the Pope, Mary, and even the angels.’ I said, ‘Mother, when we die, do we go to Heaven?’ She said, ‘Naturally we go to Heaven.’ I said, ‘Well, what happened to all the black angels?’ 
They used to always say I was a second class citizen. I would say to my mother, ‘Momma? How come the Chinese can go where I can’t go in America? 
And then he got in his opponent’s corner and got some deodorant and sprayed it, holding his nose, and he was trowing out at people and making out all kinds of bad gestures. 
If you knew it was God calling you would fight for God. 
Well, yes. I write: When you come to the fight don’t block the aisles and don’t block the door. For you all may go home after round four.” And from then on I’ve been writing a few more poems and I’ve just completed a few more poems. 
So who is this second class citizen because they do alright? Because we were way down as far as I was concerned. 
It would have to be a holy war declared by God himself. If some black man go out and start something, a riot or something or, I’m not going to jump in it and get killed because he’s gone out and started something I don’t believe in what he’s fighting for or his approach. 
Now that I’m back it’s alive again. What did I do? When they gave me my title back I could have waited for Joe Frazier but I didn’t. 
If a man dreamed to be, they better wake up and apologise. Walk up and just hit ME? He would stand an easier chance in Vietnam with a BB gun. 
Only for reasons of war, not for religion or my people’s freedom. They later agreed with me on just that subject. 
I’m nervous but not scared. Because I have a great insight. I don’t see the audience. 
You would hate other people if you don’t want to stay who you are. You saying God made you. God didn’t make a mistake making us all like we are. 
It sounds big, didn’t it? So I kept working until I did it. And not only became the champion of the whole world, but better than all of those before me. 
It’s the saddest country. I noticed here the police do not have guns and do not hit people with sticks. 
You can do what you want. But it’s nature to be with your own. I want to be with my own. 
Despair? It ain’t no despair. I wanna tell you something. 
I was the one who heard the truth. And when I heard the truth about my name was not Cassius Clay, like I knew a black man in America named John Hawkins. 
When you say separation, what you’re saying is that black people must do something for themselves and not always beg white people to move in to their neighbourhoods. 
It’s Just Muslim. Not black Muslim. That’s what the press call us because the history of Americans is to divide and conquer. 
Boxing legend Muhammad Ali February 1999 meets the children of Brixton, London 
Read more:Muhammad Ali funeral will have worldwide audience of billions And I was due to fight him in Las Vegas and I was on television saying something like this. 
I know. I was just… No I don’t pay it attention. I never heard that before I got to England - seriously, I never heard this before. 
Well I wrote about this Africa prison killing the other day. 
You’re not as dumb as you look. 
Yeah, I believe everything he preach. Mainly he talks about the American white man. You think I’m going to appear on American television and tell you I don’t believe in what Elijah Muhammad teach and I’m one of his number one main followers? 
I have to help the dope and prostitution problem. And I use my image to try to help young people fighting and killing each other. 
No. I was training for a fella called named of Duke Sabedong - he was Hawaiian fighter and a giant about 6 feet 8 inches tall. 
Real conceited and arrogant. I was 21 years old, I was the Olympic champion but I hadn’t started talking yet. 
But when you’re behind the wheel it’s not like that. When I’m in the ring I don’t worry about nobody being that good to really hurt me. 
I don’t have no trouble like that. Never. 
Then the publicity after the fight said he had to spend four weeks in intensive treatment at the hospital he took such a terrible whooping. 
I’m involved in a freedom struggle. Not a power struggle. We’re not trying to take power away or rule anybody - we’re just trying to get up from under the rulers. 
When the flight’s all right and smooth I’m still thinking, ‘what if the engine blow up?’ ‘What if a fool’s got a bomb on it?’ I go up to the cockpit and see all these things and think, ‘what if this thing switches off, and we’re between England and America over the ocean - where would we land? 
I’m defeating America’s so-called threats and enemies. And the flag is going dun-dun-dun-dun. I’m standing so proud. 
Now, all of a sudden, the man tells me, ‘come on - I want you to leave the galley because I want you up here to have something to drink and giving me number one spot. 
So I think I could beat Joe Frazier singing. I was in a Broadway musical called Big Time Buck Wright. 
America. If he can prove he’s not the devil, then he should get on television and call the man a liar. 
I’m flying every day and think, ‘it’s time for a plane crash’. I don’t wish for nothing like that but I feel that things are too quiet. 
I was told your budget was kinda low and you don’t pay too much. So I wrote a poem and I’m going to close with this: I love your show And I like your style But your pay is so cheap I won’t be back for a while. 
I can’t really say. Like Joe Lewis was one of the greatest fist fighters but didn’t have the foot work. 
And when you say integration, that comes with a marriage too, right? And I’m sure no intelligent white person watching this show, in his or her right white mind, want black men and women marrying their white sons and daughters and in return introducing their grandchildren to half brown, kinky haired black people. 
So, like Floyd Paterson and other fighters, they just don’t take part. They make a million dollars, they get a Rolls Royce and a nice home and a white wife and think, ‘well, I made it’. 
Like when you’re in a car, when someone’s turning corners and you’re kinda on the edge and watching. 
I cannot lose.” In America they got a saying: “the n****r talks too much”. People sold everything - their cars, their land for miles, to come in and see me beat. 
There won’t be on our part. We’re taught it’s impossible for us to be violent. The most powerful military country in the world, America - which makes all the guns, all the machinery, all the bullets - taught us how to shoot the guns. 
Frank Sinatra told Floyd Paterson how he should whoop me. Frank Sinatra. 
They love their little slant eyed, pale brown skinned babies. Pakistanis love their culture. Jewish people love their culture. 
Englishmen can come and set up a business in white America and do things I can’t do. The Puerto Rican, Hawaiians, just about everybody can do more than black people and are more respected. 
They’re not mad about nothing. Boxing legends past and present Lennox Lewis, Harry Carpenter and Muhammad Ali 
We say at these meetings, we are not to be the aggressor but we will defend ourselves if attacked. Now we will fight, but we will not go looking to start one. 
Joe Frazier fought his last fight with Bobby Foster in Detroit, Michigan. They drew about 4500 people - the place held about 11,000. 
In America they got two policemen, five policemen and one car watching each other, each has got a pistol, one has got a machine gun, one’ got a shotgun and two dogs growling at each other. 
I don’t call myself a political figure but I’m taken to be. 
He might lose his life. But he’s helping millions. But if I kept my mouth shut, because I can make millions, that isn’t doing nothing. 
I’m sure we all have this built-in radar of what we predict and when it happens, we feel ‘I knew it’. 
I’ve been in a couple of scuffles but not too many. 
I don’t fear for that. Because I can control it. But I don’t control the aeroplane or the pilot. 
But I was so wrapped up in boxing since I was 12. I was always at the gymnasium every day at six o’clock after school. 
Oh we’re much different. You know we’re different. 
One fella stood up, looked at him and said, ‘boy, he needs a good whoopin’.’ And he reached over and took a keg of beer out of a man’s hand and threw it in the man’s face. 
I admit I lost three rounds - playing around four rounds. And I lost the eleventh round - he shook me pretty good. 
A lot of Catholics want to marry Catholics because the want their religion to stay the same. Who would thought only of themselves and kill their race? 
But life is too short for me to be doing that. I’d rather be reading to my own: I have a beautiful daughter, beautiful wife. 
Floyd Paterson? Boy, he’s the complete opposite to me. He no way like me. 
What do you mean pacifist. I did not use the word pacifist. 
And right away I start talking: “I am the greatest. I am beautiful. If you talk jive you’ll fall in five. 
Now, you know who John Hawkins was. He was a slave trader from England. But the white people of that time, if one had five slaves and his name was Jones, they would be called Jones’ property. 
Later I found out that this man worked for the show. But the people didn’t know. The fella had a little boy beside him and a lady. 
And at that time, things weren’t integrated. Black folks couldn’t eat downtown. And I went downtown, I sat down, and I said, ‘A cup of coffee, a hotdog.’ The lady said, ‘We don’t serve Negroes.’ I was so mad, I said, ‘I don’t eat them either, just give me a cup of coffee and a hamburger.’ You know, I said, ‘I’m the Olympic gold medal-winner. 
I was nervous for him. Many people were there for various reasons. And when Gorgeous George came down the aisle he had these two blonde beautiful girls carrying his robe so it wouldn’t get dirty. 
The truth. The teachings of Elijah Muhammad on how black people have been brainwashed. How they’ve been taught to love white and hate black, how we’ve been robbed of our names in slavery. 
I’m not just a boxer. I do a lot of reading, a lot of studying. I ask questions, I’ll go out, travel these countries, I’ll watch how their people live, and I learn. 
I’m not ducking and running from nothing. 
They don’t have intelligence, and yet they stay together. We should have more intelligence than them, right? 
Let me tell you, when I was a kid I got mad enough to want to kill somebody but as you travel the world and I’m struggling with a freedom fight against nations, you can’t get enough hate in you to be mad at one man just because it’s a boxing match. 
I’m sad because I want to bow out of my race and leave my beautiful identity? Chinese love Chinese. 
And I said to myself, ‘the champion of the whole world can whoop every man in Russia, every man in America, every man in China, every man in Japan, every man in Europe - every man in the whole world’. 
It happened one night when I heard Rocky Marciano - 1954 or 53 - he had beaten Walcott or somebody. 
So I can love freedom and the flesh and blood of my people moreso than I do the money. You can tape this show and play it right in Washington and let Nixon hear it. 
I don’t pay much attention to it. I don’t consider myself no attractive man. People like Tom Jones and Elvis Presley - I’m not nothing like that. 
I think the best caution is, if a fella’s winning on points and has the guy just about out and he’s against the rope and just about gone, he should not try to hurt him just to satisfy the crowd or to make money. 
Right. But we have problems too. I don’t see no black and white couples in England or America walking around proud holding their children and going out. 
During my time, my era, things have changed. More interest. Like when my title was taken, boxing died. 
MA : Right, it’s different to others who have lost - or so called lost - the titles and others would say have gone downhill slightly. 
Like, when I speak I draw people in the States to teach them various things or to give them dignity, pride and self-help. 
They all got different cultures. The eagles like to hang out in the mountains. The buzzard like to fly in the desert. 
Now Frazier disappears from view The crowd is getting frantic. But our radar station picks him up He’s somewhere over the Atlantic. 
But usually ‘m on the spot with my predictions and some people really gamble and bet money on the rounds I say. 
No white man says he’s not the devil. He don’t say nothing. 
A swing at ME? Repeat that question. What did you say? 
Yeah, he’s OK now. They thought he might have some trouble. James Ellis was in a critical state after the fight and I pulled offa him. 
Oh man, if we were second class citizens we’d be driving old Cadillacs and living good. If we were first class we’d be driving a Rolls Royce. 
So you got black people in an all-white country and they don’t know nothing about themselves. They don’t speak their language, they’re just mentally dead. 
I am great! Look at my beautiful blond hair. And if that bum even messes my hair up I’ll annihilate him’. 
Who am I to say he was the devil? I am not Elijah Muhammad. I’ve heard Elijah Muhammad say that many white people mean right and in their heart want to do right. 
In the mornings I would run, looking forward to future golden gloves and Olympic tournaments. I had something to do, which most kids really need. 
Frazier’s still rising but the referee wears a frown For he can’t start counting til Frazier comes down. 
But if 10,000 rattle snakes were coming down the aisle right there and I had a door I could shut, and one thousand of those snakes meant right. 
I was lucky, from the age of 12 I had boxing talent and was good for my age. We had a local TV show called Tomorrow’s Champions, which comes on in Louisville in Kentucky every Friday at six o’clock. 
But when one man of popularity can let the world know the problem, he might lose a few dollars himself. 
No, not society. God made us different. 
Listen. No woman on this whole earth can please me and cook for me and socialise and talk to me like my American black woman. 
When really they’re not happy because she got some Puerto Rican music, he’s got him some Chinese music and they’re going to be clashing all the time. 
Singer with Irish band U2, Bono  and former World Heavyweight Boxing Champion Muhammad Ali 
But now, if I even say the wrong thing I make the news. Boxing is just to introduce me to the struggle. 
I’m the champion of the whole world. Olympic champion. I know I can eat downtown now.” And I went downtown that day, had my big gold medal on, and went in a restaurant. 
And they’re just so happy to see a black man who will stand up and jeopardise every quart he’s got to tell the truth. 
They go down in history for just being athletes. I’m getting more praise and credit for doing what I’m doing now on this show than coming here and beating five of your English champions. 
Just thing about ten hundred people - that makes me nervous. Just the idea of me, a humble fella from Kentucky, lucky in sports and now here’s the house and the fight was piped in to places like Thailand in the government house, and Arabian officials took time off just to watch two men boxing. 
But I still looked the same - I had a swollen jaw. No features or nothing distorted, like him. So people still recognise me. 
Who would have thought when they come to the fight That we’d see the launching of a coloured satellite. 
Because right now black people are at home shouting at home jumping because they don’t have the nerve to say what I’m saying and nobody’s never said it. 
They look like me, we all happy and I don’t have no trouble. And I ain’t that much in love with no woman to go through that hell - ain’t no one woman that good. 
He won the first, lost the second and won the third. But then I saw all those people coming through the door to see Gorgeous George get beat - and they all paid to get in - that’s the thing - and I said, ‘this is a good idea’. 
I make predictions about what I’m going to do before a fight, that makes me nervous because I’ve gotten so good at it until people really look for me to do it. 
Then slavery came and calls of aggression. But we’ve been there 600 years and there ain’t no peace between black and whites because the cultures are different - like the Chinese and Mexicans cannot integrate: the music is different, the eating is different. 
I went to the bank laughing every time. I don’t talk no more. I don’t have to do that no more. 
But he would take his time and had sharp, hard punches. And Dempsey was more of a wild, rough fighter - a little like Marciano. 
I need to get everything straight. I’m not involved in a power struggle between black and white. I’m not trying to get power over white. 
It’s ain’t sad that I want my child to look like me? Every intelligent person wants their child to look like him. 
And I was in the rain on my bicycle and I was leaning over listening to a fellow’s radio in a car. And I got there too late and I heard a man say, ‘And still, the heavyweight champion of the world, Rocky Marciano’. 
Which is five times the population of the United States. Just picturing one million people and you couldn’t see them all. 
I have one more poem about your show. I asked how much money was I getting, you know, for taking up my time. 
I love my people and I don’t hate nobody and it keeps me out of trouble. 
He knocked me down in the fifteenth round. But those were the rounds I lost. The average I hit him was four times to every one he hit me. 
Black and whites, how? A lot of wars are fought between black and whites daily in America. But if it’s something I want to be with, the people who started it were black, I wouldn’t not get in it. 
We got white Muslims, brown Muslims, yellow Muslims, tan Muslims, red Muslims and black muslims - we’re the same all over. 
And I had to leave that restaurant in my hometown, where I went to church to serve in their Christianity, my Daddy fought in all the wars. 
Ellis has got a family, he’s an ex friend of mine and he wants to live too. It’s really silly, when you think about fighting. 
Life is like a ship. There’s people dancing on a ship. There’s a lot of money on the ship, but I cannot integrate on the ship or get equality on the ship. 
I believe in the holy Koran. It says we declare ourselves to be righteous Muslims and do not take part in wars, or in no way fashion or form take the lives of humans unless it’s a holy war declared by God himself. 
Most fighters are scared to say they lightened up because they call the fight a fix or say, ‘you carried him’. 
It’s impossible for 30 million black people to be violent against 170 million - we need a mental revolution, unity in coming together, and not physical. 
They said, ‘George, what if you lose?’. And he said, ‘If I lose, I’m catching the next jet out to Russia. 
I’d think, ‘this ship must be sinking, right? Why’s he so nice to me now? What moves him to call me up here?’ 
Well, you wouldn’t. But I’m sure a lot of them would. What I’m trying to say is - well, you say that but you’re on a show you gotta say that. 
And he ran off the show. And I was so nervous and thought, ‘boy, he sure talks a lot’. I had to go to see what he would do - would he win or lose? 
I have more fans and more followers and more supporters. Because the people who actually saw the Joe Frazier Muhammad Ali fight, they saw me win at least nine rounds - the people who know boxing. 
And I never could. I’m just in the galley working and I never could get up to see the captain of the ship. 
Boxing is just going to be another year. 
One fella was going for a rock and another was picking up a stick and there wasn’t no referees or judges and I got out of there real quick. 
I do more than that in training. We had 11,000 at the supermarket the other day in Birmingham. And Manchester I had 12,000 - 15000, just talking and signing autographs. 
Why would you want to do that? 
We were robbed of our culture, we were robbed of our true history. So it left us a walking dead man. 
It’s a little bit of showbiz and helps the crowd. I mean it but I put emphasis on it. And a lot of time I’ve been lucky enough to predict 17 times what round. 
Look at the kid carry the fight. Frazier keeps backing but there’s not enough room. It’s a matter of time Ali lowers the boom. 
No woman can really identify with me and the way I act and the way I talk. And you can’t take no Chinese man and give him no Puerto Rican woman and talking like they’re in love and emotionally in love and physically. 
Gorgeous George, a famous American wrestler who is deceased now, was there talking before myself. I came on after him and he was talking about, ‘I am the prettiest wrestler. 
If I’m attacked, fight like hell. If you attack me, I’m not in no foolish movement. We’r not going to be the aggressor. 
At two or three days later, a plane crash landed here. And it’s always two or three in a row. Sometimes I feel a lot of things but I keep it in. 
The play didn’t make it but I was a success. It lasted six days but I sung four songs and there were critics, seriously, in New York who said that my part was perfect. 
No, I didn’t. I didn’t run with a gang - I didn’t have time. There were a few little street gangs sitting in the spotlights at night time - talking and playing marbles. 
Well, number one: he is ugly. He has no rhythm, no footwork, no class, he cannot talk. And who told him he could sing? 
But people talk about fighters dying and how brutal it is. And they always say precautions should be taken and talk about how gloves should be bigger and fighters should wear face protection. 
Listen, bluebirds fly with bluebirds. Red birds fly wanna be with red birds. Tell me when I’m wrong. 
If you was auctioned off to Mr Smith, your name was Smith. Identifying you as property of certain masters. 
Well, I have a poem. The fight goes like this: Ding! Ali comes out to meet Frazier but Frazier starts to retreat If Frazier goes back an inch farther he’ll wind up in a ringside seat Ali swings to the left, Ali swings to the right. 
Let me tell you something - I’ve never said this before. I really care nothing about boxing. Boxing is a stepping stone just to introduce me to the audience. 
So now that I’m free, now that I’m no longer a slave, then I want a name of my ancestors. 
No. No sir. Too dangerous. 
And this is happening all over the world. But the first place that we’ll rise will be the black people of America, and then the rest of them will. 
I got him real quick. It was one right hand. I didn’t cut Folley at all. 
A Happy Muhammad Ali Jumps Over A Fence In London's Hyde Park 
Never. Even Floyd Paterson, who condemned my Islamic religion and didn’t want to call me Muhammad Ali and said I should’ve gone to the army and I should be in jail. 
It fights if we’re attacked. 
Every time I read the paper they say, ‘Joe Frazier, he played an area that held ten thousand and 37 people showed up’. 
Well, I tell you. Number one: We don’t want to stir up the people. We don’t hate nobody. 
