There is no business like blow business.
Without the corruption and complicity of so many states, my father would not have progressed an inch.
I don’t want to be good. I am going to be great.
I think that if tomorrow pizzas were banned, there would be a war because of it. You don’t educate your children by forcing them.
We are all sick of violence. Now drug dealers ask their children to watch the documentary so that history is not repeated.
I don’t know of any retired bosses! Making money is hard work both legally and illegally, but if you do it legally you will be able to really enjoy it.
It’s illegal at the moment, but in the long run and in the future, we’re going to show that it will head toward legalization.
I have to work for a living. The only thing that has changed is that now I receive much more affection from people, and countries that in the past didn’t welcome us are now generous because they believe in this message of peace.
All empires are created of blood and fire.
Life is full of surprises, some good, some not so good.
Good and bad, they’re relative concepts.
Just like that, an honest man blinked.
The bad guys need to get lucky every time. The good guys just need to get lucky once.
The problem is not a matter of money. The problem is a matter of dignity.
No. Hippos don’t like Mexicans either.
Nobody learns math at gunpoint. Education is the most powerful tool against drugs. Any other attempts will fail.
There’s cash buried everywhere. The guerillas, the paramilitary, the narcos. Everybody’s burying cash.
I am not saying drugs are good, but they are made worse and more deadly because of the ban. In fact, alcohol is the worst of the drugs, yet it seems that it has a license to kill just because it is under taxation.
I have received expressions of solidarity from both children of drug dealers and the anti-drug police, and also from many relatives of my father’s direct victims.
There can only be one king.
Only those who went hungry with me and stood by me when I went through a bad time at some point in life will eat at my table.
It seemed selfish to me, just keeping to myself a solitary pacifist legacy of this violent story. I wanted to share with young people what I have learned about the serious consequences of participating in the cruel game of drug dealing.
Most of them are dead. Actually, there are not many people to talk to. The interesting thing is that this documentary appeals to the human and makes no distinction between uniforms.
The message is: imitate only the good things my father did, like his sensitivity towards the poor and the needy.
We can’t change the past, but we can change the present and the future.
I am just doing what I believe is right. If I can prevent even a single young person from entering that world, then it will be worth it.
Peace is possible even in the worst and most absurd of wars. Colombia will finally live in peace when these things change.
I always expressed to my father, when he was alive, my disapproval of any form of violence and rejected his actions.
Everyone has a price, the important thing is to find out what it is.
So look, I make deals for a living. Now, you can stay calm and accept my deal, or accept the consequences.
I’m a decent man who exports flowers.
Nicolas was not only a director, but also a great mediator between the parties. He did an excellent job and was very respectful towards the children.
The men of always aren’t interested in the children of never.
To have power does not mean that one can abuse the poor.
It was a real challenge, but I’m proud of having been part of this project because it demonstrates that Colombians can achieve peace through dialogue, forgiveness and reconciliation as effective means for a healthy coexistance in society.
Give me a name. And you won’t have to split the cash with him.
There is nothing lower than a rat. And if we let the rats run free, the streets will be filled with them.
There is a time to fight and there is a time to be clever.
I am Pablo Emilio Escobar Gaviria. My eyes are everywhere. That means you guys can’t move a finger in all of Antioquia without me knowing about it.
Lies are necessary when the truth is too difficult to believe.
Dirty money is in all economic sectors of the country.
For 17 years I have been living on extra-time. I live one day at a time. My goals are to continue respecting the lives and liberties of all, hoping for the same in return.
We must recover the human values lost in war.
Sometimes I feel like God. When I order someone killed—they die the same day.
It is difficult to explain 44 years of history in 90 minutes. The only thing to be highlighted is the joint responsibility of many sectors of society, which created a suitable atmosphere for someone like my father to be able to go so far.
It brings experience, and it’s the greatest thing to have in life.
I have always considered myself a happy man. I’ve always been happy, I’ve always been optimistic, I’ve always had faith in life because I think the most difficult times always bring something.
The purpose of war is peace.
Writing the letter of apology and participating in the two subsequent meetings with the children of Galán and Lara.
Nothing gives a fearful man more courage than another’s fear.
We have to create a presence so disruptive they’ll want nothing but peace.
I can replace things, but I could never replace my wife and kids.
I was born into a world fertile for violence. With this as my legacy, my only choice is to search for peace.
In modern business, it is not the crook who is to be feared most, it is the honest man who doesn’t know what he is doing.
The problem exists because the consumer has never stopped buying, and it continues because it has been managed as a military issue instead of a topic of public health.
I am not a rich person. I am a poor person with money.
I turned myself into that punk, the vice minister of justice. But since there is no justice in this country, he is the vice minister of nothing.
I’m sometimes accused of drug trafficking. It’s an activity that for the time being, historically, shall we say has been declared illegal.
They may separate us, but they’ll never be able to destroy us.
So far no one has thrown a shoe at me.
Maybe that was why he dedicated his surrendering to justice to his 14 year-old pacifist son. It is very difficult to get out of the cycle of violence when you are being attacked from all sides, but finally a spirit of goodness prevailed.
There are 200 million idiots, manipulated by a million intelligent men.
I would like to die on my own two feet. In the year 3047.
Silver or lead. You decide.
I’ll die before I ever leave Colombia again.
I feel I have a moral responsibility for my father’s actions. The least I can do in order to pay my respects to the victims of his violence is to apologize for his actions.
Do you understand? Not a finger. One day, I’m going to be president of the Republic of Colombia.
I prefer to be in the grave in Colombia than in a jail cell in the United States.
The thing about war is, it’s just bad for business. And when you got a bull’s eye on your back, your rivals get bold.
I’ll never surrender.
After watching the documentary I get the most noble and pleasant affections from people around the world.
Geniuses are always branded as crazy.
Returning is not a concern of mine. I would like that every Colombian who has abandoned their land because of the violence, one day regains the right to choose to return.
Violence and revenge only lead to more violence. Drug trafficking money will lead you to self-destruction and war.
I don’t believe in the culture of fame. My life is like that of any other architect living in Argentina.
If there’s one thing I’ve learned in the narco world, it’s that life is more complicated than you think.
This ensures the profitability and violence among producing groups, fighting for the control of territories and drug trafficking routes.
