It goes even quicker now that the girls help me — the girls, meaning Wendy and Lisa. I don’t really think I left my funk roots anywhere along the line.
We had talked to the people that were doing USA for Africa, and they said it was cool that I gave them a song for the album.
Now, wait, wait. I didn’t write Purple Rain. Someone else did.
Yes,  yes, yes.
Around The World In A Day is a funky album. Live it’s even funkier.
The reason I liked James Brown so much is that, on my way out, I saw some of the finest dancing girls I ever seen in my life.
It’s a French film. It’s a black-and-white French film, and ah, she’s in it .
I did. He co-wrote “Computer Blue,” “The Ladder” and several tunes on the new album. He’s full of ideas.
I was horrible. To be perfectly honest, I was surrounded by my friends, but nevertheless, we had a difference of opinion in a lot of situations — musically speaking, that is.
How do you respond to that
Can you comment on the incident that occurred after the American Music Awards in January 1985
I believe in God. There is only one God. And I believe in an afterworld.
What are your religious beliefs
And, as far as Jesse’s record goes, chocolate. You know.
James Brown played a big influence in my style. When I was about 10 years old, my stepdad put me on stage with him, and I danced a little bit until the bodyguard took me off.
If someone wants to go along for that ride, then cool.
Yeah tomorrow. Noon. Cool.”
It was the best thing for both of us, I think. I’m strongest in a situation where I’m surrounded by people I know.
I could be a little pretentious in saying that, but it’s truly the way I feel. There’s no one that could wreck a house like they could.
Oh, come on, come on! Okay, let’s be frank. Can we be frank?
We understand you directed the “America” video, and that you also directed “Raspberry Beret.” How do you approach directing a video?
You need it, you need it. no… Hey, come here, don’t you play, hey, no, no, no you’re not crazy, I’m crazy.
Don’t you like surprises? Guess not. Ah, it is true I record very fast.
Now that Purple Rain has made you such a huge superstar, do you worry about the possibility of a backlash against you
I don’t know. It’d be too strange. They’re very talented people, but they’re , and together we’re .
Can you tell us about Paisley Park
When and how did you first get the idea for Purple Rain? Did you really spend a year or so taking notes in a purple notebook, like some people have said
If we can’t do nothing else, we might as well be frank. Seriously, I was brought up in a black-and-white world and, yes, black and white, night and day, rich and poor.
How do you feel about Jesse Johnson leaving the Time? Have you heard his album, and if so, what do you think of it
What’s the plot, what kind of characters, what kind of music, how many songs, what can we expect
And why were you so secretive prior to this
Could you tell us what the song is supposed to say to people? For example, is it straightforwardly patriotic or more complicated than that
Speaking of singles and videos, your latest is “America.” This is one of the most political songs you’ve ever done.
And the thing that’s unique about the situation I’m in now with these people is that they all know who they are, and they agree with me when we say the one thing we produce is the alternative.
A lot had to do with me not being quite sure exactly which direction I wanted to go in. Later on toward the Controversy period, I got a better grip on that.
No. I don’t plan on touring for a while. There are so many other things to do.
Have you changed your mind about touring since you announced the Purple Rain tour would be your last
I’d rather stay here , than .
So it’s better that I did the music with my friends than going down and participating there. I probably would have just clammed up with so many great people in a room.
I pray every night, and I don’t ask for much. I just say, “Thank you” all the time.
Someone in Minneapolis recently told us that several months ago they were in a studio there when David Rifkin, your sound engineer, walked in.
As far as the incident concerning the photographer goes, it’s on the flip side of “Pop Life.” The main thing it says is that we’re against hungry children, and our record stands tall.
Yes, definitely. When directing myself, I consult Steve , my manager. On directing other Paisley Park artists, I consult the artists first and foremost.
Why did you make the announcement that there’d be no singles or videos from that LP, and then start issuing singles and making videos anyway
For real? You ain’t mad or nothing? So what?
It seems to us, from what we know of your personal background, that the need for control arose from your childhood and early teen years when you had a total lack of control over your life and were shuttled from home to home.
I need love and water, and I’m not afraid of a backlash because, like I say, there are people who will support my habits as I have supported theirs.
Speaking of brothers, some have criticized you for selling out to the white rock audience with Purple Rain, and leaving your black listeners behind.
That’s when we started to see more and more people participating in recording activities. Boom.
That’s all I want to be, that’s all I ever tried to be. I didn’t know what was gonna happen. I’m just trying to do my best and if somebody dug it then .
They asked him what he thought of the new Prince album, Around The World In A Day. He said, “It’s great, but wait ’til you hear the new album.” Apparently, he meant you’re already working on a new LP, and that this one would be a strong return to your funk roots.
Is this the case? If not, how does the need for control and/or your current, more open stance relate to your music
Jesse and Morris and Jerome and Jimmy and Terry had the makings of one of the greatest R&B bands in history.
She taught me a lot about color and sound, and to her, I’m very grateful.
When will it be due out, and what’s the music like
There is just as much hunger back here at home, and we’ll do everything we can, but y’all got to understand that a flower that has water will grow and the man misunderstood will go.
It’d be wonderful to put out an album on him, but he’s a little bit crazier than I am.
When and how did you patch things up
Well, as you can see, I’ve made a lot of friends here, but I was homesick and I missed America. I guess I just wanted to talk to somebody.
Straightforwardly patriotic.
I was a bit troubled by their demise, but like I said before, it’s important that one’s happy first and foremost.
It’s multicolored, and it’s very fun.
A lot of observers have remarked on your apparent need for control, and only with your two most recent albums, you gave credit to your band for composing, arranging and performing.
The first and most obvious question is, why have you decided to drop your media guard with the recent Rolling Stone interview and this one for MTV?
See this cuff link? Give a brother a break. I don’t know.
One thing I’d like to say is that I don’t live in a prison. I am not afraid of anything. I haven’t built any walls around myself, and I am just like anyone else.
One of the things I try to do with the things I direct — namely for our acts — is go for the different, the out-of-the-norm, the avant purple, so to speak.
I’m the one that’s crazy, K? What chu gonna do? You gonna come by?
Fact. There will never be another one like him, and it would be a pity to try. I strive for originality in my work, and hopefully, it’ll be perceived that way.
Is this true? Can you elaborate? What will it be called?
Hopefully we’ll all see it. I have been accused of a lot of things contrary to this, and I just want people to know that I’m very sincere in my beliefs.
Paisley Park is an alternative. I’m not saying it’s greater or better. It’s just something else.
You know I got this hit, don’t you? “Dance Electric”? Yeah, it’s great.
And I think, in that respect, he influenced me by his control over his group. Another big influence was Joni Mitchell.
Did you ever think Purple Rain, the movie and the album, would be as big as they were
Your father is a musician too. Have you ever, or would you ever, try to get your father’s music released on an album
Would you ever like to direct your own movie
I listened to all kinds of music when I was young, and when I was younger, I always said that one day I would play all kinds of music and not be judged for the color of my skin but the quality of my work, and hopefully I will continue.
And it was a story, a fictional story, and should be perceived that way. Violence is something that happens in everyday life, and we were only telling a story.
And her name’s Emanuelle.
You gave Andre Cymone the song, “Dance Electric,” for his new album, and we know that you two had some kind of falling out a few years back.
I saw him in a discotheque one night and grabbed him by his shirt and said, , “Come on, I got this hit.
Do you consult others in order to keep a certain perspective when directing yourself
A lot has to do with the color of my skin, and that’s not where it’s at. It really isn’t. Hendrix is very good.
I don’t really consider myself a superstar. I live in a small town, and I always will. I can walk around and be me.
I’m an admirer of all of the people who participated in that particular outing, and I don’t want there to be any hard feelings.
There are a lot of people out there that understand this, ’cause they support me and my habits, and I support them and theirs.
And if that was the case, then I’m sorry, but it was not the intention.
I wish it was looked at that way, because I don’t think anything we did was unnecessary. Sometimes, for the sake of humor, we may’ve gone overboard.
Because I wanted this album to be listened to, judged, critiqued as a whole. It’s hard to take a trip and go around the block, and stop when the trip is 400 miles.
