At least you're all legitimate.
There's a lot of your family in tonight.
Are you sure you can afford it?
On his journey he has returned to many places that we have already visited together, and he has been to others that I have never seen.
Do you have a pair of knickers made out of this?
British women can't cook.
Still throwing spears?
Particularly on this day of the family festival let us remember those who - like the Holy Family before them - have been driven from their homes by war or violence.
We go into the red next year... I shall have to give up polo.
It looks like a tart's bedroom.
The problem with London is the tourists. They cause the congestion. They block the streets.
Romania? You didn't go across to help in one of those orphanages, did you?
Aren't most of you descended from pirates?
The Philippines must be half empty as you're all here running the NHS.
Are you all one family? Did you come over for just this one show?
On the voyage back to England he will call at some of the least accessible parts of the world, those islands of the South Atlantic separated from us by immense stretches of the ocean, yet linked to us with bonds of brotherhood and trust.
Young people are the same as they always were. They are just as ignorant.
That each one of us should give this power a chance to do its work is my heartfelt message to you all upon this Christmas Day.
Are we going to need ear plugs?
Everybody was saying we must have more leisure... Now... they are complaining they are unemployed.
How do you keep the natives off the booze long enough to pass the test?
I will pass on that, if you don't mind.
You're not wearing mink knickers are you?
What do you gargle with, pebbles?
The North East? You want to stop letting the bloody Japs take all your jobs.
We call them 'refugees': let us give them a true refuge: let us see that for them and their children there is room at the Inn.
Do you know they now do eating dogs for the anorexic?
Deaf? If you are near there, no wonder you are deaf.
You're too fat to be an astronaut.
You look starved.
Absolute bloody nuisances. They're a pain in the neck.
There's a cord sticking out of the back. Might you tell me where it goes?
Not a lot, judging by the tie he is wearing.
We talk of ourselves as a "family of nations", and perhaps our relations with one another are not so very different from those which exist between members of any family.
Well, you didn't design your beard too well, did you?
One idea above all others has been the mainspring of this journey. It is the wish to foster, and advance, concord and understanding within the Commonwealth.
Dontopedalogy is the science of opening your mouth and putting your foot in it, a science which I have practised for a good many years.
Cantankerous old sod
You are a woman, aren't you?
Well, most stripping is.
Is everyone here called Jones?
Are you Tigers?
Once again messages of Christmas greeting have been exchanged around the world.
go to school because their parents don't want them in the house.
From all parts of the Commonwealth, and from the remote and lonely spaces of Antarctica, words and thoughts, taking their inspiration from the birth of the child in Bethlehem long ago, have been carried between us upon the invisible wings of twentieth-century science.
It's a vast waste of space.
You will understand me, therefore, when I tell you that of all the voices we have heard this afternoon none has given my children and myself greater joy than that of my husband.
Can you tell the difference between them?
With that consciousness in mind, I would like to send a special message of hope and encouragement to all who are not so blessed, or for any reason cannot be with those they love today: to the sick who cannot be at home; to all who serve their country in foreign lands, or whose duty keeps them upon the oceans; and to every man or woman whose destiny it is to walk through life alone.
Such friendship is a gift for which we are truly and rightly grateful.
You don't believe in fairy tales do you?
Neither the long and troubled centuries that have passed since that child was born, nor the complex scientific developments of our age, have done anything to dim the simple joy and bright hope we all feel when we celebrate his birthday.
We all know that these are not always easy, for there is no law within a family which binds its members to think, or act, or be alike.
I suppose you've got to announce in an English accent so everyone can understand you.
Are you a pauper?
Tourism is just national prostitution.
Bloody silly fool!
Happy Christmas from us all."
None the less, deep and acute differences, involving both intellect and emotion, are bound to arise between members of a family and also between friend and friend, and there is neither virtue nor value in pretending that they do not.
If you stay here much longer you'll all be slitty-eyed.
What did you do in the war?
It's been open. Maybe today it is more open than usual.
Were you here in the bad old days, then? That's why you can't read and write then.
Looks like the kind of thing my daughter would bring back from her school art lessons.
You should get wheels.
It looks as if it was put in by an Indian.
No purpose comes nearer to my own desires, for I believe that the way in which our Commonwealth is developing represents one of the most hopeful and imaginative experiments in international affairs that the world has ever seen.
If a cricketer, for instance, suddenly decided to go into a school and batter a lot of people to death with a cricket bat, which he could do very easily, I mean, are you going to ban cricket bats?
Get me a beer. I don't care what kind it is, just get me a beer.
I speak of a tolerance that is not indifference, but is rather a willingness to recognise the possibility of right in others; of a comradeship that is not just a sentimental memory of good days past, but the certainty that the tried and staunch friends of yesterday are still in truth the same people today; of a love that can rise above anger and is ready to forgive.
I don't know how they are going to integrate in places like Glasgow and Sheffield - had to commiserate with them.
I wish you all a Happy Christmas and a Happy New Year.
People usually say that after a fire it is water damage that is the worst. We are still trying to dry out Windsor Castle.
You can't have been here that long, you haven't got a pot belly.
Are you running away from something?
You can't be very successful; you're not wearing a tie.
If my husband cannot be at home on Christmas Day, I could not wish for a better reason than that he should be travelling in other parts of the Commonwealth.
You look like a suicide bomber.
Oh no, I might catch some ghastly disease.
I would get arrested if I unzipped that dress.
I can think of no better resolve to make, nor any better day on which to make it. Let us remember this during our festivities, for it is part of the Christmas message - "Goodwill toward men".
And surely it is this very freedom of choice and decision which gives exceptional value to friendship in times of stress and disagreement.
When are they going to throw you out?
How many people have you knocked over this morning on that thing?
So who's on drugs here?
I would very much like to go to Russia - although the bastards murdered half my family.
In all such differences, however, there comes a moment when, for the sake of ultimate harmony, the healing power of tolerance, comradeship and love must be allowed to play its part.
Of course it is sad for us to be separated on this day, and of course we look forward to the moment when we shall all again be together.
You look like you're ready for bed.
What do you want to go to Wales for?
Oh! You're the people ruining the rivers and the environment.
What makes you think anyone is listening?
That joy and hope find their most complete fulfilment within the loving circle of a united family.
I thought Eastern women just sit around smoking pipes and eating sweets all day.
If, as its Head, I can make any real personal contribution towards its progress, it must surely be to promote its unity.
Yet my husband's absence at this time has made me even more aware than I was before of my own good fortune in being one of a united family.
You managed not to get eaten then?
To him I say: "From all the members of the family gathered here today our very best good wishes go out to you and to every one on board Britannia, as you voyage together in the far Southern seas.
Do you work in a strip club?
You can't claim any of them back. Besides, we check your luggage before you go.
And what exotic part of the world do you come from?
Who do you sponge off?
