You don’t get moments like these every day. It’s a fleeting thing, so I wanted to have it. 
I’ve made little things a big deal, like going for a walk or going to the grocery store. I got into a new relationship, and it matters to me. 
No, sis. I had one dream and that was for my music to be heard all over the world. I didn’t even think about the fame part, and then that came, and I was like, “Oh, shoot. 
No, girl. I was not allowed to wear makeup for a very long time. But I would watch her in the mirror doing her makeup, obsessed. 
Music had led me to these other outlets, and to things that I genuinely love. My mom pretty much worked in the beauty and perfume industry for a long time—she did makeup for people and was a makeup artist—so I always loved that. 
I am actually in Barbados and I’m looking at the water, but I’m not on the beach. 
I don’t have a sleep pattern. I have sleep pockets. I fit it in when I can. 
This is a new thing. 
It’s true. I still get nervous going to award shows. 
Do I really want to do this?” But the thing that keeps me alive and passionate is being creative. With every business outlet, I’m making something from a vision to a reality, and that’s the thing I really enjoy. 
I feel really indebted to them. 
It really does suck that it can’t just come out, because I’m working on a really fun one right now. 
I was staring at you, like, “I am actually mad at this bitch. Why is she wearing that?” 
I’ve always been. My first time praying and fasting was when I was 7 years old. I did that on my own, because I wanted to go to New York, and I knew that this was a sacrifice I had to make in order for god to make sure I could get there. 
I mean, I wish I was, I’m not saying you know…  Especially today.  It’s true, I might come back but all right.
At 17 I started my career here in America, and by the age of 18, I started my first charity organization.
She let me wear lipstick if I was a flower girl in a wedding or something like that, but the first time I really, really did my makeup—and she did it for me—was at my school pageant. 
So I made it to Harvard. Never thought I’d be able to say that in my life, but it feels good. Thank you, Dr.
I think that happened from a song called “G4L,” where I say, “We’re an army, better yet, a navy, better yet, crazy.” Then Battleship kind of pushed that forward even more. 
But it starts with your neighbor, the person right next to you, the person sitting next to you in class, the kid down the block in your neighborhood, you just do whatever you can to help in any way that you can.
Counter, thank you to the Harvard Foundation, and thank you, Harvard University for this great honor.
I never used to be this way. It’s only the last couple years that I started to realize that you need to make time for yourself, because your mental health depends on it. 
What is that? I always feel like everybody’s looking at me. 
It wasn’t even lost then. The devil just has a way of making you feel like you’re not good enough, and that you’re not worthy of god being close to you. 
My grandmother always used to say if you’ve got a dollar, there’s plenty to share. Thank you ladies and gentlemen.
I have not been able to do that, still to this day. The camera represents so many people, a huge audience, and the camera at a Super Bowl, it’s one of the biggest audiences. 
My little cousin Majesty. She’s here with me wading in the pool. 
Yes. Yes. Yes. 
It got left on a plane and stolen, so I just said, “You know what? Somebody else is going to gain from that.” And then I bought the same book on my iPhone. 
The only sad part was that her handwriting was in it, but someone is going to be blessed with it, so it’s fine. 
You’ve got to wear that every day now?” In my school, you weren’t allowed to do much at all. If your hoop wasn’t hugging your ear, you couldn’t wear it. 
It’s the reason why an album isn’t being spat out like it used to. I used to be in the studio, only the studio, for three months straight, and an album would come out. 
I don’t leave things hanging. I will work all day in a meeting, leave that meeting at 1 or 2am, and then come home with a tiny group of staff and work until 5, 7am. 
Actually, that happened to me while I was making Anti. That was a really hard time, but, thank god, I got through it. 
Fast forward to 2012 and then my grandmother, the late Clara Brathwaite, she lost her battle with cancer, which is the very reason and the driving force behind the Clara Lionel Foundation.
And I would think to myself like, I wonder how many 25 cents I could save up to save all the kids in Africa.
That child is who I imagine behind a comment every time I see one. They would never say that to my face. 
We’re all human. And we all just want a chance: a chance at life, a chance in education, a chance at a future, really.
I feel like they’re completely responsible for who I am, and where I am at in my career. God got me to a place, and they supported me and got me to where I am now. 
When I saw the film, I felt like this is so powerful. The sense of motherhood and how much strength that embodies. 
She gave me a devotion book, a physical one. It was the last thing she gave me before she passed away. 
And I would say to myself you know, ‘when I grow up, when I can get rich, I’mma save kids all over the world.’ I just didn’t know I would be in the position to do that by the time I was a teenager.
I’ll shut things down for two days, three days at a time. On my calendar we now have the infamous “P,” which means personal days. 
Of course I am. 
It wasn’t terrible. 
It was studs or a hoop that hugged your ear. 
I remember being a kid and being like, “Wow! I’m in a chat room. I can say whatever I want. 
There were so many things that I felt like I had to overcome in order to even do this. I had just become a mom, literally, and I had not been on tour for seven years, so to go from that to Super Bowl, it was one of those things that I knew would be a challenge. 
I have to say, I’ve always had pretty tough skin—even as a little girl, which was completely due to my parents. 
I don’t know anything about this.” I felt like the nerd ball, walking in there like, “What the hell am I doing here?” 
Brian Cooper, he reached out to me and he asked if I would be interested in doing a song for the film. 
I was like, “I spent $70 on these extensions! I’m going to make them work.” 
More than anything in life. 
I know. Ooh la la. 
We have not seen him in 20 years, so I came to watch his show with my family and friends. 
Now, it’s like a carousel. I do fashion one day, lingerie the next, beauty the next, then music the next. 
It’s an amazing feeling, because I started off as a kid, so I know my fans were kids, too. We’re all growing up together. 
They are waiting. I’m excited to actually put new music out, but I don’t have any updates for you on that yet. 
All you need to do is help one person, expecting nothing in return. To me, that is a humanitarian.
Karaoke gets real serious around these parts. I mean, like, stolen mics and stuff. Jen, my assistant—well, now she’s my project manager—is so serious about karaoke. 
It was like, “I need to make time for this.” Just like I nurture my businesses, I need to nurture this as well. 
If you’re not happy, you’re not going to be happy even doing things that you love doing. It’d feel like a chore. 
I’ve heard worse. 
A custom Conner Ives t-shirt dress that is made with graphics used on my new collection. And that’s all I can say. 
And at CLF, our mission is to impact as many lives as possible, but it starts with just one. Just one.
Thank you. I’m incredibly humbled by this, to be acknowledged at this magnitude for something that in truth I’ve never wanted credit for.
That’s why I take those personal days so seriously. Because it’s like, “You had all of me. I gave you the answers.” 
There was a green and gold eyeshadow. A lip liner and lip gloss combo, that old-school thing. The foundation is the thing I remember the most, because I had never seen my skin look that perfect. 
Maybe that was god’s way of preparing me for what my life was going to be like. I don’t feel any way about people’s comments. 
Sixteen, just before I left Barbados. 
She throws her ass at it. 
Yes, and it’s a different color than all the other events. I still get harassed on those days, but I’m fine doing e-mails. 
I’m going to tell you this because I’m a black girl: You’re going to have to stay on beat, okay? 
People don’t know that I’m shy. 
People make it seem way too hard, man. The truth is, and what I want the little girl watching those commercials to know, is you don’t have to be rich to be a humanitarian.
I wish I knew. I have blocked off a solid period of time for the studio next month. 
It’s like having a bunch of kids and you need to take care of them all. 
I can’t believe I’m asking you a question in my interview, but did you write down questions? How did you even come up with these questions? 
I commend you, girl. Good job. Do you got any fucked-up questions? 
You won the Ocean’s 8 premiere with that green Prada. I almost made you give me that dress on the spot. 
They don’t know how old I am. They don’t know who I am, or where I am.” There’s that idea of being a child behind a screen and having that feeling like you can say anything. 
They probably wouldn’t even say hello. 
Only god knows that, girl. We plan and god laughs, right? 
It’s crazy to see where our paths are taking us, and how our journeys are evolving at the same time. 
It makes no sense to rush it, but I want it out. I’ve gotten to the point where I’m like, “Even if I don’t have the time to shoot videos, I’m going to put an album out.” 
Unless I have to pee or something. I always want to start my day with a little devotion. I buy these devotion books and they’re dated, so you just pull up the date and that devotion is for that day. 
It’s really not the truth, but you wind up feeling like that. My grandmother was the one who started me on this. 
But my fans are persistent, they’re loyal, they’re protective, they’re defensive, they’re fun. To be completely honest, the thing that makes my fans different from other fans is me. 
And you are good at reading someone’s character, because that’s what you do for a living. Your gift is that you would know the exhibited behavior of a shy person. 
Give me something. Ask me anything. 
That’s actually why I haven’t put my album out yet. It won’t be done until you’re on there. 
They told me to either take them out or dye it dark. I left school and went to town to buy some hairspray and spray them dark brown. 
Not my faith, but I have been in a place where I felt like maybe I had disappointed god so much that we weren’t as close. 
They never sheltered me in any way. They would tease me, and I would tease them right back. By the time I got to school, I always had this feeling like the kids were stupid. 
And today I want to challenge each of you to make a commitment to help one person: one organization, one situation that touches your heart.
I never want work to feel like a chore. My career is my purpose, and it should never feel like anything other than a happy place. 
And it was like, “Wow, I want to wear foundation every day.” My brother hated me for that. He was like, “What are you doing? 
You don’t have to be rich to help somebody. You don’t gotta be famous. You don’t even have to be college-educated.
I actually flew to Barbados for a concert. One of my favorite childhood musicians just got out of jail, and he’s doing a little tour throughout the Caribbean. 
When I was five or six years old, I remember watching TV and I would see these commercials and I was watching other children suffer in other parts of the world and you know the commercials were , ‘you can give 25 cents, save a child’s life,’ you know?
Right? I felt that when I watched the film and it hit me. 
The only thing my mom didn’t let me do was dye my hair black and cut it short. I’d wanted to do that since I was 14 and she was like, “No, not having it.” So instead, I tried putting on burgundy extensions and I got sent home from school. 
I went on to team up with other organizations in the following years and met, helped, and even lost some of the most beautiful souls, from six-year-old Jasmina Anema who passed away in 2010 from leukemia, her story inspired thousands to volunteer as donors through DKMS.
You’re bugging! I walked into that thinking, “I am a musician. I do not act. 
Oh, my god. That’s a song? 
You singing my songs was not a problem. It was the songs that you made up, that was the problem. That was disturbing. 
I’m really happy with a lot of the material we have so far, but I am not going to put it out until it’s complete. 
It was my honor.
As I stare out into this beautiful room, I see optimism, I see hope, I see the future. I know that each and every one of you has the opportunity to help someone else.
I am so good talking to you. I’ve missed you. 
Because I kind of pretend it’s not happening, people read me as being confident. But I’m so shy I don’t even want you to know I’m shy. 
