And they were going there to -- and we weren't in the war yet. But the submarine packs were all up and down the Atlantic. 
Well, sometimes -- I've been surprised when I've looked at a movie that I made quite some time ago. 
Well, I get notes and I get calls and so forth to a certain extent, but having been there I understand also that you're so busy in a thing of that kind that you can't be doling out information all the time on everything that comes up. 
They'll come with the normal breakage but also some souvenirs that at a state dinner with 120 people in the state dining room, we had multiple settles of China. 
They're eight miles apart, but ones the south tip of the island, and then the operational one, the one that the Cubans have been building, is up further north. 
No, at no time. And it was a surprise to me afterward to be told how close I came, the amount of blood that I had lost. 
Now you meet them and you recognize them and you know them and so forth and you hear their name. And now day after day goes on, and you come up to them in the halls and so forth and see them in the meeting. 
And almost always there would be that the person who revealed the information's name could not be given. 
And yet there are, as we go back into the past and even to World War II, there were times when the press -- I remember when a ship went out of New York of ours headed for Iceland, a liner, didn't even have a gun on the deck or didn't have any military escort, but it had some thousands of American troops on. 
I found that Washington was the -- leaked like a sieve. Almost anything that was going on, there were leaks. 
Well, you've about given me two questions, the first one here I don't see that I can answer about this unless you're actually there and know every shade of things that are going on can you say what you would or would not do. 
Well, I was never notified of any great problem or trouble with the savings and loans. 
But when I say miss the people, yes. For example in the White House, the people in the White House there that take care of you and your lifestyle and all, they have a spirit and a pride about what they're doing that you miss them when they're not there. 
And at 5:15 this morning, the joint force landed at two spots on Grenada, the paratroopers in the south, the Marines and other forces in the north, secured both airports. 
Well, I suppose that they have to argued and debate, but I would have to say to anyone who is sitting in that body and is disagreeing with regard to what must be done, if necessary, to change this situation, I'd do my best to persuade them they were on the wrong side. 
When he sees our government supposedly divided here between the Congress and the president, now if the Congress says yes, commander in chief, and so forth, and if he takes this action, we will be supportive of him. 
Well, I think for example on names. The -- it's the number, as they accumulate. For example, it's something like 1,200 people in the executive branch there at the White House. 
And then, his words are quoted as a tag for that picture about, "this is the loneliest place and rather lonely," and so forth. 
Yes. The whole brutal way in which that was done, and here was this small country. And, you know, again, about the thing where people are talking about it there's a war and so forth it's over oil, yes, Iraq's goal was oil. 
Well, they might disagree in private, but I think they -- I think that our government has to recognize always, and sometimes I don't think it does, it has to recognize that we, the people, are in charge of this system in this country. 
Well, I seem to be -- there seemed to be a hostility. I felt, and I think properly, that in every press conference there was an adversarial relationship. 
I think their job is to be totally responsible. And I'm afraid that sometimes they let -- they have goals of their own, and they aren't as responsible as they should be. 
Well, the outright dishonesty of things. For example, a thing that she mentioned, on the China that was ordered. 
I would just have to tell you, I did the best I could, but I think somebody else should make that judgment, as to whether I've been good or not. 
Well, I think anything that could conceivably give information that would be beneficial to a prospective enemy, no, that shouldn't be done. 
Yes, but I understand the situation he's in in all of this. And I don't -- I don't have any way of criticizing him. 
Well, yes, because I believe -- I believe that there is no way that you can reject the use of force if it comes down to where that is the only means of straightening this out. 
Therefore, and I don't have enough information as to when is the proper moment to take action... 
Yes, it's very frustrating. And yet at the same time I don't know whether it's all just the passage of the years. 
Well, I have a great respect for her, and she did a wonderful job in England, and I guess was the longest prime minister serving that they had. 
Oh, yes, and I think it was because of a kind of an opposition to me and everything I stood for that they picked on her. 
... put it to him -- yes, but I think he should know what he's up against and what he's facing. 
I think we should all recognize that these deeds make so evident the bestial nature of those who would assume power if they could have their way and drive us out of that area, that we must be more determined than ever that they cannot take over that vital and strategic area of the earth, or for that matter any other part of the earth. 
No, I wish I knew more about it. But I can also understand why they can't just take the time and trouble to do that. 
We went -- on Sunday morning, we went to church with a thousands Russians. Only a short time ago, you couldn't be a communist in the Soviet Union if you didn't sign a pledge that you were an atheist. 
The employer is out there, the American people. And I think they should keep that in mind. 
But then -- and I shall always have a warm feeling in my heart for that Marine pilot -- we got on Marine 1 that had been the presidential helicopter to go out to the airport to the air base and take off for California. 
And she was accused over and over again of spending the taxpayers money on this very expensive set. 
That's the end of the statement, and I am now going to turn you over to -- no, Ellen, there is a press conference tomorrow. 
And I'll find that I have no memory whatsoever of doing that particular scene. And it bothers me. 
I think it should be the United Nations, and I hope that they are responsive to that responsibility that they have. 
I think it's a great job. I think he's a very remarkable man. I was greatly impressed with him and the way he thought when he was my adviser, and I had the pleasure and honor of putting stars on him to be a general, and I think we have a remarkably fine man as our commanding general. 
Well, I can't answer that, because not being there and not in that situation and never having had the thing of the United Nations in a situation of this kind, I just don't know what my position would be. 
We're unlike almost any nation on earth, and the representatives and the government employees and officeholders work for the people. 
And I can't tell you how many times I had to get on the phone and call a head of state of another allied country of ours and apologize and explain to that head of state that this was not true, because it could have been very offensive to that individual, tell them this was not true and I was just as sorry that such a story came out. 
Riding on one of the tree-lined trails, or gazing up at the western skies, well, there's no better way I know of to sort out a problem. 
Yes, and I told him, for example, that -- we were there. I said, we don't mistrust each other because we're armed -- this is a quote of someone else -- we're armed because we mistrust each other. 
Well, I have said already that knowing that you had to leave in advance wasn't like, say, being defeated and ousted or something. 
You see, I am hoping that perhaps one day he'll return the favor and invite me to his. 
And, therefore, for someone to sit on the outside who hasn't had access to that information and to try to make a decision comparing to someone else's -- but as I said, we have to view with some reason the fact that this was put up to the United Nations. 
And this is the type of thing that they were created to resolve. And the United Nations heard all the details and everything, and the United Nations did this. 
I looked him right in the eye and I said, "and that's a race you can't win. There is no way we're going to allow you to maintain a superiority in weapons over us." 
Incidentally, you referred to that birthday coming up. I don't call them birthdays anymore. They are anniversaries of your 39th birthday. 
For example, some of the things that take place, when there is a hostile situation and the press comes forth with a story and they say they can't name the source of the story, that this has been denied them the right to do, and then they say something that must be of great value to the enemy, they reveal secret movements and so forth. 
And I think the United Nations was created to stop out law countries from doing that to neighbors. 
I miss a lot of the people there. I suppose maybe I might have more missed it if I had known from the very beginning that there was a limit due to that constitutional amendment that was put through so that you knew that at a time certain you were certain to leave. 
Yes, and it's the greatest tragedy that happens to you was when I had it happen to me. For example, the terrorist act that killed 241 Marines in Lebanon, that was a great tragedy, and I tried to reach the families, the men who were lost and all and talk to them. 
No, I don't believe I have. I think the people are interested, and they want to see and hear. But as I say, I do think that there could be less U.S. 
They couldn't -- you couldn't serve one. These people put together and had that set created and donated it, gave it as a gift to the nation. 
That is what we have to counter. This is -- that's what this problem is all about. Never mind oil, it's the inhuman act that was committed. 
We have strong circumstantial evidence that the attack on the Marines was directed by terrorists who used the same method to destroy our embassy in Beirut. 
Well, as I say, I believe the United Nations in this situation has, if there is no other way, they have no choice. 
Well, yes, because, you know, that vested aristocracy there, all of those Politburo members and so forth, they're frightened that a change in the system is going to take away their perquisites, just as he closed down their private stores where they could go in without waiting on line and they could choose from any one of a half a dozen meats, where the Russian citizens had to stand hours in line and there would only be one kind of meat when they did get in the store. 
So in addition to talking about reducing the weaponry and so forth, why don't we see if we can reduce the causes of mistrust. 
Yes, I don't think that I'm -- or even to write a book, I don't think I'm going to try another one very quickly. 
I have to believe he will, because when we were there it was just unbelievable. For example, in Leningrad, the people of Lenin are literally storming in the streets. 
There's something about the wild scenery and serenity of the ranch and the easy gait of the horse beneath me that I find particularly relaxing. 
Well, yes, although I understand that with all the over spending that's done and the national deficit, the only place where the Congress ever seems to show had a desire to cut is in military. 
Well I always miss the ranch. I love that ranch up there. But I have -- I've arranged with our scheduling people that unless something serious intervenes that every month I'll have a little period of a few days up at the ranch. 
And I said, the only thing left to us otherwise is to go back to an arms race, and then I made my declaration. 
Now I have to tell you that the China for the White House has to be able to provide for about 120 people. 
And we had discovered that because even at those high-falluting affairs there are people who want souvenirs... 
Oh, I can't -- no, I can't, honestly. This whole thing here is hanging there such that I can't -- I can't visualize Saddam Hussein suddenly turning around and doing the things that we're trying to get with the sanctions and so forth. 
I certainly hope not. And I have to question whether they would. I hope on the other side that Israel stands firm and doesn't join in any activity. 
But here is a small country that was just openly invaded by a savage conqueror. Their civilian population has known great losses, people from being slaughtered, women are being raped, children are being killed and so forth. 
You know, I got to the hospital, got out of the car myself, the first one out of the car, and walked into the emergency entrance and met a nurse who was coming toward me and told her I was having a little trouble breathing. 
Well, it's hard for me to answer that kind of a question of what would I have done, because only the person who is there has access to all the information and all -- every facet of it. 
Well, but I do -- if that's what it's going to take to get a vote from them. But what we need is to get rid of a situation that is now, I think, strengthening the stubbornness of Saddam Hussein. 
You're going to find this hard to believe that with all these early morning meetings and everything else, we have managed to keep one thing in the administration from leaking. 
They want their city named St. Petersburg for the man who built the city. And in the streets, if they find a place where there's a bust or a statue or something of Lenin, they throw it down in the street and smash it. 
They kept dying on me. And in our first meeting, as we came together with my team and his team, I had told our people what I was going to do. 
I'll tell you, there was something. Because having known previous leaders -- there were three before he came along. 
But you've heard their name once. And you know you know them and you know what job they're doing and all, but you have to go back and look it up to remember that name that you only heard once. 
And all of a sudden, one of the major newspapers in New York came out with the news that this ship with these soldiers was on its way to Iceland. 
Whenever Nancy or I want to think something out, ranch Del Cielo  is the best place to do it. 
I think that's an impossible question the way you framed it for me to try and answer it for myself. 
And that was, as we started to sit down, I said to him, why don't you and I let our teams start this discussion and you and I go out and get some fresh air? 
Well, I've never discussed it with him. I don't know. There might be some reason why... 
I know I shouldn't say this, but I have a confession to make. I just might have had an ulterior motive for inviting Colin Powell up here today to my presidential library. 
Well, I don't know, because when you start doing that you can't control who all hears this or learns of it. 
And what really surprises me is, yes, I remember that movie and the whole story and everything, except there will come a scene on there in which I'm involved. 
But I do believe with all my heart that unless there is a withdrawal, we have no choice but to use force to get Saddam Hussein's forces out of Kuwait. 
They weren't there to just get some news. They were there to trap me into some kind of boner. 
Well, I think so, yes. I know there's a limit to what a president can do and how busy he is and all, and I am... 
But I think our interest there is the savage attack on a small country that wasn't doing anything wrong to anyone. 
You know, I keep remembering back and not too far when someplace along the line there would always be a picture of a president standing in the Oval Office as looking out the window, usually the picture from the behind, and he's standing there. 
... but I think that we're going to have to, and I believe that's going to be the end result. 
Because I didn't know what was going on there. The -- that entire thing -- you know, there are so many agencies and departments and so forth of government, and you're dependent on these people to bring you up to date on something that's going on. 
No, he has to know that that's what would be done. Now, was that answering your question, Bernie. 
But also because he's a prominent part of the United Nations also. When you've -- the United Nations isn't a separate thing. 
