And he was a friend of mine when I was in high school. I had not seen Jonah in 1.2 million years, but in my mind’s eye, he’s still like a 17 year old kid.
Yeah, you could do like a nine-hour. I mean, there’s so many little extras… that stuff’s going to be fun, I think. 
My partner in Wrexham is Rob McElhenney, who you may know from--he's the creator and star of "It's Always Sunny in Philadelphia" and "Mythic Quest" and several other wonderful projects. 
Yes. Graphically too, yeah. 
And I have to say, at the end of the day, Fox did not expect us to be the most functional set they had going, but we finished on time, on budget, and it was kind of a shock to them.
Tim came on shortly after the first draft of the script had been written. We’d met with about ten directors, and a couple of other guys were attached briefly.
Great guy. He and I just kind of, you know, linked arms and drove off the cliff, like Thelma and Louise did together on this one. 
We did have Garrison Kane at one point, too, but Ajax was just sort of perfect. He fed into the origin story we were telling and allowed us to create a fully fledged-out movie.
There’s been a weird, pleasing symmetry between the comic and the movie, and it predates my involvement with it.
I mean, I… to me, it was just it was a matter of that marriage between myself, Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick and just finding these two writers that so understood everything that we were trying to do. 
To my surprise, this has made me money, friends, priceless memories. It’s allowed me to fully accept and provide love.
Yeah. Yeah, like, do I want to be the best at what I do? Absolutely. 
I know that as soon as you saw me, you were expecting dick jokes. I’m going to save those though for your university commencement speech where you’ll need them.
I've been telling stories for 30 years. I love it. I recognize how lucky I am to be there. 
We had days where there’d be 15 alts to every joke, and it started to drive Tim crazy because he’d start yelling, “I can’t match any of this.
There were certain characters we wanted and couldn’t get. It all comes down to licensing, and Marvel owns certain ancillary characters.
Yeah, Wrexham --yeah, you really want to gird the old loins, there. Wrexham is a project that I've been involved with for a little while, now. 
There must be a thousand lines that are in the movie that aren’t in the script, because on the day we just explored, and TJ is just a genius.
You know, hugely. Almost every--I think every great lesson that I've ever learned in moving into the world beyond just showbusiness, and into a variety of businesses, is that the thing that's always been the quote/unquote "murderer" of creativity, it's always been too much time and too much money. 
But I guess becoming a teacher was plan B. I don’t know. Anyway, like Jonah, I can’t predict the future.
I think there must have been three hundred people or more who came in for that role, and with Morena, she just knew right away what to do.
Well, look, I have skin in the game for these. You know, I'm obviously using my own currency, however you want to call it, but also, you know, a part of these companies--using my own money. 
But there’s so many great little Easter eggs. It was so much fun to plant all these things in the movie. 
Not that you have to go to university. God knows I didn’t.
I was just laughing and backslapping, and I just have sheet white and terrified because I have no idea how it was, I’m too close to it. 
You know, I would even include or encompass "Indiana Jones" in that, you know, "Back to the Future," "The Last Starfighter," you know, these big, giant, like you said, what-if movies. 
And yeah, yeah, there’s a lot of. 
Now, I’m probably not going to drop any mics here. If you want a real commencement speech, checkout David Foster Wallace, because wow, that’s a commencement speech.
I remember hearing that as a pitch and I just thought, that's just fantastic. That was weird and wonderful and actually--I really love that movie, as well. 
Pop culture references, and there’s like the movie has over 100 hundred Easter eggs, too. I mean, there’s just little things like that… Some things that you may not see that I don’t know if we ever get the opportunity to shoot another Deadpool movie or another ten, if I have my way, I’ll use in those so I don’t want to really give them away. 
It was, and the studio has been surprisingly alright with all our X-Men and Wolverine references. I find you can always take the piss out of someone as long as the subtext is you’re taking the piss out of yourself, too.
Yeah, well, not that many people knew about Deadpool a year ago, and I feel like they’ve done a great job of really introducing him to the uninitiated as well. 
But I’ll tell you this, empathy has got me so much more, so much farther in not only my life, but in my career.
Yeah, and there was another comic where it said he looks like a cross between Ryan Reynolds and a Shar Pei.
And I love making those films that not only, like, kind of take us out of our reality for a moment, but they're also infused with joy and empathy, but not at the cost of entertainment or hilarity in some instances. 
But there are little Easter eggs with other characters that may or may not show up down the line.
Needless to say, Kits was the best thing that ever happened to me up until that point. I mean, man, until this day, I’m still friends with so many of the people I graduated with, so that says something.
Unique skillset. Yeah, no, he can’t. We did run a brief Deadpool for El Presidente campaign in the middle of our last week, I think, but we pulled it the same day because he’s just too immature for that. 
And the fact is I'm--I'm whatever you want to call it, I'm an actor, I'm a movie star, whatever you--however you want to title it, but that's not something that lasts forever. 
I mean, we just had so much fun with Massimo. I mean, it was just a matter of time that sort of pulled us away from each scene. 
And showbusiness and Hollywood is certainly guilty of that over and over and over again. It seems sort of like a lesson that Hollywood has not been able to really internalize in huge ways. 
Yeah, I feel like I’m rubbing shoulders with real power here at Google. Love it. 
About two years ago, and that’s what gave us the green light. So I’m thrilled to talk about Deadpool movie because I never thought Deadpool would actually be would exist. 
Oh yeah, I’ve had my spin around that merry-go-round more than I probably should have, and I feel Deadpool is something I’ve wanted to do forever, so it does to a certain degree feel a bit like a homecoming to me.
So I think he could do some… do some good there. 
I really appreciate it. Thank you for having me, and I appreciate it. 
Some of you might consider me successful. I don’t know. Some of you may have seen Green Lantern.
I’m I could not be more excited. Actually, I’m eleven years excited. I… when I talk about it, I always just grateful I’m wearing an adult diaper. 
I can’t match it!” You can’t just change everything, but we certainly made the crew laugh.
And those guys have been such a privilege to… not only to know but to work with. Also, the thing I love about that was the marketing campaign is an extension of the film, which is not normal. 
Thank you, Damian, that's a hell of an intro. Thank you. 
Hello, Kitsilano Secondary School Class of 2020. My name is Ryan Reynolds. I’m a former student of Kitsilano.
Luckily, we’ve got a character who becomes severely disfigured, so when I’m not disfigured we know it’s the past.
It was a really unique and interesting idea. 
Yeah, Group Effort Initiative was--you know, look, I've been working in show business for 30 years. 
Well, you know, I look at it, along with my partners and my team at Maximum Effort, my company, we all kind of look at it all as storytelling, really. 
The prep for me was easy. I was basically being eased out of my mother’s womb and then being fed enough to grow into adulthood and then beginning filming. 
I mean, that’s one of the things that I personally love about Deadpool so much is that he ostensibly looks like a superhero, but he’s morally flexible in every way. 
No, it's an emotional investment so much more than a business investment. I mean, that's not a business you get into if you're looking to create insane EBITDA or something. 
Tim just kept coming back with all this passion, but people would say, “He’s never directed a movie before.” He kept saying, “I can do this, I can do this.”
Yeah, I think everything that I'm involved in, I could not--I'm red-lining the engine in terms of passion. 
He said, well, it's because it's made with Aviation gin, which this particular bartender really loved. 
I think his great strength is recognising he’s never directed a movie before. I’ve worked with some first-time directors that act like they’ve been to this big show before and they haven’t and it can be really frustrating.
But one thing that’s worked for me is practicing some form of compassion every day, whether it’s for yourself or someone else, especially for someone else is good.
Thank you. Thank you very much. Very nice to be here. 
The… this movie has been just the biggest pain in the ass to get made, and somehow someway the movie gods looked down on us and made that happen through a number of illegal transactions, not the least of which being our test footage leaking onto the internet accidentally. 
Yeah, it was like the first time I saw, "Being John Malkovich." I was just like, that's just amazing. 
But now, there’s a fun part in that movie, but it’s it was a movie where I got to have a lot of fun. 
Well, not surprisingly, for a movie like this, there weren’t a ton of on-set Shenanigans. A lot of it was just alternate jokes. 
The movie doesn’t ever really pick on any one public figure without alternatively taking a stab at Ryan Reynolds.
I mean, absolutely zero. So walking into Comic-Con, everybody’s laughing and smiling. And Rhett Reese and Paul Wernick and Tim Miller, the director, and everything. 
I never understood sort of why it was such a global force until now. 
I don’t know if audiences are fatigued by superhero fare, I think that’s subjective. They’re still coming out to see them in droves.
Comic-Con man, I mean, Comic-Con was crazy. I was there because the last time was at Comic-Con was I was there for Green Lantern and… and that was tough. 
I guess I could be so bold as to say that Cable is one of the core group of Deadpool guys that I’d love to see brought to the screen.
The oddest pitch that I ever received. Oh, that's a tough one. I don't know. 
We could have spent a couple more million bucks?”
I’m an actor, I’m a writer, a producer. Who cares. You have a teacher by the name of Jonah Eckert.
You know, like, it's much more emotional than that. And it's been an incredible ride. 
It’s helped me recognize mistakes that I’ve made and learn from them and above all. It made me happy and it’s something that I’ll probably be working on my whole life.
And he’s not a superhero, he’s an antihero and something completely different. It speaks directly to the comic book audience, and I’m for that, 100%.
I mean, I started in this industry not taking myself seriously, and I think I recognised early on – at 19 years old – that that’s what got my foot in the door.
Quite literally, it was the fans overwhelmed 20TH Century Fox Studios with hate mail. I’m sure other illegal substances filled in sorts of all sorts of containers. 
I was on a set… I was on the movie Blade Trinity, which I hope… I hope most of you have not seen it. 
Mirroring, empathizing, validating someone else’s experience or a point of view is just about the most radical act of ambition that you can ever demonstrate.
But I can pass on this one little chestnut of wisdom. Something you might want to start. If you’re not already doing it, totally up to you, no pressure.
I liked having my foot in the door, so I wasn’t going to stop doing that. I’ve never taken myself very seriously, and there’s lots of material there to make fun of.
Amazing that we live in a world where this kind of thing happens. 
Oh, where he could do the… oh my God. Well, certainly the presidential election would be someplace that I would implement his… 
I won't know if I'm the best at what I do unless everybody is allowed to play. You know, I mean, at the end of the day, that's where that comes from. 
So, we had to find a way to do that. And I'd actually pitched this earlier on, maybe a couple of months before, I though, oh, you know, maybe I'll eat one of these peppers. 
No, I played it. I played all the sports as a kid. I loved it, but I never got it. 
Wholeheartedly. In fact, you've actually quite literally touched on the sort of north star of my company, Maximum Effort, which is to bring people together in unexpected ways, through joy, really. 
I’ve done it, I’ve played that kind of character, and it’s time for someone else to do it.
No, it would be. It would be an absolute fact to say that the internet… the internet is why I’m sitting here talking to you. 
So, Aviation Gin, I was just a fan of. I would have negroni after work when I was shooting "Deadpool II" in Vancouver, and it turns out that it was called an "Aviation Negroni," and I asked the bartender why it's called an Aviation Negroni. 
Yeah, and that’s why we’re actually happy it took so long to get made. It’s coming along at a perfect time.
But I love constraint. I love doing more with less. It forces your imagination to expand. 
Right, exactly. 
I don’t have anything super interesting prepared for you. I just thought that I would pop in and phone this thing in the way I phone in my final year at Kitsilano Secondary School.
He’s one of the funniest people I know and he steals this movie. He’s so funny and so watchable and I just wish he were in it more.
But it gives us a lot of freedom, and the comics have been a huge inspiration for the writers and me and everyone else involved.
But you’ve heard the expression, “divide and conquer.” You see it everywhere. And dividing people is just like a means to distract them, disarm them, whereby giving one an opportunity to conquer.
It was a very small-batch company, and I thought maybe there was something more to this. Maybe I could use some of that sweet, sweet "Deadpool" money in a different way and maybe buy into this company, which I did. 
I can tell you right now, Damian, I'm wholesale unqualified to answer that question. I don't know--I'm the one who--generally, like, you know, I put on a brave face, but everything scares me. 
Like, you know, you’re so, you know, you sort of feel like, you know, I’m so close to Deadpool and I’m so intimate with it that like, I have zero objectivity. 
But there are certain characters within the Deadpool universe that I feel could work for a future movie.
If it were a traditional superhero movie it wouldn’t be for me. They wouldn’t hire me, let alone me putting my hand up for it.
We don’t know if that was a good sign or a bad sign. We were like, “What do you mean, we could have gone over?
So, I thought, Steve-O, "Jackass." So, I reached out to Steve O, who was very happy to jump in and do this. 
She’s really great about ensuring she doesn’t play the damsel in distress in a movie, and she carries that attitude with her the whole film.
Usually, we're doing the pitches, so I don't get a lot of--I don't get a ton of pitches. One was the--one pitch that I'd heard that I loved and they ended up making it, was the Nicolas Cage movie that recently came out, The Unbearable Weight of Massive Talent, I think it's called. 
A little bit. Like, I grew up--I'm a product of the era I grew up in. I grew up an intense fan of the Amblin era, the "E.T." style of moviemaking. 
He’s smart enough to rely on his crew and that’s a very wise quality. I’d have been terrified if he was walking in there like he owned the joint.
Thank you guys for having me. It was really fun. I really appreciate it. 
God of what? I probably my favorite scene. There’s a scene where Deadpool attacks another X-Men, and I just like that in this moment, we’re really embodying the moral flexibility of the character. 
And that’s that to me is just, you know, you get a lot of superheroes that are tough and they talk like this in the air, you know? 
And I learned a little bit about the company. I ordered a bottle. Kind of hard to find. 
It’s just overdone. And I think that you guys want to be stylish and ahead of the curve. And I believe that your generation will be so maybe practice the opposite practice, empathy.
And I just thought it was so much funnier if I played the sort of, you know, big shot movie star who's unwilling to put his own ass on the line, which is really actually quite true. 
Tim asks for help when he needs it, and that’s the most you can ever ask of the guy on his maiden voyage.
Yeah, thank you. Thank you. 
But regardless, they’re fluent in this language now, and it’s a great time to be able to put out Deadpool because it’s going to speak directly to that language.
Yeah!  He’d be calling Wolverine ‘Hugh Jackman’, so it’d definitely mess with the universe to a certain degree.
It forces you to tell stories in different ways. It's one of the reasons I love working with small- and medium-sized businesses, not my own, necessarily, but through Mountain, my connected TV company is because it's--there's so much more story to tell there when you're sort of forced to kind of do more with so much less. 
I mean, every part of me is invested. Every cell in my body is invested in Mint Mobile and Aviation and the film business that I get so lucky to work in. 
Well, doing--creating--showing people a demo of a revolutionary ad tech software is not going to be the most exciting thing in the world. 
Well, it’s a very fractured narrative, which is always a tricky thing to try to do. You’ve got to go back and forth and let the audience know we’re going back and forth.
Although I didn’t always go to Kits, I actually went to … I only went to Kits for grade 11 and 12, before that I was at Prince of Wales.
She’s a delight for everyone, and the whole crew was sad to see her go when she finished up her scenes.
And then at the end of grade 10, I remember the vice principal of Prince of Wales, Dr. Hunt, sat me down and invited me to leave, which looking back was just a very Canadian way of kicking me out.
These are companies that had tremendous potential and really just needed awareness. They were already perfect when I got there. 
And the world seems to subsist on this idea more and more and more and it’s getting really boring.
His hair has frosted tips. He always wore shorts, I remember, even if it was minus 20. Also remember when we were graduating, he was super excited because he was going to start a money laundering operation with a cartel in Southern Mexico.
Well, I'm not an innovator in that way. You know, I don't invent gin. I didn't invent low-cost wireless. 
