He’d absolutely love that. He always has so much fun when we’re out together. I’m already planning what I’m going to wear to the next White House Correspondents’ dinner. 
So it was an awareness that we were raised with, and as we grew into young adults, we just naturally became politically active. 
But honestly I think it’s the best party in town. I’d rather go to the White House Correspondents’ dinner than any awards show. 
is a 6 foot 5 African-American man, let’s be honest with ourselves, a giant muscle man who is sweating it out in there. 
Yeah, it’s never even… even when our characters… when the Avengers assemble, it’s totally, it feels like being a little kid. 
It’s a project that I’ve been talking about with Jonathan  for a few years now—I think he’s actually been working on it, in different incarnations, for about eight or nine years. 
Then “Cut!” and we’re all like  “Arrrgh… God, this thing, get it off me, it’s awful!!” 
That kind of protest movement really needs to happen on a much bigger scale, but there needs to be a clearer message. 
So we find her… 
Actually, at the… at the end of the red carpet, all of us were just, like, super boozy and, like… did you see Gui… did you see him on the…? 
Who wants to hear that? 
Oh yeah. Sure. Yeah, yeah. 
Yeah, we have scenes together. 
They’re amazing tools to communicate information—especially about different causes or crises or movements. 
I do feel positive about what’s happening. I think that with all of these movements, and this growing collective voice that’s emerging, people are starting to come out of the kind of dazed state that they were in for so many years. 
Well, firstly, I’ve always wanted to work with Cameron Crowe. I’ve auditioned for him several times for various projects over the last ten years, and I’ve always admired the way he worked with me. 
It might be an impossible project . . . 
Downey comes in… 
I can’t! I can’t! I-I can’t leave you!” and he was like “Listen, listen sweetheart,” like “I… we… this is never going to happen. 
Yes, I’ve had a uh… we’ve had a lot of premieres and we’ve been trashed at every one. 
. . You know, my favorite actors are actors who are enigmatic and mysterious and never make the obvious choice in terms of the projects they do or who they work with or their craft. 
So reading the first draft, it’s a huge story with a lot of storylines. The first draft to me was still very much a work in progress, and Joss wanted everybody’s notes and got all of them, and we all met separately and together and talked about it. 
It just became this opportunity that was too exciting a process to pass up. 
I think he followed her around the entire night. I was chasing after him, and I turned around, and I had a bunch of Republican senators chasing after me. 
They don’t want handouts. They don’t want to be completely dependent on their governments—even though there’s usually no opportunity for that anyway. 
This has been the best interview… what? Sure! Why not? 
Well, I think that he’s…. 
But I think that the less I know about an actor, the more chance I have of allowing their own persona to kind of slip away so I can get completely lost in the character they’re playing, and the more that people think they know about your personal life, the more difficult it becomes to preserve that. 
You know, as a person in the public eye, I have always felt that if I have the good fortune of being able to shed a spotlight on different causes that I feel passionately about . 
But it’s tough to know the best way to effect change now. Campaigning alone no longer seems to be the answer. 
So when the opportunity came along with this project, I read the script, but I felt the character was sort of underdeveloped, so I wanted to talk with Cameron about it, which I did. 
I mean, you really hope that people who want to be politically active aren’t so disillusioned at this point. 
I’m always surprised that certain actors have Twitter accounts. I guess they use it in a way that works for them. 
Uh… we were in Russia, we were in – well, we had our premiere here as you saw – Russia, we were in London, we were in um… Italy, then went on to Germany… 
We all get an opportunity to sweat it out in this building, right? 
No, my character is sort of on another mission. I think at the end of Iron Man 2, that mission is over for her and she’s an agent who is tasked for some different purposes. 
You don’t even have to go that far. There are people in America who are absolutely desperate right now, who have no means to support their families, who have no opportunities to better themselves or their education—and they’re not that different from the farmers and working-class people that I visited when I went to Kenya with Oxfam. 
It’s interesting because as the war in Iraq was in its infancy, right before the bombing of Baghdad, I remember all these people protesting on the lawn. 
But in actuality, you’re standing next to somebody, looking them in the eye, and what you realize is that there is a human connectivity that exists between people no matter the cultural difference. 
I mean, I-I guess the Russians really like the dark, they like the darkness. I mean, they were crazy for Tom Hiddleston, who plays Loki in the film. 
It’s not just some fun adventure where you’re just sitting in a safari park. At the same time, I know that before the Ohio incident even happened, there were certain aspects of the story that had come out that made some people say this film would make it appear as if running a zoo is all fun and games. 
I don’t know how you do it. I don’t know how anybody’s ever done it. . 
But they want to be self-sufficient and have a sustainable lifestyle. You know, I just finished this movie, The Avengers, in September, and we shot in places like Albuquerque, New Mexico, and in Cleveland, and around Ohio. 
But we take our direction all from Fury. 
It’ll be a very positive experience for audiences—certainly, making the movie was one for me. Our set was like this utopia of animals and crewmembers and the rest of the team working together to create this little world in the middle of the winter in Thousand Oaks, California. 
You know, if Occupy Wall Street was actually a march, and people from all around the country could collect and march toward Washington, D.C., as part of this massive movement of people . 
Well, we all have our own… I’d say everybody has their own uncomfortable costume situation. 
…. embarrass the shit out of each other. What did you say? 
There’s no time for romance . We’ve got shit to avenge. 
Yes, I was. We campaigned for Obama for more than a year. I was in Iowa, Minnesota, California, Arizona—just traveling around to help get the word out. 
I think he has the easiest costume to wear. 
It’s a gamble every time you put yourself out there, and, certainly, I’m always readjusting to it. But I hope it never becomes normal to feel scrutinized. 
I’m good. I’m in dry, sunny Glasgow right now, enjoying the tropical weather. I’m doing a film here called Under the Skin. 
I play a Russian, a Russian spy in it. Um… but, you know, everybody has kind of a different take on it. 
I actually visited a couple of training environments where the trainer was there in a cage with, like, three grown female tigers, and, you know, these trainers have been with these animals for ten years. 
. . I think that kind of pressure is much more powerful than a sit-in that seems to be a little unorganized. 
So it needs more consistent focus, and we need to show how the crisis is affecting all the different countries in the region, as well as how they’re all dealing with it, what their governments are doing or not doing, and how people can feel more active there and less like they’ve got their hands tied. 
It’s hard to give a kind of warm-up line for the story because it’s almost like giving the plotline of a Bergman film, but I’m playing a character called Laura, who is an it that becomes a she . 
. It basically has no written dialogue, and I don’t think it’s really character-driven. Jon is an incredible visionary, and in the place I’m in right now, it feels really fresh. 
It felt like an opportunity to build a character from scratch. Then also, you have Cameron Crowe write an incredible monologue for you just based on the things that you’re talking about. 
I think going into this process and even going into Iron Man 2, the whole idea is that you hope the audience… 
Actually, Mark Ruffalo had this story about how he got into his car at the end of the pr- of the, you know, the Russian premiere and this woman, like this uh… random woman slid into the car with him. 
I value my privacy and my personal life—and I certainly don’t exploit my personal life. But that’s not always in your control. 
Yeah, you were there. 
I don’t think that’s… speak for yourself! 
Well, the nice thing about our cast is that there’s a silent oath, a support system in some way and all of us are really looking out for one another’s best interests and more when the first drafts came in. 
I thought about going down there, and, obviously, it’s important to shed light on something like that, but I’m not sure I understand . 
Aw, for his little suit? 
There are, unfortunately, people who are interested in prying. So I think you have to protect your private life as much as you possibly can, and, at the same time, find ways to redirect that focus and turn the glare into a positive thing. 
But that’s never been established. We’ve obviously known each other for a long time. We have a very rich history, the two characters, with one another, but as far as the timeline, I think it’s pretty much the time that has passed since Iron Man 2 came out, I think a couple years, but since we’ve seen each other, we’ve been working together the whole time. 
“I hope this is mediocre.” 
It was just understood that it was important, that it was our responsibility. 
Are people who want this kind of progressive change not turning up at polling stations? Are they not voting for progressive representatives? 
They’re just… the fan art was out of control. 
He was like, was like – and of course it’s Mark so has was so, like, cool, he was like “Baby, you got to go. 
Yeah, working together and apart and whatever. 
I’m good! Hi! Thank you! 
Well, after a couple more I might. 
Yeah, there’s a combination of all that stuff. There’s definitely a lot of hand-to-hand combat still, and combination of different fighting styles: gymnastics, Muay Thai, boxing, kick-boxing, all of that. 
It very much felt like an assemblage of a lot of different storylines together, but I think that’s all part of the screenwriting process in a ways. 
I absolutely adore working with Tom. He’s such an incredibly talented… I don’t know. 
All these boys are and their muscle suits. 
I’m not exactly sure what the message is behind it all. It is sort of unclear. I mean, yes, people are fed up—and I think quite rightfully so. 
Whether they’re in America or in Africa, people want to work. They want to have purpose. They want to provide for themselves and their families. 
Thank you, it’s my first time here. I’m very excited. Very excited. 
. . It’s seemingly a whole other world. 
All our costumes are unzipped, some air conditioning venting unit goes in. Someone is having a wig removed. 
Oh my god, he -- yeah. He was the middle man to deliver this amazing piece of fan art which I just… I wish I-I wish that Tom had given it to me but… 
I learned prepping the film that there’s a dedication that these handlers and people who care for these animals have that just completely takes over their lives. 
Oh my god, he just got us all started. We were just sloshed by the end of that. 
Like a dress-up but to the extreme. 
We shot in a town called Wilmington in Ohio. It’s a lovely town, and the people there were really generous and welcomed us with open arms, but I’m sure part of that was probably that this film was an opportunity for commerce that they haven’t had for a long time. 
But by seeing a first-hand account of something like the effects of the drought in the Horn of Africa, you can have a different relationship with the story. 
Especially now. 
. .That’s what the story’s about—it’s about that transformation . . 
So when I’m not working or promoting something, I try to be as under-the-radar as I can . . . 
But our fighting styles are not similar but they definitely complement one another. Both of us fight hand-to-hand and we’re just humans with no abilities. 
We all have our various things that we have to do to get comfortable. Everybody looks incredibly uncomfortable until the cameras are rolling and then we all look fucking badass. 
It’s certainly a process to zip up the suit every time and it gets harder with each passing year, but I mean, if it was badass and it incorporated the darker side of the character and got down to the nitty-gritty of who she is, I would like to see that movie. 
You took, you took how many shots? I was, like, three, four, we were all trashed. 
He did after a little Russian standard vodka. 
It was such a strange coincidence. You know, I think this film is really about the hard work and dedication that goes into maintaining a zoo—that it’s not just some off-the-cuff thing that you do, which is sort of what Matt ’s character learns. 
Oh, yeah? You want one? Yeah, we are. 
What? Sure, I’ll drink it. 
. . I’m aware that this might come across as a bit tacky, but that story is not well organized. 
I think the script over… Joss was like pulling his hair out, doing these insane drafts on a time crunch, but I think with everybody’s notes and all of us kind of looking out for each other really streamlined it to something that is very coherent. 
What’s that supposed to mean? 
Absolutely. I mean, one of the things I realized just being there, immersed in a culture that’s totally unfamiliar, and, obviously, there’s a language barrier . 
. . You were there as well, weren’t you? 
So these problems sometimes seem so impossibly large that it’s hard not to be pessimistic. I mean, we’re coming up on these four years with Obama, and I remember being at his inauguration . 
You know I do all that. We use all kinds of stuff: knives, guns, all sorts of things. Yeah. 
I can’t think of anything I’d rather do less than have to continuously share details of my everyday life. 
I hope not. To me, the two things are unrelated. I think this story that we’re telling is different from that news story—and, in many ways, quite the opposite of it. 
I have no idea. 
Downey’s flying around. 
I feel a couple of ways about it. Personally, I don’t feel the need to brand myself in that way. But as a means to share information and raise awareness of things, I think these social-networking platforms are unprecedented. 
Those cats were, like, in prison or something. They were living in terrible conditions. I heard about it, of course, when I was in London prepping for Under the Skin, and I was like, “Are you kidding me?” 
I would love to have some Motley Crue. I don’t know what’s going to be playing. I don’t really know much about Joss’ musical tastes, do you? 
This has just been a bit of a crazy year. 
Nope. My hair? What about my hair? 
It is so much work. But it was amazing to see the relationships they have with the animals, just this kind of silent communication that can exist between a human and a big cat like a lion or a tiger. 
You read statistics all the time like, “13 million people are at risk because of the severe drought in East Africa,” but I think those kinds of numbers fall on deaf ears—there’s so much devastation in the world, that it’s a bit overwhelming for people. 
I haven’t gotten my schedule yet. 
I haven’t visited it, so it’s kind of hard for me to have an informed perspective on it. 
. . I never tell people whom to vote for. 
This story in particular is important for a number of reasons. It’s not just about a political or economic crisis, but an environmental one, and I think it’s important for people to be aware of the impact that climate change is having on this huge community of people. 
Um, I think that these… 
The kids in the film are great, too. We had some big animals—lions, tigers, grizzlies. 
It’s not an explosive media story—it’s about an ongoing crisis that needs attention. Of course, it flares up every now and again in the media when some unfortunate tragedy arises, but then it will kind of disappear from the zeitgeist for a little while. 
I’m not telling people where to give money, but if there is to be a spotlight shed on me, then I’d like to direct that spotlight onto causes I think are worthy or onto interesting, progressive figures. 
My mom would take us to polling locations when we were kids. My grandmother was also an active member of the tenants association and a staunch supporter of the Democratic Party, and both of my parents were extremely liberal, so I think I grew up in a household that was very politically conscious—we all watched the elections on TV, and we watched the debates. 
But what are they proposing as an alternative to just being upset or feeling disillusioned or abandoned? 
Yeah, we’ve been all over the place. 
I told him, “I don’t know what I can contribute to this, exactly, but this is what I want to see from the character. 
You got to go, Baby. You got to go. You got to go.” And she was like “I can’t! 
Oh dear. I’m a lush. I’m a lush. 
The first draft to me was a little bit like “Waugh! What are all these storylines?” I didn’t know what the hell was going on. 
I think that he has an agenda, and I think the best way to break up a group is by trying to manipulate the situation by going individually to each one of our characters and you kind of see that. 
It was such a huge, spirited campaign, and so positive. But you travel around to cities in the U.S. 
It was unbelievable. Yeah. Unbelievable. 
I don’t know, though . . . 
It was just kind of an out of body experience. What is happening? 
We’re all kind of paired together in different ways. 
We’re avenging something. 
I got it from the Crue, yo. 
But I’d rather that people had less access to my personal life. If I could keep it that way, I’d be a happy lady. 
So you’re watching these people with these massive animals that are supposed to be threatening, but they’ve got these very personal connections. 
Cameron is so collaborative and inviting—and not just with the actors, but with everyone. So he did a beautiful job of highlighting the humanity of this group of people banding together to build a kind of oasis. 
I think that in something like a video blog, where you’re actually looking at mothers and children and in people’s faces, you can see that. 
This is never going to be.” And she’s like, she’s like, “No, no! You have to give this to him! You just have to!” and he’s like “What?” and she hands it to him and it’s this unbelievable rendering of Tom Hiddleston, like the most realistic – and he’s just like, “Get the hell out of my car!” Wasn’t even like… 
Yeah, we’re on the same flight. I think the whole idea is that you want the audience to be as enthusiastic as you are about the characters and in that, you hope that you’ll be able to take the character farther. 
Next time I go I’m going to find Anderson Cooper’s table and camp out there. My brother was totally geeked-out by Katie Couric. 
It’s hard to put your finger on why we are where we are. 
I don’t really profess to know how to balance any of it. I don’t profess to know how to balance the positive and the negative media attention. 
I remember going to Comic-Con last year and flying back with everybody, and we were all like, “We’re in it together!” We had assembled on the plane. 
Well, my mom was always active. She was always an active voter, whether it was local, state, or federal elections. 
And his little fez on and his little plus and minus stickers, poor thing. 
People were really up in arms and conflicted about that war. Despite all of the opposition, the Bush administration’s response was basically, “We appreciate that people are exercising their right to express themselves, but we’re going to go ahead with this operation anyhow.” Whatever opposition to the war existed at that moment seemingly made no difference, and now, more than eight years later, maybe we’re feeling the effects of that. 
Sipping a mai thai in Hawaii. No, she’s at work, just the old 9 to 5. 
It’s one of the blessings that come with new media. I’m hoping to go to Ethiopia in February and do a similar kind of project there because it’s an ongoing crisis, so I think it’s important to keep some focus there right now. 
He’s playing good cop/bad cop, but it’s just him in some way with each one of us. I think he’s trying to figure out a way to put holes in the team, trying to figure out a way to disassemble us in some way and manipulate us individually. 
But when you watch the actual film, you see very quickly that it has nothing to do with that. From what I understand, that was not a functioning zoo in Ohio. 
But we’re fighting in a different way than everybody else. We do a lot of fighting on the ground. 
He’s great. He’s been working on Scott Stringer’s campaign for a couple of months now, so he’s super busy with that. 
I wonder sometimes if it’s because people are not really as politically active as they want to be—or they need to be—or that they don’t understand the checks and balances or don’t vote unless it’s a presidential election. 
That’s Favreau though, that’s totally Favreau’s thing. Joss I would imagine is some sort of operatic soundtrack. 
It’s based on a true story about this guy called Benjamin Mee, who, in a time of deep personal crisis, saw an opportunity to be selfless and built this zoo by creating a sanctuary for these animals in need. 
This is what I want to know about her,” and he was so into it. He said, “Yes! Tell me more. 
That said, I don’t have a Facebook or a Twitter account, and I don’t know how I feel about this idea of, “Now, I’m eating dinner, and I want everyone to know that I’m having dinner at this time.” or “I just mailed a letter and dropped off my kids.” That, to me, is a very strange phenomenon. 
Um… the Russians like my character probably more than Captain America. 
And there’s always this plan that as soon as everything is cut, everything comes off. 
Well, I’ve been fortunate enough to travel with Oxfam several times, and they’re always so well organized, so it was a good way to show the kind of work they’re doing. 
What do you see? I want to know how to expand it.” So we worked together to kind of build a relationship between the characters, and I think that part of the project was very exciting. 
Thank you. I’d never done anything like that before. I felt like David Attenborough or something. 
now and there’s just this hopelessness that has set in. It makes it hard to understand why it seems so impossible to make any kind of progressive change with an administration that is seemingly progressive, or why we keep encountering such political roadblocks to change. 
We’ve fought a lot together. 
The tigers all have favorite trainers, and you can tell, too, that the trainers have favorite tigers—even though they’re not supposed to. 
That’s a girl thing. That has nothing to do wit h being a superhero. I’m talking about that it’s like 800 degrees in my costume… and it’s a unitard, and I have nothing underneath it! 
Either Chris has it pretty bad. Tom… 
All of our orders come directly from Fury. 
He’s really happy to be working with Scott—and, you know, the family’s proud. 
