So yeah, I can sit down with somebody who's gone through a lot of health issues, I can sit down with someone who has had their heart completely broken, or a family that's broken, fighting for their right to stay in this country, or kids who are going through things they shouldn't even be worrying about at that age.
And I’m from Grand Prairie, Texas, and she worked four jobs and completely dedicated her life into making mine better.
Whoa, whoa, whoa. If we’re talking about cravings, of course I do. I mean… 
It depends. If I’m in the mood for sister time, I’ll be with my sister, Gracie. She’s more mature than me in a lot of ways, and she’s four. 
Oh, I’m both, and I always have been. Even when I was younger and wore backpacks, I was so excited to get a Betsey Johnson one. 
The word has meant so much more to me than just a title of a song. We live in a time where everything is based on your looks and social media and there are so many different channels telling people what they should look like, and how they should do this, do that.
I’ve never wanted to be the kind of person who’s like, “Oh, I wish I had a different life.” This is just kind of how it worked out for me. 
I don’t really set goals ’cause I don’t want to be disappointed if I don’t reach them, but I do want to work on my music too. 
Now they can see all around them people living free of pain, of hidden agendas, of secrets. I think secrets kill people, I really do. 
But, it’s not that I’m trying to make it specifically about just one subject in my life, it’s more just how I embody all of the experiences into one. 
And now more than ever, I’m proud of it. But I still need to learn Spanish. 
There won’t be a day when I’m like, “Here I am in a pretty dress—I won!” I think it’s a battle I’m gonna have to face for the rest of my life, and I’m okay with that because I know that I’m choosing myself over anything else. 
I feel great, yeah. I'm on the proper medication that I need to be on, even as far as my mental health.
And they didn’t want it for me, but they… Sorry… 
Until recently, I had given in to that pressure. I lost sight of who I was. I listened to opinions of people and I tried to change who I am because I thought that others would accept me for it.
I’m starting my year off with that thought. I want to make sure I’m healthy. If that’s good, everything else will fall into place. 
Yeah. I just got weird. I just got really complicated. 
And yeah, you know, that’s all I can do. 
One of my issues is that I always felt like I was this weak person because I would cry, or I would get emotional, or I hated when people were rude.
That means to me that vulnerability — and I've said this before — is a strength. And as I grew up in this chaotic space, I did have to learn how to be tough, and to be strong, but I'm not this hard person.
And I have, I’m going to say I live a very blessed life, I have so much to be thankful for and a lot of you are big part of inspiring me because I don’t think you get it and maybe you’re not old enough, but you inspire me to be better and we should inspire each other to be better.
I'm very proud of it. It has a different meaning to me now from when I wrote it. I felt I didn't get a respectful closure, and I had accepted that, but I know I needed some way to just say a few things that I wish I had said.
I’m at the point where I know the value of my privacy, and I understand how the system works, and once I realized and accepted that part of it I’ve become a little bit more fearless. 
I 100% do, and I’m not going to let you judge me for that. 
We would do these live tapings every Friday, and one Friday there was this single mother with her four kids. 
It was very difficult and I'm happy it's over. And I felt like this was a great way to just say, you know, it's done, and I understand that, and I respect that, and now here I am stepping into a whole other chapter.
I like going to nice restaurants, but I’m also into Chili’s. I love going to Chili’s and having queso and chips. 
I don’t really know how, other than all the work that I did. Meaning, brands, therapy, taking time off, going back to Texas, just enjoying what’s right in front of me. 
It seemed so much more exciting to me than clothes. And I absolutely love cool shoes. I always felt like what I wore didn’t matter unless I had a cool pair of shoes to go with it. 
She had this knowledge and wisdom about her that I wanted for myself. Oh, and I really love Amal Clooney. 
There’s a sense of freedom that past generations weren’t able to have. 
You end up trying to cover up so much of who you are for the sake of your family or whoever, and you think you’re bad for being different. 
I think millennials are a hell of a lot smarter than we’re given credit for. We’re more aware than we let on, and more exposed to everything that’s out there in the world, just from growing up on the Web, which is a little scary to think about. 
Because it would be inauthentic for me to just not say what I felt in the beginning of the year or last year, or it just wouldn’t seem real to me. 
I have a complex relationship with Instagram, to say the least. It has given me a voice amid all the noise of people trying to narrate my life for me and allows me to say, “Hey, I’m gonna post this, and this is gonna take care of the 1,200 stories that people think are interesting but actually aren’t, and aren’t even true.” So it empowers me in that way because it’s my words and my voice and my truth. 
Meryl Streep has always been one of my idols because of her elegance and ability to always be true to herself but play these incredibly complex, difficult characters. 
Please, please just be kind to each other and love and inspire people because let’s do it! Let’s do it, let’s change the game, let’s change the game!
You want to be a part of something great. You want to make something great. And it does more than not the wind out of you and crushes you when people try to tell you that you’re not good enough.
So it was actually exactly when it needed to happen. Like I told you earlier, we shot the videos just a week ago, and that’s really unheard of. 
And but I’ve always been pretty transparent about what I’ve what I’ve gone through. I just… I just choose how I’m going to do it. 
I’m not an activist, I haven’t changed the world or led a campaign, I’m here to just tell you my path, so that you hopefully can take something away from it, because I don’t like being honest with — this is a truth — I don’t like being honest with press and interviews, I like being honest with you, directly, which is each and every one of you.
I fully believe in just making sure you check in with your doctors or therapist.  that's forever.
And I’m sure all of you have been told that you don’t have what it takes and you may not be good enough and you don’t have enough people supporting you and you’ve been told all of these things when deep down it’s all you want to do.
So it’s powerful to see our generation breaking those boundaries and encouraging other people to do the same. 
That's what I think my real mission is; I think that I have such big dreams and ideas for ways that I can give back.
It's not a hateful song; it's a song that is saying — I had something beautiful and I would never deny that it wasn't that.
I had been working on the album for four years. I didn’t want to release anything that was mine just because I didn’t feel like it was the right timing. 
I was at the Billboard Women in Music Awards last year with all these incredible women, but she was just radiant. 
When I was younger my idol was Hilary Duff! I remember wanting blue eyes too. So I think I recognized then that it meant something to people. 
That it matters. Even recently I’ve experienced things with my dad that were racially charged. Most of the time, though, I try to separate my career from my culture because I don’t want people to judge me based on my looks when they have no idea who I am. 
I still want to dress like her in Pretty in Pink. 
Either Audrey Hepburn or Molly Ringwald in the ’80s. How amazing must that have been? She was a redhead and had freckles and was so incredibly cool. 
I was in Texas, so I would assumethat thunder and lightning would mean "tornado." And so my mom, she would give me these books — and they're the little thin books for kids to know about "What's rain?" and "What's this?" and she just said "The more you learn about it and how it works, the less you're going to be afraid of it." I think that took so much work for me.
I want you to know what it’s like that I know what it’s like. Figuring out what types of friends you have, you are who you surround yourself with.
So for me, thank you, two years later, I got my own show and the first thought, the first thought wasn’t oh man, that girl when I was eleven said that I wouldn’t carry my own show and I did, I mean, I thought about that for a little bit, but I thought about what my mom said.
And the whole song is saying "Hey if I give this to you, If I give myself to you, are you strong enough to be there for me?" If not, I'll let go of the situation but I'm still going to be vulnerable to what's next.
I know that sounds weird, but I’ve read a lot about her. She’s just incredible, the way she speaks and what she fights for. 
I’ve spent probably too much time thinking about how my life could’ve been, so now I try to just have a sense of gratitude for how it is. 
I wasn't going to have a choice because of how fast everything moves now. And most of the time, yes, it's not true, or it's an embellished version of what the truth is.
I feel it.’ That lasted about three months. 
You guys are so motivated, I feel like I can say anything! When I was eleven, the point being is that when I was seven I wanted to be an actress and I wanted to live my dream.
And that’s, that’s, that’s a huge thing for me. So down to my friends back home, my family, my papa crying, saying, ‘I hate that you went through what you went through. 
The only thing that worries me is how much value people our age place on social media. It’s an incredible platform, but in a lot of ways it’s given young people, myself included, a false representation of what’s important. 
Be proud of yourselves. This is great!
I’d be lying if I said that I never tried to make myself better by giving in, because I have, but I’ve learned from my actions, and for all of the things I’ve done I’m proudest of that I’ve learnt from my mistakes.
Mainly I think it’s the freedom to express ourselves and be who we are in an unapologetic way. Thanks to the Internet, no matter who you are, you know you’re not alone. 
And I think it naturally happened for me. I remember I wanted to be like Paramore at one point. I thought, “This is my lane. 
I learned a lot from the last album and I wanted to take what I’ve learned and turned it into something even better. 
My mom was in theater and she, I mean, she just had this, this huge music library. I mean, from Ella Fitzgerald to Reba McEntire to, you know, then again, going to Frank Sinatra, the Eagles and all of that, my mom, Rolling Stones, she was very much… 
And when I was eleven I had a casting director tell that I wasn’t strong enough to carry my own show.
And there was a huge moment where I just… I just kind of stopped caring. And I can’t tell you when that moment lies, I really can’t. 
And I realized I don’t know how to be anything but myself. And all I really want you to know is that you are changing the world, I’m not changing the world, you’re changing the world and that’s amazing!
You had to get the name in, I get it.
The most important thing is that we learn and we continue to learn from each other. Please stay true to yourself, please just remain who you are and know that we have each other’s back, all of us have each other’s back.
I don’t care. Right now I just want to be super intentional with all of the things I’m doing. 
I just started getting to the place, definitely a few years ago, where I understood that vulnerability is actually such a strength.
If I have, if I’m doing something because I love it, I should do it because I love it and I believe that I can do it.
It breaks my heart, but I’m so proud of you.’ So… 
A Louis Vuitton laptop bag right after I got my first big check on my own. I remember being so scared that I was gonna mess it up, and pretending I was some little businesswoman who needed to carry all her important things, even though it was just for my lip gloss and laptop. 
I think "Fun," in that particular way, was that I do like learning about it. When I was a kid, I was terrified of thunderstorms; it would freak me out.
Taylor… You know, that was very sweet. 
So, to me, she is the definition of a strong woman. And I love her so much. Because she’s taught me those values so much.
And I started noticing that my life just became a story. And it was entertainment. And I was really, I was, I was just not OK with that because it was real and it was very real to me. 
And I’m glad I did, because this year, everything kind of just started pouring out of me. I started saying things and in a way that I’ve never been able to articulate them before. 
I want to live in a world where an 11-year-old is not committing suicide because of bullying on social media.
I mean, point-blank, I don’t feel confident enough in where my music is yet. If that takes 10 years, then it takes 10 years. 
I have days where it is hard for me to get out of bed, or I have major anxiety attacks. All of that still happens.
And I have every right to be: From 7-years-old to 27, I've been working, and I've had the most horrible things said to me, said about me, and being exposed to way too much.
But more than anything, my friends stood by my side when I think they’ve, they visibly saw me in so much pain. 
I view it as a small price to pay for being able to have the life I have now. 
But the way I find these moments in my life that are pretty difficult, I think the only way it's helped me is that I can use that for good.
I guess I’m a bit all over the place. 
And I want to represent a person that is just saying "You are who are; you're unique and you're rare."
I mean, I’ve spent years living in fear of speaking up or saying things, and I guess that’s just the people pleaser in me. 
Thank you. I have been acting my entire life and I have known since I was first on Barney, you know that purple dinosaur, he’s great.
Amazing! For sure, she was frustrated when I was frustrated. She was sad and I was sad. 
Being away from my family, moving from Texas to here, experiencing fame, being awkward because you’re growing up. 
That's something I will have to continue to work on. Yes, I don't think I just magically feel better.
That’s the time I needed to just say, I’m not going to be a part of this anymore. How am I going to not be afraid to share what I feel just because I’m mad at what the world is doing? 
Hi, guys, how are you? So good to see you guys, so you guys having a good night? I have to say that it’s such an honour to be here, it is, I’m so happy to be here, I’m like a nerd and brought my own speech but I hope it’s OK that I take this opportunity to really just spend with you guys and tell you a little bit about my story.
I want to be able to tell my story the way that I want to tell it. And all of these things happened, and I wasn't going to deny that, I wasn't going to pretend to put a smile on when it actually was awful — a few of the worst moments of my life.
Yeah. That’s the topics I’m interested in. You know, I have another song that’s strictly about vulnerability, and that was a version of me actually having fun with it, saying ‘I could be knocked down repeatedly, but I’m never going to not be vulnerable.’ And, you know, I always say this, you know, one of the worst moments of my life ended up being the biggest blessing that I’ve ever had. 
And it wasn’t because the song was emotional. It was just because the first thing they said to me was, ‘We’re so happy that you’re here.’ After seeing all of that, this is such a cool moment. 
Because I feel like I can and I’m just going to start with the basics, so I’m 21 and my mom had, my mom had me when she was 16.
So she told me to keep going, thank you, she told me and she taught me to turn the other cheek and let the credits, the critics be critics, and let us just trust ourselves.
I was set free and I and I think even from stuff that I had been experiencing… 
The reason why I've become so vocal about the trials and tribulations of my life is because people were already going to narrate that for me.
If I want to hang out with my friends, I don’t really go to a lot of trendy places, so people know they shouldn’t really invite me to those places ’cause I’m not gonna go. 
I literally love her. 
And I don't know if I would have made it. And that's medical reasons, obviously, and emotional reasons.
My mom is like you have to trust yourself and I realized that if I didn’t believe that I could do it, I wouldn’t be able to be here.
I shine the most within when I'm sharing my story with someone, or when I'm there for a friend, or when I do meet someone, I'm not bitter and sarcastic — I mean sometimes I am, but I'm proud that I'm okay with speaking about my heart.
I’ve… I’ve been in therapy for years. I’ve also taken breaks and gone places to recollect my thoughts and my emotions and my well-being. 
Definitely casual. Even if I’m not working out, I look like I’m working out. 
And I think, I think I was scared of it and I probably hated most of it. But with that time that I’ve been given, I’ve just been able to come out on the other side and be OK. 
It’s, it’s not really going to get me anywhere, and everything that I do is with good intention. 
Yeah, about 13 years. 
Wow, you’re really going to hit me with that? 
As much as I definitely don't want to spend the rest of my life talking about this, I am really proud that I can say I feel the strongest I've ever felt and I've found a way to just walk through it with as much grace as possible.
Oh, for sure. And I definitely get some of that from her. But then my dad was a deejay. 
So he, he would do all kinds of stuff, and he was on the radio for a bit doing Tejano music and so I had this experience in my life where I experience the beautiful colors of music and where it can take you. 
I mean, but here’s the thing it’s not anything like we’re going to dissect. It’s more my life. It’s more actually working since I was seven. 
I’m surrounded by people who are supposed to guide me and some of them have and others haven’t. They pressure me, there’s so much pressure, you’ve got to be sexy, you’ve got to be cute, you’ve got to be nice, you’ve got to be all these things!
They never stopped loving me. And I played her the song, and I played it with her mom and dad, and I showed her the video and her mom and, and Taylor started crying. 
And I’m sure you can all relate, you all have pressure that you have to deal with every day. I’m sure at school, at work, with friends, with parents, with family, parents, I know, sometimes with mine, they tell me what to wear, how to look, what I should say, how I should be.
Extremely. I look at myself in the mirror every day and think, “Man, I wish I knew more Spanish.” I’ll never forget when I was doing my TV show ; I think I was 15 or 16. 
Yes, and I think that it's something that — I had to find a way to understand it as an adult. And I had to understand the choices I was making.
And it almost did for me but there was my mom next to me stronger than ever and she said the most important thing is to always trust in myself.
I just had to find a way to claim my story.
I love how she carries herself. I feel the same way about Grace VanderWaal, who’s, like, 14 years old. 
I also love dancing. I really do. I love looking like a fool with my friends. 
So, yeah, it’s a complex relationship. Probably one of my most difficult relationships. 
I’m going to say yes because I believe that for myself. And anyone who knows me knows I will always start with my health and my well-being. 
I’ve had a lot of issues with depression and anxiety, and I’ve been very vocal about it, but it’s not something I feel I’ll ever overcome. 
She was Latin, and she came up to me after, crying. Her kids were so excited, but I noticed the mom, so I gave her a hug and asked, “Hey, are you okay?” And she was like, “It’s really incredible for my daughters to see that a Latina woman can be in this position and achieve her dreams, someone who isn’t the typical, you know, blonde with blue eyes.” And I knew what she meant. 
No, because I've found the strength in it. It's dangerous to stay in a victim mentality. And I'm not being disrespectful, I do feel I was a victim to certain abuse —
So I just want to say I hope I can inspire each and every one of you to just trust in yourselves, to love and to be loved, and thank you for allowing me to come up and ramble and talk to you guys because this is such a beautiful thing you’re doing.
I don’t know. And I really don’t. 
And right now I know that this is something that will be for life.
Maybe a young boy or girl growing up in the South or wherever is confused and terrified to be who they are because they don’t think it’s right. 
My next album has been forever in the making. When people ask me why, I’m honest about it: It’s because I haven’t been ready. 
I don’t crave needing more. I don’t need more of anything. But it’s it’s actually been great because that means I’m doing something good. 
