Gravity and quantum theory cause universes to be created spontaneously out of nothing. KING: You write that because there is a law such as gravity, the universe can and will create itself from nothing. 
The first is that we have fossils of algae from 3.5 billion years ago. The Earth was formed 4.6 billion years ago and was probably too hot for about the first half billion years.
Time travel used to be thought of as science fiction, but Einstein's theory of general relativity allows the possibility that we could warp space time so much that you could fly off in a rocket and return before you set out. 
But if we want to continue beyond the next hundred years, our future is in space. That is why I am in favor of manned — or should I say, personned — space flight.
The universe can spontaneously create itself out of nothing.
The success of my book, A Brief History of Time, has meant that more people have heard of me than many film stars. 
Indeed, it has probably given me more time than most people to pursue the quest for knowledge. The ultimate goal is a complete theory of the universe, and we are making good progress.
But if you meet your anti self, don't shake hands. You would both vanish in a great flash of annihilation radiation. 
It is not enough for me to wear dark glasses and a wig, the wheelchair gives me away. People want to be photographed with me, which is a nuisance when I'm in a hurry, but it gives them such pleasure, I usually try to comply. 
I need another reason to go to the country in question. 
And it also puts our worries in perspective. 
But until recently, we have had little idea about the initial conditions for the universe. However, this division into laws of evolution and initial conditions depends on time and space being separate and distinct.
Galileo, the first modern scientist who realized the importance of observation. I feel closest to him, because he followed his nose and was a bit of a rebel. 
I get them from various sources, including music, literature and films. I enjoy travel, but I wouldn't go somewhere just as a tourist. 
There is no evidence for intelligent design. The laws of physics and chemistry, and Darwinian evolution, are sufficient to account for everything in the universe. 
We have made good progress on the first part, and now have the knowledge of the laws of evolution in all but the most extreme conditions.
Look up at the stars, not down at your feet. 
The inflation in the early universe, is much more rapid than our financial inflation, the universe expanded by a factor of a million trillion trillion, in a tiny fraction of a second. 
Under extreme conditions, general relativity and quantum theory allow time to behave like another dimension of space.
God may exist, but science can explain the universe without the need for a creator. 
Physics is very important to me, but it is hard and cold. I need warmth and beauty in my life, as we all do. 
I didn't become disabled over night. Instead, it developed gradually over a period of years. As my disability increased, so did my scientific success and public reputation. 
Why would they appear only to cranks and weirdos? If there is a government conspiracy to suppress the reports and keep for itself the scientific knowledge the aliens bring, it seems to have been a singularly ineffective policy so far.
Is there a meaning to life? You might think it is a philosophical question but I think philosophy is dead. 
If we could travel through wormholes, we could use them to travel back in time. We haven't seen anyone from the future, so I don't believe that either time travel, or wormhole travel, will ever be possible. 
The French scientist, La Place, explained to Napoleon how the laws of science would determine the evolution of the universe. 
I have wanted to know how the universe operates and why. Above all, I have been interested in the big bang and black holes. 
Looking back I certainly made the choice to be a physicist and I certainly feel like I have free will because free will is what we call the complex physics that happens when we decide. 
Inflation in the size of the universe, is a good thing, unlike inflation in prices. It would produce a very large and very smooth universe, with just the right amount of irregularity to account for the formation of galaxies, stars, and ultimately, human beings. 
In a sense, there is every possible universe. However, we can only know one of them. 
The scientific account is complete. Theology is unnecessary. 
Their creation does not require the intervention of some supernatural being or God. Rather, these multiple universes arise naturally from physical law. 
I think it’s quite likely that we are the only civilization within several hundred light years; otherwise we would have heard radio waves.
I feel satisfied with my life, and that I have achieved a lot despite my difficulties. HR: You have become in fact, that rarest of things -- a science celebrity -- a globally recognised figure, a best-selling author. 
Hello, my name is Stephen Hawking, physicist, cosmologist and something of a dreamer. Although I cannot move and I have to speak from a computer, in my mind, I’m free. 
In many ways, this makes us the lords of creation. 
Well, let’s not be too hasty. 
Issuing an insurance policy against abduction by aliens seems a pretty safe bet.
It is reasonable to ask who or what created the universe. But if the answer is God, then the question has merely been deflected to that of who created God. 
But was there anything before the Big Bang? If not, what created the universe? Why did the universe emerge from the Big Bang the way it did?
The answer is, they exist only as far as they are a model that works. That is as far as we can go. This is called the concept of model dependent reality and I believe it leads us directly to the meaning of life. 
This removes the distinction between time and space, and means the laws of evolution can also determine the initial state.
We believe life developed spontaneously on Earth, so it must be possible for it to develop independently else where in the universe. 
Thank you for listening.
But we are entering an increasingly dangerous period of our history. Our population and our use of the finite resources of planet Earth are growing exponentially, along with our technical ability to change the environment for good or ill.
In this view, it is accepted that some entity exists that needs not a creator and that entity is called God. 
He is often long winded, but his music has a special quality that no else's has. 
According to "M" theory, ours is not the only universe. Instead, "M" theory predicts that a great many universes were created out of nothing. 
They believe they can write great music, independently of whether it appeals to anyone. 
When I was a young man, my father wanted me to become a doctor like him but I chose to study physics instead. 
And second, there was no question of the initial state of the universe.
Up until the 1920s, everyone thought the universe was essentially static and unchanging in time. Then it was discovered that the universe was expanding.
Will you tell me how that law came into existence? 
We think we have solved the mystery of creation. Maybe we should patent the universe and charge everyone royalties for their existence.
This suggests that the probability of life appearing is reasonably high. If it was very low, one would have expected it to take most of the ten billion years available.
After all, if we are just biological clockwork perhaps there is no meaning to life, perhaps no meaning at all. 
Although we are puny and insignificant on the scale of the cosmos, this makes us in a sense the lords of creation. 
There is nothing bigger or older than the universe. The questions I would like to talk about are: one, where did we come from?
We are in danger of destroying ourselves by our greed and stupidity. We cannot remain looking inwards at ourselves on a small and increasingly polluted and overcrowded planet. 
Distant galaxies were moving away from us. This meant they must have been closer together in the past.
The quest for knowledge has a long and glorious history. I just hope we never reach the end of the line, with nothing left to discover. 
I enjoy great opera. Many operas are silly or ridiculous, but the best can reach the near sublime. Of all operatic composers, Wagner gets the nearest to this. 
Gravity is a consequence of "M" theory, which is the only possible unified theory. It's like saying why is two plus two four? 
We used to think that the theory of the universe could be divided into two parts. First, there were the laws like Maxwell’s equations and general relativity that determined the evolution of the universe, given its state over all of space at one time.
If we extrapolate back, we find they must have all been on top of each other about 15 billion years ago.
I know that some people believe we have been visited by aliens in UFO's, but that the US and other governments are engaged in a cover up, to keep for themselves the scientific and technical information they get from the aliens. 
As a physicist, I see the human mind as one of the universe’s more wonderful creations. It’s understanding of the mind as aware of that universe that will lead us to finding out of whether there is meaning at all. 
When I was first diagnosed with ALS, I was given two years to live. Now 45 years later, I am doing pretty well. 
Zero gravity was amazing. I could have gone on and on. Being confined to a wheelchair doesn't bother me as my mind is free to roam the universe, but it felt wonderful to be weightless. 
They are where the universe came from and is going to, the beginning and end of time. 
Even if there is a reasonable probability for primitive life to develop, it is only at the last tiny fraction of the history of the Earth that life has developed intelligence. 
They are a prediction of science. 
But where does God fit into his picture, ask Napoleon. I have not needed that hypothesis, was the reply. 
Only a very few would allow creatures like us to exist. Thus our presence selects out from this vast array only these universes that are compatible without existence. 
This was the Big Bang, the beginning of the universe.
This probably indicates that there are no alien civilizations at our stage of development within a radius of a few hundred light years.
The down side of my celebrity, is that I can not go any where in the world, without soon being recognized. 
The history of colonization on Earth, does not encourage me to think that aliens would be friendly. 
But we don’t know how life first appeared. We have two pieces of observational evidence on the probability of life appearing.
Like everyone else, I need warmth, love and affection. I couldn't carry on with my life if I only had physics. 
I believe science holds the key. 
...before you--before you got inside the black hole. 
How did the universe come into being? Are we alone in the universe? Is there alien life out there?
This is the ultimate question of life, the universe, and everything. 
That science can explain the universe, and that we don't need God to explain why there is something rather than nothing or why the laws of nature are what they are. 
To understand the universe at the deepest level, we need to know not only how the universe behaves, but why. 
For a time after my operation, I was devastated. I felt that if I couldn't get my voice back, it was not worth carrying on. 
The alternative is that civilizations don’t last very long, but destroy themselves.
Do you like that aspect of your life? 
This is known as the first-cause argument for the existence of God. We claim, however, that it is possible to answer these questions purely within the realm of science, and without invoking any divine beings. 
But our genetic code still carries the selfish and aggressive instincts that were of survival advantage in the past.
It might be different from the humanoid forms we depict in our science fiction. 
But this does pose a problem: the problem of free will. 
Moreover, we can calculate a probability that the universe was created in different states. These predictions are in excellent agreement with observations by the WMAP satellite of the cosmic microwave background, which is an imprint of the very early universe.
Our bodies are the hardware; our minds are the software – just like the software that allows me to speak these words. 
An elementary particle, like an electron, can move backwards and forwards in time. When it is travelling forwards in time, it appears to be an electron, but when it is going backwards, it is a positron, a particle of the opposite electric charge, which is the anti particle of the electron. 
We don't know how likely it is for life to develop on a suitable planet. If the probability is very low, the distance between different life forms would be very large. 
I would like to thank you all for your goodwill and affection. I am very fortunate. 
I doubt there is any intelligent life within range of Earth. If there were, why haven't they visited Earth? 
Science is increasingly answering questions that used to be the province of religion. 
If we can get through the next few hundred years, we should have spread out into space. Then an isolated disaster will not wipe out the entire human race. 
I have a full and satisfying life. My work and my family are very important to me. 
It may seem crazy to doubt that our concept of reality is true but I think to find the meaning of life we must answer the question: is there an independent reality or not? 
Check it out! We humans are a curious species; we wonder, we seek answers. So can we answer the greatest question of all? 
I would prefer to say I was determined. If I hadn't been thoroughly determined, I wouldn't be here now. 
I believe everyone should have a broad picture of how the universe operates and our place in it. It is a basic human desire. 
That is a deep philosophical question. I personally could not be happy if I did not understand what was going on, and felt the victim of malicious demons and Gods. 
If that were the case, the governments must be doing a pretty poor job of extracting useful information, and why would the aliens cooperate by appearing only to weirdos and freaks,  that wouldn't be believed? 
Meaning can only ever exist within the confines of the human mind and in this way the meaning of life is not somewhere out there but right between our ears. 
All of my life I have sought to understand the universe and find answers to these questions. I have been very lucky that my disability has not been a serious handicap.
I fit the stereotype of a disabled genius in that I'm clearly disabled, but I'm not a genius like Einstein was. 
Any so called laws of composition, are just an empirical guide to what people like. That is the mistake that many modern composers make. 
On the other hand, we don’t seem to have been visited by aliens. I am discounting the reports of UFOs.
Looking back, I’m pleased, because as things worked out, I would have made a pretty useless doctor. 
What is the future of the human race?
So life appeared on Earth within half a billion years of it being possible, which is short compared to the 10-billion-year lifetime of a planet of Earth type.
It will be difficult enough to avoid disaster in the next hundred years, let alone the next thousand or million.
In my opinion, music has a direct emotional appeal, an effect on the nervous system, that is not capable of rational analysis. 
It was a great shock to be diagnosed with an incurable condition. Why should this happen to me? It wasn't fair. 
I now turn to the second big question: are we alone, or is there other life in the universe? We believe that life arose spontaneously on the Earth, so it must be possible for life to appear on other suitable planets, of which there seem to be a large number in the galaxy.
In the same way, you might imagine that there could be anti people, composed of anti particles, or particles travelling backwards in time. 
The answers to these big questions show that we have made remarkable progress in the last hundred years.
I use God as a metaphor for the laws that govern the universe. So when I say we will know the mind of God, I immediately will understand the universe completely. 
Furthermore, despite an extensive search by the SETI project, we haven’t heard any alien television quiz shows.
This brings me to the last of the big questions: the future of the human race. If we are the only intelligent beings in the galaxy, we should make sure we survive and continue.
I would go forward and find if "M" theory is indeed a theory of everything. 
Why is there something rather than nothing? Why do we exist? Why this particular set of laws and not some other? 
Our only chance of long-term survival is not to remain inward-looking on planet Earth, but to spread out into space.
These two family separate functions must be the same. 
It would be more like the film, Independence Day, than ET. 
We are fairly sure the universe began with a period of accelerating expansion. This is called inflation, because the size of the universe grows in the way prices go up in some countries. 
What is so nice, is that they all seem to like me, and to be pleased to see me. That is very gratifying, and it helps to show disabled people, that they need not be second rate. 
