For fear of harms that preach in our behoof.
He preach'd pure maid, and praised cold chastity.
What with his art in youth, and youth in art,
Of this false jewel, and his amorous spoil.
Enswathed, and seal'd to curious secrecy.
Of pensived and subdued desires the tender,
O most potential love! vow, bond, nor space,
In brief the grounds and motives of her woe.
Came for additions; yet their purposed trim
O, that false fire which in his cheek so glow'd,
Against the thing he sought he would exclaim;
They sought their shame that so their shame did find;
To dwell with him in thoughts, or to remain
Cried 'O false blood, thou register of lies,
Of proofs new-bleeding, which remain'd the foil
Bidding them find their sepulchres in mud;
This said, in top of rage the lines she rents,
''Now all these hearts that do on mine depend,
Sometime a blusterer, that the ruffle knew
Which late her noble suit in court did shun,
Whose bare out-bragg'd the web it seem'd to wear:
A youthful suit--it was to gain my grace--
To blush at speeches rank to weep at woes,
Oft did she heave her napkin to her eyne,
Yet show'd his visage by that cost more dear;
Love's arms are peace, 'gainst rule, 'gainst sense,
When he most burn'd in heart-wish'd luxury,
Shook off my sober guards and civil fears;
Nature hath charged me that I hoard them not,
Could 'scape the hail of his all-hurting aim,
To the orbed earth; sometimes they do extend
And nice affections wavering stood in doubt
Which she perused, sigh'd, tore, and gave the flood;
Though Reason weep, and cry, 'It is thy last.'
All aids, themselves made fairer by their place,
And bastards of his foul adulterate heart.
Nor youth all quit; but, spite of heaven's fell rage,
The deep-green emerald, in whose fresh regard
That th' unexperient gave the tempter place,
Big discontent so breaking their contents.
Sometime diverted their poor balls are tied
To be forbod the sweets that seem so good,
'And long upon these terms I held my city,
For his advantage still did wake and sleep:
I might as yet have been a spreading flower,
When winds breathe sweet, untidy though they be.
Or to turn white and swoon at tragic shows.
A reverend man that grazed his cattle nigh--
Laundering the silken figures in the brine
The one a palate hath that needs will taste,
What largeness thinks in Paradise was sawn.
Of young, of old; and sexes both enchanted,
My woeful self, that did in freedom stand,
'Many there were that did his picture get,
All melting; though our drops this difference bore,
Whereon the thought might think sometime it saw
Of lands and mansions, theirs in thought assign'd;
Pieced not his grace, but were all graced by him.
There my white stole of chastity I daff'd,
Love made them not: with acture they may be,
The swiftest hours, observed as they flew--
The aloes of all forces, shocks, and fears.
In bloodless white and the encrimson'd mood;
'His browny locks did hang in crooked curls;
Storming her world with sorrow's wind and rain.
'So many have, that never touch'd his hand,
Encamp'd in hearts, but fighting outwardly.
For maiden-tongued he was, and thereof free;
'But quickly on this side the verdict went:
Tearing of papers, breaking rings a-twain,
Believed her eyes when they to assail begun,
As they did battery to the spheres intend;
If that from him there may be aught applied
Playing the place which did no form receive,
'For further I could say 'This man's untrue,'
And knew the patterns of his foul beguiling;
Weak sights their sickly radiance do amend;
Time had not scythed all that youth begun,
Figuring that they their passions likewise lent me
Than the true gouty landlord which doth owe them:
With wit well blazon'd, smiled or made some moan.
'His qualities were beauteous as his form,
Of one by nature's outwards so commended,
Or swooning paleness; and he takes and leaves,
What rounds, what bounds, what course, what stop
Found yet moe letters sadly penn'd in blood,
Whose rarest havings made the blossoms dote;
Or monarch's hands that let not bounty fall
Have of my suffering youth some feeling pity,
Harm have I done to them, but ne'er was harm'd;
His poison'd me, and mine did him restore.
Or forced examples, 'gainst her own content,
Ask'd their own wills, and made their wills obey.
'That horse his mettle from his rider takes:
O, how the channel to the stream gave grace!
Playing patient sports in unconstrained gyves?
For some, untuck'd, descended her sheaved hat,
The scars of battle 'scapeth by the flight,
In clamours of all size, both high and low.
And makes her absence valiant, not her might.
Applied to cautels, all strange forms receives,
What's sweet to do, to do will aptly find:
In personal duty, following where he haunted:
Some in her threaden fillet still did bide,
Each eye that saw him did enchant the mind,
With brinish current downward flow'd apace:
Love lack'd a dwelling, and made him her place;
FROM off a hill whose concave womb reworded
Counsel may stop awhile what will not stay;
Their view right on; anon their gazes lend
''Among the many that mine eyes have seen,
Hallow'd with sighs that burning lungs did raise;
By how much of me their reproach contains.
Who, young and simple, would not be so lover'd?
'Father,' she says, 'though in me you behold
The mind and sight distractedly commix'd.
But yield them up where I myself must render,
That maidens' eyes stuck over all his face:
''Look here, what tributes wounded fancies sent me,
O, that sad breath his spongy lungs bestow'd,
With objects manifold: each several stone,
My spirits to attend this double voice accorded,
Reserved the stalk and gave him all my flower.
As compound love to physic your cold breast.
And credent soul to that strong-bonded oath
The heaven-hued sapphire and the opal blend
Some beauty peep'd through lattice of sear'd age.
Sometimes her levell'd eyes their carriage ride,
Her hair, nor loose nor tied in formal plat,
And often reading what contents it bears;
Proclaim'd in her a careless hand of pride
Who glazed with crystal gate the glowing roses
That shall prefer and undertake my troth.'
Yet, if men moved him, was he such a storm
Feeling it break, with bleeding groans they pine;
O, that forced thunder from his heart did fly,
Their kind acceptance weepingly beseech'd,
Of wealth, of filial fear, law, kindred, fame!
The thing we have not, mastering what not strives,
To every place at once, and, nowhere fix'd,
Catching all passions in his craft of will:
''But, O my sweet, what labour is't to leave
Her grievance with his hearing to divide:
Whose sights till then were levell'd on my face;
''And, lo, behold these talents of their hair,
By blunting us to make our wits more keen.
To leave the battery that you make 'gainst mine,
Till thus he gan besiege me: 'Gentle maid,
Whose white weighs down the airy scale of praise;
'Small show of man was yet upon his chin;
And down I laid to list the sad-tuned tale;
She that her fame so to herself contrives,
To make the weeper laugh, the laugher weep,
These often bathed she in her fluxive eyes,
Though slackly braided in loose negligence.
And labouring in moe pleasures to bestow them
''The diamond,--why, 'twas beautiful and hard,
With safest distance I mine honour shielded:
''O, then, advance of yours that phraseless hand,
Thought characters and words merely but art,
Both fire from hence and chill extincture hath.
Not one whose flame my heart so much as warm'd,
And, veil'd in them, did win whom he would maim:
Heard where his plants in others' orchards grew,
Where want cries some, but where excess begs all.
Upon his lips their silken parcels hurls.
That flame through water which their hue encloses.
''When thou impressest, what are precepts worth
Sweetly supposed them mistress of his heart.
In thee hath neither sting, knot, nor confine,
''My parts had power to charm a sacred nun,
To serve their eyes, and in it put their mind;
Saw how deceits were gilded in his smiling;
All replication prompt, and reason strong,
And true to bondage would not break from thence,
For thou art all, and all things else are thine.
Kept hearts in liveries, but mine own was free,
Consents bewitch'd, ere he desire, have granted;
Have emptied all their fountains in my well,
''Lo, all these trophies of affections hot,
'For, lo, his passion, but an art of craft,
Showing fair nature is both kind and tame;
Each stone's dear nature, worth, and quality.
For she was sought by spirits of richest coat,
'This said, his watery eyes he did dismount,
What breast so cold that is not warmed here?
Crack'd many a ring of posied gold and bone
For feasts of love I have been call'd unto,
''How mighty then you are, O, hear me tell!
And often kiss'd, and often 'gan to tear:
Are errors of the blood, none of the mind;
But kept cold distance, and did thence remove,
Take all these similes to your own command,
I strong o'er them, and you o'er me being strong,
And when in his fair parts she did abide,
Towards this afflicted fancy fastly drew,
For these, of force, must your oblations be,
'Well could he ride, and often men would say
And sweetens, in the suffering pangs it bears,
Ink would have seem'd more black and damned here!'
