
James Alexander Philip Theo Mountbatten-Windsor, Earl of Wessex (born 17 December 2007), styled Viscount Severn from his birth until 10 March 2023, is a member of the British royal family. He is the younger child and only son of Prince Edward, Duke of Edinburgh, and Sophie, Duchess of Edinburgh. He is the youngest grandchild of Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, and the youngest nephew of King Charles III. His sister is Lady Louise Windsor. At the time of his birth, he was 8th in the line of succession to the British throne; as of May 2023, he is 14th.
James was born on 17 December 2007, at Frimley Park Hospital, by caesarean section, in Frimley, Surrey. His full name, James Alexander Philip Theo, was announced on 21 December.
He was baptised on 19 April 2008, in the Private Chapel of Windsor Castle by David Conner, the dean of Windsor, and his godparents were Alastair Bruce of Crionaich, Duncan Bullivant, Thomas Hill, Denise Poulton and Jeanye Irwin. He wore a newly made replica of the royal christening gown originally used by Victoria, the eldest child of Queen Victoria, in 1840. It has been worn for most royal christenings since then, and the original gown has now been preserved.
As of 2020[update], James attended Eagle House School, a coeducational preparatory school near Sandhurst in Berkshire.
In April 2015, James and his sister, Lady Louise, participated in their first overseas engagement by accompanying their parents on a trip to South Africa. In September 2020, James participated in the Great British Beach Clean with his family at Southsea Beach in Hampshire, in support of the Marine Conservation Society.
In March 2022, James attended the memorial service for Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. In June 2022 he attended the Platinum Jubilee National Service of Thanksgiving and the Platinum Party at the Palace.
On 17 September 2022, during the period of official mourning for Queen Elizabeth II, James joined his sister and six cousins to mount a 15-minute vigil around the coffin of the late Queen, as it lay in state at Westminster Hall. On 19 September, he joined other family members at the state funeral.
On 6 May 2023, James attended the coronation of his uncle King Charles III at Westminster Abbey, with the rest of the royal family. During the procession from Westminster Abbey to Buckingham Palace, he travelled in one of the horse-drawn coaches with his parents and sister. The next day they attended the Coronation Concert at Windsor Castle.
From his birth until 10 March 2023, James was styled as Viscount Severn, a courtesy title that was his father's subsidiary title. The title Viscount Severn is derived from the Welsh roots of Sophie's family. Harold Brooks-Baker, publishing director of Burke's Peerage said the title was "of little significance", explaining: "Viscount Severn was used by minor members of the royal family years ago. It is an 18th Century title. There is a history of being given a secondary title so the eldest son can have it as a courtesy title."
Letters patent issued in 1917 assign a princely status and the style of Royal Highness to all male-line grandchildren of a sovereign. When his parents married, Buckingham Palace announced that their children would be styled as the children of an earl, rather than as prince or princess. In 2020, his mother stated that James and his sister Louise retained their royal titles and styles and could make a choice on whether to use them from the age of 18.
On the creation of his father as Duke of Edinburgh, James became styled with the courtesy title of Earl of Wessex, that title now being the most senior subsidiary title of his father. As the Dukedom of Edinburgh is a life peerage, James will not inherit it upon his father's death. He is, however, heir apparent to his father's hereditary peerages: Earl of Wessex, Earl of Forfar, and Viscount Severn, and will inherit them from his father.
In June 2008, to recognise a visit by his father to the Canadian province of Manitoba, the Lieutenant Governor of Manitoba named a lake in the north of the province after James. His older sister, Louise, was also honoured with a different lake in the province.
