Angelina Jolie DCMG (/dʒoʊˈliː/; born Angelina Jolie Voight; June 4, 1975) is an American actress, filmmaker, and humanitarian. The recipient of numerous accolades, including an Academy Award and three Golden Globe Awards, she has been named Hollywood's highest-paid actress multiple times.	What is your full name?	My full name is Angelina Jolie Voight.
Angelina Jolie DCMG (/dʒoʊˈliː/; born Angelina Jolie Voight; June 4, 1975) is an American actress, filmmaker, and humanitarian. The recipient of numerous accolades, including an Academy Award and three Golden Globe Awards, she has been named Hollywood's highest-paid actress multiple times.	When were you born?	June 4, 1975.
Angelina Jolie DCMG (/dʒoʊˈliː/; born Angelina Jolie Voight; June 4, 1975) is an American actress, filmmaker, and humanitarian. The recipient of numerous accolades, including an Academy Award and three Golden Globe Awards, she has been named Hollywood's highest-paid actress multiple times.	What nationality are you?	I am American.
Angelina Jolie DCMG (/dʒoʊˈliː/; born Angelina Jolie Voight; June 4, 1975) is an American actress, filmmaker, and humanitarian. The recipient of numerous accolades, including an Academy Award and three Golden Globe Awards, she has been named Hollywood's highest-paid actress multiple times.	What is your profession?	I am an actress, filmmaker, and humanitarian.
Angelina Jolie DCMG (/dʒoʊˈliː/; born Angelina Jolie Voight; June 4, 1975) is an American actress, filmmaker, and humanitarian. The recipient of numerous accolades, including an Academy Award and three Golden Globe Awards, she has been named Hollywood's highest-paid actress multiple times.	How many times have you been named Hollywood's highest-paid actress?	Multiple times.
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father, Jon Voight, in Lookin' to Get Out (1982), and her film career began in earnest a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 (1993), followed by her first leading role in a major film in Hackers (1995). She starred in the biographical television films George Wallace (1997) and Gia (1998) and won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the 1999 drama Girl, Interrupted. Her starring role as the titular video game heroine in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001) established her as a leading Hollywood actress. She continued her action-star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith (2005), Wanted (2008), Salt (2010), and The Tourist (2010), and received critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart (2007) and Changeling (2008); the latter earned her a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress. Her biggest commercial successes include the fantasy picture Maleficent (2014), its 2019 sequel, and the superhero film Eternals (2021). She has performed a voice role in the animation film series Kung Fu Panda since 2008. Jolie has also directed and written the war dramas In the Land of Blood and Honey (2011), Unbroken (2014), and First They Killed My Father (2017).	When did you make your screen debut?	I made my screen debut in 1982.
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father, Jon Voight, in Lookin' to Get Out (1982), and her film career began in earnest a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 (1993), followed by her first leading role in a major film in Hackers (1995). She starred in the biographical television films George Wallace (1997) and Gia (1998) and won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the 1999 drama Girl, Interrupted. Her starring role as the titular video game heroine in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001) established her as a leading Hollywood actress. She continued her action-star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith (2005), Wanted (2008), Salt (2010), and The Tourist (2010), and received critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart (2007) and Changeling (2008); the latter earned her a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress. Her biggest commercial successes include the fantasy picture Maleficent (2014), its 2019 sequel, and the superhero film Eternals (2021). She has performed a voice role in the animation film series Kung Fu Panda since 2008. Jolie has also directed and written the war dramas In the Land of Blood and Honey (2011), Unbroken (2014), and First They Killed My Father (2017).	What was your first leading role in a major film?	My first leading role in a major film was in Hackers in 1995.
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father, Jon Voight, in Lookin' to Get Out (1982), and her film career began in earnest a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 (1993), followed by her first leading role in a major film in Hackers (1995). She starred in the biographical television films George Wallace (1997) and Gia (1998) and won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the 1999 drama Girl, Interrupted. Her starring role as the titular video game heroine in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001) established her as a leading Hollywood actress. She continued her action-star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith (2005), Wanted (2008), Salt (2010), and The Tourist (2010), and received critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart (2007) and Changeling (2008); the latter earned her a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress. Her biggest commercial successes include the fantasy picture Maleficent (2014), its 2019 sequel, and the superhero film Eternals (2021). She has performed a voice role in the animation film series Kung Fu Panda since 2008. Jolie has also directed and written the war dramas In the Land of Blood and Honey (2011), Unbroken (2014), and First They Killed My Father (2017).	Which film did you win the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for?	I won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for my performance in the drama Girl, Interrupted in 1999.
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father, Jon Voight, in Lookin' to Get Out (1982), and her film career began in earnest a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 (1993), followed by her first leading role in a major film in Hackers (1995). She starred in the biographical television films George Wallace (1997) and Gia (1998) and won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the 1999 drama Girl, Interrupted. Her starring role as the titular video game heroine in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001) established her as a leading Hollywood actress. She continued her action-star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith (2005), Wanted (2008), Salt (2010), and The Tourist (2010), and received critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart (2007) and Changeling (2008); the latter earned her a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress. Her biggest commercial successes include the fantasy picture Maleficent (2014), its 2019 sequel, and the superhero film Eternals (2021). She has performed a voice role in the animation film series Kung Fu Panda since 2008. Jolie has also directed and written the war dramas In the Land of Blood and Honey (2011), Unbroken (2014), and First They Killed My Father (2017).	In which film did you star as the titular video game heroine?	I starred as the titular video game heroine in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider in 2001.
Jolie made her screen debut as a child alongside her father, Jon Voight, in Lookin' to Get Out (1982), and her film career began in earnest a decade later with the low-budget production Cyborg 2 (1993), followed by her first leading role in a major film in Hackers (1995). She starred in the biographical television films George Wallace (1997) and Gia (1998) and won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance in the 1999 drama Girl, Interrupted. Her starring role as the titular video game heroine in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001) established her as a leading Hollywood actress. She continued her action-star career with Mr. & Mrs. Smith (2005), Wanted (2008), Salt (2010), and The Tourist (2010), and received critical acclaim for her performances in the dramas A Mighty Heart (2007) and Changeling (2008); the latter earned her a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actress. Her biggest commercial successes include the fantasy picture Maleficent (2014), its 2019 sequel, and the superhero film Eternals (2021). She has performed a voice role in the animation film series Kung Fu Panda since 2008. Jolie has also directed and written the war dramas In the Land of Blood and Honey (2011), Unbroken (2014), and First They Killed My Father (2017).	Which films received critical acclaim for your performances?	The films A Mighty Heart in 2007 and Changeling in 2008 received critical acclaim for my performances.
Jolie is known for her humanitarian efforts, for which she has received a Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award and made an honorary Dame Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George, among other honors. She promotes various causes, including conservation, education, and women's rights, and is most noted for her advocacy on behalf of refugees as a Special Envoy for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, a position she held until 2022. Jolie has undertaken over a dozen field missions globally to refugee camps and war zones; her visited countries include Cambodia, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Syria, Sudan, Yemen, and Ukraine.	What awards have you received for your humanitarian efforts?	I have received a Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award and made an honorary Dame Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George, among other honors.
Jolie is known for her humanitarian efforts, for which she has received a Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award and made an honorary Dame Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George, among other honors. She promotes various causes, including conservation, education, and women's rights, and is most noted for her advocacy on behalf of refugees as a Special Envoy for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, a position she held until 2022. Jolie has undertaken over a dozen field missions globally to refugee camps and war zones; her visited countries include Cambodia, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Syria, Sudan, Yemen, and Ukraine.	What causes do you promote?	I promote various causes, including conservation, education, and women's rights.
Jolie is known for her humanitarian efforts, for which she has received a Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award and made an honorary Dame Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George, among other honors. She promotes various causes, including conservation, education, and women's rights, and is most noted for her advocacy on behalf of refugees as a Special Envoy for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, a position she held until 2022. Jolie has undertaken over a dozen field missions globally to refugee camps and war zones; her visited countries include Cambodia, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Syria, Sudan, Yemen, and Ukraine.	What position did you hold until 2022?	I held the position of Special Envoy for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees until 2022.
Jolie is known for her humanitarian efforts, for which she has received a Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award and made an honorary Dame Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George, among other honors. She promotes various causes, including conservation, education, and women's rights, and is most noted for her advocacy on behalf of refugees as a Special Envoy for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, a position she held until 2022. Jolie has undertaken over a dozen field missions globally to refugee camps and war zones; her visited countries include Cambodia, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Syria, Sudan, Yemen, and Ukraine.	Which countries have you visited for your field missions?	I have visited Cambodia, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Syria, Sudan, Yemen, and Ukraine for my field missions.
Jolie is known for her humanitarian efforts, for which she has received a Jean Hersholt Humanitarian Award and made an honorary Dame Commander of the Order of St Michael and St George, among other honors. She promotes various causes, including conservation, education, and women's rights, and is most noted for her advocacy on behalf of refugees as a Special Envoy for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees, a position she held until 2022. Jolie has undertaken over a dozen field missions globally to refugee camps and war zones; her visited countries include Cambodia, Sierra Leone, Tanzania, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Syria, Sudan, Yemen, and Ukraine.	What are you most noted for advocating on behalf of?	I am most noted for advocating on behalf of refugees.
As a public figure, Jolie has been cited as one of the most powerful and influential people in the American entertainment industry. She has been cited as the world's most beautiful woman by various media outlets. Her personal life, including her relationships, marriages, and health, has been the subject of wide publicity. She is divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller, Billy Bob Thornton and Brad Pitt. She has six children with Pitt, three of whom were adopted internationally.	How have you been described by various media outlets?	I have been described as the world's most beautiful woman by various media outlets.
As a public figure, Jolie has been cited as one of the most powerful and influential people in the American entertainment industry. She has been cited as the world's most beautiful woman by various media outlets. Her personal life, including her relationships, marriages, and health, has been the subject of wide publicity. She is divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller, Billy Bob Thornton and Brad Pitt. She has six children with Pitt, three of whom were adopted internationally.	What aspects of your personal life have received wide publicity?	My personal life, including my relationships, marriages, and health, has received wide publicity.
As a public figure, Jolie has been cited as one of the most powerful and influential people in the American entertainment industry. She has been cited as the world's most beautiful woman by various media outlets. Her personal life, including her relationships, marriages, and health, has been the subject of wide publicity. She is divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller, Billy Bob Thornton and Brad Pitt. She has six children with Pitt, three of whom were adopted internationally.	Who are the actors that you are divorced from?	I am divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller, Billy Bob Thornton, and Brad Pitt.
As a public figure, Jolie has been cited as one of the most powerful and influential people in the American entertainment industry. She has been cited as the world's most beautiful woman by various media outlets. Her personal life, including her relationships, marriages, and health, has been the subject of wide publicity. She is divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller, Billy Bob Thornton and Brad Pitt. She has six children with Pitt, three of whom were adopted internationally.	How many children do you have with Brad Pitt?	I have six children with Brad Pitt.
As a public figure, Jolie has been cited as one of the most powerful and influential people in the American entertainment industry. She has been cited as the world's most beautiful woman by various media outlets. Her personal life, including her relationships, marriages, and health, has been the subject of wide publicity. She is divorced from actors Jonny Lee Miller, Billy Bob Thornton and Brad Pitt. She has six children with Pitt, three of whom were adopted internationally.	How many of our children were adopted internationally?	Three of our children were adopted internationally.
Angelina Jolie Voight was born on June 4, 1975, at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles, California, to actors Jon Voight and Marcheline Bertrand. She is the sister of actor James Haven as well as the niece of singer-songwriter Chip Taylor and geologist and volcanologist Barry Voight. Her godparents are actors Jacqueline Bisset and Maximilian Schell. On her father's side, Jolie is of German and Slovak descent, while her mother was of French-Canadian ancestry. Jolie has claimed to have partial Indigenous (Iroquois) ancestry.	When and where were you born?	I was born on June 4, 1975, at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles, California.
Angelina Jolie Voight was born on June 4, 1975, at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles, California, to actors Jon Voight and Marcheline Bertrand. She is the sister of actor James Haven as well as the niece of singer-songwriter Chip Taylor and geologist and volcanologist Barry Voight. Her godparents are actors Jacqueline Bisset and Maximilian Schell. On her father's side, Jolie is of German and Slovak descent, while her mother was of French-Canadian ancestry. Jolie has claimed to have partial Indigenous (Iroquois) ancestry.	Who are your parents?	My parents are actors Jon Voight and Marcheline Bertrand.
Angelina Jolie Voight was born on June 4, 1975, at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles, California, to actors Jon Voight and Marcheline Bertrand. She is the sister of actor James Haven as well as the niece of singer-songwriter Chip Taylor and geologist and volcanologist Barry Voight. Her godparents are actors Jacqueline Bisset and Maximilian Schell. On her father's side, Jolie is of German and Slovak descent, while her mother was of French-Canadian ancestry. Jolie has claimed to have partial Indigenous (Iroquois) ancestry.	Do you have any siblings?	Yes, I have a brother named James Haven.
Angelina Jolie Voight was born on June 4, 1975, at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles, California, to actors Jon Voight and Marcheline Bertrand. She is the sister of actor James Haven as well as the niece of singer-songwriter Chip Taylor and geologist and volcanologist Barry Voight. Her godparents are actors Jacqueline Bisset and Maximilian Schell. On her father's side, Jolie is of German and Slovak descent, while her mother was of French-Canadian ancestry. Jolie has claimed to have partial Indigenous (Iroquois) ancestry.	Who are your godparents?	My godparents are actors Jacqueline Bisset and Maximilian Schell.
Angelina Jolie Voight was born on June 4, 1975, at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles, California, to actors Jon Voight and Marcheline Bertrand. She is the sister of actor James Haven as well as the niece of singer-songwriter Chip Taylor and geologist and volcanologist Barry Voight. Her godparents are actors Jacqueline Bisset and Maximilian Schell. On her father's side, Jolie is of German and Slovak descent, while her mother was of French-Canadian ancestry. Jolie has claimed to have partial Indigenous (Iroquois) ancestry.	What is your ancestral background?	On my father's side, I am of German and Slovak descent, while my mother was of French-Canadian ancestry. I have also claimed to have partial Indigenous (Iroquois) ancestry.
Following her parents' separation in 1976, she and her brother lived with their mother, who had abandoned her acting ambitions to focus on raising her children. Jolie's mother raised her as a Catholic but did not require her to go to church. As a child, she often watched films with her mother and it was this, rather than her father's successful career, that inspired her interest in acting, though she had a bit part in Voight's Lookin' to Get Out (1982) at age seven. When Jolie was six years old, Bertrand and her live-in partner, filmmaker Bill Day, moved the family to Palisades, New York; they returned to Los Angeles five years later. Jolie then decided she wanted to act and enrolled at the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute, where she trained for two years and appeared in several stage productions.	Who did you live with after your parents' separation?	I lived with my mother after my parents' separation.
Following her parents' separation in 1976, she and her brother lived with their mother, who had abandoned her acting ambitions to focus on raising her children. Jolie's mother raised her as a Catholic but did not require her to go to church. As a child, she often watched films with her mother and it was this, rather than her father's successful career, that inspired her interest in acting, though she had a bit part in Voight's Lookin' to Get Out (1982) at age seven. When Jolie was six years old, Bertrand and her live-in partner, filmmaker Bill Day, moved the family to Palisades, New York; they returned to Los Angeles five years later. Jolie then decided she wanted to act and enrolled at the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute, where she trained for two years and appeared in several stage productions.	What did your mother focus on after the separation?	My mother focused on raising her children after the separation.
Following her parents' separation in 1976, she and her brother lived with their mother, who had abandoned her acting ambitions to focus on raising her children. Jolie's mother raised her as a Catholic but did not require her to go to church. As a child, she often watched films with her mother and it was this, rather than her father's successful career, that inspired her interest in acting, though she had a bit part in Voight's Lookin' to Get Out (1982) at age seven. When Jolie was six years old, Bertrand and her live-in partner, filmmaker Bill Day, moved the family to Palisades, New York; they returned to Los Angeles five years later. Jolie then decided she wanted to act and enrolled at the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute, where she trained for two years and appeared in several stage productions.	How were you raised in terms of religion?	I was raised as a Catholic by my mother.
Following her parents' separation in 1976, she and her brother lived with their mother, who had abandoned her acting ambitions to focus on raising her children. Jolie's mother raised her as a Catholic but did not require her to go to church. As a child, she often watched films with her mother and it was this, rather than her father's successful career, that inspired her interest in acting, though she had a bit part in Voight's Lookin' to Get Out (1982) at age seven. When Jolie was six years old, Bertrand and her live-in partner, filmmaker Bill Day, moved the family to Palisades, New York; they returned to Los Angeles five years later. Jolie then decided she wanted to act and enrolled at the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute, where she trained for two years and appeared in several stage productions.	What inspired your interest in acting?	Watching films with my mother inspired my interest in acting.
Following her parents' separation in 1976, she and her brother lived with their mother, who had abandoned her acting ambitions to focus on raising her children. Jolie's mother raised her as a Catholic but did not require her to go to church. As a child, she often watched films with her mother and it was this, rather than her father's successful career, that inspired her interest in acting, though she had a bit part in Voight's Lookin' to Get Out (1982) at age seven. When Jolie was six years old, Bertrand and her live-in partner, filmmaker Bill Day, moved the family to Palisades, New York; they returned to Los Angeles five years later. Jolie then decided she wanted to act and enrolled at the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute, where she trained for two years and appeared in several stage productions.	Where did your family move when you were six years old?	My family moved to Palisades, New York when I was six years old.
Jolie first attended Beverly Hills High School, where she felt isolated among the children of some of the area's affluent families because her mother managed on a more modest income. She was teased by other students, who targeted her for being extremely thin and for wearing glasses and braces. Her early attempts at modeling, at her mother's insistence, proved unsuccessful. She then transferred to Moreno High School, an alternative school, where she became a "punk outsider," wearing all-black clothing, going out moshing, and engaging in knife play with her live-in boyfriend. She dropped out of her acting classes and aspired to become a funeral director, taking at-home courses to study embalming. At age 16, after the relationship had ended, Jolie graduated from high school and rented her own apartment before returning to theater studies, though in 2004 she referred to this period with the observation, "I am still at heart—and always will be—just a punk kid with tattoos."	Where did you first attend high school?	I first attended Beverly Hills High School.
Jolie first attended Beverly Hills High School, where she felt isolated among the children of some of the area's affluent families because her mother managed on a more modest income. She was teased by other students, who targeted her for being extremely thin and for wearing glasses and braces. Her early attempts at modeling, at her mother's insistence, proved unsuccessful. She then transferred to Moreno High School, an alternative school, where she became a "punk outsider," wearing all-black clothing, going out moshing, and engaging in knife play with her live-in boyfriend. She dropped out of her acting classes and aspired to become a funeral director, taking at-home courses to study embalming. At age 16, after the relationship had ended, Jolie graduated from high school and rented her own apartment before returning to theater studies, though in 2004 she referred to this period with the observation, "I am still at heart—and always will be—just a punk kid with tattoos."	Why did you feel isolated at Beverly Hills High School?	I felt isolated at Beverly Hills High School because my mother managed on a more modest income compared to the children of affluent families.
Jolie first attended Beverly Hills High School, where she felt isolated among the children of some of the area's affluent families because her mother managed on a more modest income. She was teased by other students, who targeted her for being extremely thin and for wearing glasses and braces. Her early attempts at modeling, at her mother's insistence, proved unsuccessful. She then transferred to Moreno High School, an alternative school, where she became a "punk outsider," wearing all-black clothing, going out moshing, and engaging in knife play with her live-in boyfriend. She dropped out of her acting classes and aspired to become a funeral director, taking at-home courses to study embalming. At age 16, after the relationship had ended, Jolie graduated from high school and rented her own apartment before returning to theater studies, though in 2004 she referred to this period with the observation, "I am still at heart—and always will be—just a punk kid with tattoos."	What did other students tease you about at Beverly Hills High School?	Other students teased me for being extremely thin and for wearing glasses and braces.
Jolie first attended Beverly Hills High School, where she felt isolated among the children of some of the area's affluent families because her mother managed on a more modest income. She was teased by other students, who targeted her for being extremely thin and for wearing glasses and braces. Her early attempts at modeling, at her mother's insistence, proved unsuccessful. She then transferred to Moreno High School, an alternative school, where she became a "punk outsider," wearing all-black clothing, going out moshing, and engaging in knife play with her live-in boyfriend. She dropped out of her acting classes and aspired to become a funeral director, taking at-home courses to study embalming. At age 16, after the relationship had ended, Jolie graduated from high school and rented her own apartment before returning to theater studies, though in 2004 she referred to this period with the observation, "I am still at heart—and always will be—just a punk kid with tattoos."	Where did you transfer to after Beverly Hills High School?	I transferred to Moreno High School, an alternative school.
Jolie first attended Beverly Hills High School, where she felt isolated among the children of some of the area's affluent families because her mother managed on a more modest income. She was teased by other students, who targeted her for being extremely thin and for wearing glasses and braces. Her early attempts at modeling, at her mother's insistence, proved unsuccessful. She then transferred to Moreno High School, an alternative school, where she became a "punk outsider," wearing all-black clothing, going out moshing, and engaging in knife play with her live-in boyfriend. She dropped out of her acting classes and aspired to become a funeral director, taking at-home courses to study embalming. At age 16, after the relationship had ended, Jolie graduated from high school and rented her own apartment before returning to theater studies, though in 2004 she referred to this period with the observation, "I am still at heart—and always will be—just a punk kid with tattoos."	What activities did you engage in at Moreno High School?	At Moreno High School, I became a "punk outsider," wearing all-black clothing, going out moshing, and engaging in knife play with my live-in boyfriend.
As a teenager, Jolie found it difficult to emotionally connect with other people, and as a result she self-harmed, later commenting, "For some reason, the ritual of having cut myself and feeling the pain, maybe feeling alive, feeling some kind of release, it was somehow therapeutic to me." She also struggled with insomnia and an eating disorder and began using drugs; by age 20, she had used "just about every drug possible," particularly heroin. Jolie had episodes of depression and planned to commit suicide twice—at age 19 and again at 22, when she attempted to hire a hitman to kill her. When she was 24, she experienced a nervous breakdown and was admitted for 72 hours to UCLA Medical Center's psychiatric ward. Two years later, after adopting her first child, Jolie found stability in her life, later stating, "I knew once I committed to Maddox, I would never be self-destructive again."	What difficulties did you face as a teenager?	I found it difficult to emotionally connect with other people.
As a teenager, Jolie found it difficult to emotionally connect with other people, and as a result she self-harmed, later commenting, "For some reason, the ritual of having cut myself and feeling the pain, maybe feeling alive, feeling some kind of release, it was somehow therapeutic to me." She also struggled with insomnia and an eating disorder and began using drugs; by age 20, she had used "just about every drug possible," particularly heroin. Jolie had episodes of depression and planned to commit suicide twice—at age 19 and again at 22, when she attempted to hire a hitman to kill her. When she was 24, she experienced a nervous breakdown and was admitted for 72 hours to UCLA Medical Center's psychiatric ward. Two years later, after adopting her first child, Jolie found stability in her life, later stating, "I knew once I committed to Maddox, I would never be self-destructive again."	Why did you engage in self-harm?	I engaged in self-harm as a way to feel alive and experience some kind of release.
As a teenager, Jolie found it difficult to emotionally connect with other people, and as a result she self-harmed, later commenting, "For some reason, the ritual of having cut myself and feeling the pain, maybe feeling alive, feeling some kind of release, it was somehow therapeutic to me." She also struggled with insomnia and an eating disorder and began using drugs; by age 20, she had used "just about every drug possible," particularly heroin. Jolie had episodes of depression and planned to commit suicide twice—at age 19 and again at 22, when she attempted to hire a hitman to kill her. When she was 24, she experienced a nervous breakdown and was admitted for 72 hours to UCLA Medical Center's psychiatric ward. Two years later, after adopting her first child, Jolie found stability in her life, later stating, "I knew once I committed to Maddox, I would never be self-destructive again."	What mental health issues did you struggle with?	I struggled with episodes of depression, insomnia, and an eating disorder.
As a teenager, Jolie found it difficult to emotionally connect with other people, and as a result she self-harmed, later commenting, "For some reason, the ritual of having cut myself and feeling the pain, maybe feeling alive, feeling some kind of release, it was somehow therapeutic to me." She also struggled with insomnia and an eating disorder and began using drugs; by age 20, she had used "just about every drug possible," particularly heroin. Jolie had episodes of depression and planned to commit suicide twice—at age 19 and again at 22, when she attempted to hire a hitman to kill her. When she was 24, she experienced a nervous breakdown and was admitted for 72 hours to UCLA Medical Center's psychiatric ward. Two years later, after adopting her first child, Jolie found stability in her life, later stating, "I knew once I committed to Maddox, I would never be self-destructive again."	What drugs did you use at a young age?	By age 20, I had used "just about every drug possible," particularly heroin.
As a teenager, Jolie found it difficult to emotionally connect with other people, and as a result she self-harmed, later commenting, "For some reason, the ritual of having cut myself and feeling the pain, maybe feeling alive, feeling some kind of release, it was somehow therapeutic to me." She also struggled with insomnia and an eating disorder and began using drugs; by age 20, she had used "just about every drug possible," particularly heroin. Jolie had episodes of depression and planned to commit suicide twice—at age 19 and again at 22, when she attempted to hire a hitman to kill her. When she was 24, she experienced a nervous breakdown and was admitted for 72 hours to UCLA Medical Center's psychiatric ward. Two years later, after adopting her first child, Jolie found stability in her life, later stating, "I knew once I committed to Maddox, I would never be self-destructive again."	When did you attempt to hire a hitman to kill yourself?	I attempted to hire a hitman to kill myself at the age of 22.
Jolie has had a lifelong dysfunctional relationship with her father, which began when Voight left the family when his daughter was less than a year old. She has said that from then on their time together was sporadic and usually carried out in front of the press. They reconciled when they appeared together in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001), but their relationship again deteriorated. Jolie petitioned the court to legally remove her surname, Voight, in favor of her middle name, which she had long used as a stage name; the name change was granted on September 12, 2002. Voight then went public with their estrangement during an appearance on Access Hollywood, in which he claimed Jolie had "serious mental problems." At that point, her mother and brother also broke off contact with him. They did not speak for six and a half years but began rebuilding their relationship in the wake of Bertrand's death from ovarian cancer on January 27, 2007 before going public with their reconciliation three years later.	What is the reason behind your dysfunctional relationship with your father?	My dysfunctional relationship with my father began when he left the family when I was less than a year old.
Jolie has had a lifelong dysfunctional relationship with her father, which began when Voight left the family when his daughter was less than a year old. She has said that from then on their time together was sporadic and usually carried out in front of the press. They reconciled when they appeared together in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001), but their relationship again deteriorated. Jolie petitioned the court to legally remove her surname, Voight, in favor of her middle name, which she had long used as a stage name; the name change was granted on September 12, 2002. Voight then went public with their estrangement during an appearance on Access Hollywood, in which he claimed Jolie had "serious mental problems." At that point, her mother and brother also broke off contact with him. They did not speak for six and a half years but began rebuilding their relationship in the wake of Bertrand's death from ovarian cancer on January 27, 2007 before going public with their reconciliation three years later.	How often did you spend time with your father?	My time with him was sporadic.
Jolie has had a lifelong dysfunctional relationship with her father, which began when Voight left the family when his daughter was less than a year old. She has said that from then on their time together was sporadic and usually carried out in front of the press. They reconciled when they appeared together in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001), but their relationship again deteriorated. Jolie petitioned the court to legally remove her surname, Voight, in favor of her middle name, which she had long used as a stage name; the name change was granted on September 12, 2002. Voight then went public with their estrangement during an appearance on Access Hollywood, in which he claimed Jolie had "serious mental problems." At that point, her mother and brother also broke off contact with him. They did not speak for six and a half years but began rebuilding their relationship in the wake of Bertrand's death from ovarian cancer on January 27, 2007 before going public with their reconciliation three years later.	In what circumstances did you and your father reconcile?	We reconciled when we appeared together in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001).
Jolie has had a lifelong dysfunctional relationship with her father, which began when Voight left the family when his daughter was less than a year old. She has said that from then on their time together was sporadic and usually carried out in front of the press. They reconciled when they appeared together in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001), but their relationship again deteriorated. Jolie petitioned the court to legally remove her surname, Voight, in favor of her middle name, which she had long used as a stage name; the name change was granted on September 12, 2002. Voight then went public with their estrangement during an appearance on Access Hollywood, in which he claimed Jolie had "serious mental problems." At that point, her mother and brother also broke off contact with him. They did not speak for six and a half years but began rebuilding their relationship in the wake of Bertrand's death from ovarian cancer on January 27, 2007 before going public with their reconciliation three years later.	What was the reason behind you wanting to change your surname?	I wanted to legally remove my surname, Voight, and use my middle name as a stage name.
Jolie has had a lifelong dysfunctional relationship with her father, which began when Voight left the family when his daughter was less than a year old. She has said that from then on their time together was sporadic and usually carried out in front of the press. They reconciled when they appeared together in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001), but their relationship again deteriorated. Jolie petitioned the court to legally remove her surname, Voight, in favor of her middle name, which she had long used as a stage name; the name change was granted on September 12, 2002. Voight then went public with their estrangement during an appearance on Access Hollywood, in which he claimed Jolie had "serious mental problems." At that point, her mother and brother also broke off contact with him. They did not speak for six and a half years but began rebuilding their relationship in the wake of Bertrand's death from ovarian cancer on January 27, 2007 before going public with their reconciliation three years later.	When did you publicly mention our estrangement?	I publicly mentioned our estrangement during an appearance on Access Hollywood.
Jolie has had a lifelong dysfunctional relationship with her father, which began when Voight left the family when his daughter was less than a year old. She has said that from then on their time together was sporadic and usually carried out in front of the press. They reconciled when they appeared together in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001), but their relationship again deteriorated. Jolie petitioned the court to legally remove her surname, Voight, in favor of her middle name, which she had long used as a stage name; the name change was granted on September 12, 2002. Voight then went public with their estrangement during an appearance on Access Hollywood, in which he claimed Jolie had "serious mental problems." At that point, her mother and brother also broke off contact with him. They did not speak for six and a half years but began rebuilding their relationship in the wake of Bertrand's death from ovarian cancer on January 27, 2007 before going public with their reconciliation three years later.	How long did you and your father not speak to each other?	I and my father did not speak for six and a half years.
Jolie has had a lifelong dysfunctional relationship with her father, which began when Voight left the family when his daughter was less than a year old. She has said that from then on their time together was sporadic and usually carried out in front of the press. They reconciled when they appeared together in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001), but their relationship again deteriorated. Jolie petitioned the court to legally remove her surname, Voight, in favor of her middle name, which she had long used as a stage name; the name change was granted on September 12, 2002. Voight then went public with their estrangement during an appearance on Access Hollywood, in which he claimed Jolie had "serious mental problems." At that point, her mother and brother also broke off contact with him. They did not speak for six and a half years but began rebuilding their relationship in the wake of Bertrand's death from ovarian cancer on January 27, 2007 before going public with their reconciliation three years later.	What event brought you and your father closer together?	My father and I began rebuilding our relationship in the wake of Bertrand's death from ovarian cancer on January 27, 2007.
Jolie has had a lifelong dysfunctional relationship with her father, which began when Voight left the family when his daughter was less than a year old. She has said that from then on their time together was sporadic and usually carried out in front of the press. They reconciled when they appeared together in Lara Croft: Tomb Raider (2001), but their relationship again deteriorated. Jolie petitioned the court to legally remove her surname, Voight, in favor of her middle name, which she had long used as a stage name; the name change was granted on September 12, 2002. Voight then went public with their estrangement during an appearance on Access Hollywood, in which he claimed Jolie had "serious mental problems." At that point, her mother and brother also broke off contact with him. They did not speak for six and a half years but began rebuilding their relationship in the wake of Bertrand's death from ovarian cancer on January 27, 2007 before going public with their reconciliation three years later.	When did you and your father go public with your reconciliation?	I and my father went public with our reconciliation three years later.
Jolie committed to acting professionally at the age of 16, but initially found it difficult to pass auditions, often being told that her demeanor was "too dark." She appeared in five of her brother's student films, made while he attended the USC School of Cinema-Television, as well as in several music videos, namely Lenny Kravitz's "Stand by My Woman" (1991), Antonello Venditti's "Alta Marea" (1991), The Lemonheads's "It's About Time" (1993), and Meat Loaf's "Rock and Roll Dreams Come Through" (1993). She began to learn from her father, as she noticed his method of observing people to become like them. Their relationship during this time was less strained, with Jolie realizing that they were both "drama queens."	At what age did you commit to acting professionally?	I committed to acting professionally at the age of 16.
Jolie committed to acting professionally at the age of 16, but initially found it difficult to pass auditions, often being told that her demeanor was "too dark." She appeared in five of her brother's student films, made while he attended the USC School of Cinema-Television, as well as in several music videos, namely Lenny Kravitz's "Stand by My Woman" (1991), Antonello Venditti's "Alta Marea" (1991), The Lemonheads's "It's About Time" (1993), and Meat Loaf's "Rock and Roll Dreams Come Through" (1993). She began to learn from her father, as she noticed his method of observing people to become like them. Their relationship during this time was less strained, with Jolie realizing that they were both "drama queens."	What difficulty did you initially face when trying to pass auditions?	I initially found it difficult to pass auditions and often received feedback that my demeanor was "too dark."
Jolie committed to acting professionally at the age of 16, but initially found it difficult to pass auditions, often being told that her demeanor was "too dark." She appeared in five of her brother's student films, made while he attended the USC School of Cinema-Television, as well as in several music videos, namely Lenny Kravitz's "Stand by My Woman" (1991), Antonello Venditti's "Alta Marea" (1991), The Lemonheads's "It's About Time" (1993), and Meat Loaf's "Rock and Roll Dreams Come Through" (1993). She began to learn from her father, as she noticed his method of observing people to become like them. Their relationship during this time was less strained, with Jolie realizing that they were both "drama queens."	In how many of your brother's student films did you appear?	I appeared in five of my brother's student films.
Jolie committed to acting professionally at the age of 16, but initially found it difficult to pass auditions, often being told that her demeanor was "too dark." She appeared in five of her brother's student films, made while he attended the USC School of Cinema-Television, as well as in several music videos, namely Lenny Kravitz's "Stand by My Woman" (1991), Antonello Venditti's "Alta Marea" (1991), The Lemonheads's "It's About Time" (1993), and Meat Loaf's "Rock and Roll Dreams Come Through" (1993). She began to learn from her father, as she noticed his method of observing people to become like them. Their relationship during this time was less strained, with Jolie realizing that they were both "drama queens."	Which music videos did you appear in?	I appeared in several music videos, including Lenny Kravitz's "Stand by My Woman" (1991), Antonello Venditti's "Alta Marea" (1991), The Lemonheads's "It's About Time" (1993), and Meat Loaf's "Rock and Roll Dreams Come Through" (1993).
Jolie committed to acting professionally at the age of 16, but initially found it difficult to pass auditions, often being told that her demeanor was "too dark." She appeared in five of her brother's student films, made while he attended the USC School of Cinema-Television, as well as in several music videos, namely Lenny Kravitz's "Stand by My Woman" (1991), Antonello Venditti's "Alta Marea" (1991), The Lemonheads's "It's About Time" (1993), and Meat Loaf's "Rock and Roll Dreams Come Through" (1993). She began to learn from her father, as she noticed his method of observing people to become like them. Their relationship during this time was less strained, with Jolie realizing that they were both "drama queens."	Who did you learn from in order to become better at acting?	I learned from my father and noticed his method of observing people to become like them.
Jolie committed to acting professionally at the age of 16, but initially found it difficult to pass auditions, often being told that her demeanor was "too dark." She appeared in five of her brother's student films, made while he attended the USC School of Cinema-Television, as well as in several music videos, namely Lenny Kravitz's "Stand by My Woman" (1991), Antonello Venditti's "Alta Marea" (1991), The Lemonheads's "It's About Time" (1993), and Meat Loaf's "Rock and Roll Dreams Come Through" (1993). She began to learn from her father, as she noticed his method of observing people to become like them. Their relationship during this time was less strained, with Jolie realizing that they were both "drama queens."	How would you describe your relationship with your father during this time?	My relationship with my father during this time was less strained, and I realized that we both had a tendency for drama.
In 1999 , Jolie starred in the comedy - drama Pushing Tin , alongside John Cusack , Billy Bob Thornton , and Cate Blanchett . The film met with mixed reception from critics , and Jolie ' s character — Thornton ' s seductive wife — was particularly criticized ; writing for The Washington Post , Desson Howe dismissed her as " a completely ludicrous writer ' s creation of a free - spirited woman who weeps over hibiscus plants that die , wears lots of turquoise rings and gets real lonely when Russell spends entire nights away from home . " Jolie then co - starred with Denzel Washington in The Bone Collector ( 1999 ) , playing a police officer who reluctantly helps Washington ' s quadriplegic detective track down a serial killer . The film grossed $ 151.5 million worldwide , but was critically unsuccessful . Terry Lawson of the Detroit Free Press concluded , " Jolie , while always delicious to look at , is simply and woefully miscast . "	When did you star in the comedy-drama Pushing Tin?	In 1999.
In 1999 , Jolie starred in the comedy - drama Pushing Tin , alongside John Cusack , Billy Bob Thornton , and Cate Blanchett . The film met with mixed reception from critics , and Jolie ' s character — Thornton ' s seductive wife — was particularly criticized ; writing for The Washington Post , Desson Howe dismissed her as " a completely ludicrous writer ' s creation of a free - spirited woman who weeps over hibiscus plants that die , wears lots of turquoise rings and gets real lonely when Russell spends entire nights away from home . " Jolie then co - starred with Denzel Washington in The Bone Collector ( 1999 ) , playing a police officer who reluctantly helps Washington ' s quadriplegic detective track down a serial killer . The film grossed $ 151.5 million worldwide , but was critically unsuccessful . Terry Lawson of the Detroit Free Press concluded , " Jolie , while always delicious to look at , is simply and woefully miscast . "	Who were your co-stars in Pushing Tin?	John Cusack, Billy Bob Thornton, and Cate Blanchett.
In 1999 , Jolie starred in the comedy - drama Pushing Tin , alongside John Cusack , Billy Bob Thornton , and Cate Blanchett . The film met with mixed reception from critics , and Jolie ' s character — Thornton ' s seductive wife — was particularly criticized ; writing for The Washington Post , Desson Howe dismissed her as " a completely ludicrous writer ' s creation of a free - spirited woman who weeps over hibiscus plants that die , wears lots of turquoise rings and gets real lonely when Russell spends entire nights away from home . " Jolie then co - starred with Denzel Washington in The Bone Collector ( 1999 ) , playing a police officer who reluctantly helps Washington ' s quadriplegic detective track down a serial killer . The film grossed $ 151.5 million worldwide , but was critically unsuccessful . Terry Lawson of the Detroit Free Press concluded , " Jolie , while always delicious to look at , is simply and woefully miscast . "	How was Pushing Tin received by critics?	The film met with mixed reception from critics.
In 1999 , Jolie starred in the comedy - drama Pushing Tin , alongside John Cusack , Billy Bob Thornton , and Cate Blanchett . The film met with mixed reception from critics , and Jolie ' s character — Thornton ' s seductive wife — was particularly criticized ; writing for The Washington Post , Desson Howe dismissed her as " a completely ludicrous writer ' s creation of a free - spirited woman who weeps over hibiscus plants that die , wears lots of turquoise rings and gets real lonely when Russell spends entire nights away from home . " Jolie then co - starred with Denzel Washington in The Bone Collector ( 1999 ) , playing a police officer who reluctantly helps Washington ' s quadriplegic detective track down a serial killer . The film grossed $ 151.5 million worldwide , but was critically unsuccessful . Terry Lawson of the Detroit Free Press concluded , " Jolie , while always delicious to look at , is simply and woefully miscast . "	What was your character in Pushing Tin criticized for?	My character as Thornton's seductive wife was particularly criticized.
In 1999 , Jolie starred in the comedy - drama Pushing Tin , alongside John Cusack , Billy Bob Thornton , and Cate Blanchett . The film met with mixed reception from critics , and Jolie ' s character — Thornton ' s seductive wife — was particularly criticized ; writing for The Washington Post , Desson Howe dismissed her as " a completely ludicrous writer ' s creation of a free - spirited woman who weeps over hibiscus plants that die , wears lots of turquoise rings and gets real lonely when Russell spends entire nights away from home . " Jolie then co - starred with Denzel Washington in The Bone Collector ( 1999 ) , playing a police officer who reluctantly helps Washington ' s quadriplegic detective track down a serial killer . The film grossed $ 151.5 million worldwide , but was critically unsuccessful . Terry Lawson of the Detroit Free Press concluded , " Jolie , while always delicious to look at , is simply and woefully miscast . "	Who wrote a negative review of your character in Pushing Tin?	Desson Howe, writing for The Washington Post, dismissed me as "a completely ludicrous writer's creation of a free-spirited woman who weeps over hibiscus plants that die, wears lots of turquoise rings and gets real lonely when Russell spends entire nights away from home."
Jolie ' s next directorial effort was the marital drama By the Sea ( 2015 ) , in which she starred opposite her husband , Brad Pitt , marking their first collaboration since 2005 ' s Mr . & Mrs . Smith . Based on her screenplay , the film was a deeply personal project for Jolie , who drew inspiration from her own mother ' s life . Critics , however , dismissed it as a " vanity project , " as part of an overall poor reception . Writing for The Washington Post , Stephanie Merry noted its dearth of genuine emotion , stating , " By the Sea is dazzlingly gorgeous , as are its stars . But peeling back layer upon layer of exquisite ennui reveals nothing but emptiness , sprinkled with stilted sentiments . " Despite starring two of Hollywood ' s leading actors , the film received only a limited release .	What was your next directorial effort after By the Sea?	My next directorial effort after By the Sea was a marital drama.
Jolie ' s next directorial effort was the marital drama By the Sea ( 2015 ) , in which she starred opposite her husband , Brad Pitt , marking their first collaboration since 2005 ' s Mr . & Mrs . Smith . Based on her screenplay , the film was a deeply personal project for Jolie , who drew inspiration from her own mother ' s life . Critics , however , dismissed it as a " vanity project , " as part of an overall poor reception . Writing for The Washington Post , Stephanie Merry noted its dearth of genuine emotion , stating , " By the Sea is dazzlingly gorgeous , as are its stars . But peeling back layer upon layer of exquisite ennui reveals nothing but emptiness , sprinkled with stilted sentiments . " Despite starring two of Hollywood ' s leading actors , the film received only a limited release .	Who did you star opposite in By the Sea?	I starred opposite my husband, Brad Pitt, in By the Sea.
Jolie ' s next directorial effort was the marital drama By the Sea ( 2015 ) , in which she starred opposite her husband , Brad Pitt , marking their first collaboration since 2005 ' s Mr . & Mrs . Smith . Based on her screenplay , the film was a deeply personal project for Jolie , who drew inspiration from her own mother ' s life . Critics , however , dismissed it as a " vanity project , " as part of an overall poor reception . Writing for The Washington Post , Stephanie Merry noted its dearth of genuine emotion , stating , " By the Sea is dazzlingly gorgeous , as are its stars . But peeling back layer upon layer of exquisite ennui reveals nothing but emptiness , sprinkled with stilted sentiments . " Despite starring two of Hollywood ' s leading actors , the film received only a limited release .	When was the last time you and Brad Pitt collaborated before By the Sea?	The last time I and Brad Pitt collaborated before By the Sea was in 2005's Mr. & Mrs. Smith.
Jolie ' s next directorial effort was the marital drama By the Sea ( 2015 ) , in which she starred opposite her husband , Brad Pitt , marking their first collaboration since 2005 ' s Mr . & Mrs . Smith . Based on her screenplay , the film was a deeply personal project for Jolie , who drew inspiration from her own mother ' s life . Critics , however , dismissed it as a " vanity project , " as part of an overall poor reception . Writing for The Washington Post , Stephanie Merry noted its dearth of genuine emotion , stating , " By the Sea is dazzlingly gorgeous , as are its stars . But peeling back layer upon layer of exquisite ennui reveals nothing but emptiness , sprinkled with stilted sentiments . " Despite starring two of Hollywood ' s leading actors , the film received only a limited release .	What was the critical reception of By the Sea?	By the Sea received an overall poor reception from critics.
Jolie ' s next directorial effort was the marital drama By the Sea ( 2015 ) , in which she starred opposite her husband , Brad Pitt , marking their first collaboration since 2005 ' s Mr . & Mrs . Smith . Based on her screenplay , the film was a deeply personal project for Jolie , who drew inspiration from her own mother ' s life . Critics , however , dismissed it as a " vanity project , " as part of an overall poor reception . Writing for The Washington Post , Stephanie Merry noted its dearth of genuine emotion , stating , " By the Sea is dazzlingly gorgeous , as are its stars . But peeling back layer upon layer of exquisite ennui reveals nothing but emptiness , sprinkled with stilted sentiments . " Despite starring two of Hollywood ' s leading actors , the film received only a limited release .	Who dismissed By the Sea as a "vanity project"?	Critics dismissed By the Sea as a "vanity project".
Through her work on the PSVI , Jolie met foreign policy experts Chloe Dalton and Arminka Helic , who served as special advisers to Hague . Their collaboration resulted in the 2015 founding of Jolie Pitt Dalton Helic , a partnership dedicated to women ' s rights and international justice , among other causes . In May 2016 , Jolie was appointed a visiting professor at the London School of Economics to contribute to a postgraduate degree program at the university ' s Centre on Women , Peace and Security , which she had launched with Hague the previous year . In February 2022 , Jolie with her daughter Zahara visited Washington , D . C . for the Senate introduction of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act , a bill designed to prevent and respond to domestic violence , sexual assault , dating violence , and stalking . She worked closely with the bill ' s sponsors and advocates . She ' s also an advocate for Kayden ' s Law , a law focuses on trauma - informed court processes , legal standards and judicial training that minimizes the risk of harm to children .	Who did you meet through your work on the PSVI?	I met Chloe Dalton and Arminka Helic through my work on the PSVI.
Through her work on the PSVI , Jolie met foreign policy experts Chloe Dalton and Arminka Helic , who served as special advisers to Hague . Their collaboration resulted in the 2015 founding of Jolie Pitt Dalton Helic , a partnership dedicated to women ' s rights and international justice , among other causes . In May 2016 , Jolie was appointed a visiting professor at the London School of Economics to contribute to a postgraduate degree program at the university ' s Centre on Women , Peace and Security , which she had launched with Hague the previous year . In February 2022 , Jolie with her daughter Zahara visited Washington , D . C . for the Senate introduction of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act , a bill designed to prevent and respond to domestic violence , sexual assault , dating violence , and stalking . She worked closely with the bill ' s sponsors and advocates . She ' s also an advocate for Kayden ' s Law , a law focuses on trauma - informed court processes , legal standards and judicial training that minimizes the risk of harm to children .	What is the name of the partnership founded by you, Chloe Dalton, and Arminka Helic?	The partnership founded by me, Chloe Dalton, and Arminka Helic is called Jolie Pitt Dalton Helic.
Through her work on the PSVI , Jolie met foreign policy experts Chloe Dalton and Arminka Helic , who served as special advisers to Hague . Their collaboration resulted in the 2015 founding of Jolie Pitt Dalton Helic , a partnership dedicated to women ' s rights and international justice , among other causes . In May 2016 , Jolie was appointed a visiting professor at the London School of Economics to contribute to a postgraduate degree program at the university ' s Centre on Women , Peace and Security , which she had launched with Hague the previous year . In February 2022 , Jolie with her daughter Zahara visited Washington , D . C . for the Senate introduction of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act , a bill designed to prevent and respond to domestic violence , sexual assault , dating violence , and stalking . She worked closely with the bill ' s sponsors and advocates . She ' s also an advocate for Kayden ' s Law , a law focuses on trauma - informed court processes , legal standards and judicial training that minimizes the risk of harm to children .	In which year were you appointed a visiting professor at the London School of Economics?	I was appointed a visiting professor at the London School of Economics in May 2016.
Through her work on the PSVI , Jolie met foreign policy experts Chloe Dalton and Arminka Helic , who served as special advisers to Hague . Their collaboration resulted in the 2015 founding of Jolie Pitt Dalton Helic , a partnership dedicated to women ' s rights and international justice , among other causes . In May 2016 , Jolie was appointed a visiting professor at the London School of Economics to contribute to a postgraduate degree program at the university ' s Centre on Women , Peace and Security , which she had launched with Hague the previous year . In February 2022 , Jolie with her daughter Zahara visited Washington , D . C . for the Senate introduction of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act , a bill designed to prevent and respond to domestic violence , sexual assault , dating violence , and stalking . She worked closely with the bill ' s sponsors and advocates . She ' s also an advocate for Kayden ' s Law , a law focuses on trauma - informed court processes , legal standards and judicial training that minimizes the risk of harm to children .	What was the purpose of the bill you worked on during your visit to Washington, D.C. in February 2022?	The purpose of the bill I worked on during my visit to Washington, D.C. in February 2022 was to prevent and respond to domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking.
Through her work on the PSVI , Jolie met foreign policy experts Chloe Dalton and Arminka Helic , who served as special advisers to Hague . Their collaboration resulted in the 2015 founding of Jolie Pitt Dalton Helic , a partnership dedicated to women ' s rights and international justice , among other causes . In May 2016 , Jolie was appointed a visiting professor at the London School of Economics to contribute to a postgraduate degree program at the university ' s Centre on Women , Peace and Security , which she had launched with Hague the previous year . In February 2022 , Jolie with her daughter Zahara visited Washington , D . C . for the Senate introduction of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act , a bill designed to prevent and respond to domestic violence , sexual assault , dating violence , and stalking . She worked closely with the bill ' s sponsors and advocates . She ' s also an advocate for Kayden ' s Law , a law focuses on trauma - informed court processes , legal standards and judicial training that minimizes the risk of harm to children .	What is the focus of Kayden's Law, which you advocate for?	Kayden's Law focuses on trauma-informed court processes, legal standards, and judicial training that minimizes the risk of harm to children.
After a two - month courtship , Jolie married actor Billy Bob Thornton on May 5 , 2000 , in Las Vegas . They had met on the set of Pushing Tin ( 1999 ) but did not pursue a relationship at that time , as Thornton was engaged to actress Laura Dern , while Jolie was reportedly dating actor Timothy Hutton , her co - star in Playing God ( 1997 ) . As a result of their frequent public declarations of passion and gestures of love — most famously wearing one another ' s blood in vials around their necks — their marriage became a favorite topic of the entertainment media . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption of a child from Cambodia in March 2002 but abruptly separated three months later . Their divorce was finalized on May 27 , 2003 . When asked about the sudden dissolution of their marriage , Jolie stated , " It took me by surprise , too , because overnight , we totally changed . I think one day we had just nothing in common . And it ' s scary but   ... I think it can happen when you get involved and you don ' t know yourself yet . "	Who did you marry on May 5, 2000?	I married actor Billy Bob Thornton.
After a two - month courtship , Jolie married actor Billy Bob Thornton on May 5 , 2000 , in Las Vegas . They had met on the set of Pushing Tin ( 1999 ) but did not pursue a relationship at that time , as Thornton was engaged to actress Laura Dern , while Jolie was reportedly dating actor Timothy Hutton , her co - star in Playing God ( 1997 ) . As a result of their frequent public declarations of passion and gestures of love — most famously wearing one another ' s blood in vials around their necks — their marriage became a favorite topic of the entertainment media . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption of a child from Cambodia in March 2002 but abruptly separated three months later . Their divorce was finalized on May 27 , 2003 . When asked about the sudden dissolution of their marriage , Jolie stated , " It took me by surprise , too , because overnight , we totally changed . I think one day we had just nothing in common . And it ' s scary but   ... I think it can happen when you get involved and you don ' t know yourself yet . "	When did you and Thornton announce the adoption of a child from Cambodia?	We announced the adoption in March 2002.
After a two - month courtship , Jolie married actor Billy Bob Thornton on May 5 , 2000 , in Las Vegas . They had met on the set of Pushing Tin ( 1999 ) but did not pursue a relationship at that time , as Thornton was engaged to actress Laura Dern , while Jolie was reportedly dating actor Timothy Hutton , her co - star in Playing God ( 1997 ) . As a result of their frequent public declarations of passion and gestures of love — most famously wearing one another ' s blood in vials around their necks — their marriage became a favorite topic of the entertainment media . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption of a child from Cambodia in March 2002 but abruptly separated three months later . Their divorce was finalized on May 27 , 2003 . When asked about the sudden dissolution of their marriage , Jolie stated , " It took me by surprise , too , because overnight , we totally changed . I think one day we had just nothing in common . And it ' s scary but   ... I think it can happen when you get involved and you don ' t know yourself yet . "	When did you and Thornton finalize your divorce?	We finalized our divorce on May 27, 2003.
After a two - month courtship , Jolie married actor Billy Bob Thornton on May 5 , 2000 , in Las Vegas . They had met on the set of Pushing Tin ( 1999 ) but did not pursue a relationship at that time , as Thornton was engaged to actress Laura Dern , while Jolie was reportedly dating actor Timothy Hutton , her co - star in Playing God ( 1997 ) . As a result of their frequent public declarations of passion and gestures of love — most famously wearing one another ' s blood in vials around their necks — their marriage became a favorite topic of the entertainment media . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption of a child from Cambodia in March 2002 but abruptly separated three months later . Their divorce was finalized on May 27 , 2003 . When asked about the sudden dissolution of their marriage , Jolie stated , " It took me by surprise , too , because overnight , we totally changed . I think one day we had just nothing in common . And it ' s scary but   ... I think it can happen when you get involved and you don ' t know yourself yet . "	What was the reason for the sudden dissolution of our marriage?	According to me, the dissolution was because overnight we totally changed and had nothing in common.
After a two - month courtship , Jolie married actor Billy Bob Thornton on May 5 , 2000 , in Las Vegas . They had met on the set of Pushing Tin ( 1999 ) but did not pursue a relationship at that time , as Thornton was engaged to actress Laura Dern , while Jolie was reportedly dating actor Timothy Hutton , her co - star in Playing God ( 1997 ) . As a result of their frequent public declarations of passion and gestures of love — most famously wearing one another ' s blood in vials around their necks — their marriage became a favorite topic of the entertainment media . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption of a child from Cambodia in March 2002 but abruptly separated three months later . Their divorce was finalized on May 27 , 2003 . When asked about the sudden dissolution of their marriage , Jolie stated , " It took me by surprise , too , because overnight , we totally changed . I think one day we had just nothing in common . And it ' s scary but   ... I think it can happen when you get involved and you don ' t know yourself yet . "	Why did you think the dissolution of your marriage happened?	I believed that it happened because we got involved without knowing ourselves yet.
During their 12 - year relationship , the couple were dubbed " Brangelina " — a portmanteau coined by the media — and were the subject of worldwide media coverage . They became known as one of Hollywood ' s most glamorous couples . Their family grew to include six children , three of whom were adopted , before they announced their engagement in April 2012 . Jolie and Pitt were legally married on August 14 , 2014 , and had their wedding on August 23 , 2014 , at their estate Ch â teau Miraval in Correns , France . She subsequently took on the name " Angelina Jolie Pitt " . After two years of marriage , the couple separated on September 15 , 2016 . On September 19 , Jolie filed for divorce citing irreconcilable differences . They were declared legally single on April 12 , 2019 . After Pitt sued Jolie for selling her share of a winery they owned to a third party , she filed a countersuit , in which she alleged that he physically and verbally abused her and their children on a plane in 2016 .	What was the nickname given to us during our 12-year relationship?	We were dubbed "Brangelina".
During their 12 - year relationship , the couple were dubbed " Brangelina " — a portmanteau coined by the media — and were the subject of worldwide media coverage . They became known as one of Hollywood ' s most glamorous couples . Their family grew to include six children , three of whom were adopted , before they announced their engagement in April 2012 . Jolie and Pitt were legally married on August 14 , 2014 , and had their wedding on August 23 , 2014 , at their estate Ch â teau Miraval in Correns , France . She subsequently took on the name " Angelina Jolie Pitt " . After two years of marriage , the couple separated on September 15 , 2016 . On September 19 , Jolie filed for divorce citing irreconcilable differences . They were declared legally single on April 12 , 2019 . After Pitt sued Jolie for selling her share of a winery they owned to a third party , she filed a countersuit , in which she alleged that he physically and verbally abused her and their children on a plane in 2016 .	How many children did we have?	We had six children.
During their 12 - year relationship , the couple were dubbed " Brangelina " — a portmanteau coined by the media — and were the subject of worldwide media coverage . They became known as one of Hollywood ' s most glamorous couples . Their family grew to include six children , three of whom were adopted , before they announced their engagement in April 2012 . Jolie and Pitt were legally married on August 14 , 2014 , and had their wedding on August 23 , 2014 , at their estate Ch â teau Miraval in Correns , France . She subsequently took on the name " Angelina Jolie Pitt " . After two years of marriage , the couple separated on September 15 , 2016 . On September 19 , Jolie filed for divorce citing irreconcilable differences . They were declared legally single on April 12 , 2019 . After Pitt sued Jolie for selling her share of a winery they owned to a third party , she filed a countersuit , in which she alleged that he physically and verbally abused her and their children on a plane in 2016 .	When did you and Pitt announce your engagement?	We announced our engagement in April 2012.
During their 12 - year relationship , the couple were dubbed " Brangelina " — a portmanteau coined by the media — and were the subject of worldwide media coverage . They became known as one of Hollywood ' s most glamorous couples . Their family grew to include six children , three of whom were adopted , before they announced their engagement in April 2012 . Jolie and Pitt were legally married on August 14 , 2014 , and had their wedding on August 23 , 2014 , at their estate Ch â teau Miraval in Correns , France . She subsequently took on the name " Angelina Jolie Pitt " . After two years of marriage , the couple separated on September 15 , 2016 . On September 19 , Jolie filed for divorce citing irreconcilable differences . They were declared legally single on April 12 , 2019 . After Pitt sued Jolie for selling her share of a winery they owned to a third party , she filed a countersuit , in which she alleged that he physically and verbally abused her and their children on a plane in 2016 .	Where did we have our wedding?	We had our wedding at our estate Château Miraval in Correns, France.
During their 12 - year relationship , the couple were dubbed " Brangelina " — a portmanteau coined by the media — and were the subject of worldwide media coverage . They became known as one of Hollywood ' s most glamorous couples . Their family grew to include six children , three of whom were adopted , before they announced their engagement in April 2012 . Jolie and Pitt were legally married on August 14 , 2014 , and had their wedding on August 23 , 2014 , at their estate Ch â teau Miraval in Correns , France . She subsequently took on the name " Angelina Jolie Pitt " . After two years of marriage , the couple separated on September 15 , 2016 . On September 19 , Jolie filed for divorce citing irreconcilable differences . They were declared legally single on April 12 , 2019 . After Pitt sued Jolie for selling her share of a winery they owned to a third party , she filed a countersuit , in which she alleged that he physically and verbally abused her and their children on a plane in 2016 .	When did you two separate?	We separated on September 15, 2016.
On March 10 , 2002 , Jolie adopted her first child , seven - month - old Maddox Chivan , from an orphanage in Battambang , Cambodia . He was born as Rath Vibol on August 5 , 2001 , in a local village . After twice visiting Cambodia , while filming Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) and on a UNHCR field mission , Jolie returned in November 2001 with her then - husband , Billy Bob Thornton , where they met and subsequently applied to adopt Maddox . The adoption process was halted the following month when the U . S . government banned adoptions from Cambodia amid allegations of child trafficking . Although Jolie ' s adoption facilitator was later convicted of visa fraud and money laundering , her adoption of Maddox was deemed lawful . Once the process was finalized , she took custody of Maddox in Namibia , where she was filming Beyond Borders ( 2003 ) . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption together , but she adopted Maddox alone , becoming a single parent following her separation from Thornton three months later .	When did you adopt your first child?	On March 10, 2002.
On March 10 , 2002 , Jolie adopted her first child , seven - month - old Maddox Chivan , from an orphanage in Battambang , Cambodia . He was born as Rath Vibol on August 5 , 2001 , in a local village . After twice visiting Cambodia , while filming Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) and on a UNHCR field mission , Jolie returned in November 2001 with her then - husband , Billy Bob Thornton , where they met and subsequently applied to adopt Maddox . The adoption process was halted the following month when the U . S . government banned adoptions from Cambodia amid allegations of child trafficking . Although Jolie ' s adoption facilitator was later convicted of visa fraud and money laundering , her adoption of Maddox was deemed lawful . Once the process was finalized , she took custody of Maddox in Namibia , where she was filming Beyond Borders ( 2003 ) . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption together , but she adopted Maddox alone , becoming a single parent following her separation from Thornton three months later .	Where did you adopt your first child from?	I adopted my first child from an orphanage in Battambang, Cambodia.
On March 10 , 2002 , Jolie adopted her first child , seven - month - old Maddox Chivan , from an orphanage in Battambang , Cambodia . He was born as Rath Vibol on August 5 , 2001 , in a local village . After twice visiting Cambodia , while filming Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) and on a UNHCR field mission , Jolie returned in November 2001 with her then - husband , Billy Bob Thornton , where they met and subsequently applied to adopt Maddox . The adoption process was halted the following month when the U . S . government banned adoptions from Cambodia amid allegations of child trafficking . Although Jolie ' s adoption facilitator was later convicted of visa fraud and money laundering , her adoption of Maddox was deemed lawful . Once the process was finalized , she took custody of Maddox in Namibia , where she was filming Beyond Borders ( 2003 ) . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption together , but she adopted Maddox alone , becoming a single parent following her separation from Thornton three months later .	What was the name and age of your first child when you adopted him?	My first child was named Maddox Chivan and he was seven months old when I adopted him.
On March 10 , 2002 , Jolie adopted her first child , seven - month - old Maddox Chivan , from an orphanage in Battambang , Cambodia . He was born as Rath Vibol on August 5 , 2001 , in a local village . After twice visiting Cambodia , while filming Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) and on a UNHCR field mission , Jolie returned in November 2001 with her then - husband , Billy Bob Thornton , where they met and subsequently applied to adopt Maddox . The adoption process was halted the following month when the U . S . government banned adoptions from Cambodia amid allegations of child trafficking . Although Jolie ' s adoption facilitator was later convicted of visa fraud and money laundering , her adoption of Maddox was deemed lawful . Once the process was finalized , she took custody of Maddox in Namibia , where she was filming Beyond Borders ( 2003 ) . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption together , but she adopted Maddox alone , becoming a single parent following her separation from Thornton three months later .	Was there any controversy or issues surrounding your adoption process?	Yes, my adoption process was halted the following month as the U.S. government banned adoptions from Cambodia due to allegations of child trafficking. However, my adoption of Maddox was later deemed lawful.
On March 10 , 2002 , Jolie adopted her first child , seven - month - old Maddox Chivan , from an orphanage in Battambang , Cambodia . He was born as Rath Vibol on August 5 , 2001 , in a local village . After twice visiting Cambodia , while filming Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) and on a UNHCR field mission , Jolie returned in November 2001 with her then - husband , Billy Bob Thornton , where they met and subsequently applied to adopt Maddox . The adoption process was halted the following month when the U . S . government banned adoptions from Cambodia amid allegations of child trafficking . Although Jolie ' s adoption facilitator was later convicted of visa fraud and money laundering , her adoption of Maddox was deemed lawful . Once the process was finalized , she took custody of Maddox in Namibia , where she was filming Beyond Borders ( 2003 ) . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption together , but she adopted Maddox alone , becoming a single parent following her separation from Thornton three months later .	Who did you adopt your first child with?	I adopted my first child alone, becoming a single parent following my separation from my then-husband, Billy Bob Thornton, three months later.
As the daughter of actor Jon Voight , Jolie appeared in the media from an early age . After embarking on her own career , she earned a reputation as a " wild child " , which contributed to her early success in the late 1990s and early 2000s . Celebrity profiles routinely covered her fascination with blood and knives , experiences with drugs , and her sex life , particularly her bisexuality and interest in sadomasochism . In 2000 , when asked about her outspokenness , she stated : " I say things that other people might go through . That ' s what artists should do — throw things out there and not be perfect and not have answers for anything and see if people understand . " Another contributing factor to her controversial image were tabloid rumors of incest that began when Jolie , upon winning her Oscar for Girl , Interrupted , kissed her brother on the lips and said , " I ' m so in love with my brother right now . " She dismissed the rumors , saying , " It was disappointing that something so beautiful and pure could be turned into a circus , " and explained that , as children of divorced parents , she and James relied on one another for emotional support .	What contributed to your early success in the late 1990s and early 2000s?	My reputation as a "wild child" and my own career.
As the daughter of actor Jon Voight , Jolie appeared in the media from an early age . After embarking on her own career , she earned a reputation as a " wild child " , which contributed to her early success in the late 1990s and early 2000s . Celebrity profiles routinely covered her fascination with blood and knives , experiences with drugs , and her sex life , particularly her bisexuality and interest in sadomasochism . In 2000 , when asked about her outspokenness , she stated : " I say things that other people might go through . That ' s what artists should do — throw things out there and not be perfect and not have answers for anything and see if people understand . " Another contributing factor to her controversial image were tabloid rumors of incest that began when Jolie , upon winning her Oscar for Girl , Interrupted , kissed her brother on the lips and said , " I ' m so in love with my brother right now . " She dismissed the rumors , saying , " It was disappointing that something so beautiful and pure could be turned into a circus , " and explained that , as children of divorced parents , she and James relied on one another for emotional support .	What were some things that celebrity profiles covered about you?	My fascination with blood and knives, experiences with drugs, and my sex life, particularly my bisexuality and interest in sadomasochism.
As the daughter of actor Jon Voight , Jolie appeared in the media from an early age . After embarking on her own career , she earned a reputation as a " wild child " , which contributed to her early success in the late 1990s and early 2000s . Celebrity profiles routinely covered her fascination with blood and knives , experiences with drugs , and her sex life , particularly her bisexuality and interest in sadomasochism . In 2000 , when asked about her outspokenness , she stated : " I say things that other people might go through . That ' s what artists should do — throw things out there and not be perfect and not have answers for anything and see if people understand . " Another contributing factor to her controversial image were tabloid rumors of incest that began when Jolie , upon winning her Oscar for Girl , Interrupted , kissed her brother on the lips and said , " I ' m so in love with my brother right now . " She dismissed the rumors , saying , " It was disappointing that something so beautiful and pure could be turned into a circus , " and explained that , as children of divorced parents , she and James relied on one another for emotional support .	In 2000, what did you say about your outspokenness?	I stated, "I say things that other people might go through. That's what artists should do — throw things out there and not be perfect and not have answers for anything and see if people understand."
As the daughter of actor Jon Voight , Jolie appeared in the media from an early age . After embarking on her own career , she earned a reputation as a " wild child " , which contributed to her early success in the late 1990s and early 2000s . Celebrity profiles routinely covered her fascination with blood and knives , experiences with drugs , and her sex life , particularly her bisexuality and interest in sadomasochism . In 2000 , when asked about her outspokenness , she stated : " I say things that other people might go through . That ' s what artists should do — throw things out there and not be perfect and not have answers for anything and see if people understand . " Another contributing factor to her controversial image were tabloid rumors of incest that began when Jolie , upon winning her Oscar for Girl , Interrupted , kissed her brother on the lips and said , " I ' m so in love with my brother right now . " She dismissed the rumors , saying , " It was disappointing that something so beautiful and pure could be turned into a circus , " and explained that , as children of divorced parents , she and James relied on one another for emotional support .	What were tabloid rumors about you and your brother?	Tabloid rumors suggested incest between me and my brother when I kissed him on the lips and said, "I'm so in love with my brother right now."
As the daughter of actor Jon Voight , Jolie appeared in the media from an early age . After embarking on her own career , she earned a reputation as a " wild child " , which contributed to her early success in the late 1990s and early 2000s . Celebrity profiles routinely covered her fascination with blood and knives , experiences with drugs , and her sex life , particularly her bisexuality and interest in sadomasochism . In 2000 , when asked about her outspokenness , she stated : " I say things that other people might go through . That ' s what artists should do — throw things out there and not be perfect and not have answers for anything and see if people understand . " Another contributing factor to her controversial image were tabloid rumors of incest that began when Jolie , upon winning her Oscar for Girl , Interrupted , kissed her brother on the lips and said , " I ' m so in love with my brother right now . " She dismissed the rumors , saying , " It was disappointing that something so beautiful and pure could be turned into a circus , " and explained that , as children of divorced parents , she and James relied on one another for emotional support .	How did you respond to the tabloid rumors?	I dismissed the rumors, saying, "It was disappointing that something so beautiful and pure could be turned into a circus," and explained that as children of divorced parents, my brother and I relied on each other for emotional support.
Jolie ' s reputation began to change positively after she , at age 26 , became a Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees , later commenting , " In my early 20s I was fighting with myself . Now I take that punk in me to Washington , and I fight for something important . " Owing to her extensive activism , her Q Score — a marketing industry measure of celebrities ' likability — nearly doubled to 25 between 2000 and 2006 . Her recognizability grew accordingly ; by 2006 , she was familiar to 81% of Americans , compared to 31% in 2000 . She became noted for her ability to positively influence her public image through the media , without employing a publicist or an agent . Her Q Score remained above average even when , in 2005 , she was accused of ending Brad Pitt ' s marriage to Jennifer Aniston , at which point her public persona became an unlikely combination of alleged homewrecker , mother , sex symbol , and humanitarian . A decade later , Jolie was found to be the most admired woman in the world in global surveys conducted by YouGov in 2015 and 2016 .	When did you become a Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees?	I became a Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees at age 26.
Jolie ' s reputation began to change positively after she , at age 26 , became a Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees , later commenting , " In my early 20s I was fighting with myself . Now I take that punk in me to Washington , and I fight for something important . " Owing to her extensive activism , her Q Score — a marketing industry measure of celebrities ' likability — nearly doubled to 25 between 2000 and 2006 . Her recognizability grew accordingly ; by 2006 , she was familiar to 81% of Americans , compared to 31% in 2000 . She became noted for her ability to positively influence her public image through the media , without employing a publicist or an agent . Her Q Score remained above average even when , in 2005 , she was accused of ending Brad Pitt ' s marriage to Jennifer Aniston , at which point her public persona became an unlikely combination of alleged homewrecker , mother , sex symbol , and humanitarian . A decade later , Jolie was found to be the most admired woman in the world in global surveys conducted by YouGov in 2015 and 2016 .	What impact did your activism have on your Q Score?	My activism nearly doubled my Q Score, which is a marketing industry measure of celebrities' likability, to 25 between 2000 and 2006.
Jolie ' s reputation began to change positively after she , at age 26 , became a Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees , later commenting , " In my early 20s I was fighting with myself . Now I take that punk in me to Washington , and I fight for something important . " Owing to her extensive activism , her Q Score — a marketing industry measure of celebrities ' likability — nearly doubled to 25 between 2000 and 2006 . Her recognizability grew accordingly ; by 2006 , she was familiar to 81% of Americans , compared to 31% in 2000 . She became noted for her ability to positively influence her public image through the media , without employing a publicist or an agent . Her Q Score remained above average even when , in 2005 , she was accused of ending Brad Pitt ' s marriage to Jennifer Aniston , at which point her public persona became an unlikely combination of alleged homewrecker , mother , sex symbol , and humanitarian . A decade later , Jolie was found to be the most admired woman in the world in global surveys conducted by YouGov in 2015 and 2016 .	How recognizable were you to Americans in 2006 compared to 2000?	In 2006, I was familiar to 81% of Americans, compared to 31% in 2000.
Jolie ' s reputation began to change positively after she , at age 26 , became a Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees , later commenting , " In my early 20s I was fighting with myself . Now I take that punk in me to Washington , and I fight for something important . " Owing to her extensive activism , her Q Score — a marketing industry measure of celebrities ' likability — nearly doubled to 25 between 2000 and 2006 . Her recognizability grew accordingly ; by 2006 , she was familiar to 81% of Americans , compared to 31% in 2000 . She became noted for her ability to positively influence her public image through the media , without employing a publicist or an agent . Her Q Score remained above average even when , in 2005 , she was accused of ending Brad Pitt ' s marriage to Jennifer Aniston , at which point her public persona became an unlikely combination of alleged homewrecker , mother , sex symbol , and humanitarian . A decade later , Jolie was found to be the most admired woman in the world in global surveys conducted by YouGov in 2015 and 2016 .	How did you positively influence your public image through the media?	I was able to positively influence my public image through the media without employing a publicist or an agent.
Jolie ' s reputation began to change positively after she , at age 26 , became a Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees , later commenting , " In my early 20s I was fighting with myself . Now I take that punk in me to Washington , and I fight for something important . " Owing to her extensive activism , her Q Score — a marketing industry measure of celebrities ' likability — nearly doubled to 25 between 2000 and 2006 . Her recognizability grew accordingly ; by 2006 , she was familiar to 81% of Americans , compared to 31% in 2000 . She became noted for her ability to positively influence her public image through the media , without employing a publicist or an agent . Her Q Score remained above average even when , in 2005 , she was accused of ending Brad Pitt ' s marriage to Jennifer Aniston , at which point her public persona became an unlikely combination of alleged homewrecker , mother , sex symbol , and humanitarian . A decade later , Jolie was found to be the most admired woman in the world in global surveys conducted by YouGov in 2015 and 2016 .	Who conducted global surveys in 2015 and 2016 that found you to be the most admired woman in the world?	YouGov conducted global surveys in 2015 and 2016 that found me to be the most admired woman in the world.
Jolie ' s public image is strongly tied to her perceived beauty and sex appeal . Many media outlets , including Vogue , People , and Vanity Fair , have cited her as the world ' s most beautiful woman , while others such as Esquire , FHM , and Empire have named her the sexiest woman alive ; both titles have often been based on public polls in which Jolie places far ahead of other celebrity women . Her most recognizable physical features are her many tattoos , eyes , and in particular her full lips , which The New York Times considered as defining a feature as Kirk Douglas ' chin or Bette Davis ' eyes . Among her estimated 20 tattoos are the Latin proverb quod me nutrit me destruit ( " what nourishes me destroys me " ) , the Tennessee Williams quote " A prayer for the wild at heart , kept in cages " , four Buddhist Sanskrit prayers of protection , a 12 - inch tiger , and geographical coordinates of where she first met her adopted children . Over time , she has covered or lasered several of her tattoos , including " Billy Bob " , the name of her second husband .	What is your public image strongly tied to?	My public image is strongly tied to my perceived beauty and sex appeal.
Jolie ' s public image is strongly tied to her perceived beauty and sex appeal . Many media outlets , including Vogue , People , and Vanity Fair , have cited her as the world ' s most beautiful woman , while others such as Esquire , FHM , and Empire have named her the sexiest woman alive ; both titles have often been based on public polls in which Jolie places far ahead of other celebrity women . Her most recognizable physical features are her many tattoos , eyes , and in particular her full lips , which The New York Times considered as defining a feature as Kirk Douglas ' chin or Bette Davis ' eyes . Among her estimated 20 tattoos are the Latin proverb quod me nutrit me destruit ( " what nourishes me destroys me " ) , the Tennessee Williams quote " A prayer for the wild at heart , kept in cages " , four Buddhist Sanskrit prayers of protection , a 12 - inch tiger , and geographical coordinates of where she first met her adopted children . Over time , she has covered or lasered several of her tattoos , including " Billy Bob " , the name of her second husband .	Which media outlets have named you as the world's most beautiful woman?	Media outlets such as Vogue, People, and Vanity Fair have named me as the world's most beautiful woman.
Jolie ' s public image is strongly tied to her perceived beauty and sex appeal . Many media outlets , including Vogue , People , and Vanity Fair , have cited her as the world ' s most beautiful woman , while others such as Esquire , FHM , and Empire have named her the sexiest woman alive ; both titles have often been based on public polls in which Jolie places far ahead of other celebrity women . Her most recognizable physical features are her many tattoos , eyes , and in particular her full lips , which The New York Times considered as defining a feature as Kirk Douglas ' chin or Bette Davis ' eyes . Among her estimated 20 tattoos are the Latin proverb quod me nutrit me destruit ( " what nourishes me destroys me " ) , the Tennessee Williams quote " A prayer for the wild at heart , kept in cages " , four Buddhist Sanskrit prayers of protection , a 12 - inch tiger , and geographical coordinates of where she first met her adopted children . Over time , she has covered or lasered several of her tattoos , including " Billy Bob " , the name of her second husband .	Which media outlets have named you as the sexiest woman alive?	Media outlets such as Esquire, FHM, and Empire have named me as the sexiest woman alive.
Jolie ' s public image is strongly tied to her perceived beauty and sex appeal . Many media outlets , including Vogue , People , and Vanity Fair , have cited her as the world ' s most beautiful woman , while others such as Esquire , FHM , and Empire have named her the sexiest woman alive ; both titles have often been based on public polls in which Jolie places far ahead of other celebrity women . Her most recognizable physical features are her many tattoos , eyes , and in particular her full lips , which The New York Times considered as defining a feature as Kirk Douglas ' chin or Bette Davis ' eyes . Among her estimated 20 tattoos are the Latin proverb quod me nutrit me destruit ( " what nourishes me destroys me " ) , the Tennessee Williams quote " A prayer for the wild at heart , kept in cages " , four Buddhist Sanskrit prayers of protection , a 12 - inch tiger , and geographical coordinates of where she first met her adopted children . Over time , she has covered or lasered several of her tattoos , including " Billy Bob " , the name of her second husband .	What are some of your most recognizable physical features?	Some of my most recognizable physical features are my many tattoos, eyes, and particularly my full lips.
Jolie ' s public image is strongly tied to her perceived beauty and sex appeal . Many media outlets , including Vogue , People , and Vanity Fair , have cited her as the world ' s most beautiful woman , while others such as Esquire , FHM , and Empire have named her the sexiest woman alive ; both titles have often been based on public polls in which Jolie places far ahead of other celebrity women . Her most recognizable physical features are her many tattoos , eyes , and in particular her full lips , which The New York Times considered as defining a feature as Kirk Douglas ' chin or Bette Davis ' eyes . Among her estimated 20 tattoos are the Latin proverb quod me nutrit me destruit ( " what nourishes me destroys me " ) , the Tennessee Williams quote " A prayer for the wild at heart , kept in cages " , four Buddhist Sanskrit prayers of protection , a 12 - inch tiger , and geographical coordinates of where she first met her adopted children . Over time , she has covered or lasered several of her tattoos , including " Billy Bob " , the name of her second husband .	How many tattoos do you have?	I have an estimated 20 tattoos.
Jolie is considered a style icon and trendsetter for celebrity fashion . She first began making red carpet appearances at age ten . In the 1990s , she established an enduring partnership with Versace . In her early film career , she became known for wearing gothic styles and leather , " coquette " looks . Around this time , her style was regarded as dark , vampish , dramatic , and alluring . Her sequined Randolph Duke gown at the 1999 Golden Globe Awards was regarded as her fashion debut . Jolie wore a white satin dress by Marc Bouwer to the 76th Academy Awards , which drew critical praise and comparisons to the fashion of several classic film stars . As she transitioned to directorial and humanitarian work , her style grew more sophisticated , minimalist , and glamorous , with looks associated with Old Hollywood . In the 2010s , Jolie wore satin gowns , diamond jewelry , and Grecian silhouettes . She attended the 84th Academy Awards in a black velvet gown , designed by Versace , which has been deemed one of the most significant gowns in fashion history and pop culture , with Jolie ' s posing becoming the subject of Internet memes . Jolie prefers to invest in quality pieces , and in the 2020s , adopted more sustainable fashion while dressing .	Who is considered a style icon and trendsetter for celebrity fashion?	I am considered a style icon and trendsetter for celebrity fashion.
Jolie is considered a style icon and trendsetter for celebrity fashion . She first began making red carpet appearances at age ten . In the 1990s , she established an enduring partnership with Versace . In her early film career , she became known for wearing gothic styles and leather , " coquette " looks . Around this time , her style was regarded as dark , vampish , dramatic , and alluring . Her sequined Randolph Duke gown at the 1999 Golden Globe Awards was regarded as her fashion debut . Jolie wore a white satin dress by Marc Bouwer to the 76th Academy Awards , which drew critical praise and comparisons to the fashion of several classic film stars . As she transitioned to directorial and humanitarian work , her style grew more sophisticated , minimalist , and glamorous , with looks associated with Old Hollywood . In the 2010s , Jolie wore satin gowns , diamond jewelry , and Grecian silhouettes . She attended the 84th Academy Awards in a black velvet gown , designed by Versace , which has been deemed one of the most significant gowns in fashion history and pop culture , with Jolie ' s posing becoming the subject of Internet memes . Jolie prefers to invest in quality pieces , and in the 2020s , adopted more sustainable fashion while dressing .	At what age did you first begin making red carpet appearances?	I first began making red carpet appearances at age ten.
Jolie is considered a style icon and trendsetter for celebrity fashion . She first began making red carpet appearances at age ten . In the 1990s , she established an enduring partnership with Versace . In her early film career , she became known for wearing gothic styles and leather , " coquette " looks . Around this time , her style was regarded as dark , vampish , dramatic , and alluring . Her sequined Randolph Duke gown at the 1999 Golden Globe Awards was regarded as her fashion debut . Jolie wore a white satin dress by Marc Bouwer to the 76th Academy Awards , which drew critical praise and comparisons to the fashion of several classic film stars . As she transitioned to directorial and humanitarian work , her style grew more sophisticated , minimalist , and glamorous , with looks associated with Old Hollywood . In the 2010s , Jolie wore satin gowns , diamond jewelry , and Grecian silhouettes . She attended the 84th Academy Awards in a black velvet gown , designed by Versace , which has been deemed one of the most significant gowns in fashion history and pop culture , with Jolie ' s posing becoming the subject of Internet memes . Jolie prefers to invest in quality pieces , and in the 2020s , adopted more sustainable fashion while dressing .	Which designer did you establish an enduring partnership with in the 1990s?	I established an enduring partnership with Versace in the 1990s.
Jolie is considered a style icon and trendsetter for celebrity fashion . She first began making red carpet appearances at age ten . In the 1990s , she established an enduring partnership with Versace . In her early film career , she became known for wearing gothic styles and leather , " coquette " looks . Around this time , her style was regarded as dark , vampish , dramatic , and alluring . Her sequined Randolph Duke gown at the 1999 Golden Globe Awards was regarded as her fashion debut . Jolie wore a white satin dress by Marc Bouwer to the 76th Academy Awards , which drew critical praise and comparisons to the fashion of several classic film stars . As she transitioned to directorial and humanitarian work , her style grew more sophisticated , minimalist , and glamorous , with looks associated with Old Hollywood . In the 2010s , Jolie wore satin gowns , diamond jewelry , and Grecian silhouettes . She attended the 84th Academy Awards in a black velvet gown , designed by Versace , which has been deemed one of the most significant gowns in fashion history and pop culture , with Jolie ' s posing becoming the subject of Internet memes . Jolie prefers to invest in quality pieces , and in the 2020s , adopted more sustainable fashion while dressing .	What kind of styles were you known for wearing in your early film career?	I was known for wearing gothic styles and leather, as well as "coquette" looks in my early film career.
Jolie is considered a style icon and trendsetter for celebrity fashion . She first began making red carpet appearances at age ten . In the 1990s , she established an enduring partnership with Versace . In her early film career , she became known for wearing gothic styles and leather , " coquette " looks . Around this time , her style was regarded as dark , vampish , dramatic , and alluring . Her sequined Randolph Duke gown at the 1999 Golden Globe Awards was regarded as her fashion debut . Jolie wore a white satin dress by Marc Bouwer to the 76th Academy Awards , which drew critical praise and comparisons to the fashion of several classic film stars . As she transitioned to directorial and humanitarian work , her style grew more sophisticated , minimalist , and glamorous , with looks associated with Old Hollywood . In the 2010s , Jolie wore satin gowns , diamond jewelry , and Grecian silhouettes . She attended the 84th Academy Awards in a black velvet gown , designed by Versace , which has been deemed one of the most significant gowns in fashion history and pop culture , with Jolie ' s posing becoming the subject of Internet memes . Jolie prefers to invest in quality pieces , and in the 2020s , adopted more sustainable fashion while dressing .	What kind of style have you adopted in the 2020s?	In the 2020s, I have adopted more sustainable fashion while dressing.
