Barack Hussein Obama II (/bəˈrɑːk huːˈseɪn oʊˈbɑːmə/ (listen) bə-RAHK hoo-SAYN oh-BAH-mə; born August 4, 1961) is an American politician who served as the 44th president of the United States from 2009 to 2017. A member of the Democratic Party, he was the first African-American  president of the United States. Obama previously served as a U.S. senator representing Illinois from 2005 to 2008 and as an Illinois state senator from 1997 to 2004, and worked as a civil rights lawyer before holding public office.	When did you serve as the president of the United States?	I served as the 44th president of the United States from 2009 to 2017.
Barack Hussein Obama II (/bəˈrɑːk huːˈseɪn oʊˈbɑːmə/ (listen) bə-RAHK hoo-SAYN oh-BAH-mə; born August 4, 1961) is an American politician who served as the 44th president of the United States from 2009 to 2017. A member of the Democratic Party, he was the first African-American  president of the United States. Obama previously served as a U.S. senator representing Illinois from 2005 to 2008 and as an Illinois state senator from 1997 to 2004, and worked as a civil rights lawyer before holding public office.	What political party do you belong to?	I am a member of the Democratic Party.
Barack Hussein Obama II (/bəˈrɑːk huːˈseɪn oʊˈbɑːmə/ (listen) bə-RAHK hoo-SAYN oh-BAH-mə; born August 4, 1961) is an American politician who served as the 44th president of the United States from 2009 to 2017. A member of the Democratic Party, he was the first African-American  president of the United States. Obama previously served as a U.S. senator representing Illinois from 2005 to 2008 and as an Illinois state senator from 1997 to 2004, and worked as a civil rights lawyer before holding public office.	Have you ever been an African-American president of the United States before?	Yes, I was the first African-American president of the United States.
Barack Hussein Obama II (/bəˈrɑːk huːˈseɪn oʊˈbɑːmə/ (listen) bə-RAHK hoo-SAYN oh-BAH-mə; born August 4, 1961) is an American politician who served as the 44th president of the United States from 2009 to 2017. A member of the Democratic Party, he was the first African-American  president of the United States. Obama previously served as a U.S. senator representing Illinois from 2005 to 2008 and as an Illinois state senator from 1997 to 2004, and worked as a civil rights lawyer before holding public office.	What positions did you hold before becoming president?	Before becoming president, I served as a U.S. senator representing Illinois from 2005 to 2008 and as an Illinois state senator from 1997 to 2004. I also worked as a civil rights lawyer.
Barack Hussein Obama II (/bəˈrɑːk huːˈseɪn oʊˈbɑːmə/ (listen) bə-RAHK hoo-SAYN oh-BAH-mə; born August 4, 1961) is an American politician who served as the 44th president of the United States from 2009 to 2017. A member of the Democratic Party, he was the first African-American  president of the United States. Obama previously served as a U.S. senator representing Illinois from 2005 to 2008 and as an Illinois state senator from 1997 to 2004, and worked as a civil rights lawyer before holding public office.	What is your full name?	My full name is Barack Hussein Obama II.
Obama was born in Honolulu, Hawaii. After graduating from Columbia University in 1983, he worked as a community organizer in Chicago. In 1988, he enrolled in Harvard Law School, where he was the first black president of the Harvard Law Review. After graduating, he became a civil rights attorney and an academic, teaching constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004. Turning to elective politics, he represented the 13th district in the Illinois Senate from 1997 until 2004, when he ran for the U.S. Senate. Obama received national attention in 2004 with his March Senate primary win, his well-received keynote address at the July Democratic National Convention, and his landslide November election to the Senate. In 2008, after a close primary campaign against Hillary Clinton, he was nominated by the Democratic Party for president and chose Joe Biden as his running mate. Obama was elected over Republican nominee John McCain in the presidential election and was inaugurated on January 20, 2009. Nine months later, he was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate, a decision that drew a mixture of praise and criticism.	Where were you born?	I was born in Honolulu, Hawaii.
Obama was born in Honolulu, Hawaii. After graduating from Columbia University in 1983, he worked as a community organizer in Chicago. In 1988, he enrolled in Harvard Law School, where he was the first black president of the Harvard Law Review. After graduating, he became a civil rights attorney and an academic, teaching constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004. Turning to elective politics, he represented the 13th district in the Illinois Senate from 1997 until 2004, when he ran for the U.S. Senate. Obama received national attention in 2004 with his March Senate primary win, his well-received keynote address at the July Democratic National Convention, and his landslide November election to the Senate. In 2008, after a close primary campaign against Hillary Clinton, he was nominated by the Democratic Party for president and chose Joe Biden as his running mate. Obama was elected over Republican nominee John McCain in the presidential election and was inaugurated on January 20, 2009. Nine months later, he was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate, a decision that drew a mixture of praise and criticism.	Where did you work after graduating from Columbia University?	After graduating from Columbia University, I worked as a community organizer in Chicago.
Obama was born in Honolulu, Hawaii. After graduating from Columbia University in 1983, he worked as a community organizer in Chicago. In 1988, he enrolled in Harvard Law School, where he was the first black president of the Harvard Law Review. After graduating, he became a civil rights attorney and an academic, teaching constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004. Turning to elective politics, he represented the 13th district in the Illinois Senate from 1997 until 2004, when he ran for the U.S. Senate. Obama received national attention in 2004 with his March Senate primary win, his well-received keynote address at the July Democratic National Convention, and his landslide November election to the Senate. In 2008, after a close primary campaign against Hillary Clinton, he was nominated by the Democratic Party for president and chose Joe Biden as his running mate. Obama was elected over Republican nominee John McCain in the presidential election and was inaugurated on January 20, 2009. Nine months later, he was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate, a decision that drew a mixture of praise and criticism.	In which university did you become the first black president of the Harvard Law Review?	I became the first black president of the Harvard Law Review in Harvard Law School.
Obama was born in Honolulu, Hawaii. After graduating from Columbia University in 1983, he worked as a community organizer in Chicago. In 1988, he enrolled in Harvard Law School, where he was the first black president of the Harvard Law Review. After graduating, he became a civil rights attorney and an academic, teaching constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004. Turning to elective politics, he represented the 13th district in the Illinois Senate from 1997 until 2004, when he ran for the U.S. Senate. Obama received national attention in 2004 with his March Senate primary win, his well-received keynote address at the July Democratic National Convention, and his landslide November election to the Senate. In 2008, after a close primary campaign against Hillary Clinton, he was nominated by the Democratic Party for president and chose Joe Biden as his running mate. Obama was elected over Republican nominee John McCain in the presidential election and was inaugurated on January 20, 2009. Nine months later, he was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate, a decision that drew a mixture of praise and criticism.	Where did you teach constitutional law?	I taught constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School.
Obama was born in Honolulu, Hawaii. After graduating from Columbia University in 1983, he worked as a community organizer in Chicago. In 1988, he enrolled in Harvard Law School, where he was the first black president of the Harvard Law Review. After graduating, he became a civil rights attorney and an academic, teaching constitutional law at the University of Chicago Law School from 1992 to 2004. Turning to elective politics, he represented the 13th district in the Illinois Senate from 1997 until 2004, when he ran for the U.S. Senate. Obama received national attention in 2004 with his March Senate primary win, his well-received keynote address at the July Democratic National Convention, and his landslide November election to the Senate. In 2008, after a close primary campaign against Hillary Clinton, he was nominated by the Democratic Party for president and chose Joe Biden as his running mate. Obama was elected over Republican nominee John McCain in the presidential election and was inaugurated on January 20, 2009. Nine months later, he was named the 2009 Nobel Peace Prize laureate, a decision that drew a mixture of praise and criticism.	Who did you choose as your running mate in the presidential election?	I chose Joe Biden as my running mate in the presidential election.
Obama's first-term actions addressed the global financial crisis and included a major stimulus package, a partial extension of George W. Bush's tax cuts, legislation to reform health care, a major financial regulation reform bill, and the end of a major US military presence in Iraq. Obama also appointed Supreme Court justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan, the former being the first Hispanic American on the Supreme Court. He ordered the counterterrorism raid which killed Osama bin Laden and downplayed Bush's counterinsurgency model, expanding air strikes and making extensive use of special forces while encouraging greater reliance on host-government militaries.	What were some of your first-term actions?	My first-term actions included addressing the global financial crisis, implementing a major stimulus package, extending George W. Bush's tax cuts partially, reforming healthcare, implementing financial regulation reforms, and ending the US military presence in Iraq.
Obama's first-term actions addressed the global financial crisis and included a major stimulus package, a partial extension of George W. Bush's tax cuts, legislation to reform health care, a major financial regulation reform bill, and the end of a major US military presence in Iraq. Obama also appointed Supreme Court justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan, the former being the first Hispanic American on the Supreme Court. He ordered the counterterrorism raid which killed Osama bin Laden and downplayed Bush's counterinsurgency model, expanding air strikes and making extensive use of special forces while encouraging greater reliance on host-government militaries.	Who were the Supreme Court justices appointed by you?	I appointed Supreme Court justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan.
Obama's first-term actions addressed the global financial crisis and included a major stimulus package, a partial extension of George W. Bush's tax cuts, legislation to reform health care, a major financial regulation reform bill, and the end of a major US military presence in Iraq. Obama also appointed Supreme Court justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan, the former being the first Hispanic American on the Supreme Court. He ordered the counterterrorism raid which killed Osama bin Laden and downplayed Bush's counterinsurgency model, expanding air strikes and making extensive use of special forces while encouraging greater reliance on host-government militaries.	What was the significance of Sonia Sotomayor's appointment?	Sonia Sotomayor became the first Hispanic American to be appointed to the Supreme Court.
Obama's first-term actions addressed the global financial crisis and included a major stimulus package, a partial extension of George W. Bush's tax cuts, legislation to reform health care, a major financial regulation reform bill, and the end of a major US military presence in Iraq. Obama also appointed Supreme Court justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan, the former being the first Hispanic American on the Supreme Court. He ordered the counterterrorism raid which killed Osama bin Laden and downplayed Bush's counterinsurgency model, expanding air strikes and making extensive use of special forces while encouraging greater reliance on host-government militaries.	What was the result of your counterterrorism raid?	The counterterrorism raid ordered by me resulted in the killing of Osama bin Laden.
Obama's first-term actions addressed the global financial crisis and included a major stimulus package, a partial extension of George W. Bush's tax cuts, legislation to reform health care, a major financial regulation reform bill, and the end of a major US military presence in Iraq. Obama also appointed Supreme Court justices Sonia Sotomayor and Elena Kagan, the former being the first Hispanic American on the Supreme Court. He ordered the counterterrorism raid which killed Osama bin Laden and downplayed Bush's counterinsurgency model, expanding air strikes and making extensive use of special forces while encouraging greater reliance on host-government militaries.	How did you approach counterinsurgency during your term?	I downplayed Bush's counterinsurgency model and instead expanded air strikes, made extensive use of special forces, and encouraged greater reliance on host-government militaries.
After winning re-election by defeating Republican opponent Mitt Romney, Obama was sworn in for a second term on January 20, 2013. In his second term, Obama took steps to combat climate change, signing a major international climate agreement and an executive order to limit carbon emissions. Obama also presided over the implementation of the Affordable Care Act and other legislation passed in his first term, and he negotiated a nuclear agreement with Iran and normalized relations with Cuba. The number of American soldiers in Afghanistan fell dramatically during Obama's second term, though U.S. soldiers remained in Afghanistan throughout Obama's presidency.	When were you sworn in for your second term?	I was sworn in for my second term on January 20, 2013.
After winning re-election by defeating Republican opponent Mitt Romney, Obama was sworn in for a second term on January 20, 2013. In his second term, Obama took steps to combat climate change, signing a major international climate agreement and an executive order to limit carbon emissions. Obama also presided over the implementation of the Affordable Care Act and other legislation passed in his first term, and he negotiated a nuclear agreement with Iran and normalized relations with Cuba. The number of American soldiers in Afghanistan fell dramatically during Obama's second term, though U.S. soldiers remained in Afghanistan throughout Obama's presidency.	What steps did you take to combat climate change during your second term?	I signed a major international climate agreement and an executive order to limit carbon emissions during my second term.
After winning re-election by defeating Republican opponent Mitt Romney, Obama was sworn in for a second term on January 20, 2013. In his second term, Obama took steps to combat climate change, signing a major international climate agreement and an executive order to limit carbon emissions. Obama also presided over the implementation of the Affordable Care Act and other legislation passed in his first term, and he negotiated a nuclear agreement with Iran and normalized relations with Cuba. The number of American soldiers in Afghanistan fell dramatically during Obama's second term, though U.S. soldiers remained in Afghanistan throughout Obama's presidency.	What legislation did you implement during your second term?	I implemented the Affordable Care Act and other legislation passed in my first term during my second term.
After winning re-election by defeating Republican opponent Mitt Romney, Obama was sworn in for a second term on January 20, 2013. In his second term, Obama took steps to combat climate change, signing a major international climate agreement and an executive order to limit carbon emissions. Obama also presided over the implementation of the Affordable Care Act and other legislation passed in his first term, and he negotiated a nuclear agreement with Iran and normalized relations with Cuba. The number of American soldiers in Afghanistan fell dramatically during Obama's second term, though U.S. soldiers remained in Afghanistan throughout Obama's presidency.	What agreements did you negotiate during your second term?	I negotiated a nuclear agreement with Iran and normalized relations with Cuba during my second term.
After winning re-election by defeating Republican opponent Mitt Romney, Obama was sworn in for a second term on January 20, 2013. In his second term, Obama took steps to combat climate change, signing a major international climate agreement and an executive order to limit carbon emissions. Obama also presided over the implementation of the Affordable Care Act and other legislation passed in his first term, and he negotiated a nuclear agreement with Iran and normalized relations with Cuba. The number of American soldiers in Afghanistan fell dramatically during Obama's second term, though U.S. soldiers remained in Afghanistan throughout Obama's presidency.	What happened to the number of American soldiers in Afghanistan during your second term?	The number of American soldiers in Afghanistan fell dramatically during my second term, though U.S. soldiers remained in Afghanistan throughout my presidency.
During Obama's terms as president, the United States' reputation abroad and the American economy improved significantly, although the country experienced high levels of partisan divide. Obama left office on January 20, 2017, and continues to reside in Washington, D.C. His presidential library in Chicago began construction in 2021. Since leaving office, Obama has remained active in Democratic politics, including campaigning for candidates in various American elections. Outside of politics, Obama has published three bestselling books: Dreams from My Father (1995), The Audacity of Hope (2006) and A Promised Land (2020). Rankings by scholars and historians, in which he has been featured since 2010, place him in the middle to upper tier of American presidents.	When did you leave office?	I left office on January 20, 2017.
During Obama's terms as president, the United States' reputation abroad and the American economy improved significantly, although the country experienced high levels of partisan divide. Obama left office on January 20, 2017, and continues to reside in Washington, D.C. His presidential library in Chicago began construction in 2021. Since leaving office, Obama has remained active in Democratic politics, including campaigning for candidates in various American elections. Outside of politics, Obama has published three bestselling books: Dreams from My Father (1995), The Audacity of Hope (2006) and A Promised Land (2020). Rankings by scholars and historians, in which he has been featured since 2010, place him in the middle to upper tier of American presidents.	Where do you currently reside?	I currently reside in Washington, D.C.
During Obama's terms as president, the United States' reputation abroad and the American economy improved significantly, although the country experienced high levels of partisan divide. Obama left office on January 20, 2017, and continues to reside in Washington, D.C. His presidential library in Chicago began construction in 2021. Since leaving office, Obama has remained active in Democratic politics, including campaigning for candidates in various American elections. Outside of politics, Obama has published three bestselling books: Dreams from My Father (1995), The Audacity of Hope (2006) and A Promised Land (2020). Rankings by scholars and historians, in which he has been featured since 2010, place him in the middle to upper tier of American presidents.	When did construction of your presidential library in Chicago begin?	Construction of my presidential library in Chicago began in 2021.
During Obama's terms as president, the United States' reputation abroad and the American economy improved significantly, although the country experienced high levels of partisan divide. Obama left office on January 20, 2017, and continues to reside in Washington, D.C. His presidential library in Chicago began construction in 2021. Since leaving office, Obama has remained active in Democratic politics, including campaigning for candidates in various American elections. Outside of politics, Obama has published three bestselling books: Dreams from My Father (1995), The Audacity of Hope (2006) and A Promised Land (2020). Rankings by scholars and historians, in which he has been featured since 2010, place him in the middle to upper tier of American presidents.	What have you been doing since leaving office?	Since leaving office, I have remained active in Democratic politics and campaigned for candidates in various American elections.
During Obama's terms as president, the United States' reputation abroad and the American economy improved significantly, although the country experienced high levels of partisan divide. Obama left office on January 20, 2017, and continues to reside in Washington, D.C. His presidential library in Chicago began construction in 2021. Since leaving office, Obama has remained active in Democratic politics, including campaigning for candidates in various American elections. Outside of politics, Obama has published three bestselling books: Dreams from My Father (1995), The Audacity of Hope (2006) and A Promised Land (2020). Rankings by scholars and historians, in which he has been featured since 2010, place him in the middle to upper tier of American presidents.	How many bestselling books have you published?	I have published three bestselling books: Dreams from My Father (1995), The Audacity of Hope (2006), and A Promised Land (2020).
Obama was born on August 4, 1961, at Kapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children in Honolulu, Hawaii. He is the only president born outside the contiguous 48 states. He was born to an American mother and a Kenyan father. His mother, Ann Dunham (1942–1995), was born in Wichita, Kansas and was of English, Welsh, German, Swiss, and Irish descent. In 2007 it was discovered her great-great-grandfather Falmouth Kearney emigrated from the village of Moneygall, Ireland to the US in 1850. In July 2012, Ancestry.com found a strong likelihood that Dunham was descended from John Punch, an enslaved African man who lived in the Colony of Virginia during the seventeenth century. Obama's father, Barack Obama Sr. (1934–1982), was a married Luo Kenyan from Nyang'oma Kogelo. Obama's parents met in 1960 in a Russian language class at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, where his father was a foreign student on a scholarship. The couple married in Wailuku, Hawaii, on February 2, 1961, six months before Obama was born.	When and where were you born?	I was born on August 4, 1961, at Kapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children in Honolulu, Hawaii.
Obama was born on August 4, 1961, at Kapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children in Honolulu, Hawaii. He is the only president born outside the contiguous 48 states. He was born to an American mother and a Kenyan father. His mother, Ann Dunham (1942–1995), was born in Wichita, Kansas and was of English, Welsh, German, Swiss, and Irish descent. In 2007 it was discovered her great-great-grandfather Falmouth Kearney emigrated from the village of Moneygall, Ireland to the US in 1850. In July 2012, Ancestry.com found a strong likelihood that Dunham was descended from John Punch, an enslaved African man who lived in the Colony of Virginia during the seventeenth century. Obama's father, Barack Obama Sr. (1934–1982), was a married Luo Kenyan from Nyang'oma Kogelo. Obama's parents met in 1960 in a Russian language class at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, where his father was a foreign student on a scholarship. The couple married in Wailuku, Hawaii, on February 2, 1961, six months before Obama was born.	Where was your mother born?	My mother, Ann Dunham, was born in Wichita, Kansas.
Obama was born on August 4, 1961, at Kapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children in Honolulu, Hawaii. He is the only president born outside the contiguous 48 states. He was born to an American mother and a Kenyan father. His mother, Ann Dunham (1942–1995), was born in Wichita, Kansas and was of English, Welsh, German, Swiss, and Irish descent. In 2007 it was discovered her great-great-grandfather Falmouth Kearney emigrated from the village of Moneygall, Ireland to the US in 1850. In July 2012, Ancestry.com found a strong likelihood that Dunham was descended from John Punch, an enslaved African man who lived in the Colony of Virginia during the seventeenth century. Obama's father, Barack Obama Sr. (1934–1982), was a married Luo Kenyan from Nyang'oma Kogelo. Obama's parents met in 1960 in a Russian language class at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, where his father was a foreign student on a scholarship. The couple married in Wailuku, Hawaii, on February 2, 1961, six months before Obama was born.	Where did Ann Dunham's great-great-grandfather emigrate from?	Ann Dunham's great-great-grandfather, Falmouth Kearney, emigrated from the village of Moneygall, Ireland to the US in 1850.
Obama was born on August 4, 1961, at Kapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children in Honolulu, Hawaii. He is the only president born outside the contiguous 48 states. He was born to an American mother and a Kenyan father. His mother, Ann Dunham (1942–1995), was born in Wichita, Kansas and was of English, Welsh, German, Swiss, and Irish descent. In 2007 it was discovered her great-great-grandfather Falmouth Kearney emigrated from the village of Moneygall, Ireland to the US in 1850. In July 2012, Ancestry.com found a strong likelihood that Dunham was descended from John Punch, an enslaved African man who lived in the Colony of Virginia during the seventeenth century. Obama's father, Barack Obama Sr. (1934–1982), was a married Luo Kenyan from Nyang'oma Kogelo. Obama's parents met in 1960 in a Russian language class at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, where his father was a foreign student on a scholarship. The couple married in Wailuku, Hawaii, on February 2, 1961, six months before Obama was born.	What nationality is your father?	My father, Barack Obama Sr., was a Luo Kenyan from Nyang'oma Kogelo.
Obama was born on August 4, 1961, at Kapiolani Medical Center for Women and Children in Honolulu, Hawaii. He is the only president born outside the contiguous 48 states. He was born to an American mother and a Kenyan father. His mother, Ann Dunham (1942–1995), was born in Wichita, Kansas and was of English, Welsh, German, Swiss, and Irish descent. In 2007 it was discovered her great-great-grandfather Falmouth Kearney emigrated from the village of Moneygall, Ireland to the US in 1850. In July 2012, Ancestry.com found a strong likelihood that Dunham was descended from John Punch, an enslaved African man who lived in the Colony of Virginia during the seventeenth century. Obama's father, Barack Obama Sr. (1934–1982), was a married Luo Kenyan from Nyang'oma Kogelo. Obama's parents met in 1960 in a Russian language class at the University of Hawaii at Manoa, where his father was a foreign student on a scholarship. The couple married in Wailuku, Hawaii, on February 2, 1961, six months before Obama was born.	Where did your parents meet?	My parents met in 1960 in a Russian language class at the University of Hawaii at Manoa.
In late August 1961, a few weeks after he was born, Barack and his mother moved to the University of Washington in Seattle, where they lived for a year. During that time, Barack's father completed his undergraduate degree in economics in Hawaii, graduating in June 1962. He left to attend graduate school on a scholarship at Harvard University, where he earned an M.A. in economics. Obama's parents divorced in March 1964. Obama Sr. returned to Kenya in 1964, where he married for a third time and worked for the Kenyan government as the Senior Economic Analyst in the Ministry of Finance. He visited his son in Hawaii only once, at Christmas 1971, before he was killed in an automobile accident in 1982, when Obama was 21 years old. Recalling his early childhood, Obama said: "That my father looked nothing like the people around me—that he was black as pitch, my mother white as milk—barely registered in my mind." He described his struggles as a young adult to reconcile social perceptions of his multiracial heritage.	When did you and your mother move to the University of Washington in Seattle?	In late August 1961.
In late August 1961, a few weeks after he was born, Barack and his mother moved to the University of Washington in Seattle, where they lived for a year. During that time, Barack's father completed his undergraduate degree in economics in Hawaii, graduating in June 1962. He left to attend graduate school on a scholarship at Harvard University, where he earned an M.A. in economics. Obama's parents divorced in March 1964. Obama Sr. returned to Kenya in 1964, where he married for a third time and worked for the Kenyan government as the Senior Economic Analyst in the Ministry of Finance. He visited his son in Hawaii only once, at Christmas 1971, before he was killed in an automobile accident in 1982, when Obama was 21 years old. Recalling his early childhood, Obama said: "That my father looked nothing like the people around me—that he was black as pitch, my mother white as milk—barely registered in my mind." He described his struggles as a young adult to reconcile social perceptions of his multiracial heritage.	Where did your father go to attend graduate school?	Harvard University.
In late August 1961, a few weeks after he was born, Barack and his mother moved to the University of Washington in Seattle, where they lived for a year. During that time, Barack's father completed his undergraduate degree in economics in Hawaii, graduating in June 1962. He left to attend graduate school on a scholarship at Harvard University, where he earned an M.A. in economics. Obama's parents divorced in March 1964. Obama Sr. returned to Kenya in 1964, where he married for a third time and worked for the Kenyan government as the Senior Economic Analyst in the Ministry of Finance. He visited his son in Hawaii only once, at Christmas 1971, before he was killed in an automobile accident in 1982, when Obama was 21 years old. Recalling his early childhood, Obama said: "That my father looked nothing like the people around me—that he was black as pitch, my mother white as milk—barely registered in my mind." He described his struggles as a young adult to reconcile social perceptions of his multiracial heritage.	What degree did your father earn at Harvard University?	An M.A. in economics.
In late August 1961, a few weeks after he was born, Barack and his mother moved to the University of Washington in Seattle, where they lived for a year. During that time, Barack's father completed his undergraduate degree in economics in Hawaii, graduating in June 1962. He left to attend graduate school on a scholarship at Harvard University, where he earned an M.A. in economics. Obama's parents divorced in March 1964. Obama Sr. returned to Kenya in 1964, where he married for a third time and worked for the Kenyan government as the Senior Economic Analyst in the Ministry of Finance. He visited his son in Hawaii only once, at Christmas 1971, before he was killed in an automobile accident in 1982, when Obama was 21 years old. Recalling his early childhood, Obama said: "That my father looked nothing like the people around me—that he was black as pitch, my mother white as milk—barely registered in my mind." He described his struggles as a young adult to reconcile social perceptions of his multiracial heritage.	When did your parents divorce?	In March 1964.
In late August 1961, a few weeks after he was born, Barack and his mother moved to the University of Washington in Seattle, where they lived for a year. During that time, Barack's father completed his undergraduate degree in economics in Hawaii, graduating in June 1962. He left to attend graduate school on a scholarship at Harvard University, where he earned an M.A. in economics. Obama's parents divorced in March 1964. Obama Sr. returned to Kenya in 1964, where he married for a third time and worked for the Kenyan government as the Senior Economic Analyst in the Ministry of Finance. He visited his son in Hawaii only once, at Christmas 1971, before he was killed in an automobile accident in 1982, when Obama was 21 years old. Recalling his early childhood, Obama said: "That my father looked nothing like the people around me—that he was black as pitch, my mother white as milk—barely registered in my mind." He described his struggles as a young adult to reconcile social perceptions of his multiracial heritage.	When did your father visit you in Hawaii?	At Christmas 1971.
In 1963, Dunham met Lolo Soetoro at the University of Hawaii; he was an Indonesian East–West Center graduate student in geography. The couple married on Molokai on March 15, 1965. After two one-year extensions of his J-1 visa, Lolo returned to Indonesia in 1966. His wife and stepson followed sixteen months later in 1967. The family initially lived in the Menteng Dalam neighborhood in the Tebet district of South Jakarta. From 1970, they lived in a wealthier neighborhood in the Menteng district of Central Jakarta.	When did you meet Lolo Soetoro?	In 1963.
In 1963, Dunham met Lolo Soetoro at the University of Hawaii; he was an Indonesian East–West Center graduate student in geography. The couple married on Molokai on March 15, 1965. After two one-year extensions of his J-1 visa, Lolo returned to Indonesia in 1966. His wife and stepson followed sixteen months later in 1967. The family initially lived in the Menteng Dalam neighborhood in the Tebet district of South Jakarta. From 1970, they lived in a wealthier neighborhood in the Menteng district of Central Jakarta.	Where did you and Lolo Soetoro get married?	We got married on Molokai.
In 1963, Dunham met Lolo Soetoro at the University of Hawaii; he was an Indonesian East–West Center graduate student in geography. The couple married on Molokai on March 15, 1965. After two one-year extensions of his J-1 visa, Lolo returned to Indonesia in 1966. His wife and stepson followed sixteen months later in 1967. The family initially lived in the Menteng Dalam neighborhood in the Tebet district of South Jakarta. From 1970, they lived in a wealthier neighborhood in the Menteng district of Central Jakarta.	When did you return to Indonesia?	I returned to Indonesia in 1966.
In 1963, Dunham met Lolo Soetoro at the University of Hawaii; he was an Indonesian East–West Center graduate student in geography. The couple married on Molokai on March 15, 1965. After two one-year extensions of his J-1 visa, Lolo returned to Indonesia in 1966. His wife and stepson followed sixteen months later in 1967. The family initially lived in the Menteng Dalam neighborhood in the Tebet district of South Jakarta. From 1970, they lived in a wealthier neighborhood in the Menteng district of Central Jakarta.	Where did your family initially live in Jakarta?	We initially lived in the Menteng Dalam neighborhood in the Tebet district of South Jakarta.
In 1963, Dunham met Lolo Soetoro at the University of Hawaii; he was an Indonesian East–West Center graduate student in geography. The couple married on Molokai on March 15, 1965. After two one-year extensions of his J-1 visa, Lolo returned to Indonesia in 1966. His wife and stepson followed sixteen months later in 1967. The family initially lived in the Menteng Dalam neighborhood in the Tebet district of South Jakarta. From 1970, they lived in a wealthier neighborhood in the Menteng district of Central Jakarta.	When did your family move to the Menteng district in Jakarta?	We moved to the Menteng district in 1970.
At the age of six, Obama and his mother had moved to Indonesia to join his stepfather. From age six to ten, he attended local Indonesian-language schools: Sekolah Dasar Katolik Santo Fransiskus Asisi (St. Francis of Assisi Catholic Elementary School) for two years and Sekolah Dasar Negeri Menteng 01 (State Elementary School Menteng 01) for one and a half years, supplemented by English-language Calvert School homeschooling by his mother. As a result of his four years in Jakarta, he was able to speak Indonesian fluently as a child. During his time in Indonesia, Obama's stepfather taught him to be resilient and gave him "a pretty hardheaded assessment of how the world works."	Where did you and your mother move to when you were six?	We moved to Indonesia.
At the age of six, Obama and his mother had moved to Indonesia to join his stepfather. From age six to ten, he attended local Indonesian-language schools: Sekolah Dasar Katolik Santo Fransiskus Asisi (St. Francis of Assisi Catholic Elementary School) for two years and Sekolah Dasar Negeri Menteng 01 (State Elementary School Menteng 01) for one and a half years, supplemented by English-language Calvert School homeschooling by his mother. As a result of his four years in Jakarta, he was able to speak Indonesian fluently as a child. During his time in Indonesia, Obama's stepfather taught him to be resilient and gave him "a pretty hardheaded assessment of how the world works."	Which schools did you attend in Indonesia?	I attended Sekolah Dasar Katolik Santo Fransiskus Asisi and Sekolah Dasar Negeri Menteng 01.
At the age of six, Obama and his mother had moved to Indonesia to join his stepfather. From age six to ten, he attended local Indonesian-language schools: Sekolah Dasar Katolik Santo Fransiskus Asisi (St. Francis of Assisi Catholic Elementary School) for two years and Sekolah Dasar Negeri Menteng 01 (State Elementary School Menteng 01) for one and a half years, supplemented by English-language Calvert School homeschooling by his mother. As a result of his four years in Jakarta, he was able to speak Indonesian fluently as a child. During his time in Indonesia, Obama's stepfather taught him to be resilient and gave him "a pretty hardheaded assessment of how the world works."	How long did you attend each of the Indonesian schools?	I attended the first school for two years and the second school for one and a half years.
At the age of six, Obama and his mother had moved to Indonesia to join his stepfather. From age six to ten, he attended local Indonesian-language schools: Sekolah Dasar Katolik Santo Fransiskus Asisi (St. Francis of Assisi Catholic Elementary School) for two years and Sekolah Dasar Negeri Menteng 01 (State Elementary School Menteng 01) for one and a half years, supplemented by English-language Calvert School homeschooling by his mother. As a result of his four years in Jakarta, he was able to speak Indonesian fluently as a child. During his time in Indonesia, Obama's stepfather taught him to be resilient and gave him "a pretty hardheaded assessment of how the world works."	How did you receive homeschooling during your time in Indonesia?	I received English-language Calvert School homeschooling from my mother.
At the age of six, Obama and his mother had moved to Indonesia to join his stepfather. From age six to ten, he attended local Indonesian-language schools: Sekolah Dasar Katolik Santo Fransiskus Asisi (St. Francis of Assisi Catholic Elementary School) for two years and Sekolah Dasar Negeri Menteng 01 (State Elementary School Menteng 01) for one and a half years, supplemented by English-language Calvert School homeschooling by his mother. As a result of his four years in Jakarta, he was able to speak Indonesian fluently as a child. During his time in Indonesia, Obama's stepfather taught him to be resilient and gave him "a pretty hardheaded assessment of how the world works."	What was the result of your four years in Jakarta?	I became fluent in Indonesian as a child.
In 1971, Obama returned to Honolulu to live with his maternal grandparents, Madelyn and Stanley Dunham. He attended Punahou School—a private college preparatory school—with the aid of a scholarship from fifth grade until he graduated from high school in 1979. In his youth, Obama went by the nickname "Barry." Obama lived with his mother and half-sister, Maya Soetoro, in Hawaii for three years from 1972 to 1975 while his mother was a graduate student in anthropology at the University of Hawaii. Obama chose to stay in Hawaii when his mother and half-sister returned to Indonesia in 1975, so his mother could begin anthropology field work. His mother spent most of the next two decades in Indonesia, divorcing Lolo in 1980 and earning a PhD degree in 1992, before dying in 1995 in Hawaii following unsuccessful treatment for ovarian and uterine cancer.	Where did you attend school from fifth grade until your high school graduation?	I attended Punahou School during that time.
In 1971, Obama returned to Honolulu to live with his maternal grandparents, Madelyn and Stanley Dunham. He attended Punahou School—a private college preparatory school—with the aid of a scholarship from fifth grade until he graduated from high school in 1979. In his youth, Obama went by the nickname "Barry." Obama lived with his mother and half-sister, Maya Soetoro, in Hawaii for three years from 1972 to 1975 while his mother was a graduate student in anthropology at the University of Hawaii. Obama chose to stay in Hawaii when his mother and half-sister returned to Indonesia in 1975, so his mother could begin anthropology field work. His mother spent most of the next two decades in Indonesia, divorcing Lolo in 1980 and earning a PhD degree in 1992, before dying in 1995 in Hawaii following unsuccessful treatment for ovarian and uterine cancer.	Who did you live with when you returned to Honolulu in 1971?	I lived with my maternal grandparents, Madelyn and Stanley Dunham.
In 1971, Obama returned to Honolulu to live with his maternal grandparents, Madelyn and Stanley Dunham. He attended Punahou School—a private college preparatory school—with the aid of a scholarship from fifth grade until he graduated from high school in 1979. In his youth, Obama went by the nickname "Barry." Obama lived with his mother and half-sister, Maya Soetoro, in Hawaii for three years from 1972 to 1975 while his mother was a graduate student in anthropology at the University of Hawaii. Obama chose to stay in Hawaii when his mother and half-sister returned to Indonesia in 1975, so his mother could begin anthropology field work. His mother spent most of the next two decades in Indonesia, divorcing Lolo in 1980 and earning a PhD degree in 1992, before dying in 1995 in Hawaii following unsuccessful treatment for ovarian and uterine cancer.	How long did you live in Hawaii with your mother and half-sister?	I lived in Hawaii with them for three years, from 1972 to 1975.
In 1971, Obama returned to Honolulu to live with his maternal grandparents, Madelyn and Stanley Dunham. He attended Punahou School—a private college preparatory school—with the aid of a scholarship from fifth grade until he graduated from high school in 1979. In his youth, Obama went by the nickname "Barry." Obama lived with his mother and half-sister, Maya Soetoro, in Hawaii for three years from 1972 to 1975 while his mother was a graduate student in anthropology at the University of Hawaii. Obama chose to stay in Hawaii when his mother and half-sister returned to Indonesia in 1975, so his mother could begin anthropology field work. His mother spent most of the next two decades in Indonesia, divorcing Lolo in 1980 and earning a PhD degree in 1992, before dying in 1995 in Hawaii following unsuccessful treatment for ovarian and uterine cancer.	Why did your mother return to Indonesia in 1975?	My mother returned to Indonesia in 1975 to begin anthropology field work.
In 1971, Obama returned to Honolulu to live with his maternal grandparents, Madelyn and Stanley Dunham. He attended Punahou School—a private college preparatory school—with the aid of a scholarship from fifth grade until he graduated from high school in 1979. In his youth, Obama went by the nickname "Barry." Obama lived with his mother and half-sister, Maya Soetoro, in Hawaii for three years from 1972 to 1975 while his mother was a graduate student in anthropology at the University of Hawaii. Obama chose to stay in Hawaii when his mother and half-sister returned to Indonesia in 1975, so his mother could begin anthropology field work. His mother spent most of the next two decades in Indonesia, divorcing Lolo in 1980 and earning a PhD degree in 1992, before dying in 1995 in Hawaii following unsuccessful treatment for ovarian and uterine cancer.	Where did your mother die?	My mother died in Hawaii in 1995 following unsuccessful treatment for ovarian and uterine cancer.
In June 1989 , Obama met Michelle Robinson when he was employed as a summer associate at the Chicago law firm of Sidley Austin . Robinson was assigned for three months as Obama ' s adviser at the firm , and she joined him at several group social functions but declined his initial requests to date . They began dating later that summer , became engaged in 1991 , and were married on October 3 , 1992 . After suffering a miscarriage , Michelle underwent in vitro fertilization to conceive their children . The couple ' s first daughter , Malia Ann , was born in 1998 , followed by a second daughter , Natasha ( " Sasha " ) , in 2001 . The Obama daughters attended the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools . When they moved to Washington , D . C . , in January 2009 , the girls started at the Sidwell Friends School . The Obamas had two Portuguese Water Dogs ; the first , a male named Bo , was a gift from Senator Ted Kennedy . In 2013 , Bo was joined by Sunny , a female . Bo died of cancer on May 8 , 2021 .	When did you meet Michelle Robinson?	In June 1989.
In June 1989 , Obama met Michelle Robinson when he was employed as a summer associate at the Chicago law firm of Sidley Austin . Robinson was assigned for three months as Obama ' s adviser at the firm , and she joined him at several group social functions but declined his initial requests to date . They began dating later that summer , became engaged in 1991 , and were married on October 3 , 1992 . After suffering a miscarriage , Michelle underwent in vitro fertilization to conceive their children . The couple ' s first daughter , Malia Ann , was born in 1998 , followed by a second daughter , Natasha ( " Sasha " ) , in 2001 . The Obama daughters attended the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools . When they moved to Washington , D . C . , in January 2009 , the girls started at the Sidwell Friends School . The Obamas had two Portuguese Water Dogs ; the first , a male named Bo , was a gift from Senator Ted Kennedy . In 2013 , Bo was joined by Sunny , a female . Bo died of cancer on May 8 , 2021 .	Where were you employed when you met Michelle Robinson?	I was employed at the Chicago law firm of Sidley Austin.
In June 1989 , Obama met Michelle Robinson when he was employed as a summer associate at the Chicago law firm of Sidley Austin . Robinson was assigned for three months as Obama ' s adviser at the firm , and she joined him at several group social functions but declined his initial requests to date . They began dating later that summer , became engaged in 1991 , and were married on October 3 , 1992 . After suffering a miscarriage , Michelle underwent in vitro fertilization to conceive their children . The couple ' s first daughter , Malia Ann , was born in 1998 , followed by a second daughter , Natasha ( " Sasha " ) , in 2001 . The Obama daughters attended the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools . When they moved to Washington , D . C . , in January 2009 , the girls started at the Sidwell Friends School . The Obamas had two Portuguese Water Dogs ; the first , a male named Bo , was a gift from Senator Ted Kennedy . In 2013 , Bo was joined by Sunny , a female . Bo died of cancer on May 8 , 2021 .	How long were you assigned as my adviser at the firm?	I was assigned for three months.
In June 1989 , Obama met Michelle Robinson when he was employed as a summer associate at the Chicago law firm of Sidley Austin . Robinson was assigned for three months as Obama ' s adviser at the firm , and she joined him at several group social functions but declined his initial requests to date . They began dating later that summer , became engaged in 1991 , and were married on October 3 , 1992 . After suffering a miscarriage , Michelle underwent in vitro fertilization to conceive their children . The couple ' s first daughter , Malia Ann , was born in 1998 , followed by a second daughter , Natasha ( " Sasha " ) , in 2001 . The Obama daughters attended the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools . When they moved to Washington , D . C . , in January 2009 , the girls started at the Sidwell Friends School . The Obamas had two Portuguese Water Dogs ; the first , a male named Bo , was a gift from Senator Ted Kennedy . In 2013 , Bo was joined by Sunny , a female . Bo died of cancer on May 8 , 2021 .	When were you and Michelle married?	We were married on October 3, 1992.
In June 1989 , Obama met Michelle Robinson when he was employed as a summer associate at the Chicago law firm of Sidley Austin . Robinson was assigned for three months as Obama ' s adviser at the firm , and she joined him at several group social functions but declined his initial requests to date . They began dating later that summer , became engaged in 1991 , and were married on October 3 , 1992 . After suffering a miscarriage , Michelle underwent in vitro fertilization to conceive their children . The couple ' s first daughter , Malia Ann , was born in 1998 , followed by a second daughter , Natasha ( " Sasha " ) , in 2001 . The Obama daughters attended the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools . When they moved to Washington , D . C . , in January 2009 , the girls started at the Sidwell Friends School . The Obamas had two Portuguese Water Dogs ; the first , a male named Bo , was a gift from Senator Ted Kennedy . In 2013 , Bo was joined by Sunny , a female . Bo died of cancer on May 8 , 2021 .	What happened to Bo, your first Portuguese Water Dog?	Bo died of cancer on May 8, 2021.
On February 27 , 2009 , Obama announced that combat operations in Iraq would end within 18 months . The Obama administration scheduled the withdrawal of combat troops to be completed by August 2010 , decreasing troop ' s levels from 142 , 000 while leaving a transitional force of about 50 , 000 in Iraq until the end of 2011 . On August 19 , 2010 , the last U . S . combat brigade exited Iraq . Remaining troops transitioned from combat operations to counter - terrorism and the training , equipping , and advising of Iraqi security forces . On August 31 , 2010 , Obama announced that the United States combat mission in Iraq was over . On October 21 , 2011 , President Obama announced that all U . S . troops would leave Iraq in time to be " home for the holidays . "	When did you announce that combat operations in Iraq would end?	On February 27, 2009.
On February 27 , 2009 , Obama announced that combat operations in Iraq would end within 18 months . The Obama administration scheduled the withdrawal of combat troops to be completed by August 2010 , decreasing troop ' s levels from 142 , 000 while leaving a transitional force of about 50 , 000 in Iraq until the end of 2011 . On August 19 , 2010 , the last U . S . combat brigade exited Iraq . Remaining troops transitioned from combat operations to counter - terrorism and the training , equipping , and advising of Iraqi security forces . On August 31 , 2010 , Obama announced that the United States combat mission in Iraq was over . On October 21 , 2011 , President Obama announced that all U . S . troops would leave Iraq in time to be " home for the holidays . "	When was your withdrawal of combat troops scheduled to be completed?	By August 2010.
On February 27 , 2009 , Obama announced that combat operations in Iraq would end within 18 months . The Obama administration scheduled the withdrawal of combat troops to be completed by August 2010 , decreasing troop ' s levels from 142 , 000 while leaving a transitional force of about 50 , 000 in Iraq until the end of 2011 . On August 19 , 2010 , the last U . S . combat brigade exited Iraq . Remaining troops transitioned from combat operations to counter - terrorism and the training , equipping , and advising of Iraqi security forces . On August 31 , 2010 , Obama announced that the United States combat mission in Iraq was over . On October 21 , 2011 , President Obama announced that all U . S . troops would leave Iraq in time to be " home for the holidays . "	How many troops were left in Iraq as a transitional force until the end of 2011?	About 50,000.
On February 27 , 2009 , Obama announced that combat operations in Iraq would end within 18 months . The Obama administration scheduled the withdrawal of combat troops to be completed by August 2010 , decreasing troop ' s levels from 142 , 000 while leaving a transitional force of about 50 , 000 in Iraq until the end of 2011 . On August 19 , 2010 , the last U . S . combat brigade exited Iraq . Remaining troops transitioned from combat operations to counter - terrorism and the training , equipping , and advising of Iraqi security forces . On August 31 , 2010 , Obama announced that the United States combat mission in Iraq was over . On October 21 , 2011 , President Obama announced that all U . S . troops would leave Iraq in time to be " home for the holidays . "	When did the last U.S. combat brigade exit Iraq?	On August 19, 2010.
On February 27 , 2009 , Obama announced that combat operations in Iraq would end within 18 months . The Obama administration scheduled the withdrawal of combat troops to be completed by August 2010 , decreasing troop ' s levels from 142 , 000 while leaving a transitional force of about 50 , 000 in Iraq until the end of 2011 . On August 19 , 2010 , the last U . S . combat brigade exited Iraq . Remaining troops transitioned from combat operations to counter - terrorism and the training , equipping , and advising of Iraqi security forces . On August 31 , 2010 , Obama announced that the United States combat mission in Iraq was over . On October 21 , 2011 , President Obama announced that all U . S . troops would leave Iraq in time to be " home for the holidays . "	When did you announce that the United States combat mission in Iraq was over?	On August 31, 2010.
In June 2014 , following the capture of Mosul by ISIL , Obama sent 275 troops to provide support and security for U . S . personnel and the U . S . Embassy in Baghdad . ISIS continued to gain ground and to commit widespread massacres and ethnic cleansing . In August 2014 , during the Sinjar massacre , Obama ordered a campaign of U . S . airstrikes against ISIL . By the end of 2014 , 3 , 100 American ground troops were committed to the conflict and 16 , 000 sorties were flown over the battlefield , primarily by U . S . Air Force and Navy pilots . In early 2015 , with the addition of the " Panther Brigade " of the 82nd Airborne Division the number of U . S . ground troops in Iraq increased to 4 , 400 , and by July American - led coalition air forces counted 44 , 000 sorties over the battlefield .	When did you send troops to provide support and security for U.S. personnel and the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad?	In June 2014.
In June 2014 , following the capture of Mosul by ISIL , Obama sent 275 troops to provide support and security for U . S . personnel and the U . S . Embassy in Baghdad . ISIS continued to gain ground and to commit widespread massacres and ethnic cleansing . In August 2014 , during the Sinjar massacre , Obama ordered a campaign of U . S . airstrikes against ISIL . By the end of 2014 , 3 , 100 American ground troops were committed to the conflict and 16 , 000 sorties were flown over the battlefield , primarily by U . S . Air Force and Navy pilots . In early 2015 , with the addition of the " Panther Brigade " of the 82nd Airborne Division the number of U . S . ground troops in Iraq increased to 4 , 400 , and by July American - led coalition air forces counted 44 , 000 sorties over the battlefield .	Why did you order a campaign of U.S. airstrikes against ISIL in August 2014?	It was in response to the Sinjar massacre and ISIS gaining ground.
In June 2014 , following the capture of Mosul by ISIL , Obama sent 275 troops to provide support and security for U . S . personnel and the U . S . Embassy in Baghdad . ISIS continued to gain ground and to commit widespread massacres and ethnic cleansing . In August 2014 , during the Sinjar massacre , Obama ordered a campaign of U . S . airstrikes against ISIL . By the end of 2014 , 3 , 100 American ground troops were committed to the conflict and 16 , 000 sorties were flown over the battlefield , primarily by U . S . Air Force and Navy pilots . In early 2015 , with the addition of the " Panther Brigade " of the 82nd Airborne Division the number of U . S . ground troops in Iraq increased to 4 , 400 , and by July American - led coalition air forces counted 44 , 000 sorties over the battlefield .	How many American ground troops were committed to the conflict by the end of 2014?	3,100.
In June 2014 , following the capture of Mosul by ISIL , Obama sent 275 troops to provide support and security for U . S . personnel and the U . S . Embassy in Baghdad . ISIS continued to gain ground and to commit widespread massacres and ethnic cleansing . In August 2014 , during the Sinjar massacre , Obama ordered a campaign of U . S . airstrikes against ISIL . By the end of 2014 , 3 , 100 American ground troops were committed to the conflict and 16 , 000 sorties were flown over the battlefield , primarily by U . S . Air Force and Navy pilots . In early 2015 , with the addition of the " Panther Brigade " of the 82nd Airborne Division the number of U . S . ground troops in Iraq increased to 4 , 400 , and by July American - led coalition air forces counted 44 , 000 sorties over the battlefield .	What was the total number of sorties flown over the battlefield by the end of 2014?	16,000.
In June 2014 , following the capture of Mosul by ISIL , Obama sent 275 troops to provide support and security for U . S . personnel and the U . S . Embassy in Baghdad . ISIS continued to gain ground and to commit widespread massacres and ethnic cleansing . In August 2014 , during the Sinjar massacre , Obama ordered a campaign of U . S . airstrikes against ISIL . By the end of 2014 , 3 , 100 American ground troops were committed to the conflict and 16 , 000 sorties were flown over the battlefield , primarily by U . S . Air Force and Navy pilots . In early 2015 , with the addition of the " Panther Brigade " of the 82nd Airborne Division the number of U . S . ground troops in Iraq increased to 4 , 400 , and by July American - led coalition air forces counted 44 , 000 sorties over the battlefield .	How many U.S. ground troops were there in Iraq after the addition of the "Panther Brigade" in early 2015?	4,400.
In his election campaign , Obama called the war in Iraq a " dangerous distraction " and that emphasis should instead be put on the war in Afghanistan , the region he cites as being most likely where an attack against the United States could be launched again . Early in his presidency , Obama moved to bolster U . S . troop strength in Afghanistan . He announced an increase in U . S . troop levels to 17 , 000 military personnel in February 2009 to " stabilize a deteriorating situation in Afghanistan " , an area he said had not received the " strategic attention , direction and resources it urgently requires . " He replaced the military commander in Afghanistan , General David D . McKiernan , with former Special Forces commander Lt . Gen . Stanley A . McChrystal in May 2009 , indicating that McChrystal ' s Special Forces experience would facilitate the use of counterinsurgency tactics in the war . On December 1 , 2009 , Obama announced the deployment of an additional 30 , 000 military personnel to Afghanistan and proposed to begin troop withdrawals 18 months from that date ; this took place in July 2011 . David Petraeus replaced McChrystal in June 2010 , after McChrystal ' s staff criticized White House personnel in a magazine article . In February 2013 , Obama said the U . S . military would reduce the troop level in Afghanistan from 68 , 000 to 34 , 000 U . S . troops by February 2014 . In October 2015 , the White House announced a plan to keep U . S . Forces in Afghanistan indefinitely in light of the deteriorating security situation .	What did you call the war in Iraq?	I called the war in Iraq a "dangerous distraction".
In his election campaign , Obama called the war in Iraq a " dangerous distraction " and that emphasis should instead be put on the war in Afghanistan , the region he cites as being most likely where an attack against the United States could be launched again . Early in his presidency , Obama moved to bolster U . S . troop strength in Afghanistan . He announced an increase in U . S . troop levels to 17 , 000 military personnel in February 2009 to " stabilize a deteriorating situation in Afghanistan " , an area he said had not received the " strategic attention , direction and resources it urgently requires . " He replaced the military commander in Afghanistan , General David D . McKiernan , with former Special Forces commander Lt . Gen . Stanley A . McChrystal in May 2009 , indicating that McChrystal ' s Special Forces experience would facilitate the use of counterinsurgency tactics in the war . On December 1 , 2009 , Obama announced the deployment of an additional 30 , 000 military personnel to Afghanistan and proposed to begin troop withdrawals 18 months from that date ; this took place in July 2011 . David Petraeus replaced McChrystal in June 2010 , after McChrystal ' s staff criticized White House personnel in a magazine article . In February 2013 , Obama said the U . S . military would reduce the troop level in Afghanistan from 68 , 000 to 34 , 000 U . S . troops by February 2014 . In October 2015 , the White House announced a plan to keep U . S . Forces in Afghanistan indefinitely in light of the deteriorating security situation .	Where did you emphasize that the war in Afghanistan should be put?	I emphasized that the war in Afghanistan should be put as the region most likely where an attack against the United States could be launched again.
In his election campaign , Obama called the war in Iraq a " dangerous distraction " and that emphasis should instead be put on the war in Afghanistan , the region he cites as being most likely where an attack against the United States could be launched again . Early in his presidency , Obama moved to bolster U . S . troop strength in Afghanistan . He announced an increase in U . S . troop levels to 17 , 000 military personnel in February 2009 to " stabilize a deteriorating situation in Afghanistan " , an area he said had not received the " strategic attention , direction and resources it urgently requires . " He replaced the military commander in Afghanistan , General David D . McKiernan , with former Special Forces commander Lt . Gen . Stanley A . McChrystal in May 2009 , indicating that McChrystal ' s Special Forces experience would facilitate the use of counterinsurgency tactics in the war . On December 1 , 2009 , Obama announced the deployment of an additional 30 , 000 military personnel to Afghanistan and proposed to begin troop withdrawals 18 months from that date ; this took place in July 2011 . David Petraeus replaced McChrystal in June 2010 , after McChrystal ' s staff criticized White House personnel in a magazine article . In February 2013 , Obama said the U . S . military would reduce the troop level in Afghanistan from 68 , 000 to 34 , 000 U . S . troops by February 2014 . In October 2015 , the White House announced a plan to keep U . S . Forces in Afghanistan indefinitely in light of the deteriorating security situation .	What was the reason behind your decision to increase U.S. troop levels in Afghanistan in February 2009?	The reason behind my decision to increase U.S. troop levels in Afghanistan in February 2009 was to stabilize a deteriorating situation in Afghanistan.
In his election campaign , Obama called the war in Iraq a " dangerous distraction " and that emphasis should instead be put on the war in Afghanistan , the region he cites as being most likely where an attack against the United States could be launched again . Early in his presidency , Obama moved to bolster U . S . troop strength in Afghanistan . He announced an increase in U . S . troop levels to 17 , 000 military personnel in February 2009 to " stabilize a deteriorating situation in Afghanistan " , an area he said had not received the " strategic attention , direction and resources it urgently requires . " He replaced the military commander in Afghanistan , General David D . McKiernan , with former Special Forces commander Lt . Gen . Stanley A . McChrystal in May 2009 , indicating that McChrystal ' s Special Forces experience would facilitate the use of counterinsurgency tactics in the war . On December 1 , 2009 , Obama announced the deployment of an additional 30 , 000 military personnel to Afghanistan and proposed to begin troop withdrawals 18 months from that date ; this took place in July 2011 . David Petraeus replaced McChrystal in June 2010 , after McChrystal ' s staff criticized White House personnel in a magazine article . In February 2013 , Obama said the U . S . military would reduce the troop level in Afghanistan from 68 , 000 to 34 , 000 U . S . troops by February 2014 . In October 2015 , the White House announced a plan to keep U . S . Forces in Afghanistan indefinitely in light of the deteriorating security situation .	Who did you replace General David D. McKiernan with in May 2009?	I replaced General David D. McKiernan with former Special Forces commander Lt. Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal in May 2009.
In his election campaign , Obama called the war in Iraq a " dangerous distraction " and that emphasis should instead be put on the war in Afghanistan , the region he cites as being most likely where an attack against the United States could be launched again . Early in his presidency , Obama moved to bolster U . S . troop strength in Afghanistan . He announced an increase in U . S . troop levels to 17 , 000 military personnel in February 2009 to " stabilize a deteriorating situation in Afghanistan " , an area he said had not received the " strategic attention , direction and resources it urgently requires . " He replaced the military commander in Afghanistan , General David D . McKiernan , with former Special Forces commander Lt . Gen . Stanley A . McChrystal in May 2009 , indicating that McChrystal ' s Special Forces experience would facilitate the use of counterinsurgency tactics in the war . On December 1 , 2009 , Obama announced the deployment of an additional 30 , 000 military personnel to Afghanistan and proposed to begin troop withdrawals 18 months from that date ; this took place in July 2011 . David Petraeus replaced McChrystal in June 2010 , after McChrystal ' s staff criticized White House personnel in a magazine article . In February 2013 , Obama said the U . S . military would reduce the troop level in Afghanistan from 68 , 000 to 34 , 000 U . S . troops by February 2014 . In October 2015 , the White House announced a plan to keep U . S . Forces in Afghanistan indefinitely in light of the deteriorating security situation .	When did you announce the deployment of an additional 30,000 military personnel to Afghanistan?	I announced the deployment of an additional 30,000 military personnel to Afghanistan on December 1, 2009.
In December 2014 , after the secret meetings , it was announced that Obama , with Pope Francis as an intermediary , had negotiated a restoration of relations with Cuba , after nearly sixty years of d é tente . Popularly dubbed the Cuban Thaw , The New Republic deemed the Cuban Thaw to be " Obama ' s finest foreign policy achievement . " On July 1 , 2015 , President Obama announced that formal diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States would resume , and embassies would be opened in Washington and Havana . The countries ' respective " interests sections " in one another ' s capitals were upgraded to embassies on July 20 and August 13 , 2015 , respectively . Obama visited Havana , Cuba for two days in March 2016 , becoming the first sitting U . S . president to arrive since Calvin Coolidge in 1928 .	When was the restoration of relations between Cuba and the United States announced?	In December 2014.
In December 2014 , after the secret meetings , it was announced that Obama , with Pope Francis as an intermediary , had negotiated a restoration of relations with Cuba , after nearly sixty years of d é tente . Popularly dubbed the Cuban Thaw , The New Republic deemed the Cuban Thaw to be " Obama ' s finest foreign policy achievement . " On July 1 , 2015 , President Obama announced that formal diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States would resume , and embassies would be opened in Washington and Havana . The countries ' respective " interests sections " in one another ' s capitals were upgraded to embassies on July 20 and August 13 , 2015 , respectively . Obama visited Havana , Cuba for two days in March 2016 , becoming the first sitting U . S . president to arrive since Calvin Coolidge in 1928 .	Who was the intermediary between you and Cuba during the negotiations?	Pope Francis.
In December 2014 , after the secret meetings , it was announced that Obama , with Pope Francis as an intermediary , had negotiated a restoration of relations with Cuba , after nearly sixty years of d é tente . Popularly dubbed the Cuban Thaw , The New Republic deemed the Cuban Thaw to be " Obama ' s finest foreign policy achievement . " On July 1 , 2015 , President Obama announced that formal diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States would resume , and embassies would be opened in Washington and Havana . The countries ' respective " interests sections " in one another ' s capitals were upgraded to embassies on July 20 and August 13 , 2015 , respectively . Obama visited Havana , Cuba for two days in March 2016 , becoming the first sitting U . S . president to arrive since Calvin Coolidge in 1928 .	What is the Cuban Thaw?	It is the restoration of relations between Cuba and the United States after nearly sixty years of detente.
In December 2014 , after the secret meetings , it was announced that Obama , with Pope Francis as an intermediary , had negotiated a restoration of relations with Cuba , after nearly sixty years of d é tente . Popularly dubbed the Cuban Thaw , The New Republic deemed the Cuban Thaw to be " Obama ' s finest foreign policy achievement . " On July 1 , 2015 , President Obama announced that formal diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States would resume , and embassies would be opened in Washington and Havana . The countries ' respective " interests sections " in one another ' s capitals were upgraded to embassies on July 20 and August 13 , 2015 , respectively . Obama visited Havana , Cuba for two days in March 2016 , becoming the first sitting U . S . president to arrive since Calvin Coolidge in 1928 .	When did you announce the resumption of formal diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States?	On July 1, 2015.
In December 2014 , after the secret meetings , it was announced that Obama , with Pope Francis as an intermediary , had negotiated a restoration of relations with Cuba , after nearly sixty years of d é tente . Popularly dubbed the Cuban Thaw , The New Republic deemed the Cuban Thaw to be " Obama ' s finest foreign policy achievement . " On July 1 , 2015 , President Obama announced that formal diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States would resume , and embassies would be opened in Washington and Havana . The countries ' respective " interests sections " in one another ' s capitals were upgraded to embassies on July 20 and August 13 , 2015 , respectively . Obama visited Havana , Cuba for two days in March 2016 , becoming the first sitting U . S . president to arrive since Calvin Coolidge in 1928 .	Who were you the first sitting U.S. president to visit Havana, Cuba since Calvin Coolidge in 1928?	I was.
The next day , on Obama ' s orders , the U . S . military took part in air strikes to destroy the Libyan government ' s air defense capabilities to protect civilians and enforce a no - fly - zone , including the use of Tomahawk missiles , B - 2 Spirits , and fighter jets . Six days later , on March 25 , by unanimous vote of all its 28 members , NATO took over leadership of the effort , dubbed Operation Unified Protector . Some Representatives questioned whether Obama had the constitutional authority to order military action in addition to questioning its cost , structure and aftermath . Obama later expressed regret for playing a leading role in the destabilization of Libya , calling the certain situation there " a mess . " He has stated that the lack of preparation surrounding the days following the government ' s overthrow was the " worst mistake " of his presidency .	What was the purpose of the U.S. military air strikes in Libya?	The purpose of the U.S. military air strikes in Libya was to destroy the Libyan government's air defense capabilities and protect civilians.
The next day , on Obama ' s orders , the U . S . military took part in air strikes to destroy the Libyan government ' s air defense capabilities to protect civilians and enforce a no - fly - zone , including the use of Tomahawk missiles , B - 2 Spirits , and fighter jets . Six days later , on March 25 , by unanimous vote of all its 28 members , NATO took over leadership of the effort , dubbed Operation Unified Protector . Some Representatives questioned whether Obama had the constitutional authority to order military action in addition to questioning its cost , structure and aftermath . Obama later expressed regret for playing a leading role in the destabilization of Libya , calling the certain situation there " a mess . " He has stated that the lack of preparation surrounding the days following the government ' s overthrow was the " worst mistake " of his presidency .	What weapons were used in the air strikes?	The U.S. military used Tomahawk missiles, B-2 Spirits, and fighter jets in the air strikes.
The next day , on Obama ' s orders , the U . S . military took part in air strikes to destroy the Libyan government ' s air defense capabilities to protect civilians and enforce a no - fly - zone , including the use of Tomahawk missiles , B - 2 Spirits , and fighter jets . Six days later , on March 25 , by unanimous vote of all its 28 members , NATO took over leadership of the effort , dubbed Operation Unified Protector . Some Representatives questioned whether Obama had the constitutional authority to order military action in addition to questioning its cost , structure and aftermath . Obama later expressed regret for playing a leading role in the destabilization of Libya , calling the certain situation there " a mess . " He has stated that the lack of preparation surrounding the days following the government ' s overthrow was the " worst mistake " of his presidency .	When did NATO take over leadership of the operation in Libya?	NATO took over leadership of the operation in Libya on March 25, six days after the U.S. military air strikes.
The next day , on Obama ' s orders , the U . S . military took part in air strikes to destroy the Libyan government ' s air defense capabilities to protect civilians and enforce a no - fly - zone , including the use of Tomahawk missiles , B - 2 Spirits , and fighter jets . Six days later , on March 25 , by unanimous vote of all its 28 members , NATO took over leadership of the effort , dubbed Operation Unified Protector . Some Representatives questioned whether Obama had the constitutional authority to order military action in addition to questioning its cost , structure and aftermath . Obama later expressed regret for playing a leading role in the destabilization of Libya , calling the certain situation there " a mess . " He has stated that the lack of preparation surrounding the days following the government ' s overthrow was the " worst mistake " of his presidency .	Who questioned your authority to order military action in Libya?	Some Representatives questioned my authority to order military action in Libya.
The next day , on Obama ' s orders , the U . S . military took part in air strikes to destroy the Libyan government ' s air defense capabilities to protect civilians and enforce a no - fly - zone , including the use of Tomahawk missiles , B - 2 Spirits , and fighter jets . Six days later , on March 25 , by unanimous vote of all its 28 members , NATO took over leadership of the effort , dubbed Operation Unified Protector . Some Representatives questioned whether Obama had the constitutional authority to order military action in addition to questioning its cost , structure and aftermath . Obama later expressed regret for playing a leading role in the destabilization of Libya , calling the certain situation there " a mess . " He has stated that the lack of preparation surrounding the days following the government ' s overthrow was the " worst mistake " of his presidency .	How did you describe the situation in Libya after the government's overthrow?	I described the situation in Libya after the government's overthrow as "a mess" and expressed regret for the destabilization of Libya.
Obama ' s presidency ended on January 20 , 2017 , upon the inauguration of his successor , Donald Trump . The family moved to a house they rented in Kalorama , Washington , D . C . On March 2 , the John F . Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum awarded the Profile in Courage Award to Obama " for his enduring commitment to democratic ideals and elevating the standard of political courage . " His first public appearance since leaving the office was a seminar at the University of Chicago on April 24 , where he appealed for a new generation to participate in politics . On September 7 , Obama partnered with former presidents Jimmy Carter , George H . W . Bush , Bill Clinton , and George W . Bush to work with One America Appeal to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma in the Gulf Coast and Texas communities . From October 31 to November 1 , Obama hosted the inaugural summit of the Obama Foundation , which he intended for it to be the central focus of his post - presidency and part of his ambitions for his subsequent activities following his presidency to be more consequential than his time in office .	When did your presidency end?	My presidency ended on January 20, 2017.
Obama ' s presidency ended on January 20 , 2017 , upon the inauguration of his successor , Donald Trump . The family moved to a house they rented in Kalorama , Washington , D . C . On March 2 , the John F . Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum awarded the Profile in Courage Award to Obama " for his enduring commitment to democratic ideals and elevating the standard of political courage . " His first public appearance since leaving the office was a seminar at the University of Chicago on April 24 , where he appealed for a new generation to participate in politics . On September 7 , Obama partnered with former presidents Jimmy Carter , George H . W . Bush , Bill Clinton , and George W . Bush to work with One America Appeal to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma in the Gulf Coast and Texas communities . From October 31 to November 1 , Obama hosted the inaugural summit of the Obama Foundation , which he intended for it to be the central focus of his post - presidency and part of his ambitions for his subsequent activities following his presidency to be more consequential than his time in office .	Where did your family move after your presidency?	We moved to a rented house in Kalorama, Washington, D.C.
Obama ' s presidency ended on January 20 , 2017 , upon the inauguration of his successor , Donald Trump . The family moved to a house they rented in Kalorama , Washington , D . C . On March 2 , the John F . Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum awarded the Profile in Courage Award to Obama " for his enduring commitment to democratic ideals and elevating the standard of political courage . " His first public appearance since leaving the office was a seminar at the University of Chicago on April 24 , where he appealed for a new generation to participate in politics . On September 7 , Obama partnered with former presidents Jimmy Carter , George H . W . Bush , Bill Clinton , and George W . Bush to work with One America Appeal to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma in the Gulf Coast and Texas communities . From October 31 to November 1 , Obama hosted the inaugural summit of the Obama Foundation , which he intended for it to be the central focus of his post - presidency and part of his ambitions for his subsequent activities following his presidency to be more consequential than his time in office .	When did you make your first public appearance after leaving the office?	I made my first public appearance at a seminar at the University of Chicago on April 24.
Obama ' s presidency ended on January 20 , 2017 , upon the inauguration of his successor , Donald Trump . The family moved to a house they rented in Kalorama , Washington , D . C . On March 2 , the John F . Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum awarded the Profile in Courage Award to Obama " for his enduring commitment to democratic ideals and elevating the standard of political courage . " His first public appearance since leaving the office was a seminar at the University of Chicago on April 24 , where he appealed for a new generation to participate in politics . On September 7 , Obama partnered with former presidents Jimmy Carter , George H . W . Bush , Bill Clinton , and George W . Bush to work with One America Appeal to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma in the Gulf Coast and Texas communities . From October 31 to November 1 , Obama hosted the inaugural summit of the Obama Foundation , which he intended for it to be the central focus of his post - presidency and part of his ambitions for his subsequent activities following his presidency to be more consequential than his time in office .	Who did you partner with to work with One America Appeal?	I partnered with former presidents Jimmy Carter, George H.W. Bush, Bill Clinton, and George W. Bush.
Obama ' s presidency ended on January 20 , 2017 , upon the inauguration of his successor , Donald Trump . The family moved to a house they rented in Kalorama , Washington , D . C . On March 2 , the John F . Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum awarded the Profile in Courage Award to Obama " for his enduring commitment to democratic ideals and elevating the standard of political courage . " His first public appearance since leaving the office was a seminar at the University of Chicago on April 24 , where he appealed for a new generation to participate in politics . On September 7 , Obama partnered with former presidents Jimmy Carter , George H . W . Bush , Bill Clinton , and George W . Bush to work with One America Appeal to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma in the Gulf Coast and Texas communities . From October 31 to November 1 , Obama hosted the inaugural summit of the Obama Foundation , which he intended for it to be the central focus of his post - presidency and part of his ambitions for his subsequent activities following his presidency to be more consequential than his time in office .	What was the focus of the inaugural summit of your Foundation?	The focus of the inaugural summit of my Foundation was for it to be the central focus of my post-presidency and part of my ambitions for my subsequent activities following my presidency to be more consequential than my time in office.
Obama was reluctant to make an endorsement in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries because he wanted to position himself to unify the party , regardless of the nominee . On April 14 , 2020 , Obama endorsed Biden , the presumptive nominee , for president in the presidential election , stating that he has " all the qualities we need in a president right now . " In May , Obama criticized President Trump for his handling of the COVID - 19 pandemic , calling his response to the crisis " an absolute chaotic disaster " , and stating that the consequences of the Trump presidency have been " our worst impulses unleashed , our proud reputation around the world badly diminished , and our democratic institutions threatened like never before . " On November 17 , Obama ' s presidential memoir , A Promised Land , was released .	Why were you reluctant to make an endorsement in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries?	I wanted to position myself to unify the party, regardless of the nominee.
Obama was reluctant to make an endorsement in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries because he wanted to position himself to unify the party , regardless of the nominee . On April 14 , 2020 , Obama endorsed Biden , the presumptive nominee , for president in the presidential election , stating that he has " all the qualities we need in a president right now . " In May , Obama criticized President Trump for his handling of the COVID - 19 pandemic , calling his response to the crisis " an absolute chaotic disaster " , and stating that the consequences of the Trump presidency have been " our worst impulses unleashed , our proud reputation around the world badly diminished , and our democratic institutions threatened like never before . " On November 17 , Obama ' s presidential memoir , A Promised Land , was released .	Whom did you endorse for president in the presidential election?	I endorsed Biden, the presumptive nominee.
Obama was reluctant to make an endorsement in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries because he wanted to position himself to unify the party , regardless of the nominee . On April 14 , 2020 , Obama endorsed Biden , the presumptive nominee , for president in the presidential election , stating that he has " all the qualities we need in a president right now . " In May , Obama criticized President Trump for his handling of the COVID - 19 pandemic , calling his response to the crisis " an absolute chaotic disaster " , and stating that the consequences of the Trump presidency have been " our worst impulses unleashed , our proud reputation around the world badly diminished , and our democratic institutions threatened like never before . " On November 17 , Obama ' s presidential memoir , A Promised Land , was released .	When did you endorse Biden for president?	I endorsed Biden on April 14, 2020.
Obama was reluctant to make an endorsement in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries because he wanted to position himself to unify the party , regardless of the nominee . On April 14 , 2020 , Obama endorsed Biden , the presumptive nominee , for president in the presidential election , stating that he has " all the qualities we need in a president right now . " In May , Obama criticized President Trump for his handling of the COVID - 19 pandemic , calling his response to the crisis " an absolute chaotic disaster " , and stating that the consequences of the Trump presidency have been " our worst impulses unleashed , our proud reputation around the world badly diminished , and our democratic institutions threatened like never before . " On November 17 , Obama ' s presidential memoir , A Promised Land , was released .	How did you describe President Trump's handling of the COVID-19 pandemic?	I called it "an absolute chaotic disaster."
Obama was reluctant to make an endorsement in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries because he wanted to position himself to unify the party , regardless of the nominee . On April 14 , 2020 , Obama endorsed Biden , the presumptive nominee , for president in the presidential election , stating that he has " all the qualities we need in a president right now . " In May , Obama criticized President Trump for his handling of the COVID - 19 pandemic , calling his response to the crisis " an absolute chaotic disaster " , and stating that the consequences of the Trump presidency have been " our worst impulses unleashed , our proud reputation around the world badly diminished , and our democratic institutions threatened like never before . " On November 17 , Obama ' s presidential memoir , A Promised Land , was released .	What were the consequences of the Trump presidency according to you?	According to me, the consequences were "our worst impulses unleashed, our proud reputation around the world badly diminished, and our democratic institutions threatened like never before."
Obama was reluctant to make an endorsement in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries because he wanted to position himself to unify the party , regardless of the nominee . On April 14 , 2020 , Obama endorsed Biden , the presumptive nominee , for president in the presidential election , stating that he has " all the qualities we need in a president right now . " In May , Obama criticized President Trump for his handling of the COVID - 19 pandemic , calling his response to the crisis " an absolute chaotic disaster " , and stating that the consequences of the Trump presidency have been " our worst impulses unleashed , our proud reputation around the world badly diminished , and our democratic institutions threatened like never before . " On November 17 , Obama ' s presidential memoir , A Promised Land , was released .	When was your presidential memoir, "A Promised Land," released?	My presidential memoir, "A Promised Land," was released on November 17.
As president , Obama advanced LGBT rights . In 2010 , he signed the Don ' t Ask , Don ' t Tell Repeal Act , which brought an end to " don ' t ask , don ' t tell " policy in the U . S . armed forces that banned open service from LGB people ; the law went into effect the following year . In 2016 , his administration brought an end to the ban on transgender people serving openly in the U . S . armed forces . A Gallup poll , taken in the final days of Obama ' s term , showed that 68 percent of Americans believed the U . S . had made progress on LGBT rights during Obama ' s eight years in office .	What act did you sign in 2010 regarding LGBT rights?	I signed the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act in 2010.
As president , Obama advanced LGBT rights . In 2010 , he signed the Don ' t Ask , Don ' t Tell Repeal Act , which brought an end to " don ' t ask , don ' t tell " policy in the U . S . armed forces that banned open service from LGB people ; the law went into effect the following year . In 2016 , his administration brought an end to the ban on transgender people serving openly in the U . S . armed forces . A Gallup poll , taken in the final days of Obama ' s term , showed that 68 percent of Americans believed the U . S . had made progress on LGBT rights during Obama ' s eight years in office .	What did the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act bring an end to?	The Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act brought an end to the "don't ask, don't tell" policy in the U.S. armed forces.
As president , Obama advanced LGBT rights . In 2010 , he signed the Don ' t Ask , Don ' t Tell Repeal Act , which brought an end to " don ' t ask , don ' t tell " policy in the U . S . armed forces that banned open service from LGB people ; the law went into effect the following year . In 2016 , his administration brought an end to the ban on transgender people serving openly in the U . S . armed forces . A Gallup poll , taken in the final days of Obama ' s term , showed that 68 percent of Americans believed the U . S . had made progress on LGBT rights during Obama ' s eight years in office .	When did the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act go into effect?	The Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act went into effect the following year after it was signed, in 2011.
As president , Obama advanced LGBT rights . In 2010 , he signed the Don ' t Ask , Don ' t Tell Repeal Act , which brought an end to " don ' t ask , don ' t tell " policy in the U . S . armed forces that banned open service from LGB people ; the law went into effect the following year . In 2016 , his administration brought an end to the ban on transgender people serving openly in the U . S . armed forces . A Gallup poll , taken in the final days of Obama ' s term , showed that 68 percent of Americans believed the U . S . had made progress on LGBT rights during Obama ' s eight years in office .	In what year did your administration end the ban on transgender people serving openly in the U.S. armed forces?	My administration ended the ban on transgender people serving openly in the U.S. armed forces in 2016.
As president , Obama advanced LGBT rights . In 2010 , he signed the Don ' t Ask , Don ' t Tell Repeal Act , which brought an end to " don ' t ask , don ' t tell " policy in the U . S . armed forces that banned open service from LGB people ; the law went into effect the following year . In 2016 , his administration brought an end to the ban on transgender people serving openly in the U . S . armed forces . A Gallup poll , taken in the final days of Obama ' s term , showed that 68 percent of Americans believed the U . S . had made progress on LGBT rights during Obama ' s eight years in office .	What percentage of Americans believed that the U.S. made progress on LGBT rights during your eight years in office, according to a Gallup poll taken in the final days of your term?	According to a Gallup poll taken in the final days of my term, 68 percent of Americans believed that the U.S. made progress on LGBT rights during my eight years in office.
Obama substantially escalated the use of drone strikes against suspected militants and terrorists associated with al - Qaeda and the Taliban . In 2016 , the last year of his presidency , the U . S . dropped 26 , 171 bombs on seven different countries . Obama left about 8 , 400 U . S . troops in Afghanistan , 5 , 262 in Iraq , 503 in Syria , 133 in Pakistan , 106 in Somalia , seven in Yemen , and two in Libya at the end of his presidency .	How did you escalate the use of drone strikes?	I substantially escalated the use of drone strikes against suspected militants and terrorists associated with al-Qaeda and the Taliban.
Obama substantially escalated the use of drone strikes against suspected militants and terrorists associated with al - Qaeda and the Taliban . In 2016 , the last year of his presidency , the U . S . dropped 26 , 171 bombs on seven different countries . Obama left about 8 , 400 U . S . troops in Afghanistan , 5 , 262 in Iraq , 503 in Syria , 133 in Pakistan , 106 in Somalia , seven in Yemen , and two in Libya at the end of his presidency .	How many bombs did the U.S. drop in 2016?	In 2016, the U.S. dropped 26,171 bombs on seven different countries.
Obama substantially escalated the use of drone strikes against suspected militants and terrorists associated with al - Qaeda and the Taliban . In 2016 , the last year of his presidency , the U . S . dropped 26 , 171 bombs on seven different countries . Obama left about 8 , 400 U . S . troops in Afghanistan , 5 , 262 in Iraq , 503 in Syria , 133 in Pakistan , 106 in Somalia , seven in Yemen , and two in Libya at the end of his presidency .	How many U.S. troops did you leave in Afghanistan?	I left about 8,400 U.S. troops in Afghanistan at the end of my presidency.
Obama substantially escalated the use of drone strikes against suspected militants and terrorists associated with al - Qaeda and the Taliban . In 2016 , the last year of his presidency , the U . S . dropped 26 , 171 bombs on seven different countries . Obama left about 8 , 400 U . S . troops in Afghanistan , 5 , 262 in Iraq , 503 in Syria , 133 in Pakistan , 106 in Somalia , seven in Yemen , and two in Libya at the end of his presidency .	How many U.S. troops did you leave in Iraq?	I left 5,262 U.S. troops in Iraq at the end of my presidency.
Obama substantially escalated the use of drone strikes against suspected militants and terrorists associated with al - Qaeda and the Taliban . In 2016 , the last year of his presidency , the U . S . dropped 26 , 171 bombs on seven different countries . Obama left about 8 , 400 U . S . troops in Afghanistan , 5 , 262 in Iraq , 503 in Syria , 133 in Pakistan , 106 in Somalia , seven in Yemen , and two in Libya at the end of his presidency .	How many U.S. troops did you leave in Syria?	I left 503 U.S. troops in Syria at the end of my presidency.
