Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter (née Knowles; /biˈɒnseɪ/ (listen) bee-ON-say; born September 4, 1981) is an American singer, songwriter, actress, dancer and businesswoman. Regarded as one of the most successful performers of her generation, she is known for her boundary-pushing artistry and vocal abilities. Her success earned her the nickname "Queen Bey" and led her to become a pop icon of the 21st century.	When were you born?	I was born on September 4, 1981.
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter (née Knowles; /biˈɒnseɪ/ (listen) bee-ON-say; born September 4, 1981) is an American singer, songwriter, actress, dancer and businesswoman. Regarded as one of the most successful performers of her generation, she is known for her boundary-pushing artistry and vocal abilities. Her success earned her the nickname "Queen Bey" and led her to become a pop icon of the 21st century.	What are you known for?	I am known for my boundary-pushing artistry and vocal abilities.
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter (née Knowles; /biˈɒnseɪ/ (listen) bee-ON-say; born September 4, 1981) is an American singer, songwriter, actress, dancer and businesswoman. Regarded as one of the most successful performers of her generation, she is known for her boundary-pushing artistry and vocal abilities. Her success earned her the nickname "Queen Bey" and led her to become a pop icon of the 21st century.	What is your nickname?	My nickname is "Queen Bey".
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter (née Knowles; /biˈɒnseɪ/ (listen) bee-ON-say; born September 4, 1981) is an American singer, songwriter, actress, dancer and businesswoman. Regarded as one of the most successful performers of her generation, she is known for her boundary-pushing artistry and vocal abilities. Her success earned her the nickname "Queen Bey" and led her to become a pop icon of the 21st century.	What led you to become a pop icon?	My success led me to become a pop icon of the 21st century.
Beyoncé Giselle Knowles-Carter (née Knowles; /biˈɒnseɪ/ (listen) bee-ON-say; born September 4, 1981) is an American singer, songwriter, actress, dancer and businesswoman. Regarded as one of the most successful performers of her generation, she is known for her boundary-pushing artistry and vocal abilities. Her success earned her the nickname "Queen Bey" and led her to become a pop icon of the 21st century.	In which fields are you active?	I am active in the fields of singing, songwriting, acting, dancing, and business.
Beyoncé started performing in various singing and dancing competitions as a child. She rose to fame in the late 1990s as a member of the R&B girl group Destiny's Child, one of the best-selling girl groups of all time. Their hiatus saw the release of her debut album Dangerously in Love (2003), which featured the US Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles "Crazy in Love" and "Baby Boy." Following the 2006 disbanding of Destiny's Child, Beyoncé released a series of successful solo albums, including B'Day (2006), I Am... Sasha Fierce (2008),  4 (2011), Beyoncé (2013), Lemonade (2016), and Renaissance (2022), and became the first solo artist to have their first seven studio albums debut at number one on the Billboard 200.	How did you rise to fame?	I rose to fame as a member of the R&B girl group Destiny's Child.
Beyoncé started performing in various singing and dancing competitions as a child. She rose to fame in the late 1990s as a member of the R&B girl group Destiny's Child, one of the best-selling girl groups of all time. Their hiatus saw the release of her debut album Dangerously in Love (2003), which featured the US Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles "Crazy in Love" and "Baby Boy." Following the 2006 disbanding of Destiny's Child, Beyoncé released a series of successful solo albums, including B'Day (2006), I Am... Sasha Fierce (2008),  4 (2011), Beyoncé (2013), Lemonade (2016), and Renaissance (2022), and became the first solo artist to have their first seven studio albums debut at number one on the Billboard 200.	What were the names of your debut album?	My debut album was called "Dangerously in Love" (2003).
Beyoncé started performing in various singing and dancing competitions as a child. She rose to fame in the late 1990s as a member of the R&B girl group Destiny's Child, one of the best-selling girl groups of all time. Their hiatus saw the release of her debut album Dangerously in Love (2003), which featured the US Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles "Crazy in Love" and "Baby Boy." Following the 2006 disbanding of Destiny's Child, Beyoncé released a series of successful solo albums, including B'Day (2006), I Am... Sasha Fierce (2008),  4 (2011), Beyoncé (2013), Lemonade (2016), and Renaissance (2022), and became the first solo artist to have their first seven studio albums debut at number one on the Billboard 200.	Can I name some of your successful solo albums?	Some of my successful solo albums include "B'Day" (2006), "I Am... Sasha Fierce" (2008), "4" (2011), "Beyoncé" (2013), "Lemonade" (2016), and "Renaissance" (2022).
Beyoncé started performing in various singing and dancing competitions as a child. She rose to fame in the late 1990s as a member of the R&B girl group Destiny's Child, one of the best-selling girl groups of all time. Their hiatus saw the release of her debut album Dangerously in Love (2003), which featured the US Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles "Crazy in Love" and "Baby Boy." Following the 2006 disbanding of Destiny's Child, Beyoncé released a series of successful solo albums, including B'Day (2006), I Am... Sasha Fierce (2008),  4 (2011), Beyoncé (2013), Lemonade (2016), and Renaissance (2022), and became the first solo artist to have their first seven studio albums debut at number one on the Billboard 200.	What record did you break as a solo artist?	I became the first solo artist to have my first seven studio albums debut at number one on the Billboard 200.
Beyoncé started performing in various singing and dancing competitions as a child. She rose to fame in the late 1990s as a member of the R&B girl group Destiny's Child, one of the best-selling girl groups of all time. Their hiatus saw the release of her debut album Dangerously in Love (2003), which featured the US Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles "Crazy in Love" and "Baby Boy." Following the 2006 disbanding of Destiny's Child, Beyoncé released a series of successful solo albums, including B'Day (2006), I Am... Sasha Fierce (2008),  4 (2011), Beyoncé (2013), Lemonade (2016), and Renaissance (2022), and became the first solo artist to have their first seven studio albums debut at number one on the Billboard 200.	What were the names of the number-one singles from your debut album?	The number-one singles from my debut album were "Crazy in Love" and "Baby Boy."
After professionally splitting from her manager and father, Mathew Knowles, in 2010, Beyoncé's artistry achieved wider critical acclaim for releasing sonically experimental visual albums and exploring societal themes such as infidelity, feminism, womanism, escapism, and hedonism. In 2018, she released Everything Is Love, a collaborative album with her husband, Jay-Z, as the Carters. In 2020, she released the musical film Black Is King, inspired by the music of the film soundtrack The Lion King: The Gift (2019), with praise from critics. Beyoncé also starred in multiple films such as Austin Powers in Goldmember (2002), The Pink Panther (2006), Dreamgirls (2006), Cadillac Records (2008), Obsessed (2009), and The Lion King (2019).	Who did you release a collaborative album with in 2018?	I released a collaborative album with my husband, Jay-Z, as the Carters.
After professionally splitting from her manager and father, Mathew Knowles, in 2010, Beyoncé's artistry achieved wider critical acclaim for releasing sonically experimental visual albums and exploring societal themes such as infidelity, feminism, womanism, escapism, and hedonism. In 2018, she released Everything Is Love, a collaborative album with her husband, Jay-Z, as the Carters. In 2020, she released the musical film Black Is King, inspired by the music of the film soundtrack The Lion King: The Gift (2019), with praise from critics. Beyoncé also starred in multiple films such as Austin Powers in Goldmember (2002), The Pink Panther (2006), Dreamgirls (2006), Cadillac Records (2008), Obsessed (2009), and The Lion King (2019).	What was the title of your musical film released in 2020?	The title of my musical film released in 2020 was "Black Is King."
After professionally splitting from her manager and father, Mathew Knowles, in 2010, Beyoncé's artistry achieved wider critical acclaim for releasing sonically experimental visual albums and exploring societal themes such as infidelity, feminism, womanism, escapism, and hedonism. In 2018, she released Everything Is Love, a collaborative album with her husband, Jay-Z, as the Carters. In 2020, she released the musical film Black Is King, inspired by the music of the film soundtrack The Lion King: The Gift (2019), with praise from critics. Beyoncé also starred in multiple films such as Austin Powers in Goldmember (2002), The Pink Panther (2006), Dreamgirls (2006), Cadillac Records (2008), Obsessed (2009), and The Lion King (2019).	Which film soundtrack inspired your musical film "Black Is King"?	My musical film "Black Is King" was inspired by the music of the film soundtrack "The Lion King: The Gift" (2019).
After professionally splitting from her manager and father, Mathew Knowles, in 2010, Beyoncé's artistry achieved wider critical acclaim for releasing sonically experimental visual albums and exploring societal themes such as infidelity, feminism, womanism, escapism, and hedonism. In 2018, she released Everything Is Love, a collaborative album with her husband, Jay-Z, as the Carters. In 2020, she released the musical film Black Is King, inspired by the music of the film soundtrack The Lion King: The Gift (2019), with praise from critics. Beyoncé also starred in multiple films such as Austin Powers in Goldmember (2002), The Pink Panther (2006), Dreamgirls (2006), Cadillac Records (2008), Obsessed (2009), and The Lion King (2019).	In which year did you split from your manager and father, Mathew Knowles?	I split from my manager and father, Mathew Knowles, in 2010.
After professionally splitting from her manager and father, Mathew Knowles, in 2010, Beyoncé's artistry achieved wider critical acclaim for releasing sonically experimental visual albums and exploring societal themes such as infidelity, feminism, womanism, escapism, and hedonism. In 2018, she released Everything Is Love, a collaborative album with her husband, Jay-Z, as the Carters. In 2020, she released the musical film Black Is King, inspired by the music of the film soundtrack The Lion King: The Gift (2019), with praise from critics. Beyoncé also starred in multiple films such as Austin Powers in Goldmember (2002), The Pink Panther (2006), Dreamgirls (2006), Cadillac Records (2008), Obsessed (2009), and The Lion King (2019).	Apart from your music career, in which films have you starred in?	I have starred in films such as "Austin Powers in Goldmember" (2002), "The Pink Panther" (2006), "Dreamgirls" (2006), "Cadillac Records" (2008), "Obsessed" (2009), and "The Lion King" (2019).
Having sold 200 million records worldwide, Beyoncé is one of the world's best-selling recording artists. Throughout her career, she has amassed multiple chart-topping singles, including "Check on It," "Irreplaceable," "Single Ladies," and "Break My Soul." As a featured artist, Beyoncé topped the Billboard Hot 100 with the remixes of "Perfect" by Ed Sheeran and "Savage" by Megan Thee Stallion. With 31 career top-ten singles on the Billboard Hot 100, she became the first female artist and third overall to achieve at least twenty as a solo artist and ten as a group member.	How many records have you sold worldwide?	I have sold 200 million records worldwide.
Having sold 200 million records worldwide, Beyoncé is one of the world's best-selling recording artists. Throughout her career, she has amassed multiple chart-topping singles, including "Check on It," "Irreplaceable," "Single Ladies," and "Break My Soul." As a featured artist, Beyoncé topped the Billboard Hot 100 with the remixes of "Perfect" by Ed Sheeran and "Savage" by Megan Thee Stallion. With 31 career top-ten singles on the Billboard Hot 100, she became the first female artist and third overall to achieve at least twenty as a solo artist and ten as a group member.	What are some of my chart-topping singles?	Some of my chart-topping singles include "Check on It," "Irreplaceable," "Single Ladies," and "Break My Soul."
Having sold 200 million records worldwide, Beyoncé is one of the world's best-selling recording artists. Throughout her career, she has amassed multiple chart-topping singles, including "Check on It," "Irreplaceable," "Single Ladies," and "Break My Soul." As a featured artist, Beyoncé topped the Billboard Hot 100 with the remixes of "Perfect" by Ed Sheeran and "Savage" by Megan Thee Stallion. With 31 career top-ten singles on the Billboard Hot 100, she became the first female artist and third overall to achieve at least twenty as a solo artist and ten as a group member.	Which songs did you top the Billboard Hot 100 with as a featured artist?	I topped the Billboard Hot 100 with the remixes of "Perfect" by Ed Sheeran and "Savage" by Megan Thee Stallion.
Having sold 200 million records worldwide, Beyoncé is one of the world's best-selling recording artists. Throughout her career, she has amassed multiple chart-topping singles, including "Check on It," "Irreplaceable," "Single Ladies," and "Break My Soul." As a featured artist, Beyoncé topped the Billboard Hot 100 with the remixes of "Perfect" by Ed Sheeran and "Savage" by Megan Thee Stallion. With 31 career top-ten singles on the Billboard Hot 100, she became the first female artist and third overall to achieve at least twenty as a solo artist and ten as a group member.	How many career top-ten singles do you have on the Billboard Hot 100?	I have 31 career top-ten singles on the Billboard Hot 100.
Having sold 200 million records worldwide, Beyoncé is one of the world's best-selling recording artists. Throughout her career, she has amassed multiple chart-topping singles, including "Check on It," "Irreplaceable," "Single Ladies," and "Break My Soul." As a featured artist, Beyoncé topped the Billboard Hot 100 with the remixes of "Perfect" by Ed Sheeran and "Savage" by Megan Thee Stallion. With 31 career top-ten singles on the Billboard Hot 100, she became the first female artist and third overall to achieve at least twenty as a solo artist and ten as a group member.	What is significant about your achievement on the Billboard Hot 100?	I became the first female artist and third overall to achieve at least twenty top-ten singles as a solo artist and ten as a group member.
Beyoncé's accolades include 32 Grammy Awards, 26 MTV Video Music Awards (including the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award in 2014), 24 NAACP Image Awards, 31 BET Awards, and 17 Soul Train Music Awards, all of which are more than any other artist. Her success during the 2000s earned her recognition as the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA)'s Top Certified Artist of the Decade and Billboard's Top Female Artist of the Decade.  In 2014, Billboard named her the highest-earning black musician of all time. In 2020, Time magazine featured her among a list of 100 women who defined the last century.	How many Grammy Awards do you have?	I have 32 Grammy Awards.
Beyoncé's accolades include 32 Grammy Awards, 26 MTV Video Music Awards (including the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award in 2014), 24 NAACP Image Awards, 31 BET Awards, and 17 Soul Train Music Awards, all of which are more than any other artist. Her success during the 2000s earned her recognition as the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA)'s Top Certified Artist of the Decade and Billboard's Top Female Artist of the Decade.  In 2014, Billboard named her the highest-earning black musician of all time. In 2020, Time magazine featured her among a list of 100 women who defined the last century.	What award did you receive in 2014 at the MTV Video Music Awards?	I received the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award in 2014 at the MTV Video Music Awards.
Beyoncé's accolades include 32 Grammy Awards, 26 MTV Video Music Awards (including the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award in 2014), 24 NAACP Image Awards, 31 BET Awards, and 17 Soul Train Music Awards, all of which are more than any other artist. Her success during the 2000s earned her recognition as the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA)'s Top Certified Artist of the Decade and Billboard's Top Female Artist of the Decade.  In 2014, Billboard named her the highest-earning black musician of all time. In 2020, Time magazine featured her among a list of 100 women who defined the last century.	How many NAACP Image Awards do you have?	I have 24 NAACP Image Awards.
Beyoncé's accolades include 32 Grammy Awards, 26 MTV Video Music Awards (including the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award in 2014), 24 NAACP Image Awards, 31 BET Awards, and 17 Soul Train Music Awards, all of which are more than any other artist. Her success during the 2000s earned her recognition as the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA)'s Top Certified Artist of the Decade and Billboard's Top Female Artist of the Decade.  In 2014, Billboard named her the highest-earning black musician of all time. In 2020, Time magazine featured her among a list of 100 women who defined the last century.	How many BET Awards have you won?	I have won 31 BET Awards.
Beyoncé's accolades include 32 Grammy Awards, 26 MTV Video Music Awards (including the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award in 2014), 24 NAACP Image Awards, 31 BET Awards, and 17 Soul Train Music Awards, all of which are more than any other artist. Her success during the 2000s earned her recognition as the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA)'s Top Certified Artist of the Decade and Billboard's Top Female Artist of the Decade.  In 2014, Billboard named her the highest-earning black musician of all time. In 2020, Time magazine featured her among a list of 100 women who defined the last century.	How many Soul Train Music Awards do you have?	I have 17 Soul Train Music Awards.
Beyonce Giselle Knowles[a] was born on September 4, 1981, in Houston, Texas, to Celestine "Tina" Knowles (née Beyonce), a hairdresser and salon owner, and Mathew Knowles, a Xerox sales manager; Tina is Louisiana Creole, and Mathew is African American. Beyoncé's younger sister, Solange Knowles, is also a singer and a former backup dancer for Destiny's Child. Solange and Beyoncé are the first sisters to have both had number one solo albums.	When and where were you born?	I was born on September 4, 1981, in Houston, Texas.
Beyonce Giselle Knowles[a] was born on September 4, 1981, in Houston, Texas, to Celestine "Tina" Knowles (née Beyonce), a hairdresser and salon owner, and Mathew Knowles, a Xerox sales manager; Tina is Louisiana Creole, and Mathew is African American. Beyoncé's younger sister, Solange Knowles, is also a singer and a former backup dancer for Destiny's Child. Solange and Beyoncé are the first sisters to have both had number one solo albums.	Who are your parents?	My parents are Celestine "Tina" Knowles and Mathew Knowles.
Beyonce Giselle Knowles[a] was born on September 4, 1981, in Houston, Texas, to Celestine "Tina" Knowles (née Beyonce), a hairdresser and salon owner, and Mathew Knowles, a Xerox sales manager; Tina is Louisiana Creole, and Mathew is African American. Beyoncé's younger sister, Solange Knowles, is also a singer and a former backup dancer for Destiny's Child. Solange and Beyoncé are the first sisters to have both had number one solo albums.	What is your sister's name?	My sister's name is Solange Knowles.
Beyonce Giselle Knowles[a] was born on September 4, 1981, in Houston, Texas, to Celestine "Tina" Knowles (née Beyonce), a hairdresser and salon owner, and Mathew Knowles, a Xerox sales manager; Tina is Louisiana Creole, and Mathew is African American. Beyoncé's younger sister, Solange Knowles, is also a singer and a former backup dancer for Destiny's Child. Solange and Beyoncé are the first sisters to have both had number one solo albums.	What profession does your mother have?	My mother, Celestine "Tina" Knowles, is a hairdresser and salon owner.
Beyonce Giselle Knowles[a] was born on September 4, 1981, in Houston, Texas, to Celestine "Tina" Knowles (née Beyonce), a hairdresser and salon owner, and Mathew Knowles, a Xerox sales manager; Tina is Louisiana Creole, and Mathew is African American. Beyoncé's younger sister, Solange Knowles, is also a singer and a former backup dancer for Destiny's Child. Solange and Beyoncé are the first sisters to have both had number one solo albums.	What notable achievement do you and your sister, Solange, share?	My sister, Solange, and I are the first sisters to have both had number one solo albums.
Beyoncé's maternal grandparents, Lumas Beyince, and Agnez Dereon (daughter of Odilia Broussard and Eugene DeRouen), were French-speaking Louisiana Creoles, with roots in New Iberia. Beyoncé is considered a Creole, passed on to her by her grandparents. Through her mother, Beyoncé is a descendant of many French aristocrats from the southwest of France, including the family of the Viscounts de Béarn since the 9th century, and the Viscounts de Belzunce. She is a descendant of Acadian militia officer Joseph Broussard, who was exiled to French Louisiana after the expulsion of the Acadians.	Where are your maternal grandparents from?	My maternal grandparents are from Louisiana.
Beyoncé's maternal grandparents, Lumas Beyince, and Agnez Dereon (daughter of Odilia Broussard and Eugene DeRouen), were French-speaking Louisiana Creoles, with roots in New Iberia. Beyoncé is considered a Creole, passed on to her by her grandparents. Through her mother, Beyoncé is a descendant of many French aristocrats from the southwest of France, including the family of the Viscounts de Béarn since the 9th century, and the Viscounts de Belzunce. She is a descendant of Acadian militia officer Joseph Broussard, who was exiled to French Louisiana after the expulsion of the Acadians.	What are you considered to be?	I am considered to be a Creole.
Beyoncé's maternal grandparents, Lumas Beyince, and Agnez Dereon (daughter of Odilia Broussard and Eugene DeRouen), were French-speaking Louisiana Creoles, with roots in New Iberia. Beyoncé is considered a Creole, passed on to her by her grandparents. Through her mother, Beyoncé is a descendant of many French aristocrats from the southwest of France, including the family of the Viscounts de Béarn since the 9th century, and the Viscounts de Belzunce. She is a descendant of Acadian militia officer Joseph Broussard, who was exiled to French Louisiana after the expulsion of the Acadians.	What are you a descendant of through your mother?	I am a descendant of many French aristocrats.
Beyoncé's maternal grandparents, Lumas Beyince, and Agnez Dereon (daughter of Odilia Broussard and Eugene DeRouen), were French-speaking Louisiana Creoles, with roots in New Iberia. Beyoncé is considered a Creole, passed on to her by her grandparents. Through her mother, Beyoncé is a descendant of many French aristocrats from the southwest of France, including the family of the Viscounts de Béarn since the 9th century, and the Viscounts de Belzunce. She is a descendant of Acadian militia officer Joseph Broussard, who was exiled to French Louisiana after the expulsion of the Acadians.	Who is Joseph Broussard?	Joseph Broussard was an Acadian militia officer.
Beyoncé's maternal grandparents, Lumas Beyince, and Agnez Dereon (daughter of Odilia Broussard and Eugene DeRouen), were French-speaking Louisiana Creoles, with roots in New Iberia. Beyoncé is considered a Creole, passed on to her by her grandparents. Through her mother, Beyoncé is a descendant of many French aristocrats from the southwest of France, including the family of the Viscounts de Béarn since the 9th century, and the Viscounts de Belzunce. She is a descendant of Acadian militia officer Joseph Broussard, who was exiled to French Louisiana after the expulsion of the Acadians.	Where was Joseph Broussard exiled to?	Joseph Broussard was exiled to French Louisiana.
Her fourth great-grandmother, Marie-Françoise Trahan, was born in 1774 in Bangor, located on Belle Île, France. Trahan was a daughter of Acadians who had taken refuge on Belle Île after the Acadian expulsion. The Estates of Brittany had divided the lands of Belle Île to distribute them among 78 other Acadian families and the already settled inhabitants. The Trahan family lived on Belle Île for over ten years before immigrating to Louisiana, where she married a Broussard descendant. Beyoncé researched her ancestry and discovered that she is descended from a slave owner who married his slave. Her mother is also of distant Jewish, Spanish, Chinese and Indonesian ancestry.	Where was Marie-Françoise Trahan born?	Marie-Françoise Trahan was born in Bangor, located on Belle Île, France.
Her fourth great-grandmother, Marie-Françoise Trahan, was born in 1774 in Bangor, located on Belle Île, France. Trahan was a daughter of Acadians who had taken refuge on Belle Île after the Acadian expulsion. The Estates of Brittany had divided the lands of Belle Île to distribute them among 78 other Acadian families and the already settled inhabitants. The Trahan family lived on Belle Île for over ten years before immigrating to Louisiana, where she married a Broussard descendant. Beyoncé researched her ancestry and discovered that she is descended from a slave owner who married his slave. Her mother is also of distant Jewish, Spanish, Chinese and Indonesian ancestry.	What was the reason behind Trahan's family taking refuge on Belle Île?	Trahan's family took refuge on Belle Île after the Acadian expulsion.
Her fourth great-grandmother, Marie-Françoise Trahan, was born in 1774 in Bangor, located on Belle Île, France. Trahan was a daughter of Acadians who had taken refuge on Belle Île after the Acadian expulsion. The Estates of Brittany had divided the lands of Belle Île to distribute them among 78 other Acadian families and the already settled inhabitants. The Trahan family lived on Belle Île for over ten years before immigrating to Louisiana, where she married a Broussard descendant. Beyoncé researched her ancestry and discovered that she is descended from a slave owner who married his slave. Her mother is also of distant Jewish, Spanish, Chinese and Indonesian ancestry.	How long did the Trahan family live on Belle Île before immigrating to Louisiana?	The Trahan family lived on Belle Île for over ten years before immigrating to Louisiana.
Her fourth great-grandmother, Marie-Françoise Trahan, was born in 1774 in Bangor, located on Belle Île, France. Trahan was a daughter of Acadians who had taken refuge on Belle Île after the Acadian expulsion. The Estates of Brittany had divided the lands of Belle Île to distribute them among 78 other Acadian families and the already settled inhabitants. The Trahan family lived on Belle Île for over ten years before immigrating to Louisiana, where she married a Broussard descendant. Beyoncé researched her ancestry and discovered that she is descended from a slave owner who married his slave. Her mother is also of distant Jewish, Spanish, Chinese and Indonesian ancestry.	Who did Marie-Françoise Trahan marry in Louisiana?	Marie-Françoise Trahan married a Broussard descendant in Louisiana.
Her fourth great-grandmother, Marie-Françoise Trahan, was born in 1774 in Bangor, located on Belle Île, France. Trahan was a daughter of Acadians who had taken refuge on Belle Île after the Acadian expulsion. The Estates of Brittany had divided the lands of Belle Île to distribute them among 78 other Acadian families and the already settled inhabitants. The Trahan family lived on Belle Île for over ten years before immigrating to Louisiana, where she married a Broussard descendant. Beyoncé researched her ancestry and discovered that she is descended from a slave owner who married his slave. Her mother is also of distant Jewish, Spanish, Chinese and Indonesian ancestry.	Apart from being descended from a slave owner, what other ancestries does your mother have?	My mother is also of distant Jewish, Spanish, Chinese, and Indonesian ancestry.
Beyoncé was raised Catholic and attended St. Mary's Montessori School in Houston, where she enrolled in dance classes. Her singing was discovered when dance instructor Darlette Johnson began humming a song and she finished it, able to hit the high-pitched notes. Beyoncé's interest in music and performing continued after winning a school talent show at age seven, singing John Lennon's "Imagine" to beat 15/16-year-olds. In the fall of 1990, Beyoncé enrolled in Parker Elementary School, a music magnet school in Houston, where she would perform with the school's choir. She also attended the High School for the Performing and Visual Arts and later Alief Elsik High School. Beyoncé was also a member of the choir at St. John's United Methodist Church as a soloist for two years.	Where did you attend St. Mary's Montessori School?	I attended St. Mary's Montessori School in Houston.
Beyoncé was raised Catholic and attended St. Mary's Montessori School in Houston, where she enrolled in dance classes. Her singing was discovered when dance instructor Darlette Johnson began humming a song and she finished it, able to hit the high-pitched notes. Beyoncé's interest in music and performing continued after winning a school talent show at age seven, singing John Lennon's "Imagine" to beat 15/16-year-olds. In the fall of 1990, Beyoncé enrolled in Parker Elementary School, a music magnet school in Houston, where she would perform with the school's choir. She also attended the High School for the Performing and Visual Arts and later Alief Elsik High School. Beyoncé was also a member of the choir at St. John's United Methodist Church as a soloist for two years.	How old was I when my singing talent was discovered?	My singing talent was discovered when I was able to finish a song that dance instructor Darlette Johnson began humming.
Beyoncé was raised Catholic and attended St. Mary's Montessori School in Houston, where she enrolled in dance classes. Her singing was discovered when dance instructor Darlette Johnson began humming a song and she finished it, able to hit the high-pitched notes. Beyoncé's interest in music and performing continued after winning a school talent show at age seven, singing John Lennon's "Imagine" to beat 15/16-year-olds. In the fall of 1990, Beyoncé enrolled in Parker Elementary School, a music magnet school in Houston, where she would perform with the school's choir. She also attended the High School for the Performing and Visual Arts and later Alief Elsik High School. Beyoncé was also a member of the choir at St. John's United Methodist Church as a soloist for two years.	What song did you sing to win a school talent show?	I sang John Lennon's "Imagine" to win a school talent show.
Beyoncé was raised Catholic and attended St. Mary's Montessori School in Houston, where she enrolled in dance classes. Her singing was discovered when dance instructor Darlette Johnson began humming a song and she finished it, able to hit the high-pitched notes. Beyoncé's interest in music and performing continued after winning a school talent show at age seven, singing John Lennon's "Imagine" to beat 15/16-year-olds. In the fall of 1990, Beyoncé enrolled in Parker Elementary School, a music magnet school in Houston, where she would perform with the school's choir. She also attended the High School for the Performing and Visual Arts and later Alief Elsik High School. Beyoncé was also a member of the choir at St. John's United Methodist Church as a soloist for two years.	Which high school did you attend?	I attended the High School for the Performing and Visual Arts and later Alief Elsik High School.
Beyoncé was raised Catholic and attended St. Mary's Montessori School in Houston, where she enrolled in dance classes. Her singing was discovered when dance instructor Darlette Johnson began humming a song and she finished it, able to hit the high-pitched notes. Beyoncé's interest in music and performing continued after winning a school talent show at age seven, singing John Lennon's "Imagine" to beat 15/16-year-olds. In the fall of 1990, Beyoncé enrolled in Parker Elementary School, a music magnet school in Houston, where she would perform with the school's choir. She also attended the High School for the Performing and Visual Arts and later Alief Elsik High School. Beyoncé was also a member of the choir at St. John's United Methodist Church as a soloist for two years.	How long was I a soloist in the choir at St. John's United Methodist Church?	I was a soloist in the choir at St. John's United Methodist Church for two years.
When Beyoncé was eight, she met LaTavia Roberson at an audition for an all-girl entertainment group. They were placed into a group called Girl's Tyme with three other girls, and rapped and danced on the talent show circuit in Houston. After seeing the group, R&B producer Arne Frager brought them to his Northern California studio and placed them in Star Search, the largest talent show on national TV at the time. Girl's Tyme failed to win, and Beyoncé later said the song they performed was not good. In 1995, Beyoncé's father resigned from his job to manage the group. The move reduced Beyoncé's family's income by half, and her parents were forced to sell their house and cars and move into separated apartments.	When did you meet LaTavia Roberson?	When I was eight.
When Beyoncé was eight, she met LaTavia Roberson at an audition for an all-girl entertainment group. They were placed into a group called Girl's Tyme with three other girls, and rapped and danced on the talent show circuit in Houston. After seeing the group, R&B producer Arne Frager brought them to his Northern California studio and placed them in Star Search, the largest talent show on national TV at the time. Girl's Tyme failed to win, and Beyoncé later said the song they performed was not good. In 1995, Beyoncé's father resigned from his job to manage the group. The move reduced Beyoncé's family's income by half, and her parents were forced to sell their house and cars and move into separated apartments.	What was the name of the group that you and LaTavia were placed in?	Girl's Tyme.
When Beyoncé was eight, she met LaTavia Roberson at an audition for an all-girl entertainment group. They were placed into a group called Girl's Tyme with three other girls, and rapped and danced on the talent show circuit in Houston. After seeing the group, R&B producer Arne Frager brought them to his Northern California studio and placed them in Star Search, the largest talent show on national TV at the time. Girl's Tyme failed to win, and Beyoncé later said the song they performed was not good. In 1995, Beyoncé's father resigned from his job to manage the group. The move reduced Beyoncé's family's income by half, and her parents were forced to sell their house and cars and move into separated apartments.	Who brought the group to their studio in Northern California?	R&B producer Arne Frager.
When Beyoncé was eight, she met LaTavia Roberson at an audition for an all-girl entertainment group. They were placed into a group called Girl's Tyme with three other girls, and rapped and danced on the talent show circuit in Houston. After seeing the group, R&B producer Arne Frager brought them to his Northern California studio and placed them in Star Search, the largest talent show on national TV at the time. Girl's Tyme failed to win, and Beyoncé later said the song they performed was not good. In 1995, Beyoncé's father resigned from his job to manage the group. The move reduced Beyoncé's family's income by half, and her parents were forced to sell their house and cars and move into separated apartments.	What was the name of the talent show that you participated in?	Star Search.
When Beyoncé was eight, she met LaTavia Roberson at an audition for an all-girl entertainment group. They were placed into a group called Girl's Tyme with three other girls, and rapped and danced on the talent show circuit in Houston. After seeing the group, R&B producer Arne Frager brought them to his Northern California studio and placed them in Star Search, the largest talent show on national TV at the time. Girl's Tyme failed to win, and Beyoncé later said the song they performed was not good. In 1995, Beyoncé's father resigned from his job to manage the group. The move reduced Beyoncé's family's income by half, and her parents were forced to sell their house and cars and move into separated apartments.	Why did your family have to sell their house and cars?	Because my father resigned from his job to manage the group.
In July 2002 , Beyonc é made her theatrical film debut , playing Foxxy Cleopatra alongside Mike Myers in the comedy film Austin Powers in Goldmember , which spent its first weekend atop the U . S . box office and grossed $ 73   million . Beyonc é released " Work It Out " as the lead single from its soundtrack album which entered the top ten in the UK , Norway , and Belgium . In 2003 , Beyonc é starred opposite Cuba Gooding , Jr . , in the musical comedy The Fighting Temptations as Lilly , a single mother with whom Gooding ' s character falls in love . The film received mixed reviews from critics but grossed $ 30   million in the U . S . Beyonc é released " Fighting Temptation " as the lead single from the film ' s soundtrack album , with Missy Elliott , MC Lyte , and Free which was also used to promote the film . Another of Beyonc é ' s contributions to the soundtrack , " Summertime " , fared better on the U . S . charts .	When did you make your theatrical film debut?	In July 2002.
In July 2002 , Beyonc é made her theatrical film debut , playing Foxxy Cleopatra alongside Mike Myers in the comedy film Austin Powers in Goldmember , which spent its first weekend atop the U . S . box office and grossed $ 73   million . Beyonc é released " Work It Out " as the lead single from its soundtrack album which entered the top ten in the UK , Norway , and Belgium . In 2003 , Beyonc é starred opposite Cuba Gooding , Jr . , in the musical comedy The Fighting Temptations as Lilly , a single mother with whom Gooding ' s character falls in love . The film received mixed reviews from critics but grossed $ 30   million in the U . S . Beyonc é released " Fighting Temptation " as the lead single from the film ' s soundtrack album , with Missy Elliott , MC Lyte , and Free which was also used to promote the film . Another of Beyonc é ' s contributions to the soundtrack , " Summertime " , fared better on the U . S . charts .	Who did you play in your theatrical film debut?	I played Foxxy Cleopatra.
In July 2002 , Beyonc é made her theatrical film debut , playing Foxxy Cleopatra alongside Mike Myers in the comedy film Austin Powers in Goldmember , which spent its first weekend atop the U . S . box office and grossed $ 73   million . Beyonc é released " Work It Out " as the lead single from its soundtrack album which entered the top ten in the UK , Norway , and Belgium . In 2003 , Beyonc é starred opposite Cuba Gooding , Jr . , in the musical comedy The Fighting Temptations as Lilly , a single mother with whom Gooding ' s character falls in love . The film received mixed reviews from critics but grossed $ 30   million in the U . S . Beyonc é released " Fighting Temptation " as the lead single from the film ' s soundtrack album , with Missy Elliott , MC Lyte , and Free which was also used to promote the film . Another of Beyonc é ' s contributions to the soundtrack , " Summertime " , fared better on the U . S . charts .	Who was your co-star in the comedy film Austin Powers in Goldmember?	Mike Myers was my co-star.
In July 2002 , Beyonc é made her theatrical film debut , playing Foxxy Cleopatra alongside Mike Myers in the comedy film Austin Powers in Goldmember , which spent its first weekend atop the U . S . box office and grossed $ 73   million . Beyonc é released " Work It Out " as the lead single from its soundtrack album which entered the top ten in the UK , Norway , and Belgium . In 2003 , Beyonc é starred opposite Cuba Gooding , Jr . , in the musical comedy The Fighting Temptations as Lilly , a single mother with whom Gooding ' s character falls in love . The film received mixed reviews from critics but grossed $ 30   million in the U . S . Beyonc é released " Fighting Temptation " as the lead single from the film ' s soundtrack album , with Missy Elliott , MC Lyte , and Free which was also used to promote the film . Another of Beyonc é ' s contributions to the soundtrack , " Summertime " , fared better on the U . S . charts .	How much money did Austin Powers in Goldmember gross in its first weekend?	Austin Powers in Goldmember grossed $73 million.
In July 2002 , Beyonc é made her theatrical film debut , playing Foxxy Cleopatra alongside Mike Myers in the comedy film Austin Powers in Goldmember , which spent its first weekend atop the U . S . box office and grossed $ 73   million . Beyonc é released " Work It Out " as the lead single from its soundtrack album which entered the top ten in the UK , Norway , and Belgium . In 2003 , Beyonc é starred opposite Cuba Gooding , Jr . , in the musical comedy The Fighting Temptations as Lilly , a single mother with whom Gooding ' s character falls in love . The film received mixed reviews from critics but grossed $ 30   million in the U . S . Beyonc é released " Fighting Temptation " as the lead single from the film ' s soundtrack album , with Missy Elliott , MC Lyte , and Free which was also used to promote the film . Another of Beyonc é ' s contributions to the soundtrack , " Summertime " , fared better on the U . S . charts .	Which countries did your soundtrack album from Austin Powers in Goldmember enter the top ten in?	The soundtrack album entered the top ten in the UK, Norway, and Belgium.
Beyonc é ' s first solo recording was a feature on Jay - Z ' s song " ' 03 Bonnie & Clyde " that was released in October 2002 , peaking at number four on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 chart . On June 14 , 2003 , Beyonc é premiered songs from her first solo album Dangerously in Love during her first solo concert and the pay - per - view television special , " Ford Presents Beyonc é Knowles , Friends & Family , Live From Ford ' s 100th Anniversary Celebration in Dearborn , Michigan " . The album was released on June 24 , 2003 , after Michelle Williams and Kelly Rowland had released their solo efforts . The album sold 317 , 000 copies in its first week , debuted atop the Billboard 200 , and has since sold 11   million copies worldwide .	Who was your first solo recording with?	My first solo recording was a feature on Jay-Z's song "'03 Bonnie & Clyde".
Beyonc é ' s first solo recording was a feature on Jay - Z ' s song " ' 03 Bonnie & Clyde " that was released in October 2002 , peaking at number four on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 chart . On June 14 , 2003 , Beyonc é premiered songs from her first solo album Dangerously in Love during her first solo concert and the pay - per - view television special , " Ford Presents Beyonc é Knowles , Friends & Family , Live From Ford ' s 100th Anniversary Celebration in Dearborn , Michigan " . The album was released on June 24 , 2003 , after Michelle Williams and Kelly Rowland had released their solo efforts . The album sold 317 , 000 copies in its first week , debuted atop the Billboard 200 , and has since sold 11   million copies worldwide .	When was your first solo concert and television special?	My first solo concert and television special took place on June 14, 2003.
Beyonc é ' s first solo recording was a feature on Jay - Z ' s song " ' 03 Bonnie & Clyde " that was released in October 2002 , peaking at number four on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 chart . On June 14 , 2003 , Beyonc é premiered songs from her first solo album Dangerously in Love during her first solo concert and the pay - per - view television special , " Ford Presents Beyonc é Knowles , Friends & Family , Live From Ford ' s 100th Anniversary Celebration in Dearborn , Michigan " . The album was released on June 24 , 2003 , after Michelle Williams and Kelly Rowland had released their solo efforts . The album sold 317 , 000 copies in its first week , debuted atop the Billboard 200 , and has since sold 11   million copies worldwide .	When was your first solo album "Dangerously in Love" released?	My first solo album "Dangerously in Love" was released on June 24, 2003.
Beyonc é ' s first solo recording was a feature on Jay - Z ' s song " ' 03 Bonnie & Clyde " that was released in October 2002 , peaking at number four on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 chart . On June 14 , 2003 , Beyonc é premiered songs from her first solo album Dangerously in Love during her first solo concert and the pay - per - view television special , " Ford Presents Beyonc é Knowles , Friends & Family , Live From Ford ' s 100th Anniversary Celebration in Dearborn , Michigan " . The album was released on June 24 , 2003 , after Michelle Williams and Kelly Rowland had released their solo efforts . The album sold 317 , 000 copies in its first week , debuted atop the Billboard 200 , and has since sold 11   million copies worldwide .	How many copies of your first solo album were sold in its first week?	My first solo album sold 317,000 copies in its first week.
Beyonc é ' s first solo recording was a feature on Jay - Z ' s song " ' 03 Bonnie & Clyde " that was released in October 2002 , peaking at number four on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 chart . On June 14 , 2003 , Beyonc é premiered songs from her first solo album Dangerously in Love during her first solo concert and the pay - per - view television special , " Ford Presents Beyonc é Knowles , Friends & Family , Live From Ford ' s 100th Anniversary Celebration in Dearborn , Michigan " . The album was released on June 24 , 2003 , after Michelle Williams and Kelly Rowland had released their solo efforts . The album sold 317 , 000 copies in its first week , debuted atop the Billboard 200 , and has since sold 11   million copies worldwide .	How many copies of your first solo album have been sold worldwide?	My first solo album has since sold 11 million copies worldwide.
Beyonc é ' s second solo album B ' Day was released on September 4 , 2006 , in the US , to coincide with her twenty - fifth birthday . It sold 541 , 000 copies in its first week and debuted atop the Billboard 200 , becoming Beyonc é ' s second consecutive number - one album in the United States . The album ' s lead single " D é j à Vu " , featuring Jay - Z , reached the top five on the Billboard Hot 100 chart . The second international single " Irreplaceable " was a commercial success worldwide , reaching number one in Australia , Hungary , Ireland , New Zealand and the United States . B ' Day also produced three other singles ; " Ring the Alarm " , " Get Me Bodied " , and " Green Light " ( released in the United Kingdom only ) .	When was your second solo album B'Day released?	B'Day was released on September 4, 2006.
Beyonc é ' s second solo album B ' Day was released on September 4 , 2006 , in the US , to coincide with her twenty - fifth birthday . It sold 541 , 000 copies in its first week and debuted atop the Billboard 200 , becoming Beyonc é ' s second consecutive number - one album in the United States . The album ' s lead single " D é j à Vu " , featuring Jay - Z , reached the top five on the Billboard Hot 100 chart . The second international single " Irreplaceable " was a commercial success worldwide , reaching number one in Australia , Hungary , Ireland , New Zealand and the United States . B ' Day also produced three other singles ; " Ring the Alarm " , " Get Me Bodied " , and " Green Light " ( released in the United Kingdom only ) .	How many copies did your album B'Day sell in its first week?	My album B'Day sold 541,000 copies in its first week.
Beyonc é ' s second solo album B ' Day was released on September 4 , 2006 , in the US , to coincide with her twenty - fifth birthday . It sold 541 , 000 copies in its first week and debuted atop the Billboard 200 , becoming Beyonc é ' s second consecutive number - one album in the United States . The album ' s lead single " D é j à Vu " , featuring Jay - Z , reached the top five on the Billboard Hot 100 chart . The second international single " Irreplaceable " was a commercial success worldwide , reaching number one in Australia , Hungary , Ireland , New Zealand and the United States . B ' Day also produced three other singles ; " Ring the Alarm " , " Get Me Bodied " , and " Green Light " ( released in the United Kingdom only ) .	Which chart did your album B'Day debut atop?	My album B'Day debuted atop the Billboard 200 chart.
Beyonc é ' s second solo album B ' Day was released on September 4 , 2006 , in the US , to coincide with her twenty - fifth birthday . It sold 541 , 000 copies in its first week and debuted atop the Billboard 200 , becoming Beyonc é ' s second consecutive number - one album in the United States . The album ' s lead single " D é j à Vu " , featuring Jay - Z , reached the top five on the Billboard Hot 100 chart . The second international single " Irreplaceable " was a commercial success worldwide , reaching number one in Australia , Hungary , Ireland , New Zealand and the United States . B ' Day also produced three other singles ; " Ring the Alarm " , " Get Me Bodied " , and " Green Light " ( released in the United Kingdom only ) .	Which was the lead single from your album B'Day?	The lead single from my album B'Day was "Déjà Vu" featuring Jay-Z.
Beyonc é ' s second solo album B ' Day was released on September 4 , 2006 , in the US , to coincide with her twenty - fifth birthday . It sold 541 , 000 copies in its first week and debuted atop the Billboard 200 , becoming Beyonc é ' s second consecutive number - one album in the United States . The album ' s lead single " D é j à Vu " , featuring Jay - Z , reached the top five on the Billboard Hot 100 chart . The second international single " Irreplaceable " was a commercial success worldwide , reaching number one in Australia , Hungary , Ireland , New Zealand and the United States . B ' Day also produced three other singles ; " Ring the Alarm " , " Get Me Bodied " , and " Green Light " ( released in the United Kingdom only ) .	Which countries did your second international single "Irreplaceable" reach number one in?	"Irreplaceable" reached number one in Australia, Hungary, Ireland, New Zealand, and the United States.
Her first acting role of 2006 was in the comedy film The Pink Panther starring opposite Steve Martin , grossing $ 158.8   million at the box office worldwide . Her second film Dreamgirls , the film version of the 1981 Broadway musical loosely based on The Supremes , received acclaim from critics and grossed $ 154   million internationally . In it , she starred opposite Jennifer Hudson , Jamie Foxx , and Eddie Murphy playing a pop singer based on Diana Ross . To promote the film , Beyonc é released " Listen " as the lead single from the soundtrack album . In April 2007 , Beyonc é embarked on The Beyonc é Experience , her first worldwide concert tour , visiting 97 venues and grossed over $ 24   million . [ note 1 ] Beyonc é conducted pre - concert food donation drives during six major stops in conjunction with her pastor at St . John ' s and America ' s Second Harvest . At the same time , B ' Day was re - released with five additional songs , including her duet with Shakira " Beautiful Liar " .	What was your first acting role of 2006?	The Pink Panther.
Her first acting role of 2006 was in the comedy film The Pink Panther starring opposite Steve Martin , grossing $ 158.8   million at the box office worldwide . Her second film Dreamgirls , the film version of the 1981 Broadway musical loosely based on The Supremes , received acclaim from critics and grossed $ 154   million internationally . In it , she starred opposite Jennifer Hudson , Jamie Foxx , and Eddie Murphy playing a pop singer based on Diana Ross . To promote the film , Beyonc é released " Listen " as the lead single from the soundtrack album . In April 2007 , Beyonc é embarked on The Beyonc é Experience , her first worldwide concert tour , visiting 97 venues and grossed over $ 24   million . [ note 1 ] Beyonc é conducted pre - concert food donation drives during six major stops in conjunction with her pastor at St . John ' s and America ' s Second Harvest . At the same time , B ' Day was re - released with five additional songs , including her duet with Shakira " Beautiful Liar " .	Who did you star opposite in The Pink Panther movie?	Steve Martin.
Her first acting role of 2006 was in the comedy film The Pink Panther starring opposite Steve Martin , grossing $ 158.8   million at the box office worldwide . Her second film Dreamgirls , the film version of the 1981 Broadway musical loosely based on The Supremes , received acclaim from critics and grossed $ 154   million internationally . In it , she starred opposite Jennifer Hudson , Jamie Foxx , and Eddie Murphy playing a pop singer based on Diana Ross . To promote the film , Beyonc é released " Listen " as the lead single from the soundtrack album . In April 2007 , Beyonc é embarked on The Beyonc é Experience , her first worldwide concert tour , visiting 97 venues and grossed over $ 24   million . [ note 1 ] Beyonc é conducted pre - concert food donation drives during six major stops in conjunction with her pastor at St . John ' s and America ' s Second Harvest . At the same time , B ' Day was re - released with five additional songs , including her duet with Shakira " Beautiful Liar " .	How much did The Pink Panther gross at the box office worldwide?	$158.8 million.
Her first acting role of 2006 was in the comedy film The Pink Panther starring opposite Steve Martin , grossing $ 158.8   million at the box office worldwide . Her second film Dreamgirls , the film version of the 1981 Broadway musical loosely based on The Supremes , received acclaim from critics and grossed $ 154   million internationally . In it , she starred opposite Jennifer Hudson , Jamie Foxx , and Eddie Murphy playing a pop singer based on Diana Ross . To promote the film , Beyonc é released " Listen " as the lead single from the soundtrack album . In April 2007 , Beyonc é embarked on The Beyonc é Experience , her first worldwide concert tour , visiting 97 venues and grossed over $ 24   million . [ note 1 ] Beyonc é conducted pre - concert food donation drives during six major stops in conjunction with her pastor at St . John ' s and America ' s Second Harvest . At the same time , B ' Day was re - released with five additional songs , including her duet with Shakira " Beautiful Liar " .	What was your second film of 2006?	Dreamgirls.
Her first acting role of 2006 was in the comedy film The Pink Panther starring opposite Steve Martin , grossing $ 158.8   million at the box office worldwide . Her second film Dreamgirls , the film version of the 1981 Broadway musical loosely based on The Supremes , received acclaim from critics and grossed $ 154   million internationally . In it , she starred opposite Jennifer Hudson , Jamie Foxx , and Eddie Murphy playing a pop singer based on Diana Ross . To promote the film , Beyonc é released " Listen " as the lead single from the soundtrack album . In April 2007 , Beyonc é embarked on The Beyonc é Experience , her first worldwide concert tour , visiting 97 venues and grossed over $ 24   million . [ note 1 ] Beyonc é conducted pre - concert food donation drives during six major stops in conjunction with her pastor at St . John ' s and America ' s Second Harvest . At the same time , B ' Day was re - released with five additional songs , including her duet with Shakira " Beautiful Liar " .	What was Dreamgirls based on?	The 1981 Broadway musical loosely based on The Supremes.
In January 2013 , Destiny ' s Child released Love Songs , a compilation album of the romance - themed songs from their previous albums and a newly recorded track , " Nuclear " . Beyonc é performed the American national anthem singing along with a pre - recorded track at President Obama ' s second inauguration in Washington , D . C . The following month , Beyonc é performed at the Super Bowl XLVII halftime show , held at the Mercedes - Benz Superdome in New Orleans . The performance stands as the second most tweeted about moment in history at 268 , 000 tweets per minute . At the 55th Annual Grammy Awards , Beyonc é won for Best Traditional R & B Performance for " Love on Top " . Her feature - length documentary film , Life Is But a Dream , first aired on HBO on February 16 , 2013 . The film was co - directed by Beyonc é herself .	When did Destiny's Child release the album "Love Songs"?	In January 2013.
In January 2013 , Destiny ' s Child released Love Songs , a compilation album of the romance - themed songs from their previous albums and a newly recorded track , " Nuclear " . Beyonc é performed the American national anthem singing along with a pre - recorded track at President Obama ' s second inauguration in Washington , D . C . The following month , Beyonc é performed at the Super Bowl XLVII halftime show , held at the Mercedes - Benz Superdome in New Orleans . The performance stands as the second most tweeted about moment in history at 268 , 000 tweets per minute . At the 55th Annual Grammy Awards , Beyonc é won for Best Traditional R & B Performance for " Love on Top " . Her feature - length documentary film , Life Is But a Dream , first aired on HBO on February 16 , 2013 . The film was co - directed by Beyonc é herself .	What was the name of the newly recorded track on your "Love Songs" album?	"Nuclear."
In January 2013 , Destiny ' s Child released Love Songs , a compilation album of the romance - themed songs from their previous albums and a newly recorded track , " Nuclear " . Beyonc é performed the American national anthem singing along with a pre - recorded track at President Obama ' s second inauguration in Washington , D . C . The following month , Beyonc é performed at the Super Bowl XLVII halftime show , held at the Mercedes - Benz Superdome in New Orleans . The performance stands as the second most tweeted about moment in history at 268 , 000 tweets per minute . At the 55th Annual Grammy Awards , Beyonc é won for Best Traditional R & B Performance for " Love on Top " . Her feature - length documentary film , Life Is But a Dream , first aired on HBO on February 16 , 2013 . The film was co - directed by Beyonc é herself .	Where did you perform the American national anthem during President Obama's second inauguration?	In Washington, D.C.
In January 2013 , Destiny ' s Child released Love Songs , a compilation album of the romance - themed songs from their previous albums and a newly recorded track , " Nuclear " . Beyonc é performed the American national anthem singing along with a pre - recorded track at President Obama ' s second inauguration in Washington , D . C . The following month , Beyonc é performed at the Super Bowl XLVII halftime show , held at the Mercedes - Benz Superdome in New Orleans . The performance stands as the second most tweeted about moment in history at 268 , 000 tweets per minute . At the 55th Annual Grammy Awards , Beyonc é won for Best Traditional R & B Performance for " Love on Top " . Her feature - length documentary film , Life Is But a Dream , first aired on HBO on February 16 , 2013 . The film was co - directed by Beyonc é herself .	At which event did you perform the halftime show?	The Super Bowl XLVII halftime show.
In January 2013 , Destiny ' s Child released Love Songs , a compilation album of the romance - themed songs from their previous albums and a newly recorded track , " Nuclear " . Beyonc é performed the American national anthem singing along with a pre - recorded track at President Obama ' s second inauguration in Washington , D . C . The following month , Beyonc é performed at the Super Bowl XLVII halftime show , held at the Mercedes - Benz Superdome in New Orleans . The performance stands as the second most tweeted about moment in history at 268 , 000 tweets per minute . At the 55th Annual Grammy Awards , Beyonc é won for Best Traditional R & B Performance for " Love on Top " . Her feature - length documentary film , Life Is But a Dream , first aired on HBO on February 16 , 2013 . The film was co - directed by Beyonc é herself .	How many tweets per minute were there during your halftime show performance?	268,000 tweets per minute.
In January 2013 , Destiny ' s Child released Love Songs , a compilation album of the romance - themed songs from their previous albums and a newly recorded track , " Nuclear " . Beyonc é performed the American national anthem singing along with a pre - recorded track at President Obama ' s second inauguration in Washington , D . C . The following month , Beyonc é performed at the Super Bowl XLVII halftime show , held at the Mercedes - Benz Superdome in New Orleans . The performance stands as the second most tweeted about moment in history at 268 , 000 tweets per minute . At the 55th Annual Grammy Awards , Beyonc é won for Best Traditional R & B Performance for " Love on Top " . Her feature - length documentary film , Life Is But a Dream , first aired on HBO on February 16 , 2013 . The film was co - directed by Beyonc é herself .	What award did you win at the 55th Annual Grammy Awards?	Best Traditional R&B Performance for "Love on Top."
In January 2013 , Destiny ' s Child released Love Songs , a compilation album of the romance - themed songs from their previous albums and a newly recorded track , " Nuclear " . Beyonc é performed the American national anthem singing along with a pre - recorded track at President Obama ' s second inauguration in Washington , D . C . The following month , Beyonc é performed at the Super Bowl XLVII halftime show , held at the Mercedes - Benz Superdome in New Orleans . The performance stands as the second most tweeted about moment in history at 268 , 000 tweets per minute . At the 55th Annual Grammy Awards , Beyonc é won for Best Traditional R & B Performance for " Love on Top " . Her feature - length documentary film , Life Is But a Dream , first aired on HBO on February 16 , 2013 . The film was co - directed by Beyonc é herself .	When did your documentary film "Life Is But a Dream" first air on HBO?	On February 16, 2013.
On June 6 , 2018 , Beyonc é and husband Jay - Z kicked - off the On the Run II Tour in Cardiff , United Kingdom . Ten days later , at their final London performance , the pair unveiled Everything Is Love , their joint studio album , credited under the name The Carters , and initially available exclusively on Tidal . The pair also released the video for the album ' s lead single , " Apeshit " , on Beyonc é ' s official YouTube channel . Everything Is Love received generally positive reviews , and debuted at number two on the U . S . Billboard 200 , with 123 , 000 album - equivalent units , of which 70 , 000 were pure album sales . On December 2 , 2018 , Beyonc é alongside Jay - Z headlined the Global Citizen Festival : Mandela 100 which was held at FNB Stadium in Johannesburg , South Africa . Their 2 - hour performance had concepts similar to the On the Run II Tour and Beyonc é was praised for her outfits , which paid tribute to Africa ' s diversity .	When did you and Jay-Z kick off the On the Run II Tour?	On June 6, 2018.
On June 6 , 2018 , Beyonc é and husband Jay - Z kicked - off the On the Run II Tour in Cardiff , United Kingdom . Ten days later , at their final London performance , the pair unveiled Everything Is Love , their joint studio album , credited under the name The Carters , and initially available exclusively on Tidal . The pair also released the video for the album ' s lead single , " Apeshit " , on Beyonc é ' s official YouTube channel . Everything Is Love received generally positive reviews , and debuted at number two on the U . S . Billboard 200 , with 123 , 000 album - equivalent units , of which 70 , 000 were pure album sales . On December 2 , 2018 , Beyonc é alongside Jay - Z headlined the Global Citizen Festival : Mandela 100 which was held at FNB Stadium in Johannesburg , South Africa . Their 2 - hour performance had concepts similar to the On the Run II Tour and Beyonc é was praised for her outfits , which paid tribute to Africa ' s diversity .	Where did you and Jay-Z unveil your joint studio album "Everything Is Love"?	At our final London performance.
On June 6 , 2018 , Beyonc é and husband Jay - Z kicked - off the On the Run II Tour in Cardiff , United Kingdom . Ten days later , at their final London performance , the pair unveiled Everything Is Love , their joint studio album , credited under the name The Carters , and initially available exclusively on Tidal . The pair also released the video for the album ' s lead single , " Apeshit " , on Beyonc é ' s official YouTube channel . Everything Is Love received generally positive reviews , and debuted at number two on the U . S . Billboard 200 , with 123 , 000 album - equivalent units , of which 70 , 000 were pure album sales . On December 2 , 2018 , Beyonc é alongside Jay - Z headlined the Global Citizen Festival : Mandela 100 which was held at FNB Stadium in Johannesburg , South Africa . Their 2 - hour performance had concepts similar to the On the Run II Tour and Beyonc é was praised for her outfits , which paid tribute to Africa ' s diversity .	What is the name under which you and Jay-Z released your joint studio album?	The album was credited under the name The Carters.
On June 6 , 2018 , Beyonc é and husband Jay - Z kicked - off the On the Run II Tour in Cardiff , United Kingdom . Ten days later , at their final London performance , the pair unveiled Everything Is Love , their joint studio album , credited under the name The Carters , and initially available exclusively on Tidal . The pair also released the video for the album ' s lead single , " Apeshit " , on Beyonc é ' s official YouTube channel . Everything Is Love received generally positive reviews , and debuted at number two on the U . S . Billboard 200 , with 123 , 000 album - equivalent units , of which 70 , 000 were pure album sales . On December 2 , 2018 , Beyonc é alongside Jay - Z headlined the Global Citizen Festival : Mandela 100 which was held at FNB Stadium in Johannesburg , South Africa . Their 2 - hour performance had concepts similar to the On the Run II Tour and Beyonc é was praised for her outfits , which paid tribute to Africa ' s diversity .	Where was the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 held?	The festival was held at FNB Stadium in Johannesburg, South Africa.
On June 6 , 2018 , Beyonc é and husband Jay - Z kicked - off the On the Run II Tour in Cardiff , United Kingdom . Ten days later , at their final London performance , the pair unveiled Everything Is Love , their joint studio album , credited under the name The Carters , and initially available exclusively on Tidal . The pair also released the video for the album ' s lead single , " Apeshit " , on Beyonc é ' s official YouTube channel . Everything Is Love received generally positive reviews , and debuted at number two on the U . S . Billboard 200 , with 123 , 000 album - equivalent units , of which 70 , 000 were pure album sales . On December 2 , 2018 , Beyonc é alongside Jay - Z headlined the Global Citizen Festival : Mandela 100 which was held at FNB Stadium in Johannesburg , South Africa . Their 2 - hour performance had concepts similar to the On the Run II Tour and Beyonc é was praised for her outfits , which paid tribute to Africa ' s diversity .	What did you pay tribute to with your outfits during the Global Citizen Festival: Mandela 100 performance?	My outfits paid tribute to Africa's diversity.
In April 2020 , Beyonc é was featured on the remix of Megan Thee Stallion ' s song " Savage " , marking her first material of music for the year . The song peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , marking Beyonc é ' s eleventh song to do so across all acts . On June 19 , 2020 , Beyonc é released the nonprofit charity single " Black Parade " . On June 23 , she followed up the release of its studio version with an a cappella version exclusively on Tidal . Black Is King , a visual album based on the music of The Lion King : The Gift , premiered globally on Disney + on July 31 , 2020 . Produced by Disney and Parkwood Entertainment , the film was written , directed and executive produced by Beyonc é . The film was described by Disney as " a celebratory memoir for the world on the Black experience " . Beyonc é received the most nominations ( 9 ) at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards and the most awards ( 4 ) , which made her the most - awarded singer , most - awarded female artist , and second - most - awarded artist in Grammy history .	When were you featured on the remix of Megan Thee Stallion's song "Savage"?	In April 2020.
In April 2020 , Beyonc é was featured on the remix of Megan Thee Stallion ' s song " Savage " , marking her first material of music for the year . The song peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , marking Beyonc é ' s eleventh song to do so across all acts . On June 19 , 2020 , Beyonc é released the nonprofit charity single " Black Parade " . On June 23 , she followed up the release of its studio version with an a cappella version exclusively on Tidal . Black Is King , a visual album based on the music of The Lion King : The Gift , premiered globally on Disney + on July 31 , 2020 . Produced by Disney and Parkwood Entertainment , the film was written , directed and executive produced by Beyonc é . The film was described by Disney as " a celebratory memoir for the world on the Black experience " . Beyonc é received the most nominations ( 9 ) at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards and the most awards ( 4 ) , which made her the most - awarded singer , most - awarded female artist , and second - most - awarded artist in Grammy history .	What position did my song "Savage" peak at on the Billboard Hot 100?	Number one.
In April 2020 , Beyonc é was featured on the remix of Megan Thee Stallion ' s song " Savage " , marking her first material of music for the year . The song peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , marking Beyonc é ' s eleventh song to do so across all acts . On June 19 , 2020 , Beyonc é released the nonprofit charity single " Black Parade " . On June 23 , she followed up the release of its studio version with an a cappella version exclusively on Tidal . Black Is King , a visual album based on the music of The Lion King : The Gift , premiered globally on Disney + on July 31 , 2020 . Produced by Disney and Parkwood Entertainment , the film was written , directed and executive produced by Beyonc é . The film was described by Disney as " a celebratory memoir for the world on the Black experience " . Beyonc é received the most nominations ( 9 ) at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards and the most awards ( 4 ) , which made her the most - awarded singer , most - awarded female artist , and second - most - awarded artist in Grammy history .	When was your nonprofit charity single "Black Parade" released?	On June 19, 2020.
In April 2020 , Beyonc é was featured on the remix of Megan Thee Stallion ' s song " Savage " , marking her first material of music for the year . The song peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , marking Beyonc é ' s eleventh song to do so across all acts . On June 19 , 2020 , Beyonc é released the nonprofit charity single " Black Parade " . On June 23 , she followed up the release of its studio version with an a cappella version exclusively on Tidal . Black Is King , a visual album based on the music of The Lion King : The Gift , premiered globally on Disney + on July 31 , 2020 . Produced by Disney and Parkwood Entertainment , the film was written , directed and executive produced by Beyonc é . The film was described by Disney as " a celebratory memoir for the world on the Black experience " . Beyonc é received the most nominations ( 9 ) at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards and the most awards ( 4 ) , which made her the most - awarded singer , most - awarded female artist , and second - most - awarded artist in Grammy history .	When was your visual album "Black Is King" premiered on Disney+?	On July 31, 2020.
In April 2020 , Beyonc é was featured on the remix of Megan Thee Stallion ' s song " Savage " , marking her first material of music for the year . The song peaked at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , marking Beyonc é ' s eleventh song to do so across all acts . On June 19 , 2020 , Beyonc é released the nonprofit charity single " Black Parade " . On June 23 , she followed up the release of its studio version with an a cappella version exclusively on Tidal . Black Is King , a visual album based on the music of The Lion King : The Gift , premiered globally on Disney + on July 31 , 2020 . Produced by Disney and Parkwood Entertainment , the film was written , directed and executive produced by Beyonc é . The film was described by Disney as " a celebratory memoir for the world on the Black experience " . Beyonc é received the most nominations ( 9 ) at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards and the most awards ( 4 ) , which made her the most - awarded singer , most - awarded female artist , and second - most - awarded artist in Grammy history .	How many nominations did I receive at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards?	Nine.
The feminism and female empowerment themes on Beyonc é ' s second solo album B ' Day were inspired by her role in Dreamgirls and by singer Josephine Baker . Beyonc é paid homage to Baker by performing " D é j à Vu " at the 2006 Fashion Rocks concert wearing Baker ' s trademark mini - hula skirt embellished with fake bananas . Beyonc é ' s third solo album , I Am ... Sasha Fierce , was inspired by Jay - Z and especially by Etta James , whose " boldness " inspired Beyonc é to explore other musical genres and styles . Her fourth solo album , 4 , was inspired by Fela Kuti , 1990s R & B , Earth , Wind & Fire , DeBarge , Lionel Richie , Teena Marie , The Jackson 5 , New Edition , Adele , Florence and the Machine , and Prince .	Who inspired your feminism and female empowerment themes on your second solo album "B'Day"?	My role in Dreamgirls and singer Josephine Baker.
The feminism and female empowerment themes on Beyonc é ' s second solo album B ' Day were inspired by her role in Dreamgirls and by singer Josephine Baker . Beyonc é paid homage to Baker by performing " D é j à Vu " at the 2006 Fashion Rocks concert wearing Baker ' s trademark mini - hula skirt embellished with fake bananas . Beyonc é ' s third solo album , I Am ... Sasha Fierce , was inspired by Jay - Z and especially by Etta James , whose " boldness " inspired Beyonc é to explore other musical genres and styles . Her fourth solo album , 4 , was inspired by Fela Kuti , 1990s R & B , Earth , Wind & Fire , DeBarge , Lionel Richie , Teena Marie , The Jackson 5 , New Edition , Adele , Florence and the Machine , and Prince .	How did you pay homage to Josephine Baker?	By performing "Déjà Vu" at the 2006 Fashion Rocks concert wearing Baker's trademark mini-hula skirt embellished with fake bananas.
The feminism and female empowerment themes on Beyonc é ' s second solo album B ' Day were inspired by her role in Dreamgirls and by singer Josephine Baker . Beyonc é paid homage to Baker by performing " D é j à Vu " at the 2006 Fashion Rocks concert wearing Baker ' s trademark mini - hula skirt embellished with fake bananas . Beyonc é ' s third solo album , I Am ... Sasha Fierce , was inspired by Jay - Z and especially by Etta James , whose " boldness " inspired Beyonc é to explore other musical genres and styles . Her fourth solo album , 4 , was inspired by Fela Kuti , 1990s R & B , Earth , Wind & Fire , DeBarge , Lionel Richie , Teena Marie , The Jackson 5 , New Edition , Adele , Florence and the Machine , and Prince .	Who or what inspired your third solo album "I Am... Sasha Fierce"?	Jay-Z and especially Etta James, whose "boldness" inspired me to explore other musical genres and styles.
The feminism and female empowerment themes on Beyonc é ' s second solo album B ' Day were inspired by her role in Dreamgirls and by singer Josephine Baker . Beyonc é paid homage to Baker by performing " D é j à Vu " at the 2006 Fashion Rocks concert wearing Baker ' s trademark mini - hula skirt embellished with fake bananas . Beyonc é ' s third solo album , I Am ... Sasha Fierce , was inspired by Jay - Z and especially by Etta James , whose " boldness " inspired Beyonc é to explore other musical genres and styles . Her fourth solo album , 4 , was inspired by Fela Kuti , 1990s R & B , Earth , Wind & Fire , DeBarge , Lionel Richie , Teena Marie , The Jackson 5 , New Edition , Adele , Florence and the Machine , and Prince .	What inspired your fourth solo album "4"?	Fela Kuti, 1990s R&B, Earth, Wind & Fire, DeBarge, Lionel Richie, Teena Marie, The Jackson 5, New Edition, Adele, Florence and the Machine, and Prince.
Beyonc é miscarried around 2010 or 2011 , describing it as " the saddest thing " she had ever endured . She returned to the studio and wrote music to cope with the loss . In April 2011 , Beyonc é and Jay - Z traveled to Paris to shoot the album cover for 4 , and she unexpectedly became pregnant in Paris . In August , the couple attended the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards , at which Beyonc é performed " Love on Top " and ended the performance by revealing she was pregnant . Her appearance helped that year ' s MTV Video Music Awards become the most - watched broadcast in MTV history , pulling in 12.4   million viewers ; the announcement was listed in Guinness World Records for " most tweets per second recorded for a single event " on Twitter , receiving 8 , 868 tweets per second and " Beyonce pregnant " was the most Googled phrase the week of August 29 , 2011 . On January 7 , 2012 , Beyonc é gave birth to a daughter , Blue Ivy , at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City .	When did you miscarry and how did you describe it?	I miscarried around 2010 or 2011 and I described it as "the saddest thing" I had ever endured.
Beyonc é miscarried around 2010 or 2011 , describing it as " the saddest thing " she had ever endured . She returned to the studio and wrote music to cope with the loss . In April 2011 , Beyonc é and Jay - Z traveled to Paris to shoot the album cover for 4 , and she unexpectedly became pregnant in Paris . In August , the couple attended the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards , at which Beyonc é performed " Love on Top " and ended the performance by revealing she was pregnant . Her appearance helped that year ' s MTV Video Music Awards become the most - watched broadcast in MTV history , pulling in 12.4   million viewers ; the announcement was listed in Guinness World Records for " most tweets per second recorded for a single event " on Twitter , receiving 8 , 868 tweets per second and " Beyonce pregnant " was the most Googled phrase the week of August 29 , 2011 . On January 7 , 2012 , Beyonc é gave birth to a daughter , Blue Ivy , at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City .	What did you do to cope with the loss after your miscarriage?	I returned to the studio and wrote music to cope with the loss.
Beyonc é miscarried around 2010 or 2011 , describing it as " the saddest thing " she had ever endured . She returned to the studio and wrote music to cope with the loss . In April 2011 , Beyonc é and Jay - Z traveled to Paris to shoot the album cover for 4 , and she unexpectedly became pregnant in Paris . In August , the couple attended the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards , at which Beyonc é performed " Love on Top " and ended the performance by revealing she was pregnant . Her appearance helped that year ' s MTV Video Music Awards become the most - watched broadcast in MTV history , pulling in 12.4   million viewers ; the announcement was listed in Guinness World Records for " most tweets per second recorded for a single event " on Twitter , receiving 8 , 868 tweets per second and " Beyonce pregnant " was the most Googled phrase the week of August 29 , 2011 . On January 7 , 2012 , Beyonc é gave birth to a daughter , Blue Ivy , at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City .	When did you unexpectedly become pregnant?	I unexpectedly became pregnant in Paris in April 2011.
Beyonc é miscarried around 2010 or 2011 , describing it as " the saddest thing " she had ever endured . She returned to the studio and wrote music to cope with the loss . In April 2011 , Beyonc é and Jay - Z traveled to Paris to shoot the album cover for 4 , and she unexpectedly became pregnant in Paris . In August , the couple attended the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards , at which Beyonc é performed " Love on Top " and ended the performance by revealing she was pregnant . Her appearance helped that year ' s MTV Video Music Awards become the most - watched broadcast in MTV history , pulling in 12.4   million viewers ; the announcement was listed in Guinness World Records for " most tweets per second recorded for a single event " on Twitter , receiving 8 , 868 tweets per second and " Beyonce pregnant " was the most Googled phrase the week of August 29 , 2011 . On January 7 , 2012 , Beyonc é gave birth to a daughter , Blue Ivy , at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City .	What song did you perform at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards and what did you reveal during the performance?	I performed "Love on Top" at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards and I revealed that I was pregnant at the end of the performance.
Beyonc é miscarried around 2010 or 2011 , describing it as " the saddest thing " she had ever endured . She returned to the studio and wrote music to cope with the loss . In April 2011 , Beyonc é and Jay - Z traveled to Paris to shoot the album cover for 4 , and she unexpectedly became pregnant in Paris . In August , the couple attended the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards , at which Beyonc é performed " Love on Top " and ended the performance by revealing she was pregnant . Her appearance helped that year ' s MTV Video Music Awards become the most - watched broadcast in MTV history , pulling in 12.4   million viewers ; the announcement was listed in Guinness World Records for " most tweets per second recorded for a single event " on Twitter , receiving 8 , 868 tweets per second and " Beyonce pregnant " was the most Googled phrase the week of August 29 , 2011 . On January 7 , 2012 , Beyonc é gave birth to a daughter , Blue Ivy , at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City .	What records did your announcement at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards set?	My announcement at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards set the Guinness World Record for "most tweets per second recorded for a single event" on Twitter, receiving 8,868 tweets per second. Additionally, "Beyonce pregnant" was the most Googled phrase the week of August 29, 2011.
Beyonc é miscarried around 2010 or 2011 , describing it as " the saddest thing " she had ever endured . She returned to the studio and wrote music to cope with the loss . In April 2011 , Beyonc é and Jay - Z traveled to Paris to shoot the album cover for 4 , and she unexpectedly became pregnant in Paris . In August , the couple attended the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards , at which Beyonc é performed " Love on Top " and ended the performance by revealing she was pregnant . Her appearance helped that year ' s MTV Video Music Awards become the most - watched broadcast in MTV history , pulling in 12.4   million viewers ; the announcement was listed in Guinness World Records for " most tweets per second recorded for a single event " on Twitter , receiving 8 , 868 tweets per second and " Beyonce pregnant " was the most Googled phrase the week of August 29 , 2011 . On January 7 , 2012 , Beyonc é gave birth to a daughter , Blue Ivy , at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City .	When and where did you give birth?	I gave birth to a daughter, Blue Ivy, at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York City on January 7, 2012.
Beyonc é ' s success has led to her becoming a cultural icon and earning her the nickname " Queen Bey " . Constance Grady wrote for Vox , " The transformation of Beyonc é from well - liked pop star to cultural icon came in three phases , punctuated by the self - titled Beyonc é album of 2013 , 2016 ' s Lemonade , and 2018 ' s Homecoming concert at Coachella . " In The New Yorker , music critic Jody Rosen described Beyonc é as " the most important and compelling popular musician of the twenty - first century   ... the result , the logical end point , of a century - plus of pop . " She topped NPR list of the " 21st Century ' s Most Influential Women Musicians " . James Clear , in his book Atomic Habits ( 2018 ) , draws a parallel between Beyonc é ' s success and the dramatic transformations in modern society : " In the last one hundred years , we have seen the rise of the car , the airplane , the television , the personal computer , the internet , the smartphone , and Beyonc é . " The Observer named her Artist of the Decade ( 2000s ) in 2009 .	What has led to you becoming a cultural icon?	My success has led to me becoming a cultural icon.
Beyonc é ' s success has led to her becoming a cultural icon and earning her the nickname " Queen Bey " . Constance Grady wrote for Vox , " The transformation of Beyonc é from well - liked pop star to cultural icon came in three phases , punctuated by the self - titled Beyonc é album of 2013 , 2016 ' s Lemonade , and 2018 ' s Homecoming concert at Coachella . " In The New Yorker , music critic Jody Rosen described Beyonc é as " the most important and compelling popular musician of the twenty - first century   ... the result , the logical end point , of a century - plus of pop . " She topped NPR list of the " 21st Century ' s Most Influential Women Musicians " . James Clear , in his book Atomic Habits ( 2018 ) , draws a parallel between Beyonc é ' s success and the dramatic transformations in modern society : " In the last one hundred years , we have seen the rise of the car , the airplane , the television , the personal computer , the internet , the smartphone , and Beyonc é . " The Observer named her Artist of the Decade ( 2000s ) in 2009 .	What was your transformation from a pop star to a cultural icon punctuated by?	My transformation from a pop star to a cultural icon was punctuated by the self-titled album of 2013, Lemonade in 2016, and the Homecoming concert at Coachella in 2018.
Beyonc é ' s success has led to her becoming a cultural icon and earning her the nickname " Queen Bey " . Constance Grady wrote for Vox , " The transformation of Beyonc é from well - liked pop star to cultural icon came in three phases , punctuated by the self - titled Beyonc é album of 2013 , 2016 ' s Lemonade , and 2018 ' s Homecoming concert at Coachella . " In The New Yorker , music critic Jody Rosen described Beyonc é as " the most important and compelling popular musician of the twenty - first century   ... the result , the logical end point , of a century - plus of pop . " She topped NPR list of the " 21st Century ' s Most Influential Women Musicians " . James Clear , in his book Atomic Habits ( 2018 ) , draws a parallel between Beyonc é ' s success and the dramatic transformations in modern society : " In the last one hundred years , we have seen the rise of the car , the airplane , the television , the personal computer , the internet , the smartphone , and Beyonc é . " The Observer named her Artist of the Decade ( 2000s ) in 2009 .	How did music critic Jody Rosen describe you?	Music critic Jody Rosen described me as "the most important and compelling popular musician of the twenty-first century... the result, the logical end point, of a century-plus of pop."
Beyonc é ' s success has led to her becoming a cultural icon and earning her the nickname " Queen Bey " . Constance Grady wrote for Vox , " The transformation of Beyonc é from well - liked pop star to cultural icon came in three phases , punctuated by the self - titled Beyonc é album of 2013 , 2016 ' s Lemonade , and 2018 ' s Homecoming concert at Coachella . " In The New Yorker , music critic Jody Rosen described Beyonc é as " the most important and compelling popular musician of the twenty - first century   ... the result , the logical end point , of a century - plus of pop . " She topped NPR list of the " 21st Century ' s Most Influential Women Musicians " . James Clear , in his book Atomic Habits ( 2018 ) , draws a parallel between Beyonc é ' s success and the dramatic transformations in modern society : " In the last one hundred years , we have seen the rise of the car , the airplane , the television , the personal computer , the internet , the smartphone , and Beyonc é . " The Observer named her Artist of the Decade ( 2000s ) in 2009 .	Which list did you top in relation to influential women musicians of the 21st century?	I topped NPR's list of the "21st Century's Most Influential Women Musicians."
Beyonc é ' s success has led to her becoming a cultural icon and earning her the nickname " Queen Bey " . Constance Grady wrote for Vox , " The transformation of Beyonc é from well - liked pop star to cultural icon came in three phases , punctuated by the self - titled Beyonc é album of 2013 , 2016 ' s Lemonade , and 2018 ' s Homecoming concert at Coachella . " In The New Yorker , music critic Jody Rosen described Beyonc é as " the most important and compelling popular musician of the twenty - first century   ... the result , the logical end point , of a century - plus of pop . " She topped NPR list of the " 21st Century ' s Most Influential Women Musicians " . James Clear , in his book Atomic Habits ( 2018 ) , draws a parallel between Beyonc é ' s success and the dramatic transformations in modern society : " In the last one hundred years , we have seen the rise of the car , the airplane , the television , the personal computer , the internet , the smartphone , and Beyonc é . " The Observer named her Artist of the Decade ( 2000s ) in 2009 .	In your book Atomic Habits, what parallel do you draw between my success and dramatic transformations in modern society?	In my book Atomic Habits, I draw a parallel between your success and the dramatic transformations in modern society, such as the rise of the car, the airplane, the television, the personal computer, the internet, and the smartphone.
