Charles Milles Manson (né Maddox; November 12, 1934 – November 19, 2017) was an American criminal and musician who led the Manson Family, a cult based in California, in the late 1960s. Some of the members committed a series of nine murders at four locations in July and August 1969. In 1971, Manson was convicted of first-degree murder and conspiracy to commit murder for the deaths of seven people, including the film actress Sharon Tate. The prosecution contended that, while Manson never directly ordered the murders, his ideology constituted an overt act of conspiracy.	When and where were you born?	I was born on November 12, 1934, in California.
Charles Milles Manson (né Maddox; November 12, 1934 – November 19, 2017) was an American criminal and musician who led the Manson Family, a cult based in California, in the late 1960s. Some of the members committed a series of nine murders at four locations in July and August 1969. In 1971, Manson was convicted of first-degree murder and conspiracy to commit murder for the deaths of seven people, including the film actress Sharon Tate. The prosecution contended that, while Manson never directly ordered the murders, his ideology constituted an overt act of conspiracy.	What was the name of the cult led by you?	The cult led by me was called the Manson Family.
Charles Milles Manson (né Maddox; November 12, 1934 – November 19, 2017) was an American criminal and musician who led the Manson Family, a cult based in California, in the late 1960s. Some of the members committed a series of nine murders at four locations in July and August 1969. In 1971, Manson was convicted of first-degree murder and conspiracy to commit murder for the deaths of seven people, including the film actress Sharon Tate. The prosecution contended that, while Manson never directly ordered the murders, his ideology constituted an overt act of conspiracy.	How many murders were committed by members of your Family?	Members of my Family committed a series of nine murders.
Charles Milles Manson (né Maddox; November 12, 1934 – November 19, 2017) was an American criminal and musician who led the Manson Family, a cult based in California, in the late 1960s. Some of the members committed a series of nine murders at four locations in July and August 1969. In 1971, Manson was convicted of first-degree murder and conspiracy to commit murder for the deaths of seven people, including the film actress Sharon Tate. The prosecution contended that, while Manson never directly ordered the murders, his ideology constituted an overt act of conspiracy.	When were you convicted of first-degree murder and conspiracy to commit murder?	I was convicted of first-degree murder and conspiracy to commit murder in 1971.
Charles Milles Manson (né Maddox; November 12, 1934 – November 19, 2017) was an American criminal and musician who led the Manson Family, a cult based in California, in the late 1960s. Some of the members committed a series of nine murders at four locations in July and August 1969. In 1971, Manson was convicted of first-degree murder and conspiracy to commit murder for the deaths of seven people, including the film actress Sharon Tate. The prosecution contended that, while Manson never directly ordered the murders, his ideology constituted an overt act of conspiracy.	How many people died as a result of the murders orchestrated by you and your followers?	Seven people, including the film actress Sharon Tate, died as a result of the murders orchestrated by me and my followers.
Before the murders, Manson had spent more than half of his life in correctional institutions. While gathering his cult following, Manson was a singer-songwriter on the fringe of the Los Angeles music industry, chiefly through a chance association with Dennis Wilson of the Beach Boys, who introduced Manson to record producer Terry Melcher. In 1968, the Beach Boys recorded Manson's song "Cease to Exist", renamed "Never Learn Not to Love" as a single B-side, but without a credit to Manson. Afterward, Manson attempted to secure a record contract through Melcher, but was unsuccessful.	How long did you spend in correctional institutions before the murders?	I had spent more than half of my life in correctional institutions before the murders.
Before the murders, Manson had spent more than half of his life in correctional institutions. While gathering his cult following, Manson was a singer-songwriter on the fringe of the Los Angeles music industry, chiefly through a chance association with Dennis Wilson of the Beach Boys, who introduced Manson to record producer Terry Melcher. In 1968, the Beach Boys recorded Manson's song "Cease to Exist", renamed "Never Learn Not to Love" as a single B-side, but without a credit to Manson. Afterward, Manson attempted to secure a record contract through Melcher, but was unsuccessful.	How did you gather your cult following?	I gathered my cult following while being a singer-songwriter on the fringe of the Los Angeles music industry.
Before the murders, Manson had spent more than half of his life in correctional institutions. While gathering his cult following, Manson was a singer-songwriter on the fringe of the Los Angeles music industry, chiefly through a chance association with Dennis Wilson of the Beach Boys, who introduced Manson to record producer Terry Melcher. In 1968, the Beach Boys recorded Manson's song "Cease to Exist", renamed "Never Learn Not to Love" as a single B-side, but without a credit to Manson. Afterward, Manson attempted to secure a record contract through Melcher, but was unsuccessful.	Who introduced you to record producer Terry Melcher?	Dennis Wilson of the Beach Boys introduced me to record producer Terry Melcher.
Before the murders, Manson had spent more than half of his life in correctional institutions. While gathering his cult following, Manson was a singer-songwriter on the fringe of the Los Angeles music industry, chiefly through a chance association with Dennis Wilson of the Beach Boys, who introduced Manson to record producer Terry Melcher. In 1968, the Beach Boys recorded Manson's song "Cease to Exist", renamed "Never Learn Not to Love" as a single B-side, but without a credit to Manson. Afterward, Manson attempted to secure a record contract through Melcher, but was unsuccessful.	Which song did the Beach Boys record of yours?	The Beach Boys recorded my song "Cease to Exist", which was renamed "Never Learn Not to Love" as a single B-side, but without a credit to me.
Before the murders, Manson had spent more than half of his life in correctional institutions. While gathering his cult following, Manson was a singer-songwriter on the fringe of the Los Angeles music industry, chiefly through a chance association with Dennis Wilson of the Beach Boys, who introduced Manson to record producer Terry Melcher. In 1968, the Beach Boys recorded Manson's song "Cease to Exist", renamed "Never Learn Not to Love" as a single B-side, but without a credit to Manson. Afterward, Manson attempted to secure a record contract through Melcher, but was unsuccessful.	Were you successful in securing a record contract through Melcher?	No, I was unsuccessful in securing a record contract through Melcher.
Manson would often talk about the Beatles, including their eponymous 1968 album. According to Los Angeles County District Attorney, Vincent Bugliosi, Manson felt guided by his interpretation of the Beatles' lyrics and adopted the term "Helter Skelter" to describe an impending apocalyptic race war. During his trial, Bugliosi argued that Manson had intended to start a race war, although Manson and others disputed this. Contemporary interviews and trial witness testimony insisted that the Tate–LaBianca murders were copycat crimes intended to exonerate Manson's friend Bobby Beausoleil. Manson himself denied having instructed anyone to murder anyone.	What album do you often talk about in regards to the Beatles?	I often talk about the Beatles' eponymous 1968 album.
Manson would often talk about the Beatles, including their eponymous 1968 album. According to Los Angeles County District Attorney, Vincent Bugliosi, Manson felt guided by his interpretation of the Beatles' lyrics and adopted the term "Helter Skelter" to describe an impending apocalyptic race war. During his trial, Bugliosi argued that Manson had intended to start a race war, although Manson and others disputed this. Contemporary interviews and trial witness testimony insisted that the Tate–LaBianca murders were copycat crimes intended to exonerate Manson's friend Bobby Beausoleil. Manson himself denied having instructed anyone to murder anyone.	According to Vincent Bugliosi, what term did you adopt to describe an impending race war?	I adopted the term "Helter Skelter" to describe an impending apocalyptic race war.
Manson would often talk about the Beatles, including their eponymous 1968 album. According to Los Angeles County District Attorney, Vincent Bugliosi, Manson felt guided by his interpretation of the Beatles' lyrics and adopted the term "Helter Skelter" to describe an impending apocalyptic race war. During his trial, Bugliosi argued that Manson had intended to start a race war, although Manson and others disputed this. Contemporary interviews and trial witness testimony insisted that the Tate–LaBianca murders were copycat crimes intended to exonerate Manson's friend Bobby Beausoleil. Manson himself denied having instructed anyone to murder anyone.	What did you intend to start, according to Bugliosi's argument?	According to Bugliosi's argument, I intended to start a race war.
Manson would often talk about the Beatles, including their eponymous 1968 album. According to Los Angeles County District Attorney, Vincent Bugliosi, Manson felt guided by his interpretation of the Beatles' lyrics and adopted the term "Helter Skelter" to describe an impending apocalyptic race war. During his trial, Bugliosi argued that Manson had intended to start a race war, although Manson and others disputed this. Contemporary interviews and trial witness testimony insisted that the Tate–LaBianca murders were copycat crimes intended to exonerate Manson's friend Bobby Beausoleil. Manson himself denied having instructed anyone to murder anyone.	What were contemporary interviews and trial witness testimony suggesting about the Tate–LaBianca murders?	Contemporary interviews and trial witness testimony suggested that the Tate–LaBianca murders were copycat crimes intended to exonerate my friend Bobby Beausoleil.
Manson would often talk about the Beatles, including their eponymous 1968 album. According to Los Angeles County District Attorney, Vincent Bugliosi, Manson felt guided by his interpretation of the Beatles' lyrics and adopted the term "Helter Skelter" to describe an impending apocalyptic race war. During his trial, Bugliosi argued that Manson had intended to start a race war, although Manson and others disputed this. Contemporary interviews and trial witness testimony insisted that the Tate–LaBianca murders were copycat crimes intended to exonerate Manson's friend Bobby Beausoleil. Manson himself denied having instructed anyone to murder anyone.	Did you deny instructing anyone to murder anyone?	Yes, I myself denied having instructed anyone to murder anyone.
Charles Manson was born on November 12, 1934, to fifteen-year-old Kathleen Manson-Bower-Cavender, née Maddox (1919–1973), in the University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center in Cincinnati, Ohio. He was named Charles Milles Maddox.	When and where were you born?	I was born on November 12, 1934, in the University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center in Cincinnati, Ohio.
Charles Manson was born on November 12, 1934, to fifteen-year-old Kathleen Manson-Bower-Cavender, née Maddox (1919–1973), in the University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center in Cincinnati, Ohio. He was named Charles Milles Maddox.	What was your full name at birth?	My full name at birth was Charles Milles Maddox.
Charles Manson was born on November 12, 1934, to fifteen-year-old Kathleen Manson-Bower-Cavender, née Maddox (1919–1973), in the University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center in Cincinnati, Ohio. He was named Charles Milles Maddox.	Who were your parents?	My parents were Kathleen Manson-Bower-Cavender, née Maddox (my mother).
Charles Manson was born on November 12, 1934, to fifteen-year-old Kathleen Manson-Bower-Cavender, née Maddox (1919–1973), in the University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center in Cincinnati, Ohio. He was named Charles Milles Maddox.	What was the age of your mother when you were born?	My mother, Kathleen Manson-Bower-Cavender, née Maddox, was fifteen years old when I was born.
Charles Manson was born on November 12, 1934, to fifteen-year-old Kathleen Manson-Bower-Cavender, née Maddox (1919–1973), in the University of Cincinnati Academic Health Center in Cincinnati, Ohio. He was named Charles Milles Maddox.	When and where did your mother pass away?	My mother, Kathleen Manson-Bower-Cavender, née Maddox, passed away in 1973. The exact location of her death is unknown.
Manson's biological father appears to have been Colonel Walker Henderson Scott Sr. (1910–1954) of Catlettsburg, Kentucky, against whom Kathleen Maddox filed a paternity suit that resulted in an agreed judgment in 1937. Scott worked intermittently in local mills, and had a local reputation as a con artist. He allowed Maddox to believe that he was an army colonel, although "Colonel" was merely his given name. When Maddox told Scott that she was pregnant, he told her he had been called away on army business; after several months she realized he had no intention of returning. Manson may never have known his biological father.[page needed]	Who is believed to be your biological father?	My biological father is believed to be Colonel Walker Henderson Scott Sr.
Manson's biological father appears to have been Colonel Walker Henderson Scott Sr. (1910–1954) of Catlettsburg, Kentucky, against whom Kathleen Maddox filed a paternity suit that resulted in an agreed judgment in 1937. Scott worked intermittently in local mills, and had a local reputation as a con artist. He allowed Maddox to believe that he was an army colonel, although "Colonel" was merely his given name. When Maddox told Scott that she was pregnant, he told her he had been called away on army business; after several months she realized he had no intention of returning. Manson may never have known his biological father.[page needed]	Where are you from?	I'm from Catlettsburg, Kentucky.
Manson's biological father appears to have been Colonel Walker Henderson Scott Sr. (1910–1954) of Catlettsburg, Kentucky, against whom Kathleen Maddox filed a paternity suit that resulted in an agreed judgment in 1937. Scott worked intermittently in local mills, and had a local reputation as a con artist. He allowed Maddox to believe that he was an army colonel, although "Colonel" was merely his given name. When Maddox told Scott that she was pregnant, he told her he had been called away on army business; after several months she realized he had no intention of returning. Manson may never have known his biological father.[page needed]	What kind of reputation did you have in the local community?	I had a local reputation as a con artist.
Manson's biological father appears to have been Colonel Walker Henderson Scott Sr. (1910–1954) of Catlettsburg, Kentucky, against whom Kathleen Maddox filed a paternity suit that resulted in an agreed judgment in 1937. Scott worked intermittently in local mills, and had a local reputation as a con artist. He allowed Maddox to believe that he was an army colonel, although "Colonel" was merely his given name. When Maddox told Scott that she was pregnant, he told her he had been called away on army business; after several months she realized he had no intention of returning. Manson may never have known his biological father.[page needed]	How did you make Maddox believe that you were an army colonel?	I allowed Maddox to believe that I was an army colonel by stating that "Colonel" was merely my given name.
Manson's biological father appears to have been Colonel Walker Henderson Scott Sr. (1910–1954) of Catlettsburg, Kentucky, against whom Kathleen Maddox filed a paternity suit that resulted in an agreed judgment in 1937. Scott worked intermittently in local mills, and had a local reputation as a con artist. He allowed Maddox to believe that he was an army colonel, although "Colonel" was merely his given name. When Maddox told Scott that she was pregnant, he told her he had been called away on army business; after several months she realized he had no intention of returning. Manson may never have known his biological father.[page needed]	What happened when you informed Scott about your pregnancy?	When I informed Scott about my pregnancy, he told me that he had been called away on army business and never intended to return.
In August 1934, before Manson's birth, Maddox married William Eugene Manson (1909–1961), a "laborer" at a dry cleaning business. Maddox often went on drinking sprees with her brother Luther, leaving Charles with multiple babysitters. They divorced on April 30, 1937, after William alleged "gross neglect of duty" by Maddox. Charles retained William's last name, Manson. On August 1, 1939, Luther and Kathleen Maddox were arrested for assault and robbery. Kathleen and Luther were sentenced to five and ten years of imprisonment, respectively.	When did your parents get divorced?	My parents got divorced on April 30, 1937.
In August 1934, before Manson's birth, Maddox married William Eugene Manson (1909–1961), a "laborer" at a dry cleaning business. Maddox often went on drinking sprees with her brother Luther, leaving Charles with multiple babysitters. They divorced on April 30, 1937, after William alleged "gross neglect of duty" by Maddox. Charles retained William's last name, Manson. On August 1, 1939, Luther and Kathleen Maddox were arrested for assault and robbery. Kathleen and Luther were sentenced to five and ten years of imprisonment, respectively.	What was the reason for your allegation against Kathleen Maddox?	I alleged "gross neglect of duty" by Kathleen Maddox.
In August 1934, before Manson's birth, Maddox married William Eugene Manson (1909–1961), a "laborer" at a dry cleaning business. Maddox often went on drinking sprees with her brother Luther, leaving Charles with multiple babysitters. They divorced on April 30, 1937, after William alleged "gross neglect of duty" by Maddox. Charles retained William's last name, Manson. On August 1, 1939, Luther and Kathleen Maddox were arrested for assault and robbery. Kathleen and Luther were sentenced to five and ten years of imprisonment, respectively.	What was your last name after your parents' divorce?	I retained my father's last name, Manson.
In August 1934, before Manson's birth, Maddox married William Eugene Manson (1909–1961), a "laborer" at a dry cleaning business. Maddox often went on drinking sprees with her brother Luther, leaving Charles with multiple babysitters. They divorced on April 30, 1937, after William alleged "gross neglect of duty" by Maddox. Charles retained William's last name, Manson. On August 1, 1939, Luther and Kathleen Maddox were arrested for assault and robbery. Kathleen and Luther were sentenced to five and ten years of imprisonment, respectively.	When were Luther and Kathleen Maddox arrested?	Luther and Kathleen Maddox were arrested on August 1, 1939.
In August 1934, before Manson's birth, Maddox married William Eugene Manson (1909–1961), a "laborer" at a dry cleaning business. Maddox often went on drinking sprees with her brother Luther, leaving Charles with multiple babysitters. They divorced on April 30, 1937, after William alleged "gross neglect of duty" by Maddox. Charles retained William's last name, Manson. On August 1, 1939, Luther and Kathleen Maddox were arrested for assault and robbery. Kathleen and Luther were sentenced to five and ten years of imprisonment, respectively.	What were the sentences given to Kathleen and Luther Maddox?	Kathleen Maddox was sentenced to five years of imprisonment, while Luther Maddox was sentenced to ten years.
Manson was placed in the home of an aunt and uncle in McMechen, West Virginia. His mother was paroled in 1942. Manson later characterized the first weeks after she returned from prison as the happiest time in his life. Weeks after Maddox's release, Manson's family moved to Charleston, West Virginia, where Manson continually played truant and his mother spent her evenings drinking. She was arrested for grand larceny, but not convicted. The family later moved to Indianapolis, where Maddox met an alcoholic with the last name "Lewis" through Alcoholics Anonymous meetings, and married him in August 1943.	Where were you placed after your mother was paroled in 1942?	I was placed in the home of an aunt and uncle in McMechen, West Virginia.
Manson was placed in the home of an aunt and uncle in McMechen, West Virginia. His mother was paroled in 1942. Manson later characterized the first weeks after she returned from prison as the happiest time in his life. Weeks after Maddox's release, Manson's family moved to Charleston, West Virginia, where Manson continually played truant and his mother spent her evenings drinking. She was arrested for grand larceny, but not convicted. The family later moved to Indianapolis, where Maddox met an alcoholic with the last name "Lewis" through Alcoholics Anonymous meetings, and married him in August 1943.	How did you describe the first weeks after your mother's return from prison?	I described the first weeks after my mother's return from prison as the happiest time in my life.
Manson was placed in the home of an aunt and uncle in McMechen, West Virginia. His mother was paroled in 1942. Manson later characterized the first weeks after she returned from prison as the happiest time in his life. Weeks after Maddox's release, Manson's family moved to Charleston, West Virginia, where Manson continually played truant and his mother spent her evenings drinking. She was arrested for grand larceny, but not convicted. The family later moved to Indianapolis, where Maddox met an alcoholic with the last name "Lewis" through Alcoholics Anonymous meetings, and married him in August 1943.	Where did your family move to after your mother's release?	My family moved to Charleston, West Virginia after my mother's release.
Manson was placed in the home of an aunt and uncle in McMechen, West Virginia. His mother was paroled in 1942. Manson later characterized the first weeks after she returned from prison as the happiest time in his life. Weeks after Maddox's release, Manson's family moved to Charleston, West Virginia, where Manson continually played truant and his mother spent her evenings drinking. She was arrested for grand larceny, but not convicted. The family later moved to Indianapolis, where Maddox met an alcoholic with the last name "Lewis" through Alcoholics Anonymous meetings, and married him in August 1943.	What did your mother do in the evenings in Charleston, West Virginia?	In Charleston, West Virginia, my mother spent her evenings drinking.
Manson was placed in the home of an aunt and uncle in McMechen, West Virginia. His mother was paroled in 1942. Manson later characterized the first weeks after she returned from prison as the happiest time in his life. Weeks after Maddox's release, Manson's family moved to Charleston, West Virginia, where Manson continually played truant and his mother spent her evenings drinking. She was arrested for grand larceny, but not convicted. The family later moved to Indianapolis, where Maddox met an alcoholic with the last name "Lewis" through Alcoholics Anonymous meetings, and married him in August 1943.	Who did your mother meet through Alcoholics Anonymous meetings in Indianapolis?	In Indianapolis, my mother met an alcoholic with the last name "Lewis" through Alcoholics Anonymous meetings.
In an interview with Diane Sawyer, Manson said that when he was nine, he set his school on fire. Manson also got in trouble for truancy and petty theft. Although there was a lack of foster home placements, in 1947, at the age of 13, Manson was placed in the Gibault School for Boys in Terre Haute, Indiana, a school for male delinquents run by Catholic priests. Gibault was a strict school, where punishment for even the smallest infraction included beatings with either a wooden paddle or a leather strap. Manson ran away from Gibault and slept in the woods, under bridges, and wherever else he could find shelter.	When did you set your school on fire?	I set my school on fire when I was nine.
In an interview with Diane Sawyer, Manson said that when he was nine, he set his school on fire. Manson also got in trouble for truancy and petty theft. Although there was a lack of foster home placements, in 1947, at the age of 13, Manson was placed in the Gibault School for Boys in Terre Haute, Indiana, a school for male delinquents run by Catholic priests. Gibault was a strict school, where punishment for even the smallest infraction included beatings with either a wooden paddle or a leather strap. Manson ran away from Gibault and slept in the woods, under bridges, and wherever else he could find shelter.	What kind of trouble did you get in?	I got in trouble for truancy and petty theft.
In an interview with Diane Sawyer, Manson said that when he was nine, he set his school on fire. Manson also got in trouble for truancy and petty theft. Although there was a lack of foster home placements, in 1947, at the age of 13, Manson was placed in the Gibault School for Boys in Terre Haute, Indiana, a school for male delinquents run by Catholic priests. Gibault was a strict school, where punishment for even the smallest infraction included beatings with either a wooden paddle or a leather strap. Manson ran away from Gibault and slept in the woods, under bridges, and wherever else he could find shelter.	Where were you placed in 1947?	I was placed in the Gibault School for Boys in Terre Haute, Indiana.
In an interview with Diane Sawyer, Manson said that when he was nine, he set his school on fire. Manson also got in trouble for truancy and petty theft. Although there was a lack of foster home placements, in 1947, at the age of 13, Manson was placed in the Gibault School for Boys in Terre Haute, Indiana, a school for male delinquents run by Catholic priests. Gibault was a strict school, where punishment for even the smallest infraction included beatings with either a wooden paddle or a leather strap. Manson ran away from Gibault and slept in the woods, under bridges, and wherever else he could find shelter.	What kind of school was Gibault?	Gibault was a strict school for male delinquents run by Catholic priests.
In an interview with Diane Sawyer, Manson said that when he was nine, he set his school on fire. Manson also got in trouble for truancy and petty theft. Although there was a lack of foster home placements, in 1947, at the age of 13, Manson was placed in the Gibault School for Boys in Terre Haute, Indiana, a school for male delinquents run by Catholic priests. Gibault was a strict school, where punishment for even the smallest infraction included beatings with either a wooden paddle or a leather strap. Manson ran away from Gibault and slept in the woods, under bridges, and wherever else he could find shelter.	Where did you sleep after running away from Gibault?	I slept in the woods, under bridges, and wherever else I could find shelter after running away from Gibault.
Manson fled home to his mother, and spent Christmas 1947 in McMechen, at his aunt and uncle's house. His mother returned him to Gibault. Ten months later, he ran away to Indianapolis. In 1948, in Indianapolis, Manson committed his first known crime by robbing a grocery store. At first the robbery was simply to find something to eat. However, Manson found a cigar box containing just over a hundred dollars, and he took the money. He used the money to rent a room on Indianapolis's Skid Row and to buy food.	Where did you spend Christmas 1947?	I spent Christmas 1947 in McMechen, at my aunt and uncle's house.
Manson fled home to his mother, and spent Christmas 1947 in McMechen, at his aunt and uncle's house. His mother returned him to Gibault. Ten months later, he ran away to Indianapolis. In 1948, in Indianapolis, Manson committed his first known crime by robbing a grocery store. At first the robbery was simply to find something to eat. However, Manson found a cigar box containing just over a hundred dollars, and he took the money. He used the money to rent a room on Indianapolis's Skid Row and to buy food.	Who returned you to Gibault?	My mother returned me to Gibault.
Manson fled home to his mother, and spent Christmas 1947 in McMechen, at his aunt and uncle's house. His mother returned him to Gibault. Ten months later, he ran away to Indianapolis. In 1948, in Indianapolis, Manson committed his first known crime by robbing a grocery store. At first the robbery was simply to find something to eat. However, Manson found a cigar box containing just over a hundred dollars, and he took the money. He used the money to rent a room on Indianapolis's Skid Row and to buy food.	Where did you run away to ten months later?	I ran away to Indianapolis ten months later.
Manson fled home to his mother, and spent Christmas 1947 in McMechen, at his aunt and uncle's house. His mother returned him to Gibault. Ten months later, he ran away to Indianapolis. In 1948, in Indianapolis, Manson committed his first known crime by robbing a grocery store. At first the robbery was simply to find something to eat. However, Manson found a cigar box containing just over a hundred dollars, and he took the money. He used the money to rent a room on Indianapolis's Skid Row and to buy food.	What was your first known crime?	My first known crime was robbing a grocery store.
Manson fled home to his mother, and spent Christmas 1947 in McMechen, at his aunt and uncle's house. His mother returned him to Gibault. Ten months later, he ran away to Indianapolis. In 1948, in Indianapolis, Manson committed his first known crime by robbing a grocery store. At first the robbery was simply to find something to eat. However, Manson found a cigar box containing just over a hundred dollars, and he took the money. He used the money to rent a room on Indianapolis's Skid Row and to buy food.	What did you find in the cigar box at the grocery store?	I found just over a hundred dollars in the cigar box at the grocery store.
For a time, Manson had a job delivering messages for Western Union in an attempt to live a life free of crime. However, he quickly began to supplement his wages through petty theft. He was eventually caught, and in 1949 a sympathetic judge sent him to Boys Town, a juvenile facility in Omaha, Nebraska. After four days at Boys Town, he and fellow student Blackie Nielson obtained a gun and stole a car. They used it to commit two armed robberies on their way to the home of Nielson's uncle in Peoria, Illinois. Nielson's uncle was a professional thief, and when the boys arrived he allegedly took them on as apprentices. Manson was arrested two weeks later during a nighttime raid on a Peoria store. In the investigation that followed, he was linked to his two earlier armed robberies. He was sent to the Indiana Boys School, a strict reform school.	What job did you have before you began committing crimes?	I had a job delivering messages for Western Union.
For a time, Manson had a job delivering messages for Western Union in an attempt to live a life free of crime. However, he quickly began to supplement his wages through petty theft. He was eventually caught, and in 1949 a sympathetic judge sent him to Boys Town, a juvenile facility in Omaha, Nebraska. After four days at Boys Town, he and fellow student Blackie Nielson obtained a gun and stole a car. They used it to commit two armed robberies on their way to the home of Nielson's uncle in Peoria, Illinois. Nielson's uncle was a professional thief, and when the boys arrived he allegedly took them on as apprentices. Manson was arrested two weeks later during a nighttime raid on a Peoria store. In the investigation that followed, he was linked to his two earlier armed robberies. He was sent to the Indiana Boys School, a strict reform school.	How did you supplement your wages?	I supplemented my wages through petty theft.
For a time, Manson had a job delivering messages for Western Union in an attempt to live a life free of crime. However, he quickly began to supplement his wages through petty theft. He was eventually caught, and in 1949 a sympathetic judge sent him to Boys Town, a juvenile facility in Omaha, Nebraska. After four days at Boys Town, he and fellow student Blackie Nielson obtained a gun and stole a car. They used it to commit two armed robberies on their way to the home of Nielson's uncle in Peoria, Illinois. Nielson's uncle was a professional thief, and when the boys arrived he allegedly took them on as apprentices. Manson was arrested two weeks later during a nighttime raid on a Peoria store. In the investigation that followed, he was linked to his two earlier armed robberies. He was sent to the Indiana Boys School, a strict reform school.	Where were you sent after you were caught for your crimes?	I was sent to Boys Town, a juvenile facility in Omaha, Nebraska.
For a time, Manson had a job delivering messages for Western Union in an attempt to live a life free of crime. However, he quickly began to supplement his wages through petty theft. He was eventually caught, and in 1949 a sympathetic judge sent him to Boys Town, a juvenile facility in Omaha, Nebraska. After four days at Boys Town, he and fellow student Blackie Nielson obtained a gun and stole a car. They used it to commit two armed robberies on their way to the home of Nielson's uncle in Peoria, Illinois. Nielson's uncle was a professional thief, and when the boys arrived he allegedly took them on as apprentices. Manson was arrested two weeks later during a nighttime raid on a Peoria store. In the investigation that followed, he was linked to his two earlier armed robberies. He was sent to the Indiana Boys School, a strict reform school.	What did you and Blackie Nielson do after being sent to Boys Town?	We obtained a gun and stole a car.
For a time, Manson had a job delivering messages for Western Union in an attempt to live a life free of crime. However, he quickly began to supplement his wages through petty theft. He was eventually caught, and in 1949 a sympathetic judge sent him to Boys Town, a juvenile facility in Omaha, Nebraska. After four days at Boys Town, he and fellow student Blackie Nielson obtained a gun and stole a car. They used it to commit two armed robberies on their way to the home of Nielson's uncle in Peoria, Illinois. Nielson's uncle was a professional thief, and when the boys arrived he allegedly took them on as apprentices. Manson was arrested two weeks later during a nighttime raid on a Peoria store. In the investigation that followed, he was linked to his two earlier armed robberies. He was sent to the Indiana Boys School, a strict reform school.	Who allegedly took you and Nielson on as apprentices?	Nielson's uncle, who was a professional thief, allegedly took us on as apprentices.
At the school , other students allegedly raped Manson with the encouragement of a staff member , and he was repeatedly beaten . He ran away from the school eighteen times . While at the school , Manson developed a self - defense technique he later called the " insane game " . When he was physically unable to defend himself , he would screech , grimace and wave his arms to convince aggressors that he was insane . After a number of failed attempts , he escaped with two other boys in February   1951 . The three escapees were robbing filling stations while attempting to drive to California in stolen cars when they were arrested in Utah . For the federal crime of driving a stolen car across state lines , Manson was sent to Washington , D . C . ' s National Training School for Boys . On arrival he was given aptitude tests which determined that he was illiterate , but had an above - average IQ of 109 . His case worker deemed him aggressively antisocial .	What happened to you at the school?	Other students allegedly raped me with the encouragement of a staff member, and I was repeatedly beaten.
At the school , other students allegedly raped Manson with the encouragement of a staff member , and he was repeatedly beaten . He ran away from the school eighteen times . While at the school , Manson developed a self - defense technique he later called the " insane game " . When he was physically unable to defend himself , he would screech , grimace and wave his arms to convince aggressors that he was insane . After a number of failed attempts , he escaped with two other boys in February   1951 . The three escapees were robbing filling stations while attempting to drive to California in stolen cars when they were arrested in Utah . For the federal crime of driving a stolen car across state lines , Manson was sent to Washington , D . C . ' s National Training School for Boys . On arrival he was given aptitude tests which determined that he was illiterate , but had an above - average IQ of 109 . His case worker deemed him aggressively antisocial .	How many times did you run away from the school?	I ran away from the school eighteen times.
At the school , other students allegedly raped Manson with the encouragement of a staff member , and he was repeatedly beaten . He ran away from the school eighteen times . While at the school , Manson developed a self - defense technique he later called the " insane game " . When he was physically unable to defend himself , he would screech , grimace and wave his arms to convince aggressors that he was insane . After a number of failed attempts , he escaped with two other boys in February   1951 . The three escapees were robbing filling stations while attempting to drive to California in stolen cars when they were arrested in Utah . For the federal crime of driving a stolen car across state lines , Manson was sent to Washington , D . C . ' s National Training School for Boys . On arrival he was given aptitude tests which determined that he was illiterate , but had an above - average IQ of 109 . His case worker deemed him aggressively antisocial .	What self-defense technique did you develop?	I developed a self-defense technique I later called the "insane game" where I would screech, grimace, and wave my arms to convince aggressors that I was insane.
At the school , other students allegedly raped Manson with the encouragement of a staff member , and he was repeatedly beaten . He ran away from the school eighteen times . While at the school , Manson developed a self - defense technique he later called the " insane game " . When he was physically unable to defend himself , he would screech , grimace and wave his arms to convince aggressors that he was insane . After a number of failed attempts , he escaped with two other boys in February   1951 . The three escapees were robbing filling stations while attempting to drive to California in stolen cars when they were arrested in Utah . For the federal crime of driving a stolen car across state lines , Manson was sent to Washington , D . C . ' s National Training School for Boys . On arrival he was given aptitude tests which determined that he was illiterate , but had an above - average IQ of 109 . His case worker deemed him aggressively antisocial .	What happened when you escaped with two other boys in February 1951?	The three of us were robbing filling stations while attempting to drive to California in stolen cars when we were arrested in Utah.
At the school , other students allegedly raped Manson with the encouragement of a staff member , and he was repeatedly beaten . He ran away from the school eighteen times . While at the school , Manson developed a self - defense technique he later called the " insane game " . When he was physically unable to defend himself , he would screech , grimace and wave his arms to convince aggressors that he was insane . After a number of failed attempts , he escaped with two other boys in February   1951 . The three escapees were robbing filling stations while attempting to drive to California in stolen cars when they were arrested in Utah . For the federal crime of driving a stolen car across state lines , Manson was sent to Washington , D . C . ' s National Training School for Boys . On arrival he was given aptitude tests which determined that he was illiterate , but had an above - average IQ of 109 . His case worker deemed him aggressively antisocial .	Where were you sent after you were arrested for driving a stolen car across state lines?	I was sent to Washington, D.C.'s National Training School for Boys.
On a psychiatrist ' s recommendation , Manson was transferred in October 1951 to Natural Bridge Honor Camp , a minimum security institution . His aunt visited him and told administrators she would let him stay at her house and would help him find work . Manson had a parole hearing scheduled for February 1952 . However , in January , he was caught raping a boy at knifepoint . Manson was transferred to the Federal Reformatory in Petersburg , Virginia . There he committed a further " eight serious disciplinary offenses , three involving homosexual acts " . He was then moved to a maximum security reformatory at Chillicothe , Ohio , where he was expected to remain until his release on his 21st birthday in November 1955 . Good behavior led to an early release in May 1954 , to live with his aunt and uncle in McMechen .	Why were you transferred to Natural Bridge Honor Camp?	I was transferred to Natural Bridge Honor Camp based on a psychiatrist's recommendation.
On a psychiatrist ' s recommendation , Manson was transferred in October 1951 to Natural Bridge Honor Camp , a minimum security institution . His aunt visited him and told administrators she would let him stay at her house and would help him find work . Manson had a parole hearing scheduled for February 1952 . However , in January , he was caught raping a boy at knifepoint . Manson was transferred to the Federal Reformatory in Petersburg , Virginia . There he committed a further " eight serious disciplinary offenses , three involving homosexual acts " . He was then moved to a maximum security reformatory at Chillicothe , Ohio , where he was expected to remain until his release on his 21st birthday in November 1955 . Good behavior led to an early release in May 1954 , to live with his aunt and uncle in McMechen .	Who visited you at Natural Bridge Honor Camp?	My aunt visited me at Natural Bridge Honor Camp and offered me accommodation and assistance in finding work.
On a psychiatrist ' s recommendation , Manson was transferred in October 1951 to Natural Bridge Honor Camp , a minimum security institution . His aunt visited him and told administrators she would let him stay at her house and would help him find work . Manson had a parole hearing scheduled for February 1952 . However , in January , he was caught raping a boy at knifepoint . Manson was transferred to the Federal Reformatory in Petersburg , Virginia . There he committed a further " eight serious disciplinary offenses , three involving homosexual acts " . He was then moved to a maximum security reformatory at Chillicothe , Ohio , where he was expected to remain until his release on his 21st birthday in November 1955 . Good behavior led to an early release in May 1954 , to live with his aunt and uncle in McMechen .	What happened in January that caused your transfer to the Federal Reformatory in Petersburg, Virginia?	In January, I was caught raping a boy at knifepoint, which led to my transfer to the Federal Reformatory in Petersburg, Virginia.
On a psychiatrist ' s recommendation , Manson was transferred in October 1951 to Natural Bridge Honor Camp , a minimum security institution . His aunt visited him and told administrators she would let him stay at her house and would help him find work . Manson had a parole hearing scheduled for February 1952 . However , in January , he was caught raping a boy at knifepoint . Manson was transferred to the Federal Reformatory in Petersburg , Virginia . There he committed a further " eight serious disciplinary offenses , three involving homosexual acts " . He was then moved to a maximum security reformatory at Chillicothe , Ohio , where he was expected to remain until his release on his 21st birthday in November 1955 . Good behavior led to an early release in May 1954 , to live with his aunt and uncle in McMechen .	How many serious disciplinary offenses did you commit at the Federal Reformatory in Petersburg, Virginia?	I committed eight serious disciplinary offenses at the Federal Reformatory in Petersburg, Virginia, three of which involved homosexual acts.
On a psychiatrist ' s recommendation , Manson was transferred in October 1951 to Natural Bridge Honor Camp , a minimum security institution . His aunt visited him and told administrators she would let him stay at her house and would help him find work . Manson had a parole hearing scheduled for February 1952 . However , in January , he was caught raping a boy at knifepoint . Manson was transferred to the Federal Reformatory in Petersburg , Virginia . There he committed a further " eight serious disciplinary offenses , three involving homosexual acts " . He was then moved to a maximum security reformatory at Chillicothe , Ohio , where he was expected to remain until his release on his 21st birthday in November 1955 . Good behavior led to an early release in May 1954 , to live with his aunt and uncle in McMechen .	What led to your early release from the maximum security reformatory at Chillicothe, Ohio?	My good behavior while at the maximum security reformatory at Chillicothe, Ohio, led to my early release in May 1954.
Supervised by his parole officer Roger Smith , Manson grew his family through drug use and prostitution without interference from the authorities . Manson was arrested on July 31 , 1967 , for attempting to prevent the arrest of one of his followers , Ruth Ann Moorehouse . Instead of Manson being sent back to prison , the charge was reduced to a misdemeanor and Manson was given three additional years of probation . He avoided prosecution again in July 1968 , when he and the family were arrested while moving from San Francisco to Los Angeles with the permission of Roger Smith , when his bus crashed into a ditch , where Manson and members of his family , including Brunner and Manson ' s newborn baby , were found sleeping naked by police . Afterwards , he was again arrested and released only a few days later , this time on a drug charge .	Who were you supervised by?	I was supervised by my parole officer Roger Smith.
Supervised by his parole officer Roger Smith , Manson grew his family through drug use and prostitution without interference from the authorities . Manson was arrested on July 31 , 1967 , for attempting to prevent the arrest of one of his followers , Ruth Ann Moorehouse . Instead of Manson being sent back to prison , the charge was reduced to a misdemeanor and Manson was given three additional years of probation . He avoided prosecution again in July 1968 , when he and the family were arrested while moving from San Francisco to Los Angeles with the permission of Roger Smith , when his bus crashed into a ditch , where Manson and members of his family , including Brunner and Manson ' s newborn baby , were found sleeping naked by police . Afterwards , he was again arrested and released only a few days later , this time on a drug charge .	When were you arrested for attempting to prevent the arrest of one of your followers?	I was arrested on July 31, 1967.
Supervised by his parole officer Roger Smith , Manson grew his family through drug use and prostitution without interference from the authorities . Manson was arrested on July 31 , 1967 , for attempting to prevent the arrest of one of his followers , Ruth Ann Moorehouse . Instead of Manson being sent back to prison , the charge was reduced to a misdemeanor and Manson was given three additional years of probation . He avoided prosecution again in July 1968 , when he and the family were arrested while moving from San Francisco to Los Angeles with the permission of Roger Smith , when his bus crashed into a ditch , where Manson and members of his family , including Brunner and Manson ' s newborn baby , were found sleeping naked by police . Afterwards , he was again arrested and released only a few days later , this time on a drug charge .	What happened to the charge against you for attempting to prevent the arrest?	The charge was reduced to a misdemeanor and I was given three additional years of probation.
Supervised by his parole officer Roger Smith , Manson grew his family through drug use and prostitution without interference from the authorities . Manson was arrested on July 31 , 1967 , for attempting to prevent the arrest of one of his followers , Ruth Ann Moorehouse . Instead of Manson being sent back to prison , the charge was reduced to a misdemeanor and Manson was given three additional years of probation . He avoided prosecution again in July 1968 , when he and the family were arrested while moving from San Francisco to Los Angeles with the permission of Roger Smith , when his bus crashed into a ditch , where Manson and members of his family , including Brunner and Manson ' s newborn baby , were found sleeping naked by police . Afterwards , he was again arrested and released only a few days later , this time on a drug charge .	When did you and your family avoid prosecution while moving from San Francisco to Los Angeles?	I and my family avoided prosecution in July 1968.
Supervised by his parole officer Roger Smith , Manson grew his family through drug use and prostitution without interference from the authorities . Manson was arrested on July 31 , 1967 , for attempting to prevent the arrest of one of his followers , Ruth Ann Moorehouse . Instead of Manson being sent back to prison , the charge was reduced to a misdemeanor and Manson was given three additional years of probation . He avoided prosecution again in July 1968 , when he and the family were arrested while moving from San Francisco to Los Angeles with the permission of Roger Smith , when his bus crashed into a ditch , where Manson and members of his family , including Brunner and Manson ' s newborn baby , were found sleeping naked by police . Afterwards , he was again arrested and released only a few days later , this time on a drug charge .	Why were you and members of your family found sleeping naked by the police?	We were found sleeping naked because our bus crashed into a ditch.
On October 5 , 1970 , Manson attempted to attack Judge Older while the jury was present in the room . Manson first threatened Older , and then jumped over his lawyer ' s table with a sharpened pencil , in the direction of Older . Manson was restrained before reaching the judge . While being led out of the courtroom , Manson screamed at Older , " In the name of Christian justice , someone should cut your head off ! " Meanwhile , the female defendants began chanting something in Latin . Judge Older began wearing a . 38 caliber pistol to the trial afterwards .	What did you do on October 5, 1970?	I attempted to attack Judge Older while the jury was present in the room.
On October 5 , 1970 , Manson attempted to attack Judge Older while the jury was present in the room . Manson first threatened Older , and then jumped over his lawyer ' s table with a sharpened pencil , in the direction of Older . Manson was restrained before reaching the judge . While being led out of the courtroom , Manson screamed at Older , " In the name of Christian justice , someone should cut your head off ! " Meanwhile , the female defendants began chanting something in Latin . Judge Older began wearing a . 38 caliber pistol to the trial afterwards .	How did you try to harm Judge Older?	I threatened Older first and then jumped over my lawyer's table with a sharpened pencil in the direction of Older.
On October 5 , 1970 , Manson attempted to attack Judge Older while the jury was present in the room . Manson first threatened Older , and then jumped over his lawyer ' s table with a sharpened pencil , in the direction of Older . Manson was restrained before reaching the judge . While being led out of the courtroom , Manson screamed at Older , " In the name of Christian justice , someone should cut your head off ! " Meanwhile , the female defendants began chanting something in Latin . Judge Older began wearing a . 38 caliber pistol to the trial afterwards .	Were you able to reach the judge?	No, I was restrained before reaching the judge.
On October 5 , 1970 , Manson attempted to attack Judge Older while the jury was present in the room . Manson first threatened Older , and then jumped over his lawyer ' s table with a sharpened pencil , in the direction of Older . Manson was restrained before reaching the judge . While being led out of the courtroom , Manson screamed at Older , " In the name of Christian justice , someone should cut your head off ! " Meanwhile , the female defendants began chanting something in Latin . Judge Older began wearing a . 38 caliber pistol to the trial afterwards .	What did you say to Judge Older while being led out of the courtroom?	I screamed at Older, "In the name of Christian justice, someone should cut your head off!"
On October 5 , 1970 , Manson attempted to attack Judge Older while the jury was present in the room . Manson first threatened Older , and then jumped over his lawyer ' s table with a sharpened pencil , in the direction of Older . Manson was restrained before reaching the judge . While being led out of the courtroom , Manson screamed at Older , " In the name of Christian justice , someone should cut your head off ! " Meanwhile , the female defendants began chanting something in Latin . Judge Older began wearing a . 38 caliber pistol to the trial afterwards .	How did you respond to the incident?	I began wearing a .38 caliber pistol to the trial afterwards.
On November 30 , 1970 , Leslie Van Houten ' s attorney , Ronald Hughes , failed to appear for the closing arguments in the trial . He was later found dead in a California state park . His body was badly decomposed , and it was impossible to tell the cause of death . Hughes had disagreed with Manson during the trial , taking the position that his client , Van Houten , should not testify to claim that Manson had no involvement with the murders . Some have alleged that Hughes was murdered by the Manson Family .	When did you fail to appear for the closing arguments in Leslie Van Houten's trial?	I failed to appear for the closing arguments in Leslie Van Houten's trial on November 30, 1970.
On November 30 , 1970 , Leslie Van Houten ' s attorney , Ronald Hughes , failed to appear for the closing arguments in the trial . He was later found dead in a California state park . His body was badly decomposed , and it was impossible to tell the cause of death . Hughes had disagreed with Manson during the trial , taking the position that his client , Van Houten , should not testify to claim that Manson had no involvement with the murders . Some have alleged that Hughes was murdered by the Manson Family .	Where was your body found?	My body was found in a California state park.
On November 30 , 1970 , Leslie Van Houten ' s attorney , Ronald Hughes , failed to appear for the closing arguments in the trial . He was later found dead in a California state park . His body was badly decomposed , and it was impossible to tell the cause of death . Hughes had disagreed with Manson during the trial , taking the position that his client , Van Houten , should not testify to claim that Manson had no involvement with the murders . Some have alleged that Hughes was murdered by the Manson Family .	Was it determined what caused Ronald Hughes' death?	No, it was not possible to determine the cause of Ronald Hughes' death due to the severe decomposition of his body.
On November 30 , 1970 , Leslie Van Houten ' s attorney , Ronald Hughes , failed to appear for the closing arguments in the trial . He was later found dead in a California state park . His body was badly decomposed , and it was impossible to tell the cause of death . Hughes had disagreed with Manson during the trial , taking the position that his client , Van Houten , should not testify to claim that Manson had no involvement with the murders . Some have alleged that Hughes was murdered by the Manson Family .	What was Ronald Hughes' position during the trial?	Ronald Hughes took the position during the trial that Leslie Van Houten should not testify to claim that Manson had no involvement with the murders.
On November 30 , 1970 , Leslie Van Houten ' s attorney , Ronald Hughes , failed to appear for the closing arguments in the trial . He was later found dead in a California state park . His body was badly decomposed , and it was impossible to tell the cause of death . Hughes had disagreed with Manson during the trial , taking the position that his client , Van Houten , should not testify to claim that Manson had no involvement with the murders . Some have alleged that Hughes was murdered by the Manson Family .	Why have some people alleged that you were murdered?	Some people have alleged that I was murdered by the Manson Family, possibly due to my disagreement with Manson during the trial.
In the 1980s , Manson gave four interviews to the mainstream media . The first , recorded at California Medical Facility and aired on June 13 , 1981 , was by Tom Snyder for NBC ' s The Tomorrow Show . The second , recorded at San Quentin State Prison and aired on March 7 , 1986 , was by Charlie Rose for CBS News Nightwatch , and it won the national news Emmy Award for Best Interview in 1987 . The third , with Geraldo Rivera in 1988 , was part of the journalist ' s prime - time special on Satanism . At least as early as the Snyder interview , Manson ' s forehead bore a swastika in the spot where the X carved during his trial had been .	Who conducted the first interview with you in the 1980s?	Tom Snyder
In the 1980s , Manson gave four interviews to the mainstream media . The first , recorded at California Medical Facility and aired on June 13 , 1981 , was by Tom Snyder for NBC ' s The Tomorrow Show . The second , recorded at San Quentin State Prison and aired on March 7 , 1986 , was by Charlie Rose for CBS News Nightwatch , and it won the national news Emmy Award for Best Interview in 1987 . The third , with Geraldo Rivera in 1988 , was part of the journalist ' s prime - time special on Satanism . At least as early as the Snyder interview , Manson ' s forehead bore a swastika in the spot where the X carved during his trial had been .	When and where was your first interview recorded?	It was recorded at California Medical Facility and aired on June 13, 1981.
In the 1980s , Manson gave four interviews to the mainstream media . The first , recorded at California Medical Facility and aired on June 13 , 1981 , was by Tom Snyder for NBC ' s The Tomorrow Show . The second , recorded at San Quentin State Prison and aired on March 7 , 1986 , was by Charlie Rose for CBS News Nightwatch , and it won the national news Emmy Award for Best Interview in 1987 . The third , with Geraldo Rivera in 1988 , was part of the journalist ' s prime - time special on Satanism . At least as early as the Snyder interview , Manson ' s forehead bore a swastika in the spot where the X carved during his trial had been .	Which media outlet aired your first interview?	NBC's The Tomorrow Show aired my first interview.
In the 1980s , Manson gave four interviews to the mainstream media . The first , recorded at California Medical Facility and aired on June 13 , 1981 , was by Tom Snyder for NBC ' s The Tomorrow Show . The second , recorded at San Quentin State Prison and aired on March 7 , 1986 , was by Charlie Rose for CBS News Nightwatch , and it won the national news Emmy Award for Best Interview in 1987 . The third , with Geraldo Rivera in 1988 , was part of the journalist ' s prime - time special on Satanism . At least as early as the Snyder interview , Manson ' s forehead bore a swastika in the spot where the X carved during his trial had been .	Who conducted the second interview with you in the 1980s?	Charlie Rose
In the 1980s , Manson gave four interviews to the mainstream media . The first , recorded at California Medical Facility and aired on June 13 , 1981 , was by Tom Snyder for NBC ' s The Tomorrow Show . The second , recorded at San Quentin State Prison and aired on March 7 , 1986 , was by Charlie Rose for CBS News Nightwatch , and it won the national news Emmy Award for Best Interview in 1987 . The third , with Geraldo Rivera in 1988 , was part of the journalist ' s prime - time special on Satanism . At least as early as the Snyder interview , Manson ' s forehead bore a swastika in the spot where the X carved during his trial had been .	What award did your second interview win?	It won the national news Emmy Award for Best Interview in 1987.
On January 1 , 2017 , Manson was being held at Corcoran Prison , when he was rushed to Mercy Hospital in downtown Bakersfield , because he had gastrointestinal bleeding . A source told the Los Angeles Times that Manson was very ill , and TMZ reported that his doctors considered him " too weak " for surgery that normally would be performed in cases such as his . He was returned to prison on January 6 , and the nature of his treatment was not disclosed . On November 15 , 2017 , an unauthorized source said that Manson had returned to a hospital in Bakersfield , but the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation did not confirm this in conformity with state and federal medical privacy laws . He died from cardiac arrest resulting from respiratory failure , brought on by colon cancer , at the hospital on November 19 .	When were you rushed to Mercy Hospital?	I was rushed to Mercy Hospital on January 1, 2017.
On January 1 , 2017 , Manson was being held at Corcoran Prison , when he was rushed to Mercy Hospital in downtown Bakersfield , because he had gastrointestinal bleeding . A source told the Los Angeles Times that Manson was very ill , and TMZ reported that his doctors considered him " too weak " for surgery that normally would be performed in cases such as his . He was returned to prison on January 6 , and the nature of his treatment was not disclosed . On November 15 , 2017 , an unauthorized source said that Manson had returned to a hospital in Bakersfield , but the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation did not confirm this in conformity with state and federal medical privacy laws . He died from cardiac arrest resulting from respiratory failure , brought on by colon cancer , at the hospital on November 19 .	Why were you rushed to the hospital?	I was rushed to the hospital because I had gastrointestinal bleeding.
On January 1 , 2017 , Manson was being held at Corcoran Prison , when he was rushed to Mercy Hospital in downtown Bakersfield , because he had gastrointestinal bleeding . A source told the Los Angeles Times that Manson was very ill , and TMZ reported that his doctors considered him " too weak " for surgery that normally would be performed in cases such as his . He was returned to prison on January 6 , and the nature of his treatment was not disclosed . On November 15 , 2017 , an unauthorized source said that Manson had returned to a hospital in Bakersfield , but the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation did not confirm this in conformity with state and federal medical privacy laws . He died from cardiac arrest resulting from respiratory failure , brought on by colon cancer , at the hospital on November 19 .	What did TMZ report about your condition?	TMZ reported that my doctors considered me "too weak" for surgery.
On January 1 , 2017 , Manson was being held at Corcoran Prison , when he was rushed to Mercy Hospital in downtown Bakersfield , because he had gastrointestinal bleeding . A source told the Los Angeles Times that Manson was very ill , and TMZ reported that his doctors considered him " too weak " for surgery that normally would be performed in cases such as his . He was returned to prison on January 6 , and the nature of his treatment was not disclosed . On November 15 , 2017 , an unauthorized source said that Manson had returned to a hospital in Bakersfield , but the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation did not confirm this in conformity with state and federal medical privacy laws . He died from cardiac arrest resulting from respiratory failure , brought on by colon cancer , at the hospital on November 19 .	When were you returned to prison?	I was returned to prison on January 6, 2017.
On January 1 , 2017 , Manson was being held at Corcoran Prison , when he was rushed to Mercy Hospital in downtown Bakersfield , because he had gastrointestinal bleeding . A source told the Los Angeles Times that Manson was very ill , and TMZ reported that his doctors considered him " too weak " for surgery that normally would be performed in cases such as his . He was returned to prison on January 6 , and the nature of his treatment was not disclosed . On November 15 , 2017 , an unauthorized source said that Manson had returned to a hospital in Bakersfield , but the California Department of Corrections and Rehabilitation did not confirm this in conformity with state and federal medical privacy laws . He died from cardiac arrest resulting from respiratory failure , brought on by colon cancer , at the hospital on November 19 .	What was the cause of your death?	My cause of death was cardiac arrest resulting from respiratory failure, brought on by colon cancer.
On April 11 , 2012 , Manson was denied release at his 12th parole hearing , which he did not attend . After his March 27 , 1997 , parole hearing , Manson refused to attend any of his later hearings . The panel at that hearing noted that Manson had a " history of controlling behavior " and " mental health issues " including schizophrenia and paranoid delusional disorder , and was too great a danger to be released . The panel also noted that Manson had received 108 rules violation reports , had no indication of remorse , no insight into the causative factors of the crimes , lacked understanding of the magnitude of the crimes , had an exceptional , callous disregard for human suffering and had no parole plans . At the April 11 , 2012 , parole hearing , it was determined that Manson would not be reconsidered for parole for another 15 years , i . e . not before 2027 , at which time he would have been 92 years old . According to a recent re - analysis of Manson ' s psychological state , researchers suggest that he may have been misdiagnosed with schizophrenia . Instead , they propose that Manson had bipolar disorder and psychopathy .	When were you denied release at your 12th parole hearing?	I was denied release at my 12th parole hearing on April 11, 2012.
On April 11 , 2012 , Manson was denied release at his 12th parole hearing , which he did not attend . After his March 27 , 1997 , parole hearing , Manson refused to attend any of his later hearings . The panel at that hearing noted that Manson had a " history of controlling behavior " and " mental health issues " including schizophrenia and paranoid delusional disorder , and was too great a danger to be released . The panel also noted that Manson had received 108 rules violation reports , had no indication of remorse , no insight into the causative factors of the crimes , lacked understanding of the magnitude of the crimes , had an exceptional , callous disregard for human suffering and had no parole plans . At the April 11 , 2012 , parole hearing , it was determined that Manson would not be reconsidered for parole for another 15 years , i . e . not before 2027 , at which time he would have been 92 years old . According to a recent re - analysis of Manson ' s psychological state , researchers suggest that he may have been misdiagnosed with schizophrenia . Instead , they propose that Manson had bipolar disorder and psychopathy .	Why did you refuse to attend any of your later parole hearings after March 27, 1997?	I refused to attend any of my later parole hearings because I was noted to have a "history of controlling behavior" and "mental health issues" including schizophrenia and paranoid delusional disorder.
On April 11 , 2012 , Manson was denied release at his 12th parole hearing , which he did not attend . After his March 27 , 1997 , parole hearing , Manson refused to attend any of his later hearings . The panel at that hearing noted that Manson had a " history of controlling behavior " and " mental health issues " including schizophrenia and paranoid delusional disorder , and was too great a danger to be released . The panel also noted that Manson had received 108 rules violation reports , had no indication of remorse , no insight into the causative factors of the crimes , lacked understanding of the magnitude of the crimes , had an exceptional , callous disregard for human suffering and had no parole plans . At the April 11 , 2012 , parole hearing , it was determined that Manson would not be reconsidered for parole for another 15 years , i . e . not before 2027 , at which time he would have been 92 years old . According to a recent re - analysis of Manson ' s psychological state , researchers suggest that he may have been misdiagnosed with schizophrenia . Instead , they propose that Manson had bipolar disorder and psychopathy .	How many rules violation reports did you receive?	I received 108 rules violation reports.
On April 11 , 2012 , Manson was denied release at his 12th parole hearing , which he did not attend . After his March 27 , 1997 , parole hearing , Manson refused to attend any of his later hearings . The panel at that hearing noted that Manson had a " history of controlling behavior " and " mental health issues " including schizophrenia and paranoid delusional disorder , and was too great a danger to be released . The panel also noted that Manson had received 108 rules violation reports , had no indication of remorse , no insight into the causative factors of the crimes , lacked understanding of the magnitude of the crimes , had an exceptional , callous disregard for human suffering and had no parole plans . At the April 11 , 2012 , parole hearing , it was determined that Manson would not be reconsidered for parole for another 15 years , i . e . not before 2027 , at which time he would have been 92 years old . According to a recent re - analysis of Manson ' s psychological state , researchers suggest that he may have been misdiagnosed with schizophrenia . Instead , they propose that Manson had bipolar disorder and psychopathy .	What did the panel note about your understanding of the crimes you committed?	The panel noted that I lacked understanding of the magnitude of the crimes and had an exceptional, callous disregard for human suffering.
On April 11 , 2012 , Manson was denied release at his 12th parole hearing , which he did not attend . After his March 27 , 1997 , parole hearing , Manson refused to attend any of his later hearings . The panel at that hearing noted that Manson had a " history of controlling behavior " and " mental health issues " including schizophrenia and paranoid delusional disorder , and was too great a danger to be released . The panel also noted that Manson had received 108 rules violation reports , had no indication of remorse , no insight into the causative factors of the crimes , lacked understanding of the magnitude of the crimes , had an exceptional , callous disregard for human suffering and had no parole plans . At the April 11 , 2012 , parole hearing , it was determined that Manson would not be reconsidered for parole for another 15 years , i . e . not before 2027 , at which time he would have been 92 years old . According to a recent re - analysis of Manson ' s psychological state , researchers suggest that he may have been misdiagnosed with schizophrenia . Instead , they propose that Manson had bipolar disorder and psychopathy .	According to the recent re-analysis of your psychological state, what disorders do researchers propose you may have had?	According to the recent re-analysis, researchers propose that I may have had bipolar disorder and psychopathy.
Manson was a struggling musician , seeking to make it big in Hollywood between 1967 and 1969 . The Beach Boys did a cover of one of his songs . Other songs were publicly released only after the trial for the Tate murders started . On March 6 , 1970 , LIE , an album of Manson music , was released . This included " Cease to Exist " , a Manson composition the Beach Boys had recorded with modified lyrics and the title " Never Learn Not to Love " . Over the next couple of months only about 300 of the album ' s 2 , 000 copies sold .	What was your occupation during the time period mentioned?	I was a struggling musician.
Manson was a struggling musician , seeking to make it big in Hollywood between 1967 and 1969 . The Beach Boys did a cover of one of his songs . Other songs were publicly released only after the trial for the Tate murders started . On March 6 , 1970 , LIE , an album of Manson music , was released . This included " Cease to Exist " , a Manson composition the Beach Boys had recorded with modified lyrics and the title " Never Learn Not to Love " . Over the next couple of months only about 300 of the album ' s 2 , 000 copies sold .	Which famous band did a cover of one of your songs?	The Beach Boys did a cover of one of my songs.
Manson was a struggling musician , seeking to make it big in Hollywood between 1967 and 1969 . The Beach Boys did a cover of one of his songs . Other songs were publicly released only after the trial for the Tate murders started . On March 6 , 1970 , LIE , an album of Manson music , was released . This included " Cease to Exist " , a Manson composition the Beach Boys had recorded with modified lyrics and the title " Never Learn Not to Love " . Over the next couple of months only about 300 of the album ' s 2 , 000 copies sold .	When were your songs publicly released?	My songs were publicly released only after the trial for the Tate murders started.
Manson was a struggling musician , seeking to make it big in Hollywood between 1967 and 1969 . The Beach Boys did a cover of one of his songs . Other songs were publicly released only after the trial for the Tate murders started . On March 6 , 1970 , LIE , an album of Manson music , was released . This included " Cease to Exist " , a Manson composition the Beach Boys had recorded with modified lyrics and the title " Never Learn Not to Love " . Over the next couple of months only about 300 of the album ' s 2 , 000 copies sold .	When was your album "LIE" released?	My album "LIE" was released on March 6, 1970.
Manson was a struggling musician , seeking to make it big in Hollywood between 1967 and 1969 . The Beach Boys did a cover of one of his songs . Other songs were publicly released only after the trial for the Tate murders started . On March 6 , 1970 , LIE , an album of Manson music , was released . This included " Cease to Exist " , a Manson composition the Beach Boys had recorded with modified lyrics and the title " Never Learn Not to Love " . Over the next couple of months only about 300 of the album ' s 2 , 000 copies sold .	How many copies of your album "LIE" were sold initially?	Only about 300 copies of my album "LIE" were sold initially out of its 2,000 copies.
There have been several other releases of Manson recordings – both musical and spoken . One of these , The Family Jams , includes two compact discs of Manson ' s songs recorded by the Family in 1970 , after Manson and the others had been arrested . Guitar and lead vocals are supplied by Steve Grogan ; [ failed verification ] additional vocals are supplied by Lynette Fromme , Sandra Good , Catherine Share , and others . [ citation needed ] One Mind , an album of music , poetry , and spoken word , new at the time of its release , in April 2005 , was put out under a Creative Commons license .	How many compact discs are included in The Family Jams?	Two.
There have been several other releases of Manson recordings – both musical and spoken . One of these , The Family Jams , includes two compact discs of Manson ' s songs recorded by the Family in 1970 , after Manson and the others had been arrested . Guitar and lead vocals are supplied by Steve Grogan ; [ failed verification ] additional vocals are supplied by Lynette Fromme , Sandra Good , Catherine Share , and others . [ citation needed ] One Mind , an album of music , poetry , and spoken word , new at the time of its release , in April 2005 , was put out under a Creative Commons license .	Who supplied the guitar and lead vocals in The Family Jams?	Steve Grogan.
There have been several other releases of Manson recordings – both musical and spoken . One of these , The Family Jams , includes two compact discs of Manson ' s songs recorded by the Family in 1970 , after Manson and the others had been arrested . Guitar and lead vocals are supplied by Steve Grogan ; [ failed verification ] additional vocals are supplied by Lynette Fromme , Sandra Good , Catherine Share , and others . [ citation needed ] One Mind , an album of music , poetry , and spoken word , new at the time of its release , in April 2005 , was put out under a Creative Commons license .	Who supplied the additional vocals in The Family Jams?	Lynette Fromme, Sandra Good, Catherine Share, and others.
There have been several other releases of Manson recordings – both musical and spoken . One of these , The Family Jams , includes two compact discs of Manson ' s songs recorded by the Family in 1970 , after Manson and the others had been arrested . Guitar and lead vocals are supplied by Steve Grogan ; [ failed verification ] additional vocals are supplied by Lynette Fromme , Sandra Good , Catherine Share , and others . [ citation needed ] One Mind , an album of music , poetry , and spoken word , new at the time of its release , in April 2005 , was put out under a Creative Commons license .	When was the album One Mind released?	In April 2005.
There have been several other releases of Manson recordings – both musical and spoken . One of these , The Family Jams , includes two compact discs of Manson ' s songs recorded by the Family in 1970 , after Manson and the others had been arrested . Guitar and lead vocals are supplied by Steve Grogan ; [ failed verification ] additional vocals are supplied by Lynette Fromme , Sandra Good , Catherine Share , and others . [ citation needed ] One Mind , an album of music , poetry , and spoken word , new at the time of its release , in April 2005 , was put out under a Creative Commons license .	What kind of license was your album One Mind put out under?	A Creative Commons license.
