Demetria "Demi" Devonne Lovato (/dɛmi ˈləˈvɑːtoʊ/ DEH-mee lə-VAH-toh; born August 20, 1992) is an American singer, songwriter, and actress. After appearing on the children's television series Barney & Friends (2002–2004), Lovato rose to prominence for playing Mitchie Torres in the musical television film Camp Rock (2008) and its sequel Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam (2010). The former film's soundtrack contained "This Is Me", Lovato's debut single and duet with Joe Jonas, which peaked at number nine on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100.	What is your full name?	Demetria "Demi" Devonne Lovato.
Demetria "Demi" Devonne Lovato (/dɛmi ˈləˈvɑːtoʊ/ DEH-mee lə-VAH-toh; born August 20, 1992) is an American singer, songwriter, and actress. After appearing on the children's television series Barney & Friends (2002–2004), Lovato rose to prominence for playing Mitchie Torres in the musical television film Camp Rock (2008) and its sequel Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam (2010). The former film's soundtrack contained "This Is Me", Lovato's debut single and duet with Joe Jonas, which peaked at number nine on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100.	When were you born?	I was born on August 20, 1992.
Demetria "Demi" Devonne Lovato (/dɛmi ˈləˈvɑːtoʊ/ DEH-mee lə-VAH-toh; born August 20, 1992) is an American singer, songwriter, and actress. After appearing on the children's television series Barney & Friends (2002–2004), Lovato rose to prominence for playing Mitchie Torres in the musical television film Camp Rock (2008) and its sequel Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam (2010). The former film's soundtrack contained "This Is Me", Lovato's debut single and duet with Joe Jonas, which peaked at number nine on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100.	What is your profession?	I am an American singer, songwriter, and actress.
Demetria "Demi" Devonne Lovato (/dɛmi ˈləˈvɑːtoʊ/ DEH-mee lə-VAH-toh; born August 20, 1992) is an American singer, songwriter, and actress. After appearing on the children's television series Barney & Friends (2002–2004), Lovato rose to prominence for playing Mitchie Torres in the musical television film Camp Rock (2008) and its sequel Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam (2010). The former film's soundtrack contained "This Is Me", Lovato's debut single and duet with Joe Jonas, which peaked at number nine on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100.	Which television series did you appear on?	I appeared on Barney & Friends.
Demetria "Demi" Devonne Lovato (/dɛmi ˈləˈvɑːtoʊ/ DEH-mee lə-VAH-toh; born August 20, 1992) is an American singer, songwriter, and actress. After appearing on the children's television series Barney & Friends (2002–2004), Lovato rose to prominence for playing Mitchie Torres in the musical television film Camp Rock (2008) and its sequel Camp Rock 2: The Final Jam (2010). The former film's soundtrack contained "This Is Me", Lovato's debut single and duet with Joe Jonas, which peaked at number nine on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100.	In which musical television film did you play the character Mitchie Torres?	I played the character Mitchie Torres in Camp Rock.
After signing with Hollywood Records, Lovato released her[a] pop rock debut album, Don't Forget (2008), which debuted at number two on the U.S. Billboard 200. Its follow-up, Here We Go Again (2009), debuted at number one in the U.S., while its title track reached number 15 on the Hot 100. Her third studio album, Unbroken (2011), experimented with pop and R&B and spawned the U.S. platinum-certified single "Skyscraper". She released her eponymous fourth album in 2013, which debuted at number three on the Billboard 200, and contained the top-ten international song "Heart Attack". Lovato's fifth and sixth albums, Confident (2015) and Tell Me You Love Me (2017), infused soul and mature themes. She earned a Grammy Award nomination for Confident, while "Sorry Not Sorry", the lead single from Tell Me You Love Me, became her highest-charting single in the U.S., reaching number six. After a hiatus, her seventh album Dancing with the Devil... the Art of Starting Over followed in 2021, which reached number two in the U.S., and her eighth album, Holy Fvck, released in 2022.	What was your debut album called?	My debut album was called "Don't Forget".
After signing with Hollywood Records, Lovato released her[a] pop rock debut album, Don't Forget (2008), which debuted at number two on the U.S. Billboard 200. Its follow-up, Here We Go Again (2009), debuted at number one in the U.S., while its title track reached number 15 on the Hot 100. Her third studio album, Unbroken (2011), experimented with pop and R&B and spawned the U.S. platinum-certified single "Skyscraper". She released her eponymous fourth album in 2013, which debuted at number three on the Billboard 200, and contained the top-ten international song "Heart Attack". Lovato's fifth and sixth albums, Confident (2015) and Tell Me You Love Me (2017), infused soul and mature themes. She earned a Grammy Award nomination for Confident, while "Sorry Not Sorry", the lead single from Tell Me You Love Me, became her highest-charting single in the U.S., reaching number six. After a hiatus, her seventh album Dancing with the Devil... the Art of Starting Over followed in 2021, which reached number two in the U.S., and her eighth album, Holy Fvck, released in 2022.	What position did your debut album reach on the U.S. Billboard 200?	My debut album reached number two on the U.S. Billboard 200.
After signing with Hollywood Records, Lovato released her[a] pop rock debut album, Don't Forget (2008), which debuted at number two on the U.S. Billboard 200. Its follow-up, Here We Go Again (2009), debuted at number one in the U.S., while its title track reached number 15 on the Hot 100. Her third studio album, Unbroken (2011), experimented with pop and R&B and spawned the U.S. platinum-certified single "Skyscraper". She released her eponymous fourth album in 2013, which debuted at number three on the Billboard 200, and contained the top-ten international song "Heart Attack". Lovato's fifth and sixth albums, Confident (2015) and Tell Me You Love Me (2017), infused soul and mature themes. She earned a Grammy Award nomination for Confident, while "Sorry Not Sorry", the lead single from Tell Me You Love Me, became her highest-charting single in the U.S., reaching number six. After a hiatus, her seventh album Dancing with the Devil... the Art of Starting Over followed in 2021, which reached number two in the U.S., and her eighth album, Holy Fvck, released in 2022.	What was the title track of your second album and what position did it reach on the Hot 100 chart?	The title track of my second album was "Here We Go Again" and it reached number 15 on the Hot 100 chart.
After signing with Hollywood Records, Lovato released her[a] pop rock debut album, Don't Forget (2008), which debuted at number two on the U.S. Billboard 200. Its follow-up, Here We Go Again (2009), debuted at number one in the U.S., while its title track reached number 15 on the Hot 100. Her third studio album, Unbroken (2011), experimented with pop and R&B and spawned the U.S. platinum-certified single "Skyscraper". She released her eponymous fourth album in 2013, which debuted at number three on the Billboard 200, and contained the top-ten international song "Heart Attack". Lovato's fifth and sixth albums, Confident (2015) and Tell Me You Love Me (2017), infused soul and mature themes. She earned a Grammy Award nomination for Confident, while "Sorry Not Sorry", the lead single from Tell Me You Love Me, became her highest-charting single in the U.S., reaching number six. After a hiatus, her seventh album Dancing with the Devil... the Art of Starting Over followed in 2021, which reached number two in the U.S., and her eighth album, Holy Fvck, released in 2022.	Which of your albums experimented with pop and R&B and had a platinum-certified single?	My third studio album, "Unbroken", experimented with pop and R&B and had the platinum-certified single "Skyscraper".
After signing with Hollywood Records, Lovato released her[a] pop rock debut album, Don't Forget (2008), which debuted at number two on the U.S. Billboard 200. Its follow-up, Here We Go Again (2009), debuted at number one in the U.S., while its title track reached number 15 on the Hot 100. Her third studio album, Unbroken (2011), experimented with pop and R&B and spawned the U.S. platinum-certified single "Skyscraper". She released her eponymous fourth album in 2013, which debuted at number three on the Billboard 200, and contained the top-ten international song "Heart Attack". Lovato's fifth and sixth albums, Confident (2015) and Tell Me You Love Me (2017), infused soul and mature themes. She earned a Grammy Award nomination for Confident, while "Sorry Not Sorry", the lead single from Tell Me You Love Me, became her highest-charting single in the U.S., reaching number six. After a hiatus, her seventh album Dancing with the Devil... the Art of Starting Over followed in 2021, which reached number two in the U.S., and her eighth album, Holy Fvck, released in 2022.	What is the highest-charting single in the U.S. from your sixth album "Tell Me You Love Me" and what position did it reach?	The highest-charting single in the U.S. from my sixth album "Tell Me You Love Me" was "Sorry Not Sorry" and it reached number six.
On television, Lovato has starred as the titular character on the sitcom Sonny with a Chance (2009–2011), served as a judge on the music competition series The X Factor USA for its second and third seasons, and appeared as a recurring character on the musical comedy Glee (2013–2014) and the sitcom Will & Grace (2020). She also starred in the television drama film Princess Protection Program (2009), the animated comedy film Smurfs: The Lost Village (2017), and the musical comedy Eurovision Song Contest: The Story of Fire Saga (2020).	What television shows have you appeared in?	I have starred in the sitcom Sonny with a Chance, appeared as a recurring character on Glee and Will & Grace.
On television, Lovato has starred as the titular character on the sitcom Sonny with a Chance (2009–2011), served as a judge on the music competition series The X Factor USA for its second and third seasons, and appeared as a recurring character on the musical comedy Glee (2013–2014) and the sitcom Will & Grace (2020). She also starred in the television drama film Princess Protection Program (2009), the animated comedy film Smurfs: The Lost Village (2017), and the musical comedy Eurovision Song Contest: The Story of Fire Saga (2020).	What was the name of the music competition series on which you served as a judge?	I served as a judge on The X Factor USA.
On television, Lovato has starred as the titular character on the sitcom Sonny with a Chance (2009–2011), served as a judge on the music competition series The X Factor USA for its second and third seasons, and appeared as a recurring character on the musical comedy Glee (2013–2014) and the sitcom Will & Grace (2020). She also starred in the television drama film Princess Protection Program (2009), the animated comedy film Smurfs: The Lost Village (2017), and the musical comedy Eurovision Song Contest: The Story of Fire Saga (2020).	In which year did you appear on the sitcom Sonny with a Chance?	I appeared on Sonny with a Chance from 2009 to 2011.
On television, Lovato has starred as the titular character on the sitcom Sonny with a Chance (2009–2011), served as a judge on the music competition series The X Factor USA for its second and third seasons, and appeared as a recurring character on the musical comedy Glee (2013–2014) and the sitcom Will & Grace (2020). She also starred in the television drama film Princess Protection Program (2009), the animated comedy film Smurfs: The Lost Village (2017), and the musical comedy Eurovision Song Contest: The Story of Fire Saga (2020).	Name one television drama film in which you starred.	I starred in the television drama film Princess Protection Program.
On television, Lovato has starred as the titular character on the sitcom Sonny with a Chance (2009–2011), served as a judge on the music competition series The X Factor USA for its second and third seasons, and appeared as a recurring character on the musical comedy Glee (2013–2014) and the sitcom Will & Grace (2020). She also starred in the television drama film Princess Protection Program (2009), the animated comedy film Smurfs: The Lost Village (2017), and the musical comedy Eurovision Song Contest: The Story of Fire Saga (2020).	What animated comedy film did you lend your voice to?	I lent my voice to the animated comedy film Smurfs: The Lost Village.
Lovato has sold over 24 million records in the United States and has also received numerous accolades, including an MTV Video Music Award, 14 Teen Choice Awards, five People's Choice Awards, two Latin American Music Awards, a Guinness World Record, and was included on the Time 100 annual list in 2017. An activist for several social causes, Lovato's struggles with an eating disorder and substance abuse have received considerable media attention, in response to which she published the self-help memoir Staying Strong: 365 Days a Year (2013) and released the documentaries Demi Lovato: Simply Complicated (2017) and Demi Lovato: Dancing with the Devil (2021).	How many records have you sold in the United States?	I have sold over 24 million records in the United States.
Lovato has sold over 24 million records in the United States and has also received numerous accolades, including an MTV Video Music Award, 14 Teen Choice Awards, five People's Choice Awards, two Latin American Music Awards, a Guinness World Record, and was included on the Time 100 annual list in 2017. An activist for several social causes, Lovato's struggles with an eating disorder and substance abuse have received considerable media attention, in response to which she published the self-help memoir Staying Strong: 365 Days a Year (2013) and released the documentaries Demi Lovato: Simply Complicated (2017) and Demi Lovato: Dancing with the Devil (2021).	What awards have you received?	I have received an MTV Video Music Award, 14 Teen Choice Awards, five People's Choice Awards, two Latin American Music Awards, and a Guinness World Record.
Lovato has sold over 24 million records in the United States and has also received numerous accolades, including an MTV Video Music Award, 14 Teen Choice Awards, five People's Choice Awards, two Latin American Music Awards, a Guinness World Record, and was included on the Time 100 annual list in 2017. An activist for several social causes, Lovato's struggles with an eating disorder and substance abuse have received considerable media attention, in response to which she published the self-help memoir Staying Strong: 365 Days a Year (2013) and released the documentaries Demi Lovato: Simply Complicated (2017) and Demi Lovato: Dancing with the Devil (2021).	Have you been included on the Time 100 annual list?	Yes, I was included on the Time 100 annual list in 2017.
Lovato has sold over 24 million records in the United States and has also received numerous accolades, including an MTV Video Music Award, 14 Teen Choice Awards, five People's Choice Awards, two Latin American Music Awards, a Guinness World Record, and was included on the Time 100 annual list in 2017. An activist for several social causes, Lovato's struggles with an eating disorder and substance abuse have received considerable media attention, in response to which she published the self-help memoir Staying Strong: 365 Days a Year (2013) and released the documentaries Demi Lovato: Simply Complicated (2017) and Demi Lovato: Dancing with the Devil (2021).	What social causes do you advocate for?	I am an activist for several social causes.
Lovato has sold over 24 million records in the United States and has also received numerous accolades, including an MTV Video Music Award, 14 Teen Choice Awards, five People's Choice Awards, two Latin American Music Awards, a Guinness World Record, and was included on the Time 100 annual list in 2017. An activist for several social causes, Lovato's struggles with an eating disorder and substance abuse have received considerable media attention, in response to which she published the self-help memoir Staying Strong: 365 Days a Year (2013) and released the documentaries Demi Lovato: Simply Complicated (2017) and Demi Lovato: Dancing with the Devil (2021).	What publications and documentaries have you released?	I published the self-help memoir Staying Strong: 365 Days a Year (2013) and released the documentaries Demi Lovato: Simply Complicated (2017) and Demi Lovato: Dancing with the Devil (2021).
Demetria Devonne Lovato was born on August 20, 1992, in Albuquerque, New Mexico, to former Dallas Cowboys cheerleader Dianna De La Garza (née Lee Smith) and engineer and musician Patrick Martin Lovato. Lovato has an older full sister named Dallas; a younger maternal half-sister, actress Madison De La Garza; and an older paternal half-sister, Amber, whom Lovato first spoke to at age 20.	When were you born?	I was born on August 20, 1992.
Demetria Devonne Lovato was born on August 20, 1992, in Albuquerque, New Mexico, to former Dallas Cowboys cheerleader Dianna De La Garza (née Lee Smith) and engineer and musician Patrick Martin Lovato. Lovato has an older full sister named Dallas; a younger maternal half-sister, actress Madison De La Garza; and an older paternal half-sister, Amber, whom Lovato first spoke to at age 20.	Where were you born?	I was born in Albuquerque, New Mexico.
Demetria Devonne Lovato was born on August 20, 1992, in Albuquerque, New Mexico, to former Dallas Cowboys cheerleader Dianna De La Garza (née Lee Smith) and engineer and musician Patrick Martin Lovato. Lovato has an older full sister named Dallas; a younger maternal half-sister, actress Madison De La Garza; and an older paternal half-sister, Amber, whom Lovato first spoke to at age 20.	Who are your parents?	My parents are Dianna De La Garza and Patrick Martin Lovato.
Demetria Devonne Lovato was born on August 20, 1992, in Albuquerque, New Mexico, to former Dallas Cowboys cheerleader Dianna De La Garza (née Lee Smith) and engineer and musician Patrick Martin Lovato. Lovato has an older full sister named Dallas; a younger maternal half-sister, actress Madison De La Garza; and an older paternal half-sister, Amber, whom Lovato first spoke to at age 20.	Who are your siblings?	I have a sister named Dallas, a half-sister named Madison De La Garza, and a half-sister named Amber.
Demetria Devonne Lovato was born on August 20, 1992, in Albuquerque, New Mexico, to former Dallas Cowboys cheerleader Dianna De La Garza (née Lee Smith) and engineer and musician Patrick Martin Lovato. Lovato has an older full sister named Dallas; a younger maternal half-sister, actress Madison De La Garza; and an older paternal half-sister, Amber, whom Lovato first spoke to at age 20.	When did you first speak to your half-sister Amber?	I first spoke to my half-sister Amber at age 20.
In mid-1994, shortly after Lovato's second birthday, her parents divorced. Her father was of Nuevomexicano descent, with mostly Spanish and Native American ancestors, and came from a family that had been living in New Mexico for generations; he also had distant Portuguese and Jewish ancestry. He was a descendant of Civil War Union veteran Francisco Perea and Santa Fe de Nuevo México governor Francisco Xavier Chávez. Lovato had no interest in forging a relationship with Patrick after her parents divorced. Her mother is of English and Irish descent.	When did your parents divorce?	In mid-1994.
In mid-1994, shortly after Lovato's second birthday, her parents divorced. Her father was of Nuevomexicano descent, with mostly Spanish and Native American ancestors, and came from a family that had been living in New Mexico for generations; he also had distant Portuguese and Jewish ancestry. He was a descendant of Civil War Union veteran Francisco Perea and Santa Fe de Nuevo México governor Francisco Xavier Chávez. Lovato had no interest in forging a relationship with Patrick after her parents divorced. Her mother is of English and Irish descent.	What is your father's ethnicity?	He is of Nuevomexicano descent, with mostly Spanish and Native American ancestors.
In mid-1994, shortly after Lovato's second birthday, her parents divorced. Her father was of Nuevomexicano descent, with mostly Spanish and Native American ancestors, and came from a family that had been living in New Mexico for generations; he also had distant Portuguese and Jewish ancestry. He was a descendant of Civil War Union veteran Francisco Perea and Santa Fe de Nuevo México governor Francisco Xavier Chávez. Lovato had no interest in forging a relationship with Patrick after her parents divorced. Her mother is of English and Irish descent.	How long has your father's family been living in New Mexico?	My family has been living in New Mexico for generations.
In mid-1994, shortly after Lovato's second birthday, her parents divorced. Her father was of Nuevomexicano descent, with mostly Spanish and Native American ancestors, and came from a family that had been living in New Mexico for generations; he also had distant Portuguese and Jewish ancestry. He was a descendant of Civil War Union veteran Francisco Perea and Santa Fe de Nuevo México governor Francisco Xavier Chávez. Lovato had no interest in forging a relationship with Patrick after her parents divorced. Her mother is of English and Irish descent.	Who are your father's notable ancestors?	My father is a descendant of Civil War Union veteran Francisco Perea and Santa Fe de Nuevo México governor Francisco Xavier Chávez.
In mid-1994, shortly after Lovato's second birthday, her parents divorced. Her father was of Nuevomexicano descent, with mostly Spanish and Native American ancestors, and came from a family that had been living in New Mexico for generations; he also had distant Portuguese and Jewish ancestry. He was a descendant of Civil War Union veteran Francisco Perea and Santa Fe de Nuevo México governor Francisco Xavier Chávez. Lovato had no interest in forging a relationship with Patrick after her parents divorced. Her mother is of English and Irish descent.	What is your mother's ethnicity?	She is of English and Irish descent.
She has been vocal about her abusive and strained relationship with her father and once stated, "He was mean, but he wanted to be a good person. And he wanted to have his family, and when my mom married my stepdad, he still had this huge heart where he said, 'I'm so glad that [he's] taking care of you and doing the job that I wish I could do.'" After Patrick died of cancer on June 22, 2013, Lovato said that he had been mentally ill, and she created the Lovato Treatment Scholarship Program in his honor.	What did you say about your relationship with your father?	I stated that my father was mean but had a desire to be a good person.
She has been vocal about her abusive and strained relationship with her father and once stated, "He was mean, but he wanted to be a good person. And he wanted to have his family, and when my mom married my stepdad, he still had this huge heart where he said, 'I'm so glad that [he's] taking care of you and doing the job that I wish I could do.'" After Patrick died of cancer on June 22, 2013, Lovato said that he had been mentally ill, and she created the Lovato Treatment Scholarship Program in his honor.	How did your father feel when your mother remarried?	My father was glad that my stepdad was taking care of me and doing the job he wished he could do.
She has been vocal about her abusive and strained relationship with her father and once stated, "He was mean, but he wanted to be a good person. And he wanted to have his family, and when my mom married my stepdad, he still had this huge heart where he said, 'I'm so glad that [he's] taking care of you and doing the job that I wish I could do.'" After Patrick died of cancer on June 22, 2013, Lovato said that he had been mentally ill, and she created the Lovato Treatment Scholarship Program in his honor.	What happened to your father?	My father died of cancer on June 22, 2013.
She has been vocal about her abusive and strained relationship with her father and once stated, "He was mean, but he wanted to be a good person. And he wanted to have his family, and when my mom married my stepdad, he still had this huge heart where he said, 'I'm so glad that [he's] taking care of you and doing the job that I wish I could do.'" After Patrick died of cancer on June 22, 2013, Lovato said that he had been mentally ill, and she created the Lovato Treatment Scholarship Program in his honor.	How did you describe your father's mental state?	I mentioned that my father had been mentally ill.
She has been vocal about her abusive and strained relationship with her father and once stated, "He was mean, but he wanted to be a good person. And he wanted to have his family, and when my mom married my stepdad, he still had this huge heart where he said, 'I'm so glad that [he's] taking care of you and doing the job that I wish I could do.'" After Patrick died of cancer on June 22, 2013, Lovato said that he had been mentally ill, and she created the Lovato Treatment Scholarship Program in his honor.	What did you do in honor of your father?	I created the Lovato Treatment Scholarship Program in honor of my father.
Lovato was brought up in Dallas, Texas. She began playing the piano at age seven and guitar at ten, when she began dancing and acting classes. In 2002, Lovato began her acting career on the children's television series Barney & Friends, portraying the role of Angela. She appeared on Prison Break in 2006 and on Just Jordan the following year. Due to her acting career, Lovato was bullied and consequently requested homeschooling, through which she eventually received her high-school diploma.	Where were you brought up?	I was brought up in Dallas, Texas.
Lovato was brought up in Dallas, Texas. She began playing the piano at age seven and guitar at ten, when she began dancing and acting classes. In 2002, Lovato began her acting career on the children's television series Barney & Friends, portraying the role of Angela. She appeared on Prison Break in 2006 and on Just Jordan the following year. Due to her acting career, Lovato was bullied and consequently requested homeschooling, through which she eventually received her high-school diploma.	When did you begin playing the piano and guitar?	I began playing the piano at age seven and guitar at ten.
Lovato was brought up in Dallas, Texas. She began playing the piano at age seven and guitar at ten, when she began dancing and acting classes. In 2002, Lovato began her acting career on the children's television series Barney & Friends, portraying the role of Angela. She appeared on Prison Break in 2006 and on Just Jordan the following year. Due to her acting career, Lovato was bullied and consequently requested homeschooling, through which she eventually received her high-school diploma.	What television series did you start your acting career on?	I started my acting career on the children's television series Barney & Friends.
Lovato was brought up in Dallas, Texas. She began playing the piano at age seven and guitar at ten, when she began dancing and acting classes. In 2002, Lovato began her acting career on the children's television series Barney & Friends, portraying the role of Angela. She appeared on Prison Break in 2006 and on Just Jordan the following year. Due to her acting career, Lovato was bullied and consequently requested homeschooling, through which she eventually received her high-school diploma.	Which shows did you appear on after Barney & Friends?	I appeared on Prison Break in 2006 and on Just Jordan the following year.
Lovato was brought up in Dallas, Texas. She began playing the piano at age seven and guitar at ten, when she began dancing and acting classes. In 2002, Lovato began her acting career on the children's television series Barney & Friends, portraying the role of Angela. She appeared on Prison Break in 2006 and on Just Jordan the following year. Due to her acting career, Lovato was bullied and consequently requested homeschooling, through which she eventually received her high-school diploma.	Why did you request homeschooling?	I requested homeschooling due to being bullied as a result of my acting career.
From 2007 to 2008, Lovato played Charlotte Adams on the Disney Channel short series As the Bell Rings. Lovato auditioned for the channel's television film Camp Rock and series Sonny with a Chance during 2007 and got both roles. Lovato played the lead character, aspiring singer Mitchie Torres, in Camp Rock. The film premiered on June 20, 2008, to 8.9 million viewers. Gillian Flynn of Entertainment Weekly wrote that Lovato's acting skills were underwhelming and that she has "the knee-jerk smile of someone who is often told she has a great smile". The film's soundtrack was released three days earlier; however, the music was considered less current than that of High School Musical. It debuted at number three on the US Billboard 200, with 188,000 units sold in its first week of release. Lovato sang four songs on the soundtrack, including "We Rock" and "This Is Me". The latter, Lovato's debut single, debuted at number 11 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and later peaked at number nine, marking her first entry on the chart. That summer, Lovato signed with Hollywood Records and began her Demi Live! Warm Up Tour before the release of her debut studio album, and appeared on the Jonas Brothers' Burnin' Up Tour.	What Disney Channel series did you play Charlotte Adams on from 2007 to 2008?	As the Bell Rings.
From 2007 to 2008, Lovato played Charlotte Adams on the Disney Channel short series As the Bell Rings. Lovato auditioned for the channel's television film Camp Rock and series Sonny with a Chance during 2007 and got both roles. Lovato played the lead character, aspiring singer Mitchie Torres, in Camp Rock. The film premiered on June 20, 2008, to 8.9 million viewers. Gillian Flynn of Entertainment Weekly wrote that Lovato's acting skills were underwhelming and that she has "the knee-jerk smile of someone who is often told she has a great smile". The film's soundtrack was released three days earlier; however, the music was considered less current than that of High School Musical. It debuted at number three on the US Billboard 200, with 188,000 units sold in its first week of release. Lovato sang four songs on the soundtrack, including "We Rock" and "This Is Me". The latter, Lovato's debut single, debuted at number 11 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and later peaked at number nine, marking her first entry on the chart. That summer, Lovato signed with Hollywood Records and began her Demi Live! Warm Up Tour before the release of her debut studio album, and appeared on the Jonas Brothers' Burnin' Up Tour.	Which television film did you audition for and get the role in 2007?	Camp Rock.
From 2007 to 2008, Lovato played Charlotte Adams on the Disney Channel short series As the Bell Rings. Lovato auditioned for the channel's television film Camp Rock and series Sonny with a Chance during 2007 and got both roles. Lovato played the lead character, aspiring singer Mitchie Torres, in Camp Rock. The film premiered on June 20, 2008, to 8.9 million viewers. Gillian Flynn of Entertainment Weekly wrote that Lovato's acting skills were underwhelming and that she has "the knee-jerk smile of someone who is often told she has a great smile". The film's soundtrack was released three days earlier; however, the music was considered less current than that of High School Musical. It debuted at number three on the US Billboard 200, with 188,000 units sold in its first week of release. Lovato sang four songs on the soundtrack, including "We Rock" and "This Is Me". The latter, Lovato's debut single, debuted at number 11 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and later peaked at number nine, marking her first entry on the chart. That summer, Lovato signed with Hollywood Records and began her Demi Live! Warm Up Tour before the release of her debut studio album, and appeared on the Jonas Brothers' Burnin' Up Tour.	Who did you play in Camp Rock?	I played Mitchie Torres.
From 2007 to 2008, Lovato played Charlotte Adams on the Disney Channel short series As the Bell Rings. Lovato auditioned for the channel's television film Camp Rock and series Sonny with a Chance during 2007 and got both roles. Lovato played the lead character, aspiring singer Mitchie Torres, in Camp Rock. The film premiered on June 20, 2008, to 8.9 million viewers. Gillian Flynn of Entertainment Weekly wrote that Lovato's acting skills were underwhelming and that she has "the knee-jerk smile of someone who is often told she has a great smile". The film's soundtrack was released three days earlier; however, the music was considered less current than that of High School Musical. It debuted at number three on the US Billboard 200, with 188,000 units sold in its first week of release. Lovato sang four songs on the soundtrack, including "We Rock" and "This Is Me". The latter, Lovato's debut single, debuted at number 11 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and later peaked at number nine, marking her first entry on the chart. That summer, Lovato signed with Hollywood Records and began her Demi Live! Warm Up Tour before the release of her debut studio album, and appeared on the Jonas Brothers' Burnin' Up Tour.	When did your movie Camp Rock premiere and how many viewers did it have?	My movie premiered on June 20, 2008, and had 8.9 million viewers.
From 2007 to 2008, Lovato played Charlotte Adams on the Disney Channel short series As the Bell Rings. Lovato auditioned for the channel's television film Camp Rock and series Sonny with a Chance during 2007 and got both roles. Lovato played the lead character, aspiring singer Mitchie Torres, in Camp Rock. The film premiered on June 20, 2008, to 8.9 million viewers. Gillian Flynn of Entertainment Weekly wrote that Lovato's acting skills were underwhelming and that she has "the knee-jerk smile of someone who is often told she has a great smile". The film's soundtrack was released three days earlier; however, the music was considered less current than that of High School Musical. It debuted at number three on the US Billboard 200, with 188,000 units sold in its first week of release. Lovato sang four songs on the soundtrack, including "We Rock" and "This Is Me". The latter, Lovato's debut single, debuted at number 11 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and later peaked at number nine, marking her first entry on the chart. That summer, Lovato signed with Hollywood Records and began her Demi Live! Warm Up Tour before the release of her debut studio album, and appeared on the Jonas Brothers' Burnin' Up Tour.	What did Gillian Flynn of Entertainment Weekly say about your acting skills in Camp Rock?	She said my acting skills were underwhelming and that I have a "the knee-jerk smile of someone who is often told she has a great smile".
Lovato's debut studio album, Don't Forget, released on September 23, 2008, and was met with generally positive reviews from critics. Michael Slezak of Entertainment Weekly said, "Demi Lovato might satisfy her 'tween fans but she won't be winning any rockers over with Don't Forget". The album debuted at number two in the US, with first-week sales of 89,000 copies. Ten of its songs were co-written with the Jonas Brothers.	When was your debut studio album, Don't Forget, released?	Don't Forget was released on September 23, 2008.
Lovato's debut studio album, Don't Forget, released on September 23, 2008, and was met with generally positive reviews from critics. Michael Slezak of Entertainment Weekly said, "Demi Lovato might satisfy her 'tween fans but she won't be winning any rockers over with Don't Forget". The album debuted at number two in the US, with first-week sales of 89,000 copies. Ten of its songs were co-written with the Jonas Brothers.	How did critics generally respond to your album?	Critics responded to my album with generally positive reviews.
Lovato's debut studio album, Don't Forget, released on September 23, 2008, and was met with generally positive reviews from critics. Michael Slezak of Entertainment Weekly said, "Demi Lovato might satisfy her 'tween fans but she won't be winning any rockers over with Don't Forget". The album debuted at number two in the US, with first-week sales of 89,000 copies. Ten of its songs were co-written with the Jonas Brothers.	Who reviewed the album for Entertainment Weekly?	Michael Slezak reviewed the album for Entertainment Weekly.
Lovato's debut studio album, Don't Forget, released on September 23, 2008, and was met with generally positive reviews from critics. Michael Slezak of Entertainment Weekly said, "Demi Lovato might satisfy her 'tween fans but she won't be winning any rockers over with Don't Forget". The album debuted at number two in the US, with first-week sales of 89,000 copies. Ten of its songs were co-written with the Jonas Brothers.	What did you say about the album in your review?	I said, "Demi Lovato might satisfy her 'tween fans but she won't be winning any rockers over with Don't Forget".
Lovato's debut studio album, Don't Forget, released on September 23, 2008, and was met with generally positive reviews from critics. Michael Slezak of Entertainment Weekly said, "Demi Lovato might satisfy her 'tween fans but she won't be winning any rockers over with Don't Forget". The album debuted at number two in the US, with first-week sales of 89,000 copies. Ten of its songs were co-written with the Jonas Brothers.	How did Don't Forget perform in terms of sales in the US?	Don't Forget debuted at number two in the US, with first-week sales of 89,000 copies.
Lovato ' s second studio album , Here We Go Again , was released on July 21 , 2009 ; she described its acoustic style as similar to that of John Mayer . The album received favorable reviews from critics who appreciated its enjoyable pop - rock elements , echoing reviews of Don ' t Forget . Lovato ' s first number - one album , it debuted atop the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 108 , 000 copies , and was later certified Gold . The album ' s lead single and title track , " Here We Go Again " , debuted at number 59 on the Billboard Hot 100 , and managed to peak at number 15 , becoming Lovato ' s highest - charting solo single to that point . The song also peaked at number 68 on the Canadian Hot 100 and number 38 in New Zealand . " Here We Go Again " was additionally certified Platinum in the US . The album ' s second and final single , " Remember December " failed to match the success of its predecessor , but peaked at number 80 on the UK Singles Chart . Lovato made her first 40 - city national concert tour , Live in Concert , in support of Here We Go Again . The tour , from June 21 to August 21 , 2009 , had David Archuleta , KSM , and Jordan Pruitt as opening acts . Lovato and Archuleta received the Choice Music Tour award at the 2009 Teen Choice Awards . Lovato was featured alongside the Jonas Brothers , Miley Cyrus , and Selena Gomez on the song " Send It On " , a charity single and the theme song for Disney ' s Friends for Change . All proceeds from the song were donated to environmental charities supported by the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund . Lovato recorded " Gift of a Friend " as a soundtrack for the Disney movie Tinker Bell and the Lost Treasure . The movie was released in October 2009 .	When was your second studio album, Here We Go Again, released?	July 21, 2009.
Lovato ' s second studio album , Here We Go Again , was released on July 21 , 2009 ; she described its acoustic style as similar to that of John Mayer . The album received favorable reviews from critics who appreciated its enjoyable pop - rock elements , echoing reviews of Don ' t Forget . Lovato ' s first number - one album , it debuted atop the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 108 , 000 copies , and was later certified Gold . The album ' s lead single and title track , " Here We Go Again " , debuted at number 59 on the Billboard Hot 100 , and managed to peak at number 15 , becoming Lovato ' s highest - charting solo single to that point . The song also peaked at number 68 on the Canadian Hot 100 and number 38 in New Zealand . " Here We Go Again " was additionally certified Platinum in the US . The album ' s second and final single , " Remember December " failed to match the success of its predecessor , but peaked at number 80 on the UK Singles Chart . Lovato made her first 40 - city national concert tour , Live in Concert , in support of Here We Go Again . The tour , from June 21 to August 21 , 2009 , had David Archuleta , KSM , and Jordan Pruitt as opening acts . Lovato and Archuleta received the Choice Music Tour award at the 2009 Teen Choice Awards . Lovato was featured alongside the Jonas Brothers , Miley Cyrus , and Selena Gomez on the song " Send It On " , a charity single and the theme song for Disney ' s Friends for Change . All proceeds from the song were donated to environmental charities supported by the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund . Lovato recorded " Gift of a Friend " as a soundtrack for the Disney movie Tinker Bell and the Lost Treasure . The movie was released in October 2009 .	How would you describe the acoustic style of the album?	I described its acoustic style as similar to that of John Mayer.
Lovato ' s second studio album , Here We Go Again , was released on July 21 , 2009 ; she described its acoustic style as similar to that of John Mayer . The album received favorable reviews from critics who appreciated its enjoyable pop - rock elements , echoing reviews of Don ' t Forget . Lovato ' s first number - one album , it debuted atop the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 108 , 000 copies , and was later certified Gold . The album ' s lead single and title track , " Here We Go Again " , debuted at number 59 on the Billboard Hot 100 , and managed to peak at number 15 , becoming Lovato ' s highest - charting solo single to that point . The song also peaked at number 68 on the Canadian Hot 100 and number 38 in New Zealand . " Here We Go Again " was additionally certified Platinum in the US . The album ' s second and final single , " Remember December " failed to match the success of its predecessor , but peaked at number 80 on the UK Singles Chart . Lovato made her first 40 - city national concert tour , Live in Concert , in support of Here We Go Again . The tour , from June 21 to August 21 , 2009 , had David Archuleta , KSM , and Jordan Pruitt as opening acts . Lovato and Archuleta received the Choice Music Tour award at the 2009 Teen Choice Awards . Lovato was featured alongside the Jonas Brothers , Miley Cyrus , and Selena Gomez on the song " Send It On " , a charity single and the theme song for Disney ' s Friends for Change . All proceeds from the song were donated to environmental charities supported by the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund . Lovato recorded " Gift of a Friend " as a soundtrack for the Disney movie Tinker Bell and the Lost Treasure . The movie was released in October 2009 .	What was the reception of your album by critics?	My album received favorable reviews from critics who appreciated its enjoyable pop-rock elements.
Lovato ' s second studio album , Here We Go Again , was released on July 21 , 2009 ; she described its acoustic style as similar to that of John Mayer . The album received favorable reviews from critics who appreciated its enjoyable pop - rock elements , echoing reviews of Don ' t Forget . Lovato ' s first number - one album , it debuted atop the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 108 , 000 copies , and was later certified Gold . The album ' s lead single and title track , " Here We Go Again " , debuted at number 59 on the Billboard Hot 100 , and managed to peak at number 15 , becoming Lovato ' s highest - charting solo single to that point . The song also peaked at number 68 on the Canadian Hot 100 and number 38 in New Zealand . " Here We Go Again " was additionally certified Platinum in the US . The album ' s second and final single , " Remember December " failed to match the success of its predecessor , but peaked at number 80 on the UK Singles Chart . Lovato made her first 40 - city national concert tour , Live in Concert , in support of Here We Go Again . The tour , from June 21 to August 21 , 2009 , had David Archuleta , KSM , and Jordan Pruitt as opening acts . Lovato and Archuleta received the Choice Music Tour award at the 2009 Teen Choice Awards . Lovato was featured alongside the Jonas Brothers , Miley Cyrus , and Selena Gomez on the song " Send It On " , a charity single and the theme song for Disney ' s Friends for Change . All proceeds from the song were donated to environmental charities supported by the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund . Lovato recorded " Gift of a Friend " as a soundtrack for the Disney movie Tinker Bell and the Lost Treasure . The movie was released in October 2009 .	What was the chart performance of your album?	It debuted atop the Billboard 200 with first-week sales of 108,000 copies and was later certified Gold.
Lovato ' s second studio album , Here We Go Again , was released on July 21 , 2009 ; she described its acoustic style as similar to that of John Mayer . The album received favorable reviews from critics who appreciated its enjoyable pop - rock elements , echoing reviews of Don ' t Forget . Lovato ' s first number - one album , it debuted atop the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 108 , 000 copies , and was later certified Gold . The album ' s lead single and title track , " Here We Go Again " , debuted at number 59 on the Billboard Hot 100 , and managed to peak at number 15 , becoming Lovato ' s highest - charting solo single to that point . The song also peaked at number 68 on the Canadian Hot 100 and number 38 in New Zealand . " Here We Go Again " was additionally certified Platinum in the US . The album ' s second and final single , " Remember December " failed to match the success of its predecessor , but peaked at number 80 on the UK Singles Chart . Lovato made her first 40 - city national concert tour , Live in Concert , in support of Here We Go Again . The tour , from June 21 to August 21 , 2009 , had David Archuleta , KSM , and Jordan Pruitt as opening acts . Lovato and Archuleta received the Choice Music Tour award at the 2009 Teen Choice Awards . Lovato was featured alongside the Jonas Brothers , Miley Cyrus , and Selena Gomez on the song " Send It On " , a charity single and the theme song for Disney ' s Friends for Change . All proceeds from the song were donated to environmental charities supported by the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund . Lovato recorded " Gift of a Friend " as a soundtrack for the Disney movie Tinker Bell and the Lost Treasure . The movie was released in October 2009 .	What is your highest-charting solo single from the album?	My highest-charting solo single from the album is "Here We Go Again" which peaked at number 15 on the Billboard Hot 100.
" Skyscraper " , the lead single from Unbroken , was released on July 12 , and was noted for its messages of self - worth and confidence . It debuted at number ten in the US , selling 176 , 000 downloads during the first week of release , becoming Lovato ' s highest first week sales at the time . The song also became Lovato ' s highest - charting single since " This Is Me " peaking at number nine in July 2008 , and it also debuted at number two on the Hot Digital Songs chart . " Skyscraper " received the Best Video With a Message award at the September 2012 MTV Video Music Awards , and the track was also certified Platinum by the RIAA and Silver by the BPI . The album ' s second and final single , " Give Your Heart a Break " , was released on January 23 , 2012 , and later peaked on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 16 , making Lovato ' s fourth highest - charting song to that point . It peaked at number 12 on the US Adult Top 40 chart and number one on the US Pop Songs chart . It also became the longest climb by a female artist [ b ] to reach No . 1 in the Pop Songs chart history until 2019 , when Halsey ' s feature on " Eastside " broke the record . The song was certified triple Platinum in the US ; as of October   2014 [ update ] , " Give Your Heart a Break " has sold 2.1 million digital copies . Billboard has ranked the song as Lovato ' s best , calling it " timeless " .	When was your lead single "Skyscraper" released?	"Skyscraper" was released on July 12.
" Skyscraper " , the lead single from Unbroken , was released on July 12 , and was noted for its messages of self - worth and confidence . It debuted at number ten in the US , selling 176 , 000 downloads during the first week of release , becoming Lovato ' s highest first week sales at the time . The song also became Lovato ' s highest - charting single since " This Is Me " peaking at number nine in July 2008 , and it also debuted at number two on the Hot Digital Songs chart . " Skyscraper " received the Best Video With a Message award at the September 2012 MTV Video Music Awards , and the track was also certified Platinum by the RIAA and Silver by the BPI . The album ' s second and final single , " Give Your Heart a Break " , was released on January 23 , 2012 , and later peaked on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 16 , making Lovato ' s fourth highest - charting song to that point . It peaked at number 12 on the US Adult Top 40 chart and number one on the US Pop Songs chart . It also became the longest climb by a female artist [ b ] to reach No . 1 in the Pop Songs chart history until 2019 , when Halsey ' s feature on " Eastside " broke the record . The song was certified triple Platinum in the US ; as of October   2014 [ update ] , " Give Your Heart a Break " has sold 2.1 million digital copies . Billboard has ranked the song as Lovato ' s best , calling it " timeless " .	How many downloads did "Skyscraper" sell in its first week of release?	"Skyscraper" sold 176,000 downloads during the first week of release.
" Skyscraper " , the lead single from Unbroken , was released on July 12 , and was noted for its messages of self - worth and confidence . It debuted at number ten in the US , selling 176 , 000 downloads during the first week of release , becoming Lovato ' s highest first week sales at the time . The song also became Lovato ' s highest - charting single since " This Is Me " peaking at number nine in July 2008 , and it also debuted at number two on the Hot Digital Songs chart . " Skyscraper " received the Best Video With a Message award at the September 2012 MTV Video Music Awards , and the track was also certified Platinum by the RIAA and Silver by the BPI . The album ' s second and final single , " Give Your Heart a Break " , was released on January 23 , 2012 , and later peaked on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 16 , making Lovato ' s fourth highest - charting song to that point . It peaked at number 12 on the US Adult Top 40 chart and number one on the US Pop Songs chart . It also became the longest climb by a female artist [ b ] to reach No . 1 in the Pop Songs chart history until 2019 , when Halsey ' s feature on " Eastside " broke the record . The song was certified triple Platinum in the US ; as of October   2014 [ update ] , " Give Your Heart a Break " has sold 2.1 million digital copies . Billboard has ranked the song as Lovato ' s best , calling it " timeless " .	What is the highest chart position my song "Skyscraper" reached?	"Skyscraper" peaked at number nine in July 2008.
" Skyscraper " , the lead single from Unbroken , was released on July 12 , and was noted for its messages of self - worth and confidence . It debuted at number ten in the US , selling 176 , 000 downloads during the first week of release , becoming Lovato ' s highest first week sales at the time . The song also became Lovato ' s highest - charting single since " This Is Me " peaking at number nine in July 2008 , and it also debuted at number two on the Hot Digital Songs chart . " Skyscraper " received the Best Video With a Message award at the September 2012 MTV Video Music Awards , and the track was also certified Platinum by the RIAA and Silver by the BPI . The album ' s second and final single , " Give Your Heart a Break " , was released on January 23 , 2012 , and later peaked on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 16 , making Lovato ' s fourth highest - charting song to that point . It peaked at number 12 on the US Adult Top 40 chart and number one on the US Pop Songs chart . It also became the longest climb by a female artist [ b ] to reach No . 1 in the Pop Songs chart history until 2019 , when Halsey ' s feature on " Eastside " broke the record . The song was certified triple Platinum in the US ; as of October   2014 [ update ] , " Give Your Heart a Break " has sold 2.1 million digital copies . Billboard has ranked the song as Lovato ' s best , calling it " timeless " .	What award did "Skyscraper" win at the 2012 MTV Video Music Awards?	"Skyscraper" won the Best Video With a Message award at the 2012 MTV Video Music Awards.
" Skyscraper " , the lead single from Unbroken , was released on July 12 , and was noted for its messages of self - worth and confidence . It debuted at number ten in the US , selling 176 , 000 downloads during the first week of release , becoming Lovato ' s highest first week sales at the time . The song also became Lovato ' s highest - charting single since " This Is Me " peaking at number nine in July 2008 , and it also debuted at number two on the Hot Digital Songs chart . " Skyscraper " received the Best Video With a Message award at the September 2012 MTV Video Music Awards , and the track was also certified Platinum by the RIAA and Silver by the BPI . The album ' s second and final single , " Give Your Heart a Break " , was released on January 23 , 2012 , and later peaked on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 16 , making Lovato ' s fourth highest - charting song to that point . It peaked at number 12 on the US Adult Top 40 chart and number one on the US Pop Songs chart . It also became the longest climb by a female artist [ b ] to reach No . 1 in the Pop Songs chart history until 2019 , when Halsey ' s feature on " Eastside " broke the record . The song was certified triple Platinum in the US ; as of October   2014 [ update ] , " Give Your Heart a Break " has sold 2.1 million digital copies . Billboard has ranked the song as Lovato ' s best , calling it " timeless " .	How has "Give Your Heart a Break" been certified in the US?	"Give Your Heart a Break" has been certified triple Platinum in the US.
Lovato announced her Neon Lights Tour ( including a Canadian leg ) on September 29 , 2013 ; it began on February 9 , 2014 , and ended on May 17 . On October 21 , she released her cover of " Let It Go " for the Disney film Frozen , which was released in theaters on November 27 . Lovato ' s cover was described as more " radio friendly " and " pop " as compared to the original by Idina Menzel . Lovato ' s cover appears in the film ' s credits , and the song was promoted as the single for the film ' s soundtrack . The song peaked at number 38 on the Billboard Hot 100 , spending 20 weeks on the chart . It was certified double Platinum by the RIAA . On May 18 , 2014 , " Somebody to You " featuring Lovato was released as the fourth single from the Vamps ' debut album , Meet the Vamps .	When did you announce your Neon Lights Tour?	I announced my Neon Lights Tour on September 29, 2013.
Lovato announced her Neon Lights Tour ( including a Canadian leg ) on September 29 , 2013 ; it began on February 9 , 2014 , and ended on May 17 . On October 21 , she released her cover of " Let It Go " for the Disney film Frozen , which was released in theaters on November 27 . Lovato ' s cover was described as more " radio friendly " and " pop " as compared to the original by Idina Menzel . Lovato ' s cover appears in the film ' s credits , and the song was promoted as the single for the film ' s soundtrack . The song peaked at number 38 on the Billboard Hot 100 , spending 20 weeks on the chart . It was certified double Platinum by the RIAA . On May 18 , 2014 , " Somebody to You " featuring Lovato was released as the fourth single from the Vamps ' debut album , Meet the Vamps .	When did your Neon Lights Tour begin and end?	My Neon Lights Tour began on February 9, 2014, and ended on May 17.
Lovato announced her Neon Lights Tour ( including a Canadian leg ) on September 29 , 2013 ; it began on February 9 , 2014 , and ended on May 17 . On October 21 , she released her cover of " Let It Go " for the Disney film Frozen , which was released in theaters on November 27 . Lovato ' s cover was described as more " radio friendly " and " pop " as compared to the original by Idina Menzel . Lovato ' s cover appears in the film ' s credits , and the song was promoted as the single for the film ' s soundtrack . The song peaked at number 38 on the Billboard Hot 100 , spending 20 weeks on the chart . It was certified double Platinum by the RIAA . On May 18 , 2014 , " Somebody to You " featuring Lovato was released as the fourth single from the Vamps ' debut album , Meet the Vamps .	When did you release your cover of "Let It Go" for the Disney film Frozen?	I released my cover of "Let It Go" on October 21.
Lovato announced her Neon Lights Tour ( including a Canadian leg ) on September 29 , 2013 ; it began on February 9 , 2014 , and ended on May 17 . On October 21 , she released her cover of " Let It Go " for the Disney film Frozen , which was released in theaters on November 27 . Lovato ' s cover was described as more " radio friendly " and " pop " as compared to the original by Idina Menzel . Lovato ' s cover appears in the film ' s credits , and the song was promoted as the single for the film ' s soundtrack . The song peaked at number 38 on the Billboard Hot 100 , spending 20 weeks on the chart . It was certified double Platinum by the RIAA . On May 18 , 2014 , " Somebody to You " featuring Lovato was released as the fourth single from the Vamps ' debut album , Meet the Vamps .	How was your cover of "Let It Go" described compared to the original by Idina Menzel?	My cover was described as more "radio friendly" and "pop" compared to the original by Idina Menzel.
Lovato announced her Neon Lights Tour ( including a Canadian leg ) on September 29 , 2013 ; it began on February 9 , 2014 , and ended on May 17 . On October 21 , she released her cover of " Let It Go " for the Disney film Frozen , which was released in theaters on November 27 . Lovato ' s cover was described as more " radio friendly " and " pop " as compared to the original by Idina Menzel . Lovato ' s cover appears in the film ' s credits , and the song was promoted as the single for the film ' s soundtrack . The song peaked at number 38 on the Billboard Hot 100 , spending 20 weeks on the chart . It was certified double Platinum by the RIAA . On May 18 , 2014 , " Somebody to You " featuring Lovato was released as the fourth single from the Vamps ' debut album , Meet the Vamps .	When was "Somebody to You" featuring you released?	"Somebody to You" featuring me was released on May 18, 2014.
Lovato ' s fifth album , Confident , was released on October 16 , 2015 , and was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards . The album debuted at number two on the U . S . Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 98 , 000 album units , and was certified Platinum by the RIAA . The album received mixed to positive reviews from critics . Annie Zaleski from The A . V . Club stated that " Confident is an impressive album by a pop star who knows what she wants — and also knows exactly how to get there . " During the album ' s production , Lovato commented : " I ' ve already started recording for my new album , and I have plans to record during the tour . The sound just evolves into everything that I ' ve been and everything that I want to become . " She further stated , " I ' ve never been so sure of myself as an artist when it comes down to confidence , but not only personal things , but exactly what I want my sound to be and what I know I ' m capable of and this album will give me the opportunity to show people what I can really do . " On October , she signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . Lovato released the music video for her R & B - infused song " Waitin for You " featuring rapper Sirah on October 22 , 2015 . On October 26 , 2015 , Lovato and Nick Jonas announced that they would be touring together on the Future Now Tour , to further promote Confident , with shows in North America and Europe . Lovato was honored with the first - ever Rulebreaker Award at the 2015 Billboard Women in Music event . On March 21 , 2016 , " Stone Cold " was released as the third and final single from Confident . On July 1 , 2016 , Lovato released a new single titled " Body Say " to promote her tour .	When was your fifth album, Confident, released?	Confident was released on October 16, 2015.
Lovato ' s fifth album , Confident , was released on October 16 , 2015 , and was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards . The album debuted at number two on the U . S . Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 98 , 000 album units , and was certified Platinum by the RIAA . The album received mixed to positive reviews from critics . Annie Zaleski from The A . V . Club stated that " Confident is an impressive album by a pop star who knows what she wants — and also knows exactly how to get there . " During the album ' s production , Lovato commented : " I ' ve already started recording for my new album , and I have plans to record during the tour . The sound just evolves into everything that I ' ve been and everything that I want to become . " She further stated , " I ' ve never been so sure of myself as an artist when it comes down to confidence , but not only personal things , but exactly what I want my sound to be and what I know I ' m capable of and this album will give me the opportunity to show people what I can really do . " On October , she signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . Lovato released the music video for her R & B - infused song " Waitin for You " featuring rapper Sirah on October 22 , 2015 . On October 26 , 2015 , Lovato and Nick Jonas announced that they would be touring together on the Future Now Tour , to further promote Confident , with shows in North America and Europe . Lovato was honored with the first - ever Rulebreaker Award at the 2015 Billboard Women in Music event . On March 21 , 2016 , " Stone Cold " was released as the third and final single from Confident . On July 1 , 2016 , Lovato released a new single titled " Body Say " to promote her tour .	What nomination did your album Confident receive at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards?	My album Confident was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards.
Lovato ' s fifth album , Confident , was released on October 16 , 2015 , and was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards . The album debuted at number two on the U . S . Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 98 , 000 album units , and was certified Platinum by the RIAA . The album received mixed to positive reviews from critics . Annie Zaleski from The A . V . Club stated that " Confident is an impressive album by a pop star who knows what she wants — and also knows exactly how to get there . " During the album ' s production , Lovato commented : " I ' ve already started recording for my new album , and I have plans to record during the tour . The sound just evolves into everything that I ' ve been and everything that I want to become . " She further stated , " I ' ve never been so sure of myself as an artist when it comes down to confidence , but not only personal things , but exactly what I want my sound to be and what I know I ' m capable of and this album will give me the opportunity to show people what I can really do . " On October , she signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . Lovato released the music video for her R & B - infused song " Waitin for You " featuring rapper Sirah on October 22 , 2015 . On October 26 , 2015 , Lovato and Nick Jonas announced that they would be touring together on the Future Now Tour , to further promote Confident , with shows in North America and Europe . Lovato was honored with the first - ever Rulebreaker Award at the 2015 Billboard Women in Music event . On March 21 , 2016 , " Stone Cold " was released as the third and final single from Confident . On July 1 , 2016 , Lovato released a new single titled " Body Say " to promote her tour .	How did your album Confident debut on the U.S. Billboard 200?	Confident debuted at number two on the U.S. Billboard 200.
Lovato ' s fifth album , Confident , was released on October 16 , 2015 , and was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards . The album debuted at number two on the U . S . Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 98 , 000 album units , and was certified Platinum by the RIAA . The album received mixed to positive reviews from critics . Annie Zaleski from The A . V . Club stated that " Confident is an impressive album by a pop star who knows what she wants — and also knows exactly how to get there . " During the album ' s production , Lovato commented : " I ' ve already started recording for my new album , and I have plans to record during the tour . The sound just evolves into everything that I ' ve been and everything that I want to become . " She further stated , " I ' ve never been so sure of myself as an artist when it comes down to confidence , but not only personal things , but exactly what I want my sound to be and what I know I ' m capable of and this album will give me the opportunity to show people what I can really do . " On October , she signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . Lovato released the music video for her R & B - infused song " Waitin for You " featuring rapper Sirah on October 22 , 2015 . On October 26 , 2015 , Lovato and Nick Jonas announced that they would be touring together on the Future Now Tour , to further promote Confident , with shows in North America and Europe . Lovato was honored with the first - ever Rulebreaker Award at the 2015 Billboard Women in Music event . On March 21 , 2016 , " Stone Cold " was released as the third and final single from Confident . On July 1 , 2016 , Lovato released a new single titled " Body Say " to promote her tour .	What were your first-week sales of Confident?	Confident sold 98,000 album units in its first week.
Lovato ' s fifth album , Confident , was released on October 16 , 2015 , and was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards . The album debuted at number two on the U . S . Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 98 , 000 album units , and was certified Platinum by the RIAA . The album received mixed to positive reviews from critics . Annie Zaleski from The A . V . Club stated that " Confident is an impressive album by a pop star who knows what she wants — and also knows exactly how to get there . " During the album ' s production , Lovato commented : " I ' ve already started recording for my new album , and I have plans to record during the tour . The sound just evolves into everything that I ' ve been and everything that I want to become . " She further stated , " I ' ve never been so sure of myself as an artist when it comes down to confidence , but not only personal things , but exactly what I want my sound to be and what I know I ' m capable of and this album will give me the opportunity to show people what I can really do . " On October , she signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . Lovato released the music video for her R & B - infused song " Waitin for You " featuring rapper Sirah on October 22 , 2015 . On October 26 , 2015 , Lovato and Nick Jonas announced that they would be touring together on the Future Now Tour , to further promote Confident , with shows in North America and Europe . Lovato was honored with the first - ever Rulebreaker Award at the 2015 Billboard Women in Music event . On March 21 , 2016 , " Stone Cold " was released as the third and final single from Confident . On July 1 , 2016 , Lovato released a new single titled " Body Say " to promote her tour .	What certification did your album Confident receive from the RIAA?	My album Confident was certified Platinum by the RIAA.
In November 2017 , Lovato released the single " É chame la Culpa " with Puerto Rican singer Luis Fonsi . Lovato performed at the March for Our Lives anti - gun violence rally in Washington , D . C . on March 24 , 2018 . In May , Lovato was featured on Christina Aguilera ' s " Fall in Line " and Clean Bandit ' s " Solo " . The latter became Lovato ' s first number - one song in the United Kingdom . On June 21 , Lovato released a new single , titled " Sober " , which she referred to as " my truth " ; it discusses struggles with addiction and sobriety . The Tell Me You Love Me World Tour concluded the following month , having originally been scheduled to end in November 2018 .	When did you release the single "É chame la Culpa"?	In November 2017.
In November 2017 , Lovato released the single " É chame la Culpa " with Puerto Rican singer Luis Fonsi . Lovato performed at the March for Our Lives anti - gun violence rally in Washington , D . C . on March 24 , 2018 . In May , Lovato was featured on Christina Aguilera ' s " Fall in Line " and Clean Bandit ' s " Solo " . The latter became Lovato ' s first number - one song in the United Kingdom . On June 21 , Lovato released a new single , titled " Sober " , which she referred to as " my truth " ; it discusses struggles with addiction and sobriety . The Tell Me You Love Me World Tour concluded the following month , having originally been scheduled to end in November 2018 .	Who did you perform with at the March for Our Lives rally?	I performed with Puerto Rican singer Luis Fonsi.
In November 2017 , Lovato released the single " É chame la Culpa " with Puerto Rican singer Luis Fonsi . Lovato performed at the March for Our Lives anti - gun violence rally in Washington , D . C . on March 24 , 2018 . In May , Lovato was featured on Christina Aguilera ' s " Fall in Line " and Clean Bandit ' s " Solo " . The latter became Lovato ' s first number - one song in the United Kingdom . On June 21 , Lovato released a new single , titled " Sober " , which she referred to as " my truth " ; it discusses struggles with addiction and sobriety . The Tell Me You Love Me World Tour concluded the following month , having originally been scheduled to end in November 2018 .	Which two songs were you featured on in May?	I was featured on Christina Aguilera's "Fall in Line" and Clean Bandit's "Solo".
In November 2017 , Lovato released the single " É chame la Culpa " with Puerto Rican singer Luis Fonsi . Lovato performed at the March for Our Lives anti - gun violence rally in Washington , D . C . on March 24 , 2018 . In May , Lovato was featured on Christina Aguilera ' s " Fall in Line " and Clean Bandit ' s " Solo " . The latter became Lovato ' s first number - one song in the United Kingdom . On June 21 , Lovato released a new single , titled " Sober " , which she referred to as " my truth " ; it discusses struggles with addiction and sobriety . The Tell Me You Love Me World Tour concluded the following month , having originally been scheduled to end in November 2018 .	What achievement did your song "Solo" have in the United Kingdom?	"Solo" became my first number-one song in the United Kingdom.
In November 2017 , Lovato released the single " É chame la Culpa " with Puerto Rican singer Luis Fonsi . Lovato performed at the March for Our Lives anti - gun violence rally in Washington , D . C . on March 24 , 2018 . In May , Lovato was featured on Christina Aguilera ' s " Fall in Line " and Clean Bandit ' s " Solo " . The latter became Lovato ' s first number - one song in the United Kingdom . On June 21 , Lovato released a new single , titled " Sober " , which she referred to as " my truth " ; it discusses struggles with addiction and sobriety . The Tell Me You Love Me World Tour concluded the following month , having originally been scheduled to end in November 2018 .	When did you release the single "Sober"?	I released the single "Sober" on June 21.
In January 2020 , Lovato made her first musical appearance since her hiatus with a performance of single " Anyone " at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards . The song , which was recorded four days prior to her 2018 drug overdose , was released on iTunes immediately after . On February 2 , 2020 , Lovato performed " The Star - Spangled Banner " at Super Bowl LIV . On March 6 , Lovato released a new single titled " I Love Me " . The release was supplemented by both a guest appearance and guest - host role on The Ellen DeGeneres Show . On April 16 , she released a collaboration with Sam Smith titled " I ' m Ready " . A remix of " Lonely Hearts " by JoJo featuring Lovato was released on August 28 , 2020 . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , Lovato received two nominations for her song " I Love Me " , becoming the first artist in VMA history to receive a nomination every year for eight consecutive years . On September 10 , Lovato released a collaboration with American DJ Marshmello , titled " OK Not to Be OK " , in partnership with the Hope For The Day suicide prevention movement . On September 30 , 2020 , Lovato released " Still Have Me " via Twitter ; the song was later released on digital platforms . On October 14 , she released a political ballad titled " Commander in Chief " , ahead of the 2020 presidential election . She hosted the 46th People ' s Choice Awards on November 15 , 2020 . On November 20 , she featured on American rapper Jeezy ' s song " My Reputation " from his album The Recession 2 . On December 4 , Lovato featured on a remix of the song " Monsters " by rock band All Time Low , alongside Blackbear .	When did you make your first musical appearance after your hiatus?	In January 2020.
In January 2020 , Lovato made her first musical appearance since her hiatus with a performance of single " Anyone " at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards . The song , which was recorded four days prior to her 2018 drug overdose , was released on iTunes immediately after . On February 2 , 2020 , Lovato performed " The Star - Spangled Banner " at Super Bowl LIV . On March 6 , Lovato released a new single titled " I Love Me " . The release was supplemented by both a guest appearance and guest - host role on The Ellen DeGeneres Show . On April 16 , she released a collaboration with Sam Smith titled " I ' m Ready " . A remix of " Lonely Hearts " by JoJo featuring Lovato was released on August 28 , 2020 . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , Lovato received two nominations for her song " I Love Me " , becoming the first artist in VMA history to receive a nomination every year for eight consecutive years . On September 10 , Lovato released a collaboration with American DJ Marshmello , titled " OK Not to Be OK " , in partnership with the Hope For The Day suicide prevention movement . On September 30 , 2020 , Lovato released " Still Have Me " via Twitter ; the song was later released on digital platforms . On October 14 , she released a political ballad titled " Commander in Chief " , ahead of the 2020 presidential election . She hosted the 46th People ' s Choice Awards on November 15 , 2020 . On November 20 , she featured on American rapper Jeezy ' s song " My Reputation " from his album The Recession 2 . On December 4 , Lovato featured on a remix of the song " Monsters " by rock band All Time Low , alongside Blackbear .	What was the name of the single you performed at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards?	"Anyone".
In January 2020 , Lovato made her first musical appearance since her hiatus with a performance of single " Anyone " at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards . The song , which was recorded four days prior to her 2018 drug overdose , was released on iTunes immediately after . On February 2 , 2020 , Lovato performed " The Star - Spangled Banner " at Super Bowl LIV . On March 6 , Lovato released a new single titled " I Love Me " . The release was supplemented by both a guest appearance and guest - host role on The Ellen DeGeneres Show . On April 16 , she released a collaboration with Sam Smith titled " I ' m Ready " . A remix of " Lonely Hearts " by JoJo featuring Lovato was released on August 28 , 2020 . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , Lovato received two nominations for her song " I Love Me " , becoming the first artist in VMA history to receive a nomination every year for eight consecutive years . On September 10 , Lovato released a collaboration with American DJ Marshmello , titled " OK Not to Be OK " , in partnership with the Hope For The Day suicide prevention movement . On September 30 , 2020 , Lovato released " Still Have Me " via Twitter ; the song was later released on digital platforms . On October 14 , she released a political ballad titled " Commander in Chief " , ahead of the 2020 presidential election . She hosted the 46th People ' s Choice Awards on November 15 , 2020 . On November 20 , she featured on American rapper Jeezy ' s song " My Reputation " from his album The Recession 2 . On December 4 , Lovato featured on a remix of the song " Monsters " by rock band All Time Low , alongside Blackbear .	When did you perform "The Star-Spangled Banner" at Super Bowl LIV?	On February 2, 2020.
In January 2020 , Lovato made her first musical appearance since her hiatus with a performance of single " Anyone " at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards . The song , which was recorded four days prior to her 2018 drug overdose , was released on iTunes immediately after . On February 2 , 2020 , Lovato performed " The Star - Spangled Banner " at Super Bowl LIV . On March 6 , Lovato released a new single titled " I Love Me " . The release was supplemented by both a guest appearance and guest - host role on The Ellen DeGeneres Show . On April 16 , she released a collaboration with Sam Smith titled " I ' m Ready " . A remix of " Lonely Hearts " by JoJo featuring Lovato was released on August 28 , 2020 . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , Lovato received two nominations for her song " I Love Me " , becoming the first artist in VMA history to receive a nomination every year for eight consecutive years . On September 10 , Lovato released a collaboration with American DJ Marshmello , titled " OK Not to Be OK " , in partnership with the Hope For The Day suicide prevention movement . On September 30 , 2020 , Lovato released " Still Have Me " via Twitter ; the song was later released on digital platforms . On October 14 , she released a political ballad titled " Commander in Chief " , ahead of the 2020 presidential election . She hosted the 46th People ' s Choice Awards on November 15 , 2020 . On November 20 , she featured on American rapper Jeezy ' s song " My Reputation " from his album The Recession 2 . On December 4 , Lovato featured on a remix of the song " Monsters " by rock band All Time Low , alongside Blackbear .	When was your single "I Love Me" released?	On March 6, 2020.
In January 2020 , Lovato made her first musical appearance since her hiatus with a performance of single " Anyone " at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards . The song , which was recorded four days prior to her 2018 drug overdose , was released on iTunes immediately after . On February 2 , 2020 , Lovato performed " The Star - Spangled Banner " at Super Bowl LIV . On March 6 , Lovato released a new single titled " I Love Me " . The release was supplemented by both a guest appearance and guest - host role on The Ellen DeGeneres Show . On April 16 , she released a collaboration with Sam Smith titled " I ' m Ready " . A remix of " Lonely Hearts " by JoJo featuring Lovato was released on August 28 , 2020 . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , Lovato received two nominations for her song " I Love Me " , becoming the first artist in VMA history to receive a nomination every year for eight consecutive years . On September 10 , Lovato released a collaboration with American DJ Marshmello , titled " OK Not to Be OK " , in partnership with the Hope For The Day suicide prevention movement . On September 30 , 2020 , Lovato released " Still Have Me " via Twitter ; the song was later released on digital platforms . On October 14 , she released a political ballad titled " Commander in Chief " , ahead of the 2020 presidential election . She hosted the 46th People ' s Choice Awards on November 15 , 2020 . On November 20 , she featured on American rapper Jeezy ' s song " My Reputation " from his album The Recession 2 . On December 4 , Lovato featured on a remix of the song " Monsters " by rock band All Time Low , alongside Blackbear .	Which collaboration did you release with Sam Smith?	"I'm Ready".
A four - part documentary series following Lovato ' s life premiered on YouTube in March 2021 . The series , titled Demi Lovato : Dancing with the Devil , was directed by Michael D . Ratner and showcased her personal and musical journey over the past three years . It was later announced that Lovato ' s seventh studio album , titled Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over , would be released on April 2 , 2021 . Lovato defined it " the non - official soundtrack to the documentary " . The album features collaborations with Ariana Grande , Noah Cyrus and Saweetie , as well as the previously released " What Other People Say " , a collaboration between Lovato and Australian singer - songwriter Sam Fischer , initially released on February 4 , 2021 . Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over debuted at number two on the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 74 , 000 album - equivalent units in the US . Prior to the release of the album , Lovato released one of the two title tracks " Dancing with the Devil " on March 26 , and " Met Him Last Night " on April 1 , 2021 . The Dave Aud é remix of the song was nominated for Best Remixed Recording at the 64th Annual Grammy Awards . On August 20 , 2021 , Lovato released the " Melon Cake " music video .	When did your documentary series "Dancing with the Devil" premiere on YouTube?	My documentary series "Dancing with the Devil" premiered on YouTube in March 2021.
A four - part documentary series following Lovato ' s life premiered on YouTube in March 2021 . The series , titled Demi Lovato : Dancing with the Devil , was directed by Michael D . Ratner and showcased her personal and musical journey over the past three years . It was later announced that Lovato ' s seventh studio album , titled Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over , would be released on April 2 , 2021 . Lovato defined it " the non - official soundtrack to the documentary " . The album features collaborations with Ariana Grande , Noah Cyrus and Saweetie , as well as the previously released " What Other People Say " , a collaboration between Lovato and Australian singer - songwriter Sam Fischer , initially released on February 4 , 2021 . Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over debuted at number two on the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 74 , 000 album - equivalent units in the US . Prior to the release of the album , Lovato released one of the two title tracks " Dancing with the Devil " on March 26 , and " Met Him Last Night " on April 1 , 2021 . The Dave Aud é remix of the song was nominated for Best Remixed Recording at the 64th Annual Grammy Awards . On August 20 , 2021 , Lovato released the " Melon Cake " music video .	Who directed the documentary series "Dancing with the Devil"?	Michael D. Ratner directed the documentary series "Dancing with the Devil".
A four - part documentary series following Lovato ' s life premiered on YouTube in March 2021 . The series , titled Demi Lovato : Dancing with the Devil , was directed by Michael D . Ratner and showcased her personal and musical journey over the past three years . It was later announced that Lovato ' s seventh studio album , titled Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over , would be released on April 2 , 2021 . Lovato defined it " the non - official soundtrack to the documentary " . The album features collaborations with Ariana Grande , Noah Cyrus and Saweetie , as well as the previously released " What Other People Say " , a collaboration between Lovato and Australian singer - songwriter Sam Fischer , initially released on February 4 , 2021 . Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over debuted at number two on the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 74 , 000 album - equivalent units in the US . Prior to the release of the album , Lovato released one of the two title tracks " Dancing with the Devil " on March 26 , and " Met Him Last Night " on April 1 , 2021 . The Dave Aud é remix of the song was nominated for Best Remixed Recording at the 64th Annual Grammy Awards . On August 20 , 2021 , Lovato released the " Melon Cake " music video .	What is the title of your seventh studio album?	The title of my seventh studio album is "Dancing with the Devil... the Art of Starting Over".
A four - part documentary series following Lovato ' s life premiered on YouTube in March 2021 . The series , titled Demi Lovato : Dancing with the Devil , was directed by Michael D . Ratner and showcased her personal and musical journey over the past three years . It was later announced that Lovato ' s seventh studio album , titled Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over , would be released on April 2 , 2021 . Lovato defined it " the non - official soundtrack to the documentary " . The album features collaborations with Ariana Grande , Noah Cyrus and Saweetie , as well as the previously released " What Other People Say " , a collaboration between Lovato and Australian singer - songwriter Sam Fischer , initially released on February 4 , 2021 . Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over debuted at number two on the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 74 , 000 album - equivalent units in the US . Prior to the release of the album , Lovato released one of the two title tracks " Dancing with the Devil " on March 26 , and " Met Him Last Night " on April 1 , 2021 . The Dave Aud é remix of the song was nominated for Best Remixed Recording at the 64th Annual Grammy Awards . On August 20 , 2021 , Lovato released the " Melon Cake " music video .	When was your seventh studio album released?	My seventh studio album was released on April 2, 2021.
A four - part documentary series following Lovato ' s life premiered on YouTube in March 2021 . The series , titled Demi Lovato : Dancing with the Devil , was directed by Michael D . Ratner and showcased her personal and musical journey over the past three years . It was later announced that Lovato ' s seventh studio album , titled Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over , would be released on April 2 , 2021 . Lovato defined it " the non - official soundtrack to the documentary " . The album features collaborations with Ariana Grande , Noah Cyrus and Saweetie , as well as the previously released " What Other People Say " , a collaboration between Lovato and Australian singer - songwriter Sam Fischer , initially released on February 4 , 2021 . Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over debuted at number two on the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 74 , 000 album - equivalent units in the US . Prior to the release of the album , Lovato released one of the two title tracks " Dancing with the Devil " on March 26 , and " Met Him Last Night " on April 1 , 2021 . The Dave Aud é remix of the song was nominated for Best Remixed Recording at the 64th Annual Grammy Awards . On August 20 , 2021 , Lovato released the " Melon Cake " music video .	What is the name of the collaboration between you and Australian singer-songwriter Sam Fischer?	The collaboration between me and Australian singer-songwriter Sam Fischer is called "What Other People Say".
In early 2022 , Lovato began teasing her eighth studio album , and described this as " more rock than anything " . She stated that the record is reminiscent of her debut studio album , Don ' t Forget ( 2008 ) , and would explore " heaviness " in its sound . Lovato further called the album her " absolute best yet " and " so representative of me " . The singer appeared on " FIIMY ( Fuck It , I Miss You ) " , a collaboration with Winnetka Bowling League , which was released on February 4 , 2022 . On May 23 , 2022 , she confirmed that " Skin of My Teeth " would serve as the lead single from her forthcoming album , which was ultimately released on June 10 . Lovato premiered " Skin of My Teeth " on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon on June 9 . On June 6 , the title of the album was officially announced as Holy Fvck , which was released on August 19 , 2022 , preceded by two other singles : " Substance " and " 29 " . In support of this album , she embarked on the Holy Fvck Tour , which commenced on August 13 , 2022 .	When did you begin teasing your eighth studio album?	In early 2022.
In early 2022 , Lovato began teasing her eighth studio album , and described this as " more rock than anything " . She stated that the record is reminiscent of her debut studio album , Don ' t Forget ( 2008 ) , and would explore " heaviness " in its sound . Lovato further called the album her " absolute best yet " and " so representative of me " . The singer appeared on " FIIMY ( Fuck It , I Miss You ) " , a collaboration with Winnetka Bowling League , which was released on February 4 , 2022 . On May 23 , 2022 , she confirmed that " Skin of My Teeth " would serve as the lead single from her forthcoming album , which was ultimately released on June 10 . Lovato premiered " Skin of My Teeth " on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon on June 9 . On June 6 , the title of the album was officially announced as Holy Fvck , which was released on August 19 , 2022 , preceded by two other singles : " Substance " and " 29 " . In support of this album , she embarked on the Holy Fvck Tour , which commenced on August 13 , 2022 .	How do you describe your eighth studio album?	I described it as "more rock than anything" and said it is reminiscent of my debut studio album, "Don't Forget".
In early 2022 , Lovato began teasing her eighth studio album , and described this as " more rock than anything " . She stated that the record is reminiscent of her debut studio album , Don ' t Forget ( 2008 ) , and would explore " heaviness " in its sound . Lovato further called the album her " absolute best yet " and " so representative of me " . The singer appeared on " FIIMY ( Fuck It , I Miss You ) " , a collaboration with Winnetka Bowling League , which was released on February 4 , 2022 . On May 23 , 2022 , she confirmed that " Skin of My Teeth " would serve as the lead single from her forthcoming album , which was ultimately released on June 10 . Lovato premiered " Skin of My Teeth " on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon on June 9 . On June 6 , the title of the album was officially announced as Holy Fvck , which was released on August 19 , 2022 , preceded by two other singles : " Substance " and " 29 " . In support of this album , she embarked on the Holy Fvck Tour , which commenced on August 13 , 2022 .	What did you say about the sound of the album?	I said the album would explore "heaviness" in its sound.
In early 2022 , Lovato began teasing her eighth studio album , and described this as " more rock than anything " . She stated that the record is reminiscent of her debut studio album , Don ' t Forget ( 2008 ) , and would explore " heaviness " in its sound . Lovato further called the album her " absolute best yet " and " so representative of me " . The singer appeared on " FIIMY ( Fuck It , I Miss You ) " , a collaboration with Winnetka Bowling League , which was released on February 4 , 2022 . On May 23 , 2022 , she confirmed that " Skin of My Teeth " would serve as the lead single from her forthcoming album , which was ultimately released on June 10 . Lovato premiered " Skin of My Teeth " on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon on June 9 . On June 6 , the title of the album was officially announced as Holy Fvck , which was released on August 19 , 2022 , preceded by two other singles : " Substance " and " 29 " . In support of this album , she embarked on the Holy Fvck Tour , which commenced on August 13 , 2022 .	What did you call your eighth studio album?	I called it my "absolute best yet" and "so representative of me".
In early 2022 , Lovato began teasing her eighth studio album , and described this as " more rock than anything " . She stated that the record is reminiscent of her debut studio album , Don ' t Forget ( 2008 ) , and would explore " heaviness " in its sound . Lovato further called the album her " absolute best yet " and " so representative of me " . The singer appeared on " FIIMY ( Fuck It , I Miss You ) " , a collaboration with Winnetka Bowling League , which was released on February 4 , 2022 . On May 23 , 2022 , she confirmed that " Skin of My Teeth " would serve as the lead single from her forthcoming album , which was ultimately released on June 10 . Lovato premiered " Skin of My Teeth " on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon on June 9 . On June 6 , the title of the album was officially announced as Holy Fvck , which was released on August 19 , 2022 , preceded by two other singles : " Substance " and " 29 " . In support of this album , she embarked on the Holy Fvck Tour , which commenced on August 13 , 2022 .	When was the album "Holy Fvck" released?	The album was released on August 19, 2022.
Throughout her career , Lovato has donated to and partnered with various charities . In 2009 , she recorded the theme song " Send It On " with the Jonas Brothers , Miley Cyrus , and Selena Gomez for the Disney ' s Friends for Change program . The song debuted on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 20 , and its proceeds were directed to environmental charities through the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund . Lovato and Joe Jonas recorded the song " Make a Wave " for the charity in March 2010 . In August 2013 , she traveled to Kenya for her 21st birthday to participate in a program of the international charity organization Free the Children . She returned to Kenya in January 2017 with We Movement to work with women and children . In March 2017 , as a celebration of her five - year anniversary of sobriety , Lovato donated money to Los Angeles - based charities specializing in animal , LGBT and adoption rights . In August 2017 , Lovato donated $ 50000 to Hurricane Harvey relief and started fund with Nick Jonas , DNCE and her then - manager Phil McIntyre . Lovato ' s second limited edition activewear collection with Fabletics , released in June 2020 , pledged up to $ 125 , 000 in proceeds to COVID - 19 pandemic relief efforts . As spokesperson for the Join the Surge Campaign , DoSomething . Org and Joining the Surge by Clean & Clear , she has encouraged fans to take action in their own communities .	Who did you record the theme song "Send It On" with?	I recorded the theme song "Send It On" with the Jonas Brothers, Miley Cyrus, and Selena Gomez.
Throughout her career , Lovato has donated to and partnered with various charities . In 2009 , she recorded the theme song " Send It On " with the Jonas Brothers , Miley Cyrus , and Selena Gomez for the Disney ' s Friends for Change program . The song debuted on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 20 , and its proceeds were directed to environmental charities through the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund . Lovato and Joe Jonas recorded the song " Make a Wave " for the charity in March 2010 . In August 2013 , she traveled to Kenya for her 21st birthday to participate in a program of the international charity organization Free the Children . She returned to Kenya in January 2017 with We Movement to work with women and children . In March 2017 , as a celebration of her five - year anniversary of sobriety , Lovato donated money to Los Angeles - based charities specializing in animal , LGBT and adoption rights . In August 2017 , Lovato donated $ 50000 to Hurricane Harvey relief and started fund with Nick Jonas , DNCE and her then - manager Phil McIntyre . Lovato ' s second limited edition activewear collection with Fabletics , released in June 2020 , pledged up to $ 125 , 000 in proceeds to COVID - 19 pandemic relief efforts . As spokesperson for the Join the Surge Campaign , DoSomething . Org and Joining the Surge by Clean & Clear , she has encouraged fans to take action in their own communities .	What was the purpose of "Send It On" song's proceeds?	The proceeds from the "Send It On" song were directed to environmental charities through the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund.
Throughout her career , Lovato has donated to and partnered with various charities . In 2009 , she recorded the theme song " Send It On " with the Jonas Brothers , Miley Cyrus , and Selena Gomez for the Disney ' s Friends for Change program . The song debuted on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 20 , and its proceeds were directed to environmental charities through the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund . Lovato and Joe Jonas recorded the song " Make a Wave " for the charity in March 2010 . In August 2013 , she traveled to Kenya for her 21st birthday to participate in a program of the international charity organization Free the Children . She returned to Kenya in January 2017 with We Movement to work with women and children . In March 2017 , as a celebration of her five - year anniversary of sobriety , Lovato donated money to Los Angeles - based charities specializing in animal , LGBT and adoption rights . In August 2017 , Lovato donated $ 50000 to Hurricane Harvey relief and started fund with Nick Jonas , DNCE and her then - manager Phil McIntyre . Lovato ' s second limited edition activewear collection with Fabletics , released in June 2020 , pledged up to $ 125 , 000 in proceeds to COVID - 19 pandemic relief efforts . As spokesperson for the Join the Surge Campaign , DoSomething . Org and Joining the Surge by Clean & Clear , she has encouraged fans to take action in their own communities .	Which charity organization did you travel to Kenya for?	I traveled to Kenya for my 21st birthday to participate in a program of the international charity organization Free the Children.
Throughout her career , Lovato has donated to and partnered with various charities . In 2009 , she recorded the theme song " Send It On " with the Jonas Brothers , Miley Cyrus , and Selena Gomez for the Disney ' s Friends for Change program . The song debuted on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 20 , and its proceeds were directed to environmental charities through the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund . Lovato and Joe Jonas recorded the song " Make a Wave " for the charity in March 2010 . In August 2013 , she traveled to Kenya for her 21st birthday to participate in a program of the international charity organization Free the Children . She returned to Kenya in January 2017 with We Movement to work with women and children . In March 2017 , as a celebration of her five - year anniversary of sobriety , Lovato donated money to Los Angeles - based charities specializing in animal , LGBT and adoption rights . In August 2017 , Lovato donated $ 50000 to Hurricane Harvey relief and started fund with Nick Jonas , DNCE and her then - manager Phil McIntyre . Lovato ' s second limited edition activewear collection with Fabletics , released in June 2020 , pledged up to $ 125 , 000 in proceeds to COVID - 19 pandemic relief efforts . As spokesperson for the Join the Surge Campaign , DoSomething . Org and Joining the Surge by Clean & Clear , she has encouraged fans to take action in their own communities .	What types of charities did you donate money to in celebration of your five-year anniversary of sobriety?	In celebration of my five-year anniversary of sobriety, I donated money to Los Angeles-based charities specializing in animal, LGBT, and adoption rights.
Throughout her career , Lovato has donated to and partnered with various charities . In 2009 , she recorded the theme song " Send It On " with the Jonas Brothers , Miley Cyrus , and Selena Gomez for the Disney ' s Friends for Change program . The song debuted on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 20 , and its proceeds were directed to environmental charities through the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund . Lovato and Joe Jonas recorded the song " Make a Wave " for the charity in March 2010 . In August 2013 , she traveled to Kenya for her 21st birthday to participate in a program of the international charity organization Free the Children . She returned to Kenya in January 2017 with We Movement to work with women and children . In March 2017 , as a celebration of her five - year anniversary of sobriety , Lovato donated money to Los Angeles - based charities specializing in animal , LGBT and adoption rights . In August 2017 , Lovato donated $ 50000 to Hurricane Harvey relief and started fund with Nick Jonas , DNCE and her then - manager Phil McIntyre . Lovato ' s second limited edition activewear collection with Fabletics , released in June 2020 , pledged up to $ 125 , 000 in proceeds to COVID - 19 pandemic relief efforts . As spokesperson for the Join the Surge Campaign , DoSomething . Org and Joining the Surge by Clean & Clear , she has encouraged fans to take action in their own communities .	How much did you donate to Hurricane Harvey relief in August 2017?	I donated $50,000 to Hurricane Harvey relief in August 2017.
Lovato became a brand ambassador for the JBL audio company in 2017 and for the mug company Ember in 2018 . That year , she starred in CORE Hydration ' s " Finding Balance " campaign ; she had become an initial investor of CORE Hydration after first discovering the brand in 2015 . Jaguar , JBL , Lyft , Ferrari , TikTok and Samsung products have been featured in Lovato ' s music videos . She also appeared in commercials for Skechers , Acuvue , Apple , and Fabletics . In 2019 , Dior used Lovato ' s song " Only Forever " from the album Tell Me You Love Me in a series of commercials and social media posts to promote the brand ' s " Dior Forever " makeup collection ; the brand later used Lovato ' s song " Confident " in March 2021 to promote a new " Dior Forever " foundation in a series of social media campaigns . Since September 2020 , Lovato has served as a Mental Health Spokesperson for the online and mobile therapy company Talkspace . In November 2021 , Lovato announced the launch of her own vibrator , named Demi Wand , in partnership with Bellesa . The same month , she became Gaia , Inc . ' s first celebrity ambassador ; this endorsement attracted criticism from fans and the media due to the contents of the platform , which are widely described as promoting conspiracy theories .	When did you become a brand ambassador for JBL audio company?	I became a brand ambassador for the JBL audio company in 2017.
Lovato became a brand ambassador for the JBL audio company in 2017 and for the mug company Ember in 2018 . That year , she starred in CORE Hydration ' s " Finding Balance " campaign ; she had become an initial investor of CORE Hydration after first discovering the brand in 2015 . Jaguar , JBL , Lyft , Ferrari , TikTok and Samsung products have been featured in Lovato ' s music videos . She also appeared in commercials for Skechers , Acuvue , Apple , and Fabletics . In 2019 , Dior used Lovato ' s song " Only Forever " from the album Tell Me You Love Me in a series of commercials and social media posts to promote the brand ' s " Dior Forever " makeup collection ; the brand later used Lovato ' s song " Confident " in March 2021 to promote a new " Dior Forever " foundation in a series of social media campaigns . Since September 2020 , Lovato has served as a Mental Health Spokesperson for the online and mobile therapy company Talkspace . In November 2021 , Lovato announced the launch of her own vibrator , named Demi Wand , in partnership with Bellesa . The same month , she became Gaia , Inc . ' s first celebrity ambassador ; this endorsement attracted criticism from fans and the media due to the contents of the platform , which are widely described as promoting conspiracy theories .	Which mug company did you become a brand ambassador for in 2018?	I became a brand ambassador for the mug company Ember in 2018.
Lovato became a brand ambassador for the JBL audio company in 2017 and for the mug company Ember in 2018 . That year , she starred in CORE Hydration ' s " Finding Balance " campaign ; she had become an initial investor of CORE Hydration after first discovering the brand in 2015 . Jaguar , JBL , Lyft , Ferrari , TikTok and Samsung products have been featured in Lovato ' s music videos . She also appeared in commercials for Skechers , Acuvue , Apple , and Fabletics . In 2019 , Dior used Lovato ' s song " Only Forever " from the album Tell Me You Love Me in a series of commercials and social media posts to promote the brand ' s " Dior Forever " makeup collection ; the brand later used Lovato ' s song " Confident " in March 2021 to promote a new " Dior Forever " foundation in a series of social media campaigns . Since September 2020 , Lovato has served as a Mental Health Spokesperson for the online and mobile therapy company Talkspace . In November 2021 , Lovato announced the launch of her own vibrator , named Demi Wand , in partnership with Bellesa . The same month , she became Gaia , Inc . ' s first celebrity ambassador ; this endorsement attracted criticism from fans and the media due to the contents of the platform , which are widely described as promoting conspiracy theories .	In which year did you star in CORE Hydration's "Finding Balance" campaign?	I starred in CORE Hydration's "Finding Balance" campaign in that year.
Lovato became a brand ambassador for the JBL audio company in 2017 and for the mug company Ember in 2018 . That year , she starred in CORE Hydration ' s " Finding Balance " campaign ; she had become an initial investor of CORE Hydration after first discovering the brand in 2015 . Jaguar , JBL , Lyft , Ferrari , TikTok and Samsung products have been featured in Lovato ' s music videos . She also appeared in commercials for Skechers , Acuvue , Apple , and Fabletics . In 2019 , Dior used Lovato ' s song " Only Forever " from the album Tell Me You Love Me in a series of commercials and social media posts to promote the brand ' s " Dior Forever " makeup collection ; the brand later used Lovato ' s song " Confident " in March 2021 to promote a new " Dior Forever " foundation in a series of social media campaigns . Since September 2020 , Lovato has served as a Mental Health Spokesperson for the online and mobile therapy company Talkspace . In November 2021 , Lovato announced the launch of her own vibrator , named Demi Wand , in partnership with Bellesa . The same month , she became Gaia , Inc . ' s first celebrity ambassador ; this endorsement attracted criticism from fans and the media due to the contents of the platform , which are widely described as promoting conspiracy theories .	When did you first discover the brand CORE Hydration?	I first discovered the brand CORE Hydration in 2015.
Lovato became a brand ambassador for the JBL audio company in 2017 and for the mug company Ember in 2018 . That year , she starred in CORE Hydration ' s " Finding Balance " campaign ; she had become an initial investor of CORE Hydration after first discovering the brand in 2015 . Jaguar , JBL , Lyft , Ferrari , TikTok and Samsung products have been featured in Lovato ' s music videos . She also appeared in commercials for Skechers , Acuvue , Apple , and Fabletics . In 2019 , Dior used Lovato ' s song " Only Forever " from the album Tell Me You Love Me in a series of commercials and social media posts to promote the brand ' s " Dior Forever " makeup collection ; the brand later used Lovato ' s song " Confident " in March 2021 to promote a new " Dior Forever " foundation in a series of social media campaigns . Since September 2020 , Lovato has served as a Mental Health Spokesperson for the online and mobile therapy company Talkspace . In November 2021 , Lovato announced the launch of her own vibrator , named Demi Wand , in partnership with Bellesa . The same month , she became Gaia , Inc . ' s first celebrity ambassador ; this endorsement attracted criticism from fans and the media due to the contents of the platform , which are widely described as promoting conspiracy theories .	Which online and mobile therapy company have you served as a Mental Health Spokesperson for since September 2020?	I have served as a Mental Health Spokesperson for the online and mobile therapy company Talkspace since September 2020.
