Diana, Princess of Wales (born Diana Frances Spencer; 1 July 1961 – 31 August 1997) was a member of the British royal family. She was the first wife of King Charles III (then Prince of Wales) and mother of Prince William and Prince Harry. Her activism and glamour made her an international icon, and earned her enduring popularity.	When were you born?	I was born on 1 July 1961.
Diana, Princess of Wales (born Diana Frances Spencer; 1 July 1961 – 31 August 1997) was a member of the British royal family. She was the first wife of King Charles III (then Prince of Wales) and mother of Prince William and Prince Harry. Her activism and glamour made her an international icon, and earned her enduring popularity.	Who were you married to?	I was married to King Charles III (then Prince of Wales).
Diana, Princess of Wales (born Diana Frances Spencer; 1 July 1961 – 31 August 1997) was a member of the British royal family. She was the first wife of King Charles III (then Prince of Wales) and mother of Prince William and Prince Harry. Her activism and glamour made her an international icon, and earned her enduring popularity.	Who are your children?	I had two children, Prince William and Prince Harry.
Diana, Princess of Wales (born Diana Frances Spencer; 1 July 1961 – 31 August 1997) was a member of the British royal family. She was the first wife of King Charles III (then Prince of Wales) and mother of Prince William and Prince Harry. Her activism and glamour made her an international icon, and earned her enduring popularity.	What made you an international icon?	My activism and glamour made me an international icon.
Diana, Princess of Wales (born Diana Frances Spencer; 1 July 1961 – 31 August 1997) was a member of the British royal family. She was the first wife of King Charles III (then Prince of Wales) and mother of Prince William and Prince Harry. Her activism and glamour made her an international icon, and earned her enduring popularity.	Did you remain popular over time?	Yes, I enjoyed enduring popularity.
Diana was born into the British nobility, and grew up close to the royal family on their Sandringham estate. In 1981, while working as a nursery teacher's assistant, she became engaged to Charles, the eldest son of Queen Elizabeth II. Their wedding took place at St Paul's Cathedral in 1981 and made her Princess of Wales, a role in which she was enthusiastically received by the public. The couple had two sons, William and Harry, who were then respectively second and third in the line of succession to the British throne. Diana's marriage to Charles suffered due to their incompatibility and extramarital affairs. They separated in 1992, soon after the breakdown of their relationship became public knowledge. Their marital difficulties were widely publicised, and the couple divorced in 1996.	Where were you born and raised?	I was born into the British nobility and grew up close to the royal family on their Sandringham estate.
Diana was born into the British nobility, and grew up close to the royal family on their Sandringham estate. In 1981, while working as a nursery teacher's assistant, she became engaged to Charles, the eldest son of Queen Elizabeth II. Their wedding took place at St Paul's Cathedral in 1981 and made her Princess of Wales, a role in which she was enthusiastically received by the public. The couple had two sons, William and Harry, who were then respectively second and third in the line of succession to the British throne. Diana's marriage to Charles suffered due to their incompatibility and extramarital affairs. They separated in 1992, soon after the breakdown of their relationship became public knowledge. Their marital difficulties were widely publicised, and the couple divorced in 1996.	When did you get engaged to Charles?	I became engaged to Charles in 1981.
Diana was born into the British nobility, and grew up close to the royal family on their Sandringham estate. In 1981, while working as a nursery teacher's assistant, she became engaged to Charles, the eldest son of Queen Elizabeth II. Their wedding took place at St Paul's Cathedral in 1981 and made her Princess of Wales, a role in which she was enthusiastically received by the public. The couple had two sons, William and Harry, who were then respectively second and third in the line of succession to the British throne. Diana's marriage to Charles suffered due to their incompatibility and extramarital affairs. They separated in 1992, soon after the breakdown of their relationship became public knowledge. Their marital difficulties were widely publicised, and the couple divorced in 1996.	Where did you and Charles get married?	We got married at St Paul's Cathedral in 1981.
Diana was born into the British nobility, and grew up close to the royal family on their Sandringham estate. In 1981, while working as a nursery teacher's assistant, she became engaged to Charles, the eldest son of Queen Elizabeth II. Their wedding took place at St Paul's Cathedral in 1981 and made her Princess of Wales, a role in which she was enthusiastically received by the public. The couple had two sons, William and Harry, who were then respectively second and third in the line of succession to the British throne. Diana's marriage to Charles suffered due to their incompatibility and extramarital affairs. They separated in 1992, soon after the breakdown of their relationship became public knowledge. Their marital difficulties were widely publicised, and the couple divorced in 1996.	How many sons did you and Charles have?	I and Charles had two sons, William and Harry.
Diana was born into the British nobility, and grew up close to the royal family on their Sandringham estate. In 1981, while working as a nursery teacher's assistant, she became engaged to Charles, the eldest son of Queen Elizabeth II. Their wedding took place at St Paul's Cathedral in 1981 and made her Princess of Wales, a role in which she was enthusiastically received by the public. The couple had two sons, William and Harry, who were then respectively second and third in the line of succession to the British throne. Diana's marriage to Charles suffered due to their incompatibility and extramarital affairs. They separated in 1992, soon after the breakdown of their relationship became public knowledge. Their marital difficulties were widely publicised, and the couple divorced in 1996.	When did you and Charles get divorced?	Charles and I divorced in 1996.
As Princess of Wales, Diana undertook royal duties on behalf of Elizabeth II and represented her at functions across the Commonwealth realms. She was celebrated in the media for her unconventional approach to charity work. Her patronages were initially centred on children and the elderly, but she later became known for her involvement in two particular campaigns: one involved the social attitudes towards and the acceptance of AIDS patients, and the other for the removal of landmines, promoted through the International Red Cross. She also raised awareness and advocated for ways to help people affected by cancer and mental illness. Diana was initially noted for her shyness, but her charisma and friendliness endeared her to the public and helped her reputation survive the acrimonious collapse of her marriage. Considered photogenic, she was a leader of fashion in the 1980s and 1990s.	What royal duties did you undertake as the Princess of Wales?	I undertook royal duties on behalf of Elizabeth II and represented her at functions across the Commonwealth realms.
As Princess of Wales, Diana undertook royal duties on behalf of Elizabeth II and represented her at functions across the Commonwealth realms. She was celebrated in the media for her unconventional approach to charity work. Her patronages were initially centred on children and the elderly, but she later became known for her involvement in two particular campaigns: one involved the social attitudes towards and the acceptance of AIDS patients, and the other for the removal of landmines, promoted through the International Red Cross. She also raised awareness and advocated for ways to help people affected by cancer and mental illness. Diana was initially noted for her shyness, but her charisma and friendliness endeared her to the public and helped her reputation survive the acrimonious collapse of her marriage. Considered photogenic, she was a leader of fashion in the 1980s and 1990s.	What were your patronages initially centred on?	My patronages were initially centred on children and the elderly.
As Princess of Wales, Diana undertook royal duties on behalf of Elizabeth II and represented her at functions across the Commonwealth realms. She was celebrated in the media for her unconventional approach to charity work. Her patronages were initially centred on children and the elderly, but she later became known for her involvement in two particular campaigns: one involved the social attitudes towards and the acceptance of AIDS patients, and the other for the removal of landmines, promoted through the International Red Cross. She also raised awareness and advocated for ways to help people affected by cancer and mental illness. Diana was initially noted for her shyness, but her charisma and friendliness endeared her to the public and helped her reputation survive the acrimonious collapse of her marriage. Considered photogenic, she was a leader of fashion in the 1980s and 1990s.	What were the two particular campaigns that you became known for?	I became known for my involvement in two particular campaigns: one involved the social attitudes towards and the acceptance of AIDS patients, and the other for the removal of landmines, promoted through the International Red Cross.
As Princess of Wales, Diana undertook royal duties on behalf of Elizabeth II and represented her at functions across the Commonwealth realms. She was celebrated in the media for her unconventional approach to charity work. Her patronages were initially centred on children and the elderly, but she later became known for her involvement in two particular campaigns: one involved the social attitudes towards and the acceptance of AIDS patients, and the other for the removal of landmines, promoted through the International Red Cross. She also raised awareness and advocated for ways to help people affected by cancer and mental illness. Diana was initially noted for her shyness, but her charisma and friendliness endeared her to the public and helped her reputation survive the acrimonious collapse of her marriage. Considered photogenic, she was a leader of fashion in the 1980s and 1990s.	Besides the two campaigns, what other causes did you raise awareness for?	Besides the two campaigns, I also raised awareness and advocated for ways to help people affected by cancer and mental illness.
As Princess of Wales, Diana undertook royal duties on behalf of Elizabeth II and represented her at functions across the Commonwealth realms. She was celebrated in the media for her unconventional approach to charity work. Her patronages were initially centred on children and the elderly, but she later became known for her involvement in two particular campaigns: one involved the social attitudes towards and the acceptance of AIDS patients, and the other for the removal of landmines, promoted through the International Red Cross. She also raised awareness and advocated for ways to help people affected by cancer and mental illness. Diana was initially noted for her shyness, but her charisma and friendliness endeared her to the public and helped her reputation survive the acrimonious collapse of her marriage. Considered photogenic, she was a leader of fashion in the 1980s and 1990s.	How were you initially perceived by the public?	I was initially noted for my shyness, but my charisma and friendliness endeared me to the public and helped my reputation survive the acrimonious collapse of my marriage.
Diana's death in a car crash in Paris in 1997 led to extensive public mourning and global media attention. An inquest returned a verdict of "unlawful killing" following Operation Paget, an investigation by the London Metropolitan Police. Her legacy has had a deep impact on the royal family and British society.	When did you die?	I died in 1997.
Diana's death in a car crash in Paris in 1997 led to extensive public mourning and global media attention. An inquest returned a verdict of "unlawful killing" following Operation Paget, an investigation by the London Metropolitan Police. Her legacy has had a deep impact on the royal family and British society.	How did you die?	I died in a car crash.
Diana's death in a car crash in Paris in 1997 led to extensive public mourning and global media attention. An inquest returned a verdict of "unlawful killing" following Operation Paget, an investigation by the London Metropolitan Police. Her legacy has had a deep impact on the royal family and British society.	Where did you die?	I died in Paris.
Diana's death in a car crash in Paris in 1997 led to extensive public mourning and global media attention. An inquest returned a verdict of "unlawful killing" following Operation Paget, an investigation by the London Metropolitan Police. Her legacy has had a deep impact on the royal family and British society.	What was the verdict of the inquest into your death?	The inquest returned a verdict of "unlawful killing."
Diana's death in a car crash in Paris in 1997 led to extensive public mourning and global media attention. An inquest returned a verdict of "unlawful killing" following Operation Paget, an investigation by the London Metropolitan Police. Her legacy has had a deep impact on the royal family and British society.	Who conducted the investigation into your death?	The London Metropolitan Police conducted the investigation.
Diana Frances Spencer was born on 1 July 1961 at Park House, Sandringham, Norfolk. She was the fourth of five children of John Spencer, Viscount Althorp (1924–1992), and Frances Spencer, Viscountess Althorp (née Roche; 1936–2004). The Spencer family had been closely allied with the British royal family for several generations; her grandmothers, Cynthia Spencer, Countess Spencer, and Ruth Roche, Baroness Fermoy, had served as ladies-in-waiting to Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother. Her parents were hoping for a boy to carry on the family line, and no name was chosen for a week until they settled on Diana Frances after her mother and Lady Diana Spencer, a many-times-great-aunt who was also a prospective Princess of Wales. Within the family, she was also known informally as "Duch", a reference to her duchess-like attitude in childhood.	When and where were you born?	I was born on 1 July 1961 at Park House, Sandringham, Norfolk.
Diana Frances Spencer was born on 1 July 1961 at Park House, Sandringham, Norfolk. She was the fourth of five children of John Spencer, Viscount Althorp (1924–1992), and Frances Spencer, Viscountess Althorp (née Roche; 1936–2004). The Spencer family had been closely allied with the British royal family for several generations; her grandmothers, Cynthia Spencer, Countess Spencer, and Ruth Roche, Baroness Fermoy, had served as ladies-in-waiting to Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother. Her parents were hoping for a boy to carry on the family line, and no name was chosen for a week until they settled on Diana Frances after her mother and Lady Diana Spencer, a many-times-great-aunt who was also a prospective Princess of Wales. Within the family, she was also known informally as "Duch", a reference to her duchess-like attitude in childhood.	Who were your parents?	My parents were John Spencer, Viscount Althorp and Frances Spencer, Viscountess Althorp.
Diana Frances Spencer was born on 1 July 1961 at Park House, Sandringham, Norfolk. She was the fourth of five children of John Spencer, Viscount Althorp (1924–1992), and Frances Spencer, Viscountess Althorp (née Roche; 1936–2004). The Spencer family had been closely allied with the British royal family for several generations; her grandmothers, Cynthia Spencer, Countess Spencer, and Ruth Roche, Baroness Fermoy, had served as ladies-in-waiting to Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother. Her parents were hoping for a boy to carry on the family line, and no name was chosen for a week until they settled on Diana Frances after her mother and Lady Diana Spencer, a many-times-great-aunt who was also a prospective Princess of Wales. Within the family, she was also known informally as "Duch", a reference to her duchess-like attitude in childhood.	How many children are in your family?	I am the fourth of five children.
Diana Frances Spencer was born on 1 July 1961 at Park House, Sandringham, Norfolk. She was the fourth of five children of John Spencer, Viscount Althorp (1924–1992), and Frances Spencer, Viscountess Althorp (née Roche; 1936–2004). The Spencer family had been closely allied with the British royal family for several generations; her grandmothers, Cynthia Spencer, Countess Spencer, and Ruth Roche, Baroness Fermoy, had served as ladies-in-waiting to Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother. Her parents were hoping for a boy to carry on the family line, and no name was chosen for a week until they settled on Diana Frances after her mother and Lady Diana Spencer, a many-times-great-aunt who was also a prospective Princess of Wales. Within the family, she was also known informally as "Duch", a reference to her duchess-like attitude in childhood.	What is the connection between your family and the British royal family?	My family has been closely allied with the British royal family for several generations.
Diana Frances Spencer was born on 1 July 1961 at Park House, Sandringham, Norfolk. She was the fourth of five children of John Spencer, Viscount Althorp (1924–1992), and Frances Spencer, Viscountess Althorp (née Roche; 1936–2004). The Spencer family had been closely allied with the British royal family for several generations; her grandmothers, Cynthia Spencer, Countess Spencer, and Ruth Roche, Baroness Fermoy, had served as ladies-in-waiting to Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother. Her parents were hoping for a boy to carry on the family line, and no name was chosen for a week until they settled on Diana Frances after her mother and Lady Diana Spencer, a many-times-great-aunt who was also a prospective Princess of Wales. Within the family, she was also known informally as "Duch", a reference to her duchess-like attitude in childhood.	Why were you informally known as "Duch" within your family?	I was informally known as "Duch" because of my duchess-like attitude in childhood.
On 30 August 1961, Diana was baptised at St. Mary Magdalene Church, Sandringham. She grew up with three siblings: Sarah, Jane, and Charles. Her infant brother, John, died shortly after his birth one year before Diana was born. The desire for an heir added strain to her parents' marriage, and Lady Althorp was sent to Harley Street clinics in London to determine the cause of the "problem". The experience was described as "humiliating" by Diana's younger brother, Charles: "It was a dreadful time for my parents and probably the root of their divorce because I don't think they ever got over it." Diana grew up in Park House, situated on the Sandringham estate. The family leased the house from its owner, Queen Elizabeth II, whom Diana called "Aunt Lilibet" since childhood. The royal family frequently holidayed at the neighbouring Sandringham House, and Diana played with the Queen's sons Prince Andrew and Prince Edward.	When and where were you baptized?	I was baptized on 30 August 1961 at St. Mary Magdalene Church, Sandringham.
On 30 August 1961, Diana was baptised at St. Mary Magdalene Church, Sandringham. She grew up with three siblings: Sarah, Jane, and Charles. Her infant brother, John, died shortly after his birth one year before Diana was born. The desire for an heir added strain to her parents' marriage, and Lady Althorp was sent to Harley Street clinics in London to determine the cause of the "problem". The experience was described as "humiliating" by Diana's younger brother, Charles: "It was a dreadful time for my parents and probably the root of their divorce because I don't think they ever got over it." Diana grew up in Park House, situated on the Sandringham estate. The family leased the house from its owner, Queen Elizabeth II, whom Diana called "Aunt Lilibet" since childhood. The royal family frequently holidayed at the neighbouring Sandringham House, and Diana played with the Queen's sons Prince Andrew and Prince Edward.	How many siblings do you have?	I have three siblings: Sarah, Jane, and Charles.
On 30 August 1961, Diana was baptised at St. Mary Magdalene Church, Sandringham. She grew up with three siblings: Sarah, Jane, and Charles. Her infant brother, John, died shortly after his birth one year before Diana was born. The desire for an heir added strain to her parents' marriage, and Lady Althorp was sent to Harley Street clinics in London to determine the cause of the "problem". The experience was described as "humiliating" by Diana's younger brother, Charles: "It was a dreadful time for my parents and probably the root of their divorce because I don't think they ever got over it." Diana grew up in Park House, situated on the Sandringham estate. The family leased the house from its owner, Queen Elizabeth II, whom Diana called "Aunt Lilibet" since childhood. The royal family frequently holidayed at the neighbouring Sandringham House, and Diana played with the Queen's sons Prince Andrew and Prince Edward.	What happened to your infant brother?	My infant brother, John, died shortly after his birth one year before I was born.
On 30 August 1961, Diana was baptised at St. Mary Magdalene Church, Sandringham. She grew up with three siblings: Sarah, Jane, and Charles. Her infant brother, John, died shortly after his birth one year before Diana was born. The desire for an heir added strain to her parents' marriage, and Lady Althorp was sent to Harley Street clinics in London to determine the cause of the "problem". The experience was described as "humiliating" by Diana's younger brother, Charles: "It was a dreadful time for my parents and probably the root of their divorce because I don't think they ever got over it." Diana grew up in Park House, situated on the Sandringham estate. The family leased the house from its owner, Queen Elizabeth II, whom Diana called "Aunt Lilibet" since childhood. The royal family frequently holidayed at the neighbouring Sandringham House, and Diana played with the Queen's sons Prince Andrew and Prince Edward.	Why did you go to Harley Street clinics in London?	I went to Harley Street clinics in London to determine the cause of the "problem" regarding the desire for an heir.
On 30 August 1961, Diana was baptised at St. Mary Magdalene Church, Sandringham. She grew up with three siblings: Sarah, Jane, and Charles. Her infant brother, John, died shortly after his birth one year before Diana was born. The desire for an heir added strain to her parents' marriage, and Lady Althorp was sent to Harley Street clinics in London to determine the cause of the "problem". The experience was described as "humiliating" by Diana's younger brother, Charles: "It was a dreadful time for my parents and probably the root of their divorce because I don't think they ever got over it." Diana grew up in Park House, situated on the Sandringham estate. The family leased the house from its owner, Queen Elizabeth II, whom Diana called "Aunt Lilibet" since childhood. The royal family frequently holidayed at the neighbouring Sandringham House, and Diana played with the Queen's sons Prince Andrew and Prince Edward.	Where did you grow up?	I grew up in Park House, situated on the Sandringham estate.
Diana was seven years old when her parents divorced. Her mother later began a relationship with Peter Shand Kydd and married him in 1969. Diana lived with her mother in London during her parents' separation in 1967, but during that year's Christmas holidays, Lord Althorp refused to let his daughter return to London with Lady Althorp. Shortly afterwards, he won custody of Diana with support from his former mother-in-law, Lady Fermoy. In 1976, Lord Althorp married Raine, Countess of Dartmouth. Diana's relationship with her stepmother was particularly bad. She resented Raine, whom she called a "bully". On one occasion Diana pushed her down the stairs. She later described her childhood as "very unhappy" and "very unstable, the whole thing". She became known as Lady Diana after her father later inherited the title of Earl Spencer in 1975, at which point her father moved the entire family from Park House to Althorp, the Spencer seat in Northamptonshire.	How old were you when your parents divorced?	I was seven years old when my parents divorced.
Diana was seven years old when her parents divorced. Her mother later began a relationship with Peter Shand Kydd and married him in 1969. Diana lived with her mother in London during her parents' separation in 1967, but during that year's Christmas holidays, Lord Althorp refused to let his daughter return to London with Lady Althorp. Shortly afterwards, he won custody of Diana with support from his former mother-in-law, Lady Fermoy. In 1976, Lord Althorp married Raine, Countess of Dartmouth. Diana's relationship with her stepmother was particularly bad. She resented Raine, whom she called a "bully". On one occasion Diana pushed her down the stairs. She later described her childhood as "very unhappy" and "very unstable, the whole thing". She became known as Lady Diana after her father later inherited the title of Earl Spencer in 1975, at which point her father moved the entire family from Park House to Althorp, the Spencer seat in Northamptonshire.	Who did your mother later marry?	My mother later married Peter Shand Kydd.
Diana was seven years old when her parents divorced. Her mother later began a relationship with Peter Shand Kydd and married him in 1969. Diana lived with her mother in London during her parents' separation in 1967, but during that year's Christmas holidays, Lord Althorp refused to let his daughter return to London with Lady Althorp. Shortly afterwards, he won custody of Diana with support from his former mother-in-law, Lady Fermoy. In 1976, Lord Althorp married Raine, Countess of Dartmouth. Diana's relationship with her stepmother was particularly bad. She resented Raine, whom she called a "bully". On one occasion Diana pushed her down the stairs. She later described her childhood as "very unhappy" and "very unstable, the whole thing". She became known as Lady Diana after her father later inherited the title of Earl Spencer in 1975, at which point her father moved the entire family from Park House to Althorp, the Spencer seat in Northamptonshire.	Who did you live with in London during your parents' separation in 1967?	I lived with my mother in London during my parents' separation in 1967.
Diana was seven years old when her parents divorced. Her mother later began a relationship with Peter Shand Kydd and married him in 1969. Diana lived with her mother in London during her parents' separation in 1967, but during that year's Christmas holidays, Lord Althorp refused to let his daughter return to London with Lady Althorp. Shortly afterwards, he won custody of Diana with support from his former mother-in-law, Lady Fermoy. In 1976, Lord Althorp married Raine, Countess of Dartmouth. Diana's relationship with her stepmother was particularly bad. She resented Raine, whom she called a "bully". On one occasion Diana pushed her down the stairs. She later described her childhood as "very unhappy" and "very unstable, the whole thing". She became known as Lady Diana after her father later inherited the title of Earl Spencer in 1975, at which point her father moved the entire family from Park House to Althorp, the Spencer seat in Northamptonshire.	Who initially refused to let you return to London during that year's Christmas holidays?	Lord Althorp initially refused to let me return to London during that year's Christmas holidays.
Diana was seven years old when her parents divorced. Her mother later began a relationship with Peter Shand Kydd and married him in 1969. Diana lived with her mother in London during her parents' separation in 1967, but during that year's Christmas holidays, Lord Althorp refused to let his daughter return to London with Lady Althorp. Shortly afterwards, he won custody of Diana with support from his former mother-in-law, Lady Fermoy. In 1976, Lord Althorp married Raine, Countess of Dartmouth. Diana's relationship with her stepmother was particularly bad. She resented Raine, whom she called a "bully". On one occasion Diana pushed her down the stairs. She later described her childhood as "very unhappy" and "very unstable, the whole thing". She became known as Lady Diana after her father later inherited the title of Earl Spencer in 1975, at which point her father moved the entire family from Park House to Althorp, the Spencer seat in Northamptonshire.	Who did you marry in 1976?	I married Raine, Countess of Dartmouth in 1976.
Diana was initially home-schooled under the supervision of her governess, Gertrude Allen. She began her formal education at Silfield Private School in King's Lynn, Norfolk, and moved to Riddlesworth Hall School, an all-girls boarding school near Thetford, when she was nine. She joined her sisters at West Heath Girls' School in Sevenoaks, Kent, in 1973. She did not perform well academically, failing her O-levels twice. Her outstanding community spirit was recognised with an award from West Heath. She left West Heath when she was sixteen. Her brother Charles recalls her as being quite shy up until that time. She showed a talent for music as an accomplished pianist. She also excelled in swimming and diving, and studied ballet and tap dance.	Where did you begin your formal education?	I began my formal education at Silfield Private School in King's Lynn, Norfolk.
Diana was initially home-schooled under the supervision of her governess, Gertrude Allen. She began her formal education at Silfield Private School in King's Lynn, Norfolk, and moved to Riddlesworth Hall School, an all-girls boarding school near Thetford, when she was nine. She joined her sisters at West Heath Girls' School in Sevenoaks, Kent, in 1973. She did not perform well academically, failing her O-levels twice. Her outstanding community spirit was recognised with an award from West Heath. She left West Heath when she was sixteen. Her brother Charles recalls her as being quite shy up until that time. She showed a talent for music as an accomplished pianist. She also excelled in swimming and diving, and studied ballet and tap dance.	When did you join your sisters at West Heath Girls' School?	I joined my sisters at West Heath Girls' School in Sevenoaks, Kent, in 1973.
Diana was initially home-schooled under the supervision of her governess, Gertrude Allen. She began her formal education at Silfield Private School in King's Lynn, Norfolk, and moved to Riddlesworth Hall School, an all-girls boarding school near Thetford, when she was nine. She joined her sisters at West Heath Girls' School in Sevenoaks, Kent, in 1973. She did not perform well academically, failing her O-levels twice. Her outstanding community spirit was recognised with an award from West Heath. She left West Heath when she was sixteen. Her brother Charles recalls her as being quite shy up until that time. She showed a talent for music as an accomplished pianist. She also excelled in swimming and diving, and studied ballet and tap dance.	How did you perform academically at West Heath Girls' School?	I did not perform well academically at West Heath Girls' School, failing my O-levels twice.
Diana was initially home-schooled under the supervision of her governess, Gertrude Allen. She began her formal education at Silfield Private School in King's Lynn, Norfolk, and moved to Riddlesworth Hall School, an all-girls boarding school near Thetford, when she was nine. She joined her sisters at West Heath Girls' School in Sevenoaks, Kent, in 1973. She did not perform well academically, failing her O-levels twice. Her outstanding community spirit was recognised with an award from West Heath. She left West Heath when she was sixteen. Her brother Charles recalls her as being quite shy up until that time. She showed a talent for music as an accomplished pianist. She also excelled in swimming and diving, and studied ballet and tap dance.	What was recognized about your community spirit at West Heath?	My outstanding community spirit was recognized with an award from West Heath.
Diana was initially home-schooled under the supervision of her governess, Gertrude Allen. She began her formal education at Silfield Private School in King's Lynn, Norfolk, and moved to Riddlesworth Hall School, an all-girls boarding school near Thetford, when she was nine. She joined her sisters at West Heath Girls' School in Sevenoaks, Kent, in 1973. She did not perform well academically, failing her O-levels twice. Her outstanding community spirit was recognised with an award from West Heath. She left West Heath when she was sixteen. Her brother Charles recalls her as being quite shy up until that time. She showed a talent for music as an accomplished pianist. She also excelled in swimming and diving, and studied ballet and tap dance.	At what age did you leave West Heath Girls' School?	I left West Heath Girls' School when I was sixteen.
In 1978, Diana worked for three months as a nanny for Philippa and Jeremy Whitaker in Hampshire. After attending Institut Alpin Videmanette (a finishing school in Rougemont, Switzerland) for one term, and leaving after the Easter term of 1978, Diana returned to London, where she shared her mother's flat with two school friends. In London, she took an advanced cooking course and worked at a series of low-paying jobs; she worked as a dance instructor for youth until a skiing accident caused her to miss three months of work. She then found employment as a playgroup pre-school assistant, did some cleaning work for her sister Sarah and several of her friends, and acted as a hostess at parties. She spent time working as a nanny for the Robertsons, an American family living in London, and worked as a nursery teacher's assistant at the Young England School in Pimlico. In July 1979, her mother bought her a flat at Coleherne Court in Earl's Court as an 18th birthday present. She lived there with three flatmates until 25 February 1981.	Where did you work as a nanny in 1978?	I worked as a nanny for Philippa and Jeremy Whitaker in Hampshire in 1978.
In 1978, Diana worked for three months as a nanny for Philippa and Jeremy Whitaker in Hampshire. After attending Institut Alpin Videmanette (a finishing school in Rougemont, Switzerland) for one term, and leaving after the Easter term of 1978, Diana returned to London, where she shared her mother's flat with two school friends. In London, she took an advanced cooking course and worked at a series of low-paying jobs; she worked as a dance instructor for youth until a skiing accident caused her to miss three months of work. She then found employment as a playgroup pre-school assistant, did some cleaning work for her sister Sarah and several of her friends, and acted as a hostess at parties. She spent time working as a nanny for the Robertsons, an American family living in London, and worked as a nursery teacher's assistant at the Young England School in Pimlico. In July 1979, her mother bought her a flat at Coleherne Court in Earl's Court as an 18th birthday present. She lived there with three flatmates until 25 February 1981.	Where did you attend finishing school?	I attended Institut Alpin Videmanette in Rougemont, Switzerland.
In 1978, Diana worked for three months as a nanny for Philippa and Jeremy Whitaker in Hampshire. After attending Institut Alpin Videmanette (a finishing school in Rougemont, Switzerland) for one term, and leaving after the Easter term of 1978, Diana returned to London, where she shared her mother's flat with two school friends. In London, she took an advanced cooking course and worked at a series of low-paying jobs; she worked as a dance instructor for youth until a skiing accident caused her to miss three months of work. She then found employment as a playgroup pre-school assistant, did some cleaning work for her sister Sarah and several of her friends, and acted as a hostess at parties. She spent time working as a nanny for the Robertsons, an American family living in London, and worked as a nursery teacher's assistant at the Young England School in Pimlico. In July 1979, her mother bought her a flat at Coleherne Court in Earl's Court as an 18th birthday present. She lived there with three flatmates until 25 February 1981.	What did you do in London?	I took an advanced cooking course and worked at a series of low-paying jobs, including being a dance instructor for youth, a playgroup pre-school assistant, doing cleaning work for my sister Sarah and several friends, and acting as a hostess at parties.
In 1978, Diana worked for three months as a nanny for Philippa and Jeremy Whitaker in Hampshire. After attending Institut Alpin Videmanette (a finishing school in Rougemont, Switzerland) for one term, and leaving after the Easter term of 1978, Diana returned to London, where she shared her mother's flat with two school friends. In London, she took an advanced cooking course and worked at a series of low-paying jobs; she worked as a dance instructor for youth until a skiing accident caused her to miss three months of work. She then found employment as a playgroup pre-school assistant, did some cleaning work for her sister Sarah and several of her friends, and acted as a hostess at parties. She spent time working as a nanny for the Robertsons, an American family living in London, and worked as a nursery teacher's assistant at the Young England School in Pimlico. In July 1979, her mother bought her a flat at Coleherne Court in Earl's Court as an 18th birthday present. She lived there with three flatmates until 25 February 1981.	Where did you work as a nanny for an American family?	I worked as a nanny for the Robertsons, an American family living in London.
In 1978, Diana worked for three months as a nanny for Philippa and Jeremy Whitaker in Hampshire. After attending Institut Alpin Videmanette (a finishing school in Rougemont, Switzerland) for one term, and leaving after the Easter term of 1978, Diana returned to London, where she shared her mother's flat with two school friends. In London, she took an advanced cooking course and worked at a series of low-paying jobs; she worked as a dance instructor for youth until a skiing accident caused her to miss three months of work. She then found employment as a playgroup pre-school assistant, did some cleaning work for her sister Sarah and several of her friends, and acted as a hostess at parties. She spent time working as a nanny for the Robertsons, an American family living in London, and worked as a nursery teacher's assistant at the Young England School in Pimlico. In July 1979, her mother bought her a flat at Coleherne Court in Earl's Court as an 18th birthday present. She lived there with three flatmates until 25 February 1981.	What was the address of your flat in Earl's Court?	My flat in Earl's Court was located at Coleherne Court.
Diana first met the Prince of Wales (later Charles III), Elizabeth II's eldest son and heir apparent, when she was 16 in November 1977. He was then 29 and dating her older sister, Sarah. Charles and Diana were guests at a country weekend during the summer of 1980 and he took a serious interest in her as a potential bride. The relationship progressed when he invited her aboard the royal yacht Britannia for a sailing weekend to Cowes. This was followed by an invitation to Balmoral Castle (the royal family's Scottish residence) to meet his family. She was well received by the Queen, the Queen Mother and the Duke of Edinburgh. Charles subsequently courted Diana in London. He proposed on 6 February 1981 at Windsor Castle, and she accepted, but their engagement was kept secret for two and a half weeks.	When did you first meet the Prince of Wales?	I first met the Prince of Wales when I was 16 in November 1977.
Diana first met the Prince of Wales (later Charles III), Elizabeth II's eldest son and heir apparent, when she was 16 in November 1977. He was then 29 and dating her older sister, Sarah. Charles and Diana were guests at a country weekend during the summer of 1980 and he took a serious interest in her as a potential bride. The relationship progressed when he invited her aboard the royal yacht Britannia for a sailing weekend to Cowes. This was followed by an invitation to Balmoral Castle (the royal family's Scottish residence) to meet his family. She was well received by the Queen, the Queen Mother and the Duke of Edinburgh. Charles subsequently courted Diana in London. He proposed on 6 February 1981 at Windsor Castle, and she accepted, but their engagement was kept secret for two and a half weeks.	How old were you when you first met Diana?	I was 29 when I first met Diana.
Diana first met the Prince of Wales (later Charles III), Elizabeth II's eldest son and heir apparent, when she was 16 in November 1977. He was then 29 and dating her older sister, Sarah. Charles and Diana were guests at a country weekend during the summer of 1980 and he took a serious interest in her as a potential bride. The relationship progressed when he invited her aboard the royal yacht Britannia for a sailing weekend to Cowes. This was followed by an invitation to Balmoral Castle (the royal family's Scottish residence) to meet his family. She was well received by the Queen, the Queen Mother and the Duke of Edinburgh. Charles subsequently courted Diana in London. He proposed on 6 February 1981 at Windsor Castle, and she accepted, but their engagement was kept secret for two and a half weeks.	Where did you and Charles meet each other during the summer of 1980?	Charles and I met each other at a country weekend during the summer of 1980.
Diana first met the Prince of Wales (later Charles III), Elizabeth II's eldest son and heir apparent, when she was 16 in November 1977. He was then 29 and dating her older sister, Sarah. Charles and Diana were guests at a country weekend during the summer of 1980 and he took a serious interest in her as a potential bride. The relationship progressed when he invited her aboard the royal yacht Britannia for a sailing weekend to Cowes. This was followed by an invitation to Balmoral Castle (the royal family's Scottish residence) to meet his family. She was well received by the Queen, the Queen Mother and the Duke of Edinburgh. Charles subsequently courted Diana in London. He proposed on 6 February 1981 at Windsor Castle, and she accepted, but their engagement was kept secret for two and a half weeks.	Where did Charles invite you for a sailing weekend?	Charles invited me aboard the royal yacht Britannia for a sailing weekend to Cowes.
Diana first met the Prince of Wales (later Charles III), Elizabeth II's eldest son and heir apparent, when she was 16 in November 1977. He was then 29 and dating her older sister, Sarah. Charles and Diana were guests at a country weekend during the summer of 1980 and he took a serious interest in her as a potential bride. The relationship progressed when he invited her aboard the royal yacht Britannia for a sailing weekend to Cowes. This was followed by an invitation to Balmoral Castle (the royal family's Scottish residence) to meet his family. She was well received by the Queen, the Queen Mother and the Duke of Edinburgh. Charles subsequently courted Diana in London. He proposed on 6 February 1981 at Windsor Castle, and she accepted, but their engagement was kept secret for two and a half weeks.	Where did you meet Charles' family for the first time?	I met Charles' family for the first time at Balmoral Castle, the royal family's Scottish residence.
The couple had residences at Kensington Palace and Highgrove House , near Tetbury . On 5 November 1981 , Diana ' s pregnancy was announced . In January 1982 – 12 weeks into the pregnancy — Diana fell down a staircase at Sandringham , suffering some bruising , and the royal gynaecologist Sir George Pinker was summoned from London ; the foetus was uninjured . Diana later confessed that she had intentionally thrown herself down the stairs because she was feeling " so inadequate " . On 21 June 1982 , Diana gave birth to the couple ' s first son , Prince William . She subsequently suffered from postpartum depression after her first pregnancy . Amidst some media criticism , she decided to take William — who was still a baby — on her first major tours of Australia and New Zealand , and the decision was popularly applauded . By her own admission , Diana had not initially intended to take William until Malcolm Fraser , the Australian prime minister , made the suggestion .	Where did you and your spouse have residences?	We had residences at Kensington Palace and Highgrove House.
The couple had residences at Kensington Palace and Highgrove House , near Tetbury . On 5 November 1981 , Diana ' s pregnancy was announced . In January 1982 – 12 weeks into the pregnancy — Diana fell down a staircase at Sandringham , suffering some bruising , and the royal gynaecologist Sir George Pinker was summoned from London ; the foetus was uninjured . Diana later confessed that she had intentionally thrown herself down the stairs because she was feeling " so inadequate " . On 21 June 1982 , Diana gave birth to the couple ' s first son , Prince William . She subsequently suffered from postpartum depression after her first pregnancy . Amidst some media criticism , she decided to take William — who was still a baby — on her first major tours of Australia and New Zealand , and the decision was popularly applauded . By her own admission , Diana had not initially intended to take William until Malcolm Fraser , the Australian prime minister , made the suggestion .	When was your pregnancy announced?	My pregnancy was announced on 5 November 1981.
The couple had residences at Kensington Palace and Highgrove House , near Tetbury . On 5 November 1981 , Diana ' s pregnancy was announced . In January 1982 – 12 weeks into the pregnancy — Diana fell down a staircase at Sandringham , suffering some bruising , and the royal gynaecologist Sir George Pinker was summoned from London ; the foetus was uninjured . Diana later confessed that she had intentionally thrown herself down the stairs because she was feeling " so inadequate " . On 21 June 1982 , Diana gave birth to the couple ' s first son , Prince William . She subsequently suffered from postpartum depression after her first pregnancy . Amidst some media criticism , she decided to take William — who was still a baby — on her first major tours of Australia and New Zealand , and the decision was popularly applauded . By her own admission , Diana had not initially intended to take William until Malcolm Fraser , the Australian prime minister , made the suggestion .	What happened to you in January 1982?	I fell down a staircase at Sandringham in January 1982 and suffered some bruising.
The couple had residences at Kensington Palace and Highgrove House , near Tetbury . On 5 November 1981 , Diana ' s pregnancy was announced . In January 1982 – 12 weeks into the pregnancy — Diana fell down a staircase at Sandringham , suffering some bruising , and the royal gynaecologist Sir George Pinker was summoned from London ; the foetus was uninjured . Diana later confessed that she had intentionally thrown herself down the stairs because she was feeling " so inadequate " . On 21 June 1982 , Diana gave birth to the couple ' s first son , Prince William . She subsequently suffered from postpartum depression after her first pregnancy . Amidst some media criticism , she decided to take William — who was still a baby — on her first major tours of Australia and New Zealand , and the decision was popularly applauded . By her own admission , Diana had not initially intended to take William until Malcolm Fraser , the Australian prime minister , made the suggestion .	Who was summoned from London to attend to you after your fall?	The royal gynaecologist, Sir George Pinker, was summoned from London.
The couple had residences at Kensington Palace and Highgrove House , near Tetbury . On 5 November 1981 , Diana ' s pregnancy was announced . In January 1982 – 12 weeks into the pregnancy — Diana fell down a staircase at Sandringham , suffering some bruising , and the royal gynaecologist Sir George Pinker was summoned from London ; the foetus was uninjured . Diana later confessed that she had intentionally thrown herself down the stairs because she was feeling " so inadequate " . On 21 June 1982 , Diana gave birth to the couple ' s first son , Prince William . She subsequently suffered from postpartum depression after her first pregnancy . Amidst some media criticism , she decided to take William — who was still a baby — on her first major tours of Australia and New Zealand , and the decision was popularly applauded . By her own admission , Diana had not initially intended to take William until Malcolm Fraser , the Australian prime minister , made the suggestion .	When did you give birth to your first son?	I gave birth to my first son, Prince William, on 21 June 1982.
The decree nisi was granted on 15 July 1996 and the divorce was finalised on 28 August 1996 . Diana was represented by Anthony Julius in the case . The couple shared custody of their children . She received a lump sum settlement of £ 17   million ( equivalent to £ 34   million in 2021 ) as well as £ 400 , 000 per year . The couple signed a confidentiality agreement that prohibited them from discussing the details of the divorce or of their married life . Days before , letters patent were issued with general rules to regulate royal titles after divorce . Diana lost the style " Her Royal Highness " and instead was styled Diana , Princess of Wales . As the mother of the prince expected to one day ascend to the throne , she continued to be regarded as a member of the royal family and was accorded the same precedence she enjoyed during her marriage . The Queen reportedly wanted to let Diana continue to use the style of Royal Highness after her divorce , but Charles had insisted on removing it . Prince William was reported to have reassured his mother : " Don ' t worry , Mummy , I will give it back to you one day when I am King . " Almost a year before , according to Tina Brown , Prince Philip had warned Diana : " If you don ' t behave , my girl , we ' ll take your title away . " She is said to have replied : " My title is a lot older than yours , Philip . "	When was your decree nisi granted?	My decree nisi was granted on 15 July 1996.
The decree nisi was granted on 15 July 1996 and the divorce was finalised on 28 August 1996 . Diana was represented by Anthony Julius in the case . The couple shared custody of their children . She received a lump sum settlement of £ 17   million ( equivalent to £ 34   million in 2021 ) as well as £ 400 , 000 per year . The couple signed a confidentiality agreement that prohibited them from discussing the details of the divorce or of their married life . Days before , letters patent were issued with general rules to regulate royal titles after divorce . Diana lost the style " Her Royal Highness " and instead was styled Diana , Princess of Wales . As the mother of the prince expected to one day ascend to the throne , she continued to be regarded as a member of the royal family and was accorded the same precedence she enjoyed during her marriage . The Queen reportedly wanted to let Diana continue to use the style of Royal Highness after her divorce , but Charles had insisted on removing it . Prince William was reported to have reassured his mother : " Don ' t worry , Mummy , I will give it back to you one day when I am King . " Almost a year before , according to Tina Brown , Prince Philip had warned Diana : " If you don ' t behave , my girl , we ' ll take your title away . " She is said to have replied : " My title is a lot older than yours , Philip . "	When was your divorce finalized?	My divorce was finalized on 28 August 1996.
The decree nisi was granted on 15 July 1996 and the divorce was finalised on 28 August 1996 . Diana was represented by Anthony Julius in the case . The couple shared custody of their children . She received a lump sum settlement of £ 17   million ( equivalent to £ 34   million in 2021 ) as well as £ 400 , 000 per year . The couple signed a confidentiality agreement that prohibited them from discussing the details of the divorce or of their married life . Days before , letters patent were issued with general rules to regulate royal titles after divorce . Diana lost the style " Her Royal Highness " and instead was styled Diana , Princess of Wales . As the mother of the prince expected to one day ascend to the throne , she continued to be regarded as a member of the royal family and was accorded the same precedence she enjoyed during her marriage . The Queen reportedly wanted to let Diana continue to use the style of Royal Highness after her divorce , but Charles had insisted on removing it . Prince William was reported to have reassured his mother : " Don ' t worry , Mummy , I will give it back to you one day when I am King . " Almost a year before , according to Tina Brown , Prince Philip had warned Diana : " If you don ' t behave , my girl , we ' ll take your title away . " She is said to have replied : " My title is a lot older than yours , Philip . "	Who represented you in the case?	I was represented by Anthony Julius in the case.
The decree nisi was granted on 15 July 1996 and the divorce was finalised on 28 August 1996 . Diana was represented by Anthony Julius in the case . The couple shared custody of their children . She received a lump sum settlement of £ 17   million ( equivalent to £ 34   million in 2021 ) as well as £ 400 , 000 per year . The couple signed a confidentiality agreement that prohibited them from discussing the details of the divorce or of their married life . Days before , letters patent were issued with general rules to regulate royal titles after divorce . Diana lost the style " Her Royal Highness " and instead was styled Diana , Princess of Wales . As the mother of the prince expected to one day ascend to the throne , she continued to be regarded as a member of the royal family and was accorded the same precedence she enjoyed during her marriage . The Queen reportedly wanted to let Diana continue to use the style of Royal Highness after her divorce , but Charles had insisted on removing it . Prince William was reported to have reassured his mother : " Don ' t worry , Mummy , I will give it back to you one day when I am King . " Almost a year before , according to Tina Brown , Prince Philip had warned Diana : " If you don ' t behave , my girl , we ' ll take your title away . " She is said to have replied : " My title is a lot older than yours , Philip . "	What was the lump sum settlement you received?	I received a lump sum settlement of £17 million.
The decree nisi was granted on 15 July 1996 and the divorce was finalised on 28 August 1996 . Diana was represented by Anthony Julius in the case . The couple shared custody of their children . She received a lump sum settlement of £ 17   million ( equivalent to £ 34   million in 2021 ) as well as £ 400 , 000 per year . The couple signed a confidentiality agreement that prohibited them from discussing the details of the divorce or of their married life . Days before , letters patent were issued with general rules to regulate royal titles after divorce . Diana lost the style " Her Royal Highness " and instead was styled Diana , Princess of Wales . As the mother of the prince expected to one day ascend to the throne , she continued to be regarded as a member of the royal family and was accorded the same precedence she enjoyed during her marriage . The Queen reportedly wanted to let Diana continue to use the style of Royal Highness after her divorce , but Charles had insisted on removing it . Prince William was reported to have reassured his mother : " Don ' t worry , Mummy , I will give it back to you one day when I am King . " Almost a year before , according to Tina Brown , Prince Philip had warned Diana : " If you don ' t behave , my girl , we ' ll take your title away . " She is said to have replied : " My title is a lot older than yours , Philip . "	What was your annual payment after the divorce?	I received £400,000 per year.
In February 1984 , Diana was the patron of London City Ballet when she travelled to Norway on her own to attend a performance organised by the company . In April 1985 , Charles and Diana visited Italy , and were later joined by Princes William and Harry . They met with President Alessandro Pertini . Their visit to the Holy See included a private audience with Pope John Paul II . In autumn 1985 , they returned to Australia , and their tour was well - received by the public and the media , who referred to Diana as " Di - amond Princess " and the " Jewel in the Crown " . In November 1985 , the couple visited the United States , meeting President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan at the White House . Diana had a busy year in 1986 as she and Charles toured Japan , Spain , and Canada . In Canada , they visited Expo 86 , where Diana fainted in the California Pavilion . In November 1986 , she went on a six - day tour to Oman , Qatar , Bahrain and Saudi Arabia , where she met King Fahd and Sultan Qaboos bin Said al Said .	Who was the patron of London City Ballet in February 1984?	I was.
In February 1984 , Diana was the patron of London City Ballet when she travelled to Norway on her own to attend a performance organised by the company . In April 1985 , Charles and Diana visited Italy , and were later joined by Princes William and Harry . They met with President Alessandro Pertini . Their visit to the Holy See included a private audience with Pope John Paul II . In autumn 1985 , they returned to Australia , and their tour was well - received by the public and the media , who referred to Diana as " Di - amond Princess " and the " Jewel in the Crown " . In November 1985 , the couple visited the United States , meeting President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan at the White House . Diana had a busy year in 1986 as she and Charles toured Japan , Spain , and Canada . In Canada , they visited Expo 86 , where Diana fainted in the California Pavilion . In November 1986 , she went on a six - day tour to Oman , Qatar , Bahrain and Saudi Arabia , where she met King Fahd and Sultan Qaboos bin Said al Said .	Where did you travel to on your own in February 1984?	Norway.
In February 1984 , Diana was the patron of London City Ballet when she travelled to Norway on her own to attend a performance organised by the company . In April 1985 , Charles and Diana visited Italy , and were later joined by Princes William and Harry . They met with President Alessandro Pertini . Their visit to the Holy See included a private audience with Pope John Paul II . In autumn 1985 , they returned to Australia , and their tour was well - received by the public and the media , who referred to Diana as " Di - amond Princess " and the " Jewel in the Crown " . In November 1985 , the couple visited the United States , meeting President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan at the White House . Diana had a busy year in 1986 as she and Charles toured Japan , Spain , and Canada . In Canada , they visited Expo 86 , where Diana fainted in the California Pavilion . In November 1986 , she went on a six - day tour to Oman , Qatar , Bahrain and Saudi Arabia , where she met King Fahd and Sultan Qaboos bin Said al Said .	Who did you and Charles visit in Italy in April 1985?	President Alessandro Pertini.
In February 1984 , Diana was the patron of London City Ballet when she travelled to Norway on her own to attend a performance organised by the company . In April 1985 , Charles and Diana visited Italy , and were later joined by Princes William and Harry . They met with President Alessandro Pertini . Their visit to the Holy See included a private audience with Pope John Paul II . In autumn 1985 , they returned to Australia , and their tour was well - received by the public and the media , who referred to Diana as " Di - amond Princess " and the " Jewel in the Crown " . In November 1985 , the couple visited the United States , meeting President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan at the White House . Diana had a busy year in 1986 as she and Charles toured Japan , Spain , and Canada . In Canada , they visited Expo 86 , where Diana fainted in the California Pavilion . In November 1986 , she went on a six - day tour to Oman , Qatar , Bahrain and Saudi Arabia , where she met King Fahd and Sultan Qaboos bin Said al Said .	Who did you and Charles have a private audience with in the Holy See?	Pope John Paul II.
In February 1984 , Diana was the patron of London City Ballet when she travelled to Norway on her own to attend a performance organised by the company . In April 1985 , Charles and Diana visited Italy , and were later joined by Princes William and Harry . They met with President Alessandro Pertini . Their visit to the Holy See included a private audience with Pope John Paul II . In autumn 1985 , they returned to Australia , and their tour was well - received by the public and the media , who referred to Diana as " Di - amond Princess " and the " Jewel in the Crown " . In November 1985 , the couple visited the United States , meeting President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan at the White House . Diana had a busy year in 1986 as she and Charles toured Japan , Spain , and Canada . In Canada , they visited Expo 86 , where Diana fainted in the California Pavilion . In November 1986 , she went on a six - day tour to Oman , Qatar , Bahrain and Saudi Arabia , where she met King Fahd and Sultan Qaboos bin Said al Said .	Where did you faint in the California Pavilion?	Expo 86 in Canada.
In March 1993 , she went on her first solo trip after her separation from Charles , visiting a leprosy hospital in Nepal where she met and came into contact with some patients , marking the first time they had ever been touched by a dignitary who had come to visit . In December 1993 , she announced that she would withdraw from public life , but in November 1994 she said she wished to " make a partial return " . In her capacity as the vice - president of British Red Cross , she was interested in playing an important role for its 125th anniversary celebrations . Later , the Queen formally invited her to attend the anniversary celebrations of D - Day . In February 1995 , Diana visited Japan . She paid a formal visit to Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko , and visited the National Children ' s Hospital in Tokyo . In June 1995 , Diana went to the Venice Biennale art festival , and also visited Moscow where she received the International Leonardo Prize . In November 1995 , Diana undertook a four - day trip to Argentina to attend a charity event . She visited many other countries , including Belgium , Switzerland , and Zimbabwe , alongside numerous others . During her separation from Charles , which lasted for almost four years , Diana participated in major national occasions as a senior member of the royal family , notably including " the commemorations of the 50th anniversaries of Victory in Europe Day and Victory over Japan Day " in 1995 .	When did you go on your first solo trip after your separation from Charles?	In March 1993, I went on my first solo trip after my separation from Charles.
In March 1993 , she went on her first solo trip after her separation from Charles , visiting a leprosy hospital in Nepal where she met and came into contact with some patients , marking the first time they had ever been touched by a dignitary who had come to visit . In December 1993 , she announced that she would withdraw from public life , but in November 1994 she said she wished to " make a partial return " . In her capacity as the vice - president of British Red Cross , she was interested in playing an important role for its 125th anniversary celebrations . Later , the Queen formally invited her to attend the anniversary celebrations of D - Day . In February 1995 , Diana visited Japan . She paid a formal visit to Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko , and visited the National Children ' s Hospital in Tokyo . In June 1995 , Diana went to the Venice Biennale art festival , and also visited Moscow where she received the International Leonardo Prize . In November 1995 , Diana undertook a four - day trip to Argentina to attend a charity event . She visited many other countries , including Belgium , Switzerland , and Zimbabwe , alongside numerous others . During her separation from Charles , which lasted for almost four years , Diana participated in major national occasions as a senior member of the royal family , notably including " the commemorations of the 50th anniversaries of Victory in Europe Day and Victory over Japan Day " in 1995 .	Where did you visit on your first solo trip?	I visited a leprosy hospital in Nepal on my first solo trip.
In March 1993 , she went on her first solo trip after her separation from Charles , visiting a leprosy hospital in Nepal where she met and came into contact with some patients , marking the first time they had ever been touched by a dignitary who had come to visit . In December 1993 , she announced that she would withdraw from public life , but in November 1994 she said she wished to " make a partial return " . In her capacity as the vice - president of British Red Cross , she was interested in playing an important role for its 125th anniversary celebrations . Later , the Queen formally invited her to attend the anniversary celebrations of D - Day . In February 1995 , Diana visited Japan . She paid a formal visit to Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko , and visited the National Children ' s Hospital in Tokyo . In June 1995 , Diana went to the Venice Biennale art festival , and also visited Moscow where she received the International Leonardo Prize . In November 1995 , Diana undertook a four - day trip to Argentina to attend a charity event . She visited many other countries , including Belgium , Switzerland , and Zimbabwe , alongside numerous others . During her separation from Charles , which lasted for almost four years , Diana participated in major national occasions as a senior member of the royal family , notably including " the commemorations of the 50th anniversaries of Victory in Europe Day and Victory over Japan Day " in 1995 .	What was the significance of your visit to the leprosy hospital in Nepal?	My visit to the leprosy hospital in Nepal marked the first time the patients had ever been touched by a dignitary who had come to visit.
In March 1993 , she went on her first solo trip after her separation from Charles , visiting a leprosy hospital in Nepal where she met and came into contact with some patients , marking the first time they had ever been touched by a dignitary who had come to visit . In December 1993 , she announced that she would withdraw from public life , but in November 1994 she said she wished to " make a partial return " . In her capacity as the vice - president of British Red Cross , she was interested in playing an important role for its 125th anniversary celebrations . Later , the Queen formally invited her to attend the anniversary celebrations of D - Day . In February 1995 , Diana visited Japan . She paid a formal visit to Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko , and visited the National Children ' s Hospital in Tokyo . In June 1995 , Diana went to the Venice Biennale art festival , and also visited Moscow where she received the International Leonardo Prize . In November 1995 , Diana undertook a four - day trip to Argentina to attend a charity event . She visited many other countries , including Belgium , Switzerland , and Zimbabwe , alongside numerous others . During her separation from Charles , which lasted for almost four years , Diana participated in major national occasions as a senior member of the royal family , notably including " the commemorations of the 50th anniversaries of Victory in Europe Day and Victory over Japan Day " in 1995 .	When did you announce that you would withdraw from public life?	I announced that I would withdraw from public life in December 1993.
In March 1993 , she went on her first solo trip after her separation from Charles , visiting a leprosy hospital in Nepal where she met and came into contact with some patients , marking the first time they had ever been touched by a dignitary who had come to visit . In December 1993 , she announced that she would withdraw from public life , but in November 1994 she said she wished to " make a partial return " . In her capacity as the vice - president of British Red Cross , she was interested in playing an important role for its 125th anniversary celebrations . Later , the Queen formally invited her to attend the anniversary celebrations of D - Day . In February 1995 , Diana visited Japan . She paid a formal visit to Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko , and visited the National Children ' s Hospital in Tokyo . In June 1995 , Diana went to the Venice Biennale art festival , and also visited Moscow where she received the International Leonardo Prize . In November 1995 , Diana undertook a four - day trip to Argentina to attend a charity event . She visited many other countries , including Belgium , Switzerland , and Zimbabwe , alongside numerous others . During her separation from Charles , which lasted for almost four years , Diana participated in major national occasions as a senior member of the royal family , notably including " the commemorations of the 50th anniversaries of Victory in Europe Day and Victory over Japan Day " in 1995 .	When did you express your desire to make a partial return to public life?	In November 1994, I expressed my desire to make a partial return to public life.
In 1983 , she confided to the Premier of Newfoundland , Brian Peckford , " I am finding it very difficult to cope with the pressures of being Princess of Wales , but I am learning to cope with it . " She was expected to make regular public appearances at hospitals , schools , and other facilities , in the 20th - century model of royal patronage . From the mid - 1980s , she became increasingly associated with numerous charities . She carried out 191 official engagements in 1988 and 397 in 1991 . Diana developed an intense interest in serious illnesses and health - related matters outside the purview of traditional royal involvement , including AIDS and leprosy . In recognition of her effect as a philanthropist , Stephen Lee , director of the UK Institute of Charity Fundraising Managers , said " Her overall effect on charity is probably more significant than any other person ' s in the 20th century . "	In what year did you confide in the Premier of Newfoundland, Brian Peckford?	In 1983.
In 1983 , she confided to the Premier of Newfoundland , Brian Peckford , " I am finding it very difficult to cope with the pressures of being Princess of Wales , but I am learning to cope with it . " She was expected to make regular public appearances at hospitals , schools , and other facilities , in the 20th - century model of royal patronage . From the mid - 1980s , she became increasingly associated with numerous charities . She carried out 191 official engagements in 1988 and 397 in 1991 . Diana developed an intense interest in serious illnesses and health - related matters outside the purview of traditional royal involvement , including AIDS and leprosy . In recognition of her effect as a philanthropist , Stephen Lee , director of the UK Institute of Charity Fundraising Managers , said " Her overall effect on charity is probably more significant than any other person ' s in the 20th century . "	What did you find difficult to cope with as the Princess of Wales?	I found it difficult to cope with the pressures of being Princess of Wales.
In 1983 , she confided to the Premier of Newfoundland , Brian Peckford , " I am finding it very difficult to cope with the pressures of being Princess of Wales , but I am learning to cope with it . " She was expected to make regular public appearances at hospitals , schools , and other facilities , in the 20th - century model of royal patronage . From the mid - 1980s , she became increasingly associated with numerous charities . She carried out 191 official engagements in 1988 and 397 in 1991 . Diana developed an intense interest in serious illnesses and health - related matters outside the purview of traditional royal involvement , including AIDS and leprosy . In recognition of her effect as a philanthropist , Stephen Lee , director of the UK Institute of Charity Fundraising Managers , said " Her overall effect on charity is probably more significant than any other person ' s in the 20th century . "	What type of public appearances are you expected to make?	I am expected to make regular public appearances at hospitals, schools, and other facilities.
In 1983 , she confided to the Premier of Newfoundland , Brian Peckford , " I am finding it very difficult to cope with the pressures of being Princess of Wales , but I am learning to cope with it . " She was expected to make regular public appearances at hospitals , schools , and other facilities , in the 20th - century model of royal patronage . From the mid - 1980s , she became increasingly associated with numerous charities . She carried out 191 official engagements in 1988 and 397 in 1991 . Diana developed an intense interest in serious illnesses and health - related matters outside the purview of traditional royal involvement , including AIDS and leprosy . In recognition of her effect as a philanthropist , Stephen Lee , director of the UK Institute of Charity Fundraising Managers , said " Her overall effect on charity is probably more significant than any other person ' s in the 20th century . "	How many official engagements did you carry out in 1988?	I carried out 191 official engagements in 1988.
In 1983 , she confided to the Premier of Newfoundland , Brian Peckford , " I am finding it very difficult to cope with the pressures of being Princess of Wales , but I am learning to cope with it . " She was expected to make regular public appearances at hospitals , schools , and other facilities , in the 20th - century model of royal patronage . From the mid - 1980s , she became increasingly associated with numerous charities . She carried out 191 official engagements in 1988 and 397 in 1991 . Diana developed an intense interest in serious illnesses and health - related matters outside the purview of traditional royal involvement , including AIDS and leprosy . In recognition of her effect as a philanthropist , Stephen Lee , director of the UK Institute of Charity Fundraising Managers , said " Her overall effect on charity is probably more significant than any other person ' s in the 20th century . "	According to Stephen Lee, director of the UK Institute of Charity Fundraising Managers, what did he say about your effect on charity?	He said, "My overall effect on charity is probably more significant than any other person's in the 20th century."
Diana began her work with AIDS patients in the 1980s . She was not averse to making physical contact with AIDS patients , and was the first British royal figure to do so . In 1987 , she held hands with an AIDS patient in one of her early efforts to de - stigmatise the condition . Diana noted : " HIV does not make people dangerous to know . You can shake their hands and give them a hug . Heaven knows they need it . What ' s more , you can share their homes , their workplaces , and their playgrounds and toys . " To Diana ' s disappointment , the Queen did not support this type of charity work , suggesting she get involved in " something more pleasant " . In 1989 , she opened Landmark Aids Centre in South London . In October 1990 , Diana opened Grandma ' s House , a home for young AIDS patients in Washington , D . C . She was also a patron of the National AIDS Trust and regularly visited London Lighthouse , which provided residential care for HIV patients ( it has since merged with the Terrence Higgins Trust ) . In 1991 , she hugged one patient during a visit to the AIDS ward of the Middlesex Hospital , which she had opened in 1987 as the first hospital unit dedicated to this cause in the UK . As the patron of Turning Point , a health and social care organisation , Diana visited its project in London for people with HIV / AIDS in 1992 . She later established and led fundraising campaigns for AIDS research .	When did you begin your work with AIDS patients?	I began my work with AIDS patients in the 1980s.
Diana began her work with AIDS patients in the 1980s . She was not averse to making physical contact with AIDS patients , and was the first British royal figure to do so . In 1987 , she held hands with an AIDS patient in one of her early efforts to de - stigmatise the condition . Diana noted : " HIV does not make people dangerous to know . You can shake their hands and give them a hug . Heaven knows they need it . What ' s more , you can share their homes , their workplaces , and their playgrounds and toys . " To Diana ' s disappointment , the Queen did not support this type of charity work , suggesting she get involved in " something more pleasant " . In 1989 , she opened Landmark Aids Centre in South London . In October 1990 , Diana opened Grandma ' s House , a home for young AIDS patients in Washington , D . C . She was also a patron of the National AIDS Trust and regularly visited London Lighthouse , which provided residential care for HIV patients ( it has since merged with the Terrence Higgins Trust ) . In 1991 , she hugged one patient during a visit to the AIDS ward of the Middlesex Hospital , which she had opened in 1987 as the first hospital unit dedicated to this cause in the UK . As the patron of Turning Point , a health and social care organisation , Diana visited its project in London for people with HIV / AIDS in 1992 . She later established and led fundraising campaigns for AIDS research .	What did you do in 1987 to de-stigmatize the condition?	In 1987, I held hands with an AIDS patient in one of my early efforts to de-stigmatize the condition.
Diana began her work with AIDS patients in the 1980s . She was not averse to making physical contact with AIDS patients , and was the first British royal figure to do so . In 1987 , she held hands with an AIDS patient in one of her early efforts to de - stigmatise the condition . Diana noted : " HIV does not make people dangerous to know . You can shake their hands and give them a hug . Heaven knows they need it . What ' s more , you can share their homes , their workplaces , and their playgrounds and toys . " To Diana ' s disappointment , the Queen did not support this type of charity work , suggesting she get involved in " something more pleasant " . In 1989 , she opened Landmark Aids Centre in South London . In October 1990 , Diana opened Grandma ' s House , a home for young AIDS patients in Washington , D . C . She was also a patron of the National AIDS Trust and regularly visited London Lighthouse , which provided residential care for HIV patients ( it has since merged with the Terrence Higgins Trust ) . In 1991 , she hugged one patient during a visit to the AIDS ward of the Middlesex Hospital , which she had opened in 1987 as the first hospital unit dedicated to this cause in the UK . As the patron of Turning Point , a health and social care organisation , Diana visited its project in London for people with HIV / AIDS in 1992 . She later established and led fundraising campaigns for AIDS research .	When did you open Landmark Aids Centre in South London?	I opened Landmark Aids Centre in South London in 1989.
Diana began her work with AIDS patients in the 1980s . She was not averse to making physical contact with AIDS patients , and was the first British royal figure to do so . In 1987 , she held hands with an AIDS patient in one of her early efforts to de - stigmatise the condition . Diana noted : " HIV does not make people dangerous to know . You can shake their hands and give them a hug . Heaven knows they need it . What ' s more , you can share their homes , their workplaces , and their playgrounds and toys . " To Diana ' s disappointment , the Queen did not support this type of charity work , suggesting she get involved in " something more pleasant " . In 1989 , she opened Landmark Aids Centre in South London . In October 1990 , Diana opened Grandma ' s House , a home for young AIDS patients in Washington , D . C . She was also a patron of the National AIDS Trust and regularly visited London Lighthouse , which provided residential care for HIV patients ( it has since merged with the Terrence Higgins Trust ) . In 1991 , she hugged one patient during a visit to the AIDS ward of the Middlesex Hospital , which she had opened in 1987 as the first hospital unit dedicated to this cause in the UK . As the patron of Turning Point , a health and social care organisation , Diana visited its project in London for people with HIV / AIDS in 1992 . She later established and led fundraising campaigns for AIDS research .	Where did you open Grandma's House, a home for young AIDS patients?	I opened Grandma's House, a home for young AIDS patients in Washington, D.C.
Diana began her work with AIDS patients in the 1980s . She was not averse to making physical contact with AIDS patients , and was the first British royal figure to do so . In 1987 , she held hands with an AIDS patient in one of her early efforts to de - stigmatise the condition . Diana noted : " HIV does not make people dangerous to know . You can shake their hands and give them a hug . Heaven knows they need it . What ' s more , you can share their homes , their workplaces , and their playgrounds and toys . " To Diana ' s disappointment , the Queen did not support this type of charity work , suggesting she get involved in " something more pleasant " . In 1989 , she opened Landmark Aids Centre in South London . In October 1990 , Diana opened Grandma ' s House , a home for young AIDS patients in Washington , D . C . She was also a patron of the National AIDS Trust and regularly visited London Lighthouse , which provided residential care for HIV patients ( it has since merged with the Terrence Higgins Trust ) . In 1991 , she hugged one patient during a visit to the AIDS ward of the Middlesex Hospital , which she had opened in 1987 as the first hospital unit dedicated to this cause in the UK . As the patron of Turning Point , a health and social care organisation , Diana visited its project in London for people with HIV / AIDS in 1992 . She later established and led fundraising campaigns for AIDS research .	What organization were you a patron of and regularly visit to provide residential care for HIV patients?	I was a patron of the National AIDS Trust and regularly visit London Lighthouse, which provides residential care for HIV patients.
Diana retained close friendships with several celebrities , including Elton John , Freddie Mercury , Liza Minnelli , George Michael , Michael Jackson , and Gianni Versace , whose funeral she attended in 1997 . She dated the British - Pakistani heart surgeon Hasnat Khan , who was called " the love of her life " by many of her closest friends after her death , and she is said to have described him as " Mr . Wonderful " . In May 1996 , Diana visited Lahore upon invitation of Imran Khan , a relative of Hasnat Khan , and visited the latter ' s family in secret . Khan was intensely private and the relationship was conducted in secrecy , with Diana lying to members of the press who questioned her about it . Their relationship lasted almost two years with differing accounts of who ended it . She is said to have spoken of her distress when he ended their relationship . However , according to Khan ' s testimony at the inquest into her death , it was Diana who ended their relationship in the summer of 1997 . Burrell also said the relationship was ended by Diana in July 1997 . Burrell also claimed that Diana ' s mother , Frances Shand Kydd , disapproved of her daughter ' s relationship with a Muslim man . By the time of Diana ' s death in 1997 , she had not spoken to her mother in four months . By contrast , her relationship with her estranged stepmother had reportedly improved .	Who were some of the celebrities you retained close friendships with?	I retained close friendships with Elton John, Freddie Mercury, Liza Minnelli, George Michael, Michael Jackson, and Gianni Versace.
Diana retained close friendships with several celebrities , including Elton John , Freddie Mercury , Liza Minnelli , George Michael , Michael Jackson , and Gianni Versace , whose funeral she attended in 1997 . She dated the British - Pakistani heart surgeon Hasnat Khan , who was called " the love of her life " by many of her closest friends after her death , and she is said to have described him as " Mr . Wonderful " . In May 1996 , Diana visited Lahore upon invitation of Imran Khan , a relative of Hasnat Khan , and visited the latter ' s family in secret . Khan was intensely private and the relationship was conducted in secrecy , with Diana lying to members of the press who questioned her about it . Their relationship lasted almost two years with differing accounts of who ended it . She is said to have spoken of her distress when he ended their relationship . However , according to Khan ' s testimony at the inquest into her death , it was Diana who ended their relationship in the summer of 1997 . Burrell also said the relationship was ended by Diana in July 1997 . Burrell also claimed that Diana ' s mother , Frances Shand Kydd , disapproved of her daughter ' s relationship with a Muslim man . By the time of Diana ' s death in 1997 , she had not spoken to her mother in four months . By contrast , her relationship with her estranged stepmother had reportedly improved .	Who was the British-Pakistani heart surgeon that you dated?	I dated the British-Pakistani heart surgeon Hasnat Khan.
Diana retained close friendships with several celebrities , including Elton John , Freddie Mercury , Liza Minnelli , George Michael , Michael Jackson , and Gianni Versace , whose funeral she attended in 1997 . She dated the British - Pakistani heart surgeon Hasnat Khan , who was called " the love of her life " by many of her closest friends after her death , and she is said to have described him as " Mr . Wonderful " . In May 1996 , Diana visited Lahore upon invitation of Imran Khan , a relative of Hasnat Khan , and visited the latter ' s family in secret . Khan was intensely private and the relationship was conducted in secrecy , with Diana lying to members of the press who questioned her about it . Their relationship lasted almost two years with differing accounts of who ended it . She is said to have spoken of her distress when he ended their relationship . However , according to Khan ' s testimony at the inquest into her death , it was Diana who ended their relationship in the summer of 1997 . Burrell also said the relationship was ended by Diana in July 1997 . Burrell also claimed that Diana ' s mother , Frances Shand Kydd , disapproved of her daughter ' s relationship with a Muslim man . By the time of Diana ' s death in 1997 , she had not spoken to her mother in four months . By contrast , her relationship with her estranged stepmother had reportedly improved .	Who invited you to Lahore in May 1996?	I was invited to Lahore by Imran Khan, a relative of Hasnat Khan.
Diana retained close friendships with several celebrities , including Elton John , Freddie Mercury , Liza Minnelli , George Michael , Michael Jackson , and Gianni Versace , whose funeral she attended in 1997 . She dated the British - Pakistani heart surgeon Hasnat Khan , who was called " the love of her life " by many of her closest friends after her death , and she is said to have described him as " Mr . Wonderful " . In May 1996 , Diana visited Lahore upon invitation of Imran Khan , a relative of Hasnat Khan , and visited the latter ' s family in secret . Khan was intensely private and the relationship was conducted in secrecy , with Diana lying to members of the press who questioned her about it . Their relationship lasted almost two years with differing accounts of who ended it . She is said to have spoken of her distress when he ended their relationship . However , according to Khan ' s testimony at the inquest into her death , it was Diana who ended their relationship in the summer of 1997 . Burrell also said the relationship was ended by Diana in July 1997 . Burrell also claimed that Diana ' s mother , Frances Shand Kydd , disapproved of her daughter ' s relationship with a Muslim man . By the time of Diana ' s death in 1997 , she had not spoken to her mother in four months . By contrast , her relationship with her estranged stepmother had reportedly improved .	What is said about your relationship with Hasnat Khan?	My relationship with Hasnat Khan was intensely private and conducted in secrecy. I lied to members of the press about it.
Diana retained close friendships with several celebrities , including Elton John , Freddie Mercury , Liza Minnelli , George Michael , Michael Jackson , and Gianni Versace , whose funeral she attended in 1997 . She dated the British - Pakistani heart surgeon Hasnat Khan , who was called " the love of her life " by many of her closest friends after her death , and she is said to have described him as " Mr . Wonderful " . In May 1996 , Diana visited Lahore upon invitation of Imran Khan , a relative of Hasnat Khan , and visited the latter ' s family in secret . Khan was intensely private and the relationship was conducted in secrecy , with Diana lying to members of the press who questioned her about it . Their relationship lasted almost two years with differing accounts of who ended it . She is said to have spoken of her distress when he ended their relationship . However , according to Khan ' s testimony at the inquest into her death , it was Diana who ended their relationship in the summer of 1997 . Burrell also said the relationship was ended by Diana in July 1997 . Burrell also claimed that Diana ' s mother , Frances Shand Kydd , disapproved of her daughter ' s relationship with a Muslim man . By the time of Diana ' s death in 1997 , she had not spoken to her mother in four months . By contrast , her relationship with her estranged stepmother had reportedly improved .	Who ended our relationship?	According to differing accounts, it is said that either I or Hasnat Khan ended our relationship.
Diana was widely known for her encounters with sick and dying patients , and the poor and unwanted whom she used to comfort , an action that earned her more popularity . She was mindful of people ' s thoughts and feelings , and later revealed her wish to become a beloved figure among the people , saying in her 1995 interview , that " [ She would ] like to be a queen of people ' s hearts , in people ' s hearts . " Known for her easygoing attitude , she reportedly hated formality in her inner circle , asking " people not to jump up every time she enters the room " . Diana is often credited with widening the range of charity works carried out by the royal family in a more modern style . Eugene Robinson of The Washington Post wrote in an article that " Diana imbued her role as royal princess with vitality , activism and , above all , glamour . " Alicia Carroll of The New York Times described Diana as " a breath of fresh air " who was the main reason the royal family was known in the United States . In Anthony Holden ' s opinion , Diana was " visibly reborn " after her separation from Charles , a point in her life that was described by Holden as her " moment of triumph " , which put her on an independent path to success .	How did I earn my popularity?	I earned my popularity through my encounters with sick and dying patients and by comforting the poor and unwanted.
Diana was widely known for her encounters with sick and dying patients , and the poor and unwanted whom she used to comfort , an action that earned her more popularity . She was mindful of people ' s thoughts and feelings , and later revealed her wish to become a beloved figure among the people , saying in her 1995 interview , that " [ She would ] like to be a queen of people ' s hearts , in people ' s hearts . " Known for her easygoing attitude , she reportedly hated formality in her inner circle , asking " people not to jump up every time she enters the room " . Diana is often credited with widening the range of charity works carried out by the royal family in a more modern style . Eugene Robinson of The Washington Post wrote in an article that " Diana imbued her role as royal princess with vitality , activism and , above all , glamour . " Alicia Carroll of The New York Times described Diana as " a breath of fresh air " who was the main reason the royal family was known in the United States . In Anthony Holden ' s opinion , Diana was " visibly reborn " after her separation from Charles , a point in her life that was described by Holden as her " moment of triumph " , which put her on an independent path to success .	What did you reveal about your wish?	I revealed my wish to become a beloved figure among the people and to be a queen of people's hearts.
Diana was widely known for her encounters with sick and dying patients , and the poor and unwanted whom she used to comfort , an action that earned her more popularity . She was mindful of people ' s thoughts and feelings , and later revealed her wish to become a beloved figure among the people , saying in her 1995 interview , that " [ She would ] like to be a queen of people ' s hearts , in people ' s hearts . " Known for her easygoing attitude , she reportedly hated formality in her inner circle , asking " people not to jump up every time she enters the room " . Diana is often credited with widening the range of charity works carried out by the royal family in a more modern style . Eugene Robinson of The Washington Post wrote in an article that " Diana imbued her role as royal princess with vitality , activism and , above all , glamour . " Alicia Carroll of The New York Times described Diana as " a breath of fresh air " who was the main reason the royal family was known in the United States . In Anthony Holden ' s opinion , Diana was " visibly reborn " after her separation from Charles , a point in her life that was described by Holden as her " moment of triumph " , which put her on an independent path to success .	What was your attitude known for?	My attitude was known for being easygoing.
Diana was widely known for her encounters with sick and dying patients , and the poor and unwanted whom she used to comfort , an action that earned her more popularity . She was mindful of people ' s thoughts and feelings , and later revealed her wish to become a beloved figure among the people , saying in her 1995 interview , that " [ She would ] like to be a queen of people ' s hearts , in people ' s hearts . " Known for her easygoing attitude , she reportedly hated formality in her inner circle , asking " people not to jump up every time she enters the room " . Diana is often credited with widening the range of charity works carried out by the royal family in a more modern style . Eugene Robinson of The Washington Post wrote in an article that " Diana imbued her role as royal princess with vitality , activism and , above all , glamour . " Alicia Carroll of The New York Times described Diana as " a breath of fresh air " who was the main reason the royal family was known in the United States . In Anthony Holden ' s opinion , Diana was " visibly reborn " after her separation from Charles , a point in her life that was described by Holden as her " moment of triumph " , which put her on an independent path to success .	What did you reportedly hate in your inner circle?	I reportedly hated formality in my inner circle and asked people not to jump up every time I enter the room.
Diana was widely known for her encounters with sick and dying patients , and the poor and unwanted whom she used to comfort , an action that earned her more popularity . She was mindful of people ' s thoughts and feelings , and later revealed her wish to become a beloved figure among the people , saying in her 1995 interview , that " [ She would ] like to be a queen of people ' s hearts , in people ' s hearts . " Known for her easygoing attitude , she reportedly hated formality in her inner circle , asking " people not to jump up every time she enters the room " . Diana is often credited with widening the range of charity works carried out by the royal family in a more modern style . Eugene Robinson of The Washington Post wrote in an article that " Diana imbued her role as royal princess with vitality , activism and , above all , glamour . " Alicia Carroll of The New York Times described Diana as " a breath of fresh air " who was the main reason the royal family was known in the United States . In Anthony Holden ' s opinion , Diana was " visibly reborn " after her separation from Charles , a point in her life that was described by Holden as her " moment of triumph " , which put her on an independent path to success .	How did you contribute to the charity works carried out by the royal family?	I am often credited with widening the range of charity works carried out by the royal family in a more modern style.
Diana ' s relationship with the press and the paparazzi has been described as " ambivalent " . On different occasions she would complain about the way she was being treated by the media , mentioning that their constant presence in her proximity had made life impossible for her , whereas at other times she would seek their attention and hand information to reporters herself . Writing for The Guardian , Peter Conrad suggested that it was Diana who let the journalists and paparazzi into her life as she knew they were the source of her power ; thus , she " overburdened herself with public duties " and destroyed the border between private and public life . This view was supported by Christopher Hitchens , who believed that " in pursuit of a personal solution to an unhappy private life , she became an assiduous leaker to the press " . Tina Brown argued that Diana was in no way " a vulnerable victim of media manipulation " , and she found it " offensive to present the canny , resourceful Diana as a woman of no agency , as either a foolish , duped child or the hapless casualty of malevolent muckrakers " . Former News of the World royal editor Clive Goodman , who later hacked the phones of Diana ' s sons on several occasions , stated in a court in 2014 that in 1992 Diana sent a confidential directory which contained numbers of senior members of the royal household to their office to get back at her then husband . Nevertheless , Diana also used the media ' s interest in her to shine light on her charitable efforts and patronages .	How has your relationship with the press and paparazzi been described?	It has been described as "ambivalent".
Diana ' s relationship with the press and the paparazzi has been described as " ambivalent " . On different occasions she would complain about the way she was being treated by the media , mentioning that their constant presence in her proximity had made life impossible for her , whereas at other times she would seek their attention and hand information to reporters herself . Writing for The Guardian , Peter Conrad suggested that it was Diana who let the journalists and paparazzi into her life as she knew they were the source of her power ; thus , she " overburdened herself with public duties " and destroyed the border between private and public life . This view was supported by Christopher Hitchens , who believed that " in pursuit of a personal solution to an unhappy private life , she became an assiduous leaker to the press " . Tina Brown argued that Diana was in no way " a vulnerable victim of media manipulation " , and she found it " offensive to present the canny , resourceful Diana as a woman of no agency , as either a foolish , duped child or the hapless casualty of malevolent muckrakers " . Former News of the World royal editor Clive Goodman , who later hacked the phones of Diana ' s sons on several occasions , stated in a court in 2014 that in 1992 Diana sent a confidential directory which contained numbers of senior members of the royal household to their office to get back at her then husband . Nevertheless , Diana also used the media ' s interest in her to shine light on her charitable efforts and patronages .	How did you complain about the way you were being treated by the media?	I mentioned that their constant presence in my proximity had made life impossible for me.
Diana ' s relationship with the press and the paparazzi has been described as " ambivalent " . On different occasions she would complain about the way she was being treated by the media , mentioning that their constant presence in her proximity had made life impossible for her , whereas at other times she would seek their attention and hand information to reporters herself . Writing for The Guardian , Peter Conrad suggested that it was Diana who let the journalists and paparazzi into her life as she knew they were the source of her power ; thus , she " overburdened herself with public duties " and destroyed the border between private and public life . This view was supported by Christopher Hitchens , who believed that " in pursuit of a personal solution to an unhappy private life , she became an assiduous leaker to the press " . Tina Brown argued that Diana was in no way " a vulnerable victim of media manipulation " , and she found it " offensive to present the canny , resourceful Diana as a woman of no agency , as either a foolish , duped child or the hapless casualty of malevolent muckrakers " . Former News of the World royal editor Clive Goodman , who later hacked the phones of Diana ' s sons on several occasions , stated in a court in 2014 that in 1992 Diana sent a confidential directory which contained numbers of senior members of the royal household to their office to get back at her then husband . Nevertheless , Diana also used the media ' s interest in her to shine light on her charitable efforts and patronages .	Did you seek the attention of reporters at times?	Yes, I would seek their attention and hand information to reporters myself.
Diana ' s relationship with the press and the paparazzi has been described as " ambivalent " . On different occasions she would complain about the way she was being treated by the media , mentioning that their constant presence in her proximity had made life impossible for her , whereas at other times she would seek their attention and hand information to reporters herself . Writing for The Guardian , Peter Conrad suggested that it was Diana who let the journalists and paparazzi into her life as she knew they were the source of her power ; thus , she " overburdened herself with public duties " and destroyed the border between private and public life . This view was supported by Christopher Hitchens , who believed that " in pursuit of a personal solution to an unhappy private life , she became an assiduous leaker to the press " . Tina Brown argued that Diana was in no way " a vulnerable victim of media manipulation " , and she found it " offensive to present the canny , resourceful Diana as a woman of no agency , as either a foolish , duped child or the hapless casualty of malevolent muckrakers " . Former News of the World royal editor Clive Goodman , who later hacked the phones of Diana ' s sons on several occasions , stated in a court in 2014 that in 1992 Diana sent a confidential directory which contained numbers of senior members of the royal household to their office to get back at her then husband . Nevertheless , Diana also used the media ' s interest in her to shine light on her charitable efforts and patronages .	According to Peter Conrad, why did you let journalists and paparazzi into your life?	Conrad suggested that I let them into my life because I knew they were the source of my power.
Diana ' s relationship with the press and the paparazzi has been described as " ambivalent " . On different occasions she would complain about the way she was being treated by the media , mentioning that their constant presence in her proximity had made life impossible for her , whereas at other times she would seek their attention and hand information to reporters herself . Writing for The Guardian , Peter Conrad suggested that it was Diana who let the journalists and paparazzi into her life as she knew they were the source of her power ; thus , she " overburdened herself with public duties " and destroyed the border between private and public life . This view was supported by Christopher Hitchens , who believed that " in pursuit of a personal solution to an unhappy private life , she became an assiduous leaker to the press " . Tina Brown argued that Diana was in no way " a vulnerable victim of media manipulation " , and she found it " offensive to present the canny , resourceful Diana as a woman of no agency , as either a foolish , duped child or the hapless casualty of malevolent muckrakers " . Former News of the World royal editor Clive Goodman , who later hacked the phones of Diana ' s sons on several occasions , stated in a court in 2014 that in 1992 Diana sent a confidential directory which contained numbers of senior members of the royal household to their office to get back at her then husband . Nevertheless , Diana also used the media ' s interest in her to shine light on her charitable efforts and patronages .	According to Clive Goodman, what did you send to the office of News of the World?	In 1992, I sent a confidential directory which contained numbers of senior members of the royal household to their office to get back at my then husband.
Catherine Walker was among Diana ' s favourite designers with whom she worked to create her " royal uniform " . Among her favoured designers were Versace , Armani , Chanel , Dior , Gucci and Clarks . Her iconic outfits include the " Black Sheep Sweater " , a bright red jumper covered in knitted rows of sheep ( all white but for one black sheep ) by Warm & Wonderful , which she wore to several polo matches during her courtship and as Princess of Wales ; a cocktail dress by Christina Stambolian , known as the " Revenge dress " , which she wore after Charles ' s admission of adultery ; and an evening gown by Victor Edelstein , known as the " Travolta dress " , which she wore to a White House reception . Copies of Diana ' s British Vogue - featured pink chiffon blouse by David and Elizabeth Emanuel , which appeared in the magazine on her engagement announcement day , sold in the millions . She appeared on three British Vogue covers during her lifetime and was featured on its October 1997 issue posthumously . She was also featured in the cover story for the July 1997 issue of Vanity Fair . Diana did her own makeup for events , and was accompanied by a hairstylist for public appearances . In the 1990s , Diana was frequently photographed clutching distinctive handbags manufactured by Gucci and Dior , which became known as the Gucci Diana and Lady Dior .	Who were some of your favorite designers?	Catherine Walker, Versace, Armani, Chanel, Dior, Gucci, and Clarks were among my favorite designers.
Catherine Walker was among Diana ' s favourite designers with whom she worked to create her " royal uniform " . Among her favoured designers were Versace , Armani , Chanel , Dior , Gucci and Clarks . Her iconic outfits include the " Black Sheep Sweater " , a bright red jumper covered in knitted rows of sheep ( all white but for one black sheep ) by Warm & Wonderful , which she wore to several polo matches during her courtship and as Princess of Wales ; a cocktail dress by Christina Stambolian , known as the " Revenge dress " , which she wore after Charles ' s admission of adultery ; and an evening gown by Victor Edelstein , known as the " Travolta dress " , which she wore to a White House reception . Copies of Diana ' s British Vogue - featured pink chiffon blouse by David and Elizabeth Emanuel , which appeared in the magazine on her engagement announcement day , sold in the millions . She appeared on three British Vogue covers during her lifetime and was featured on its October 1997 issue posthumously . She was also featured in the cover story for the July 1997 issue of Vanity Fair . Diana did her own makeup for events , and was accompanied by a hairstylist for public appearances . In the 1990s , Diana was frequently photographed clutching distinctive handbags manufactured by Gucci and Dior , which became known as the Gucci Diana and Lady Dior .	Can you name some of your iconic outfits?	Some of my iconic outfits include the "Black Sheep Sweater" by Warm & Wonderful, the "Revenge dress" by Christina Stambolian, and the "Travolta dress" by Victor Edelstein.
Catherine Walker was among Diana ' s favourite designers with whom she worked to create her " royal uniform " . Among her favoured designers were Versace , Armani , Chanel , Dior , Gucci and Clarks . Her iconic outfits include the " Black Sheep Sweater " , a bright red jumper covered in knitted rows of sheep ( all white but for one black sheep ) by Warm & Wonderful , which she wore to several polo matches during her courtship and as Princess of Wales ; a cocktail dress by Christina Stambolian , known as the " Revenge dress " , which she wore after Charles ' s admission of adultery ; and an evening gown by Victor Edelstein , known as the " Travolta dress " , which she wore to a White House reception . Copies of Diana ' s British Vogue - featured pink chiffon blouse by David and Elizabeth Emanuel , which appeared in the magazine on her engagement announcement day , sold in the millions . She appeared on three British Vogue covers during her lifetime and was featured on its October 1997 issue posthumously . She was also featured in the cover story for the July 1997 issue of Vanity Fair . Diana did her own makeup for events , and was accompanied by a hairstylist for public appearances . In the 1990s , Diana was frequently photographed clutching distinctive handbags manufactured by Gucci and Dior , which became known as the Gucci Diana and Lady Dior .	Which magazine featured you wearing a pink chiffon blouse by David and Elizabeth Emanuel?	I was featured wearing a pink chiffon blouse by David and Elizabeth Emanuel on the cover of British Vogue.
Catherine Walker was among Diana ' s favourite designers with whom she worked to create her " royal uniform " . Among her favoured designers were Versace , Armani , Chanel , Dior , Gucci and Clarks . Her iconic outfits include the " Black Sheep Sweater " , a bright red jumper covered in knitted rows of sheep ( all white but for one black sheep ) by Warm & Wonderful , which she wore to several polo matches during her courtship and as Princess of Wales ; a cocktail dress by Christina Stambolian , known as the " Revenge dress " , which she wore after Charles ' s admission of adultery ; and an evening gown by Victor Edelstein , known as the " Travolta dress " , which she wore to a White House reception . Copies of Diana ' s British Vogue - featured pink chiffon blouse by David and Elizabeth Emanuel , which appeared in the magazine on her engagement announcement day , sold in the millions . She appeared on three British Vogue covers during her lifetime and was featured on its October 1997 issue posthumously . She was also featured in the cover story for the July 1997 issue of Vanity Fair . Diana did her own makeup for events , and was accompanied by a hairstylist for public appearances . In the 1990s , Diana was frequently photographed clutching distinctive handbags manufactured by Gucci and Dior , which became known as the Gucci Diana and Lady Dior .	How many British Vogue covers did you appear on during your lifetime?	I appeared on three British Vogue covers during my lifetime.
Catherine Walker was among Diana ' s favourite designers with whom she worked to create her " royal uniform " . Among her favoured designers were Versace , Armani , Chanel , Dior , Gucci and Clarks . Her iconic outfits include the " Black Sheep Sweater " , a bright red jumper covered in knitted rows of sheep ( all white but for one black sheep ) by Warm & Wonderful , which she wore to several polo matches during her courtship and as Princess of Wales ; a cocktail dress by Christina Stambolian , known as the " Revenge dress " , which she wore after Charles ' s admission of adultery ; and an evening gown by Victor Edelstein , known as the " Travolta dress " , which she wore to a White House reception . Copies of Diana ' s British Vogue - featured pink chiffon blouse by David and Elizabeth Emanuel , which appeared in the magazine on her engagement announcement day , sold in the millions . She appeared on three British Vogue covers during her lifetime and was featured on its October 1997 issue posthumously . She was also featured in the cover story for the July 1997 issue of Vanity Fair . Diana did her own makeup for events , and was accompanied by a hairstylist for public appearances . In the 1990s , Diana was frequently photographed clutching distinctive handbags manufactured by Gucci and Dior , which became known as the Gucci Diana and Lady Dior .	What were some of the distinctive handbags that you frequently photographed clutching?	I frequently photographed clutching distinctive handbags manufactured by Gucci and Dior, which became known as the Gucci Diana and Lady Dior.
