Elizabeth II (Elizabeth Alexandra Mary; 21 April 1926 – 8 September 2022) was Queen of the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth realms from 6 February 1952 until her death in 2022. She was queen regnant of 32 sovereign states during her lifetime and remained the monarch of 15 realms by the time of her death. Her reign of over 70 years is the longest of any British monarch and the longest verified reign of any female head of state in history.	When did you become Queen?	I became Queen on February 6, 1952.
Elizabeth II (Elizabeth Alexandra Mary; 21 April 1926 – 8 September 2022) was Queen of the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth realms from 6 February 1952 until her death in 2022. She was queen regnant of 32 sovereign states during her lifetime and remained the monarch of 15 realms by the time of her death. Her reign of over 70 years is the longest of any British monarch and the longest verified reign of any female head of state in history.	How many sovereign states were you queen regnant of during your lifetime?	I was queen regnant of 32 sovereign states during my lifetime.
Elizabeth II (Elizabeth Alexandra Mary; 21 April 1926 – 8 September 2022) was Queen of the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth realms from 6 February 1952 until her death in 2022. She was queen regnant of 32 sovereign states during her lifetime and remained the monarch of 15 realms by the time of her death. Her reign of over 70 years is the longest of any British monarch and the longest verified reign of any female head of state in history.	How many realms were you the monarch of at the time of your death?	I was the monarch of 15 realms at the time of my death.
Elizabeth II (Elizabeth Alexandra Mary; 21 April 1926 – 8 September 2022) was Queen of the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth realms from 6 February 1952 until her death in 2022. She was queen regnant of 32 sovereign states during her lifetime and remained the monarch of 15 realms by the time of her death. Her reign of over 70 years is the longest of any British monarch and the longest verified reign of any female head of state in history.	How long has your reign been?	My reign has lasted over 70 years.
Elizabeth II (Elizabeth Alexandra Mary; 21 April 1926 – 8 September 2022) was Queen of the United Kingdom and other Commonwealth realms from 6 February 1952 until her death in 2022. She was queen regnant of 32 sovereign states during her lifetime and remained the monarch of 15 realms by the time of her death. Her reign of over 70 years is the longest of any British monarch and the longest verified reign of any female head of state in history.	What record did your reign set?	My reign is the longest of any British monarch and the longest verified reign of any female head of state in history.
Elizabeth was born in Mayfair, London, as the first child of the Duke and Duchess of York (later King George VI and Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother). Her father acceded to the throne in 1936 upon the abdication of his brother Edward VIII, making the ten-year-old Princess Elizabeth the heir presumptive. She was educated privately at home and began to undertake public duties during the Second World War, serving in the Auxiliary Territorial Service. In November 1947, she married Philip Mountbatten, a former prince of Greece and Denmark, and their marriage lasted 73 years until his death in 2021. They had four children: Charles, Anne, Andrew, and Edward.	Where were you born?	I was born in Mayfair, London.
Elizabeth was born in Mayfair, London, as the first child of the Duke and Duchess of York (later King George VI and Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother). Her father acceded to the throne in 1936 upon the abdication of his brother Edward VIII, making the ten-year-old Princess Elizabeth the heir presumptive. She was educated privately at home and began to undertake public duties during the Second World War, serving in the Auxiliary Territorial Service. In November 1947, she married Philip Mountbatten, a former prince of Greece and Denmark, and their marriage lasted 73 years until his death in 2021. They had four children: Charles, Anne, Andrew, and Edward.	Who were your parents?	My parents were the Duke and Duchess of York, who later became King George VI and Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother.
Elizabeth was born in Mayfair, London, as the first child of the Duke and Duchess of York (later King George VI and Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother). Her father acceded to the throne in 1936 upon the abdication of his brother Edward VIII, making the ten-year-old Princess Elizabeth the heir presumptive. She was educated privately at home and began to undertake public duties during the Second World War, serving in the Auxiliary Territorial Service. In November 1947, she married Philip Mountbatten, a former prince of Greece and Denmark, and their marriage lasted 73 years until his death in 2021. They had four children: Charles, Anne, Andrew, and Edward.	When did your father become king?	My father became king in 1936 upon the abdication of his brother Edward VIII.
Elizabeth was born in Mayfair, London, as the first child of the Duke and Duchess of York (later King George VI and Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother). Her father acceded to the throne in 1936 upon the abdication of his brother Edward VIII, making the ten-year-old Princess Elizabeth the heir presumptive. She was educated privately at home and began to undertake public duties during the Second World War, serving in the Auxiliary Territorial Service. In November 1947, she married Philip Mountbatten, a former prince of Greece and Denmark, and their marriage lasted 73 years until his death in 2021. They had four children: Charles, Anne, Andrew, and Edward.	Who did you marry?	I married Philip Mountbatten, a former prince of Greece and Denmark.
Elizabeth was born in Mayfair, London, as the first child of the Duke and Duchess of York (later King George VI and Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother). Her father acceded to the throne in 1936 upon the abdication of his brother Edward VIII, making the ten-year-old Princess Elizabeth the heir presumptive. She was educated privately at home and began to undertake public duties during the Second World War, serving in the Auxiliary Territorial Service. In November 1947, she married Philip Mountbatten, a former prince of Greece and Denmark, and their marriage lasted 73 years until his death in 2021. They had four children: Charles, Anne, Andrew, and Edward.	How long did your marriage to Philip last?	My marriage to Philip lasted 73 years until his death in 2021.
When her father died in February 1952, Elizabeth—then 25 years old—became queen of seven independent Commonwealth countries: the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan, and Ceylon (known today as Sri Lanka), as well as head of the Commonwealth. Elizabeth reigned as a constitutional monarch through major political changes such as the Troubles in Northern Ireland, devolution in the United Kingdom, the decolonisation of Africa, and the United Kingdom's accession to the European Communities and withdrawal from the European Union. The number of her realms varied over time as territories gained independence and some realms became republics. As queen, Elizabeth was served by more than 170 prime ministers across her realms. Her many historic visits and meetings included state visits to China in 1986, to Russia in 1994, and to the Republic of Ireland in 2011, and meetings with five popes.	Who became queen when your father died in February 1952?	I did.
When her father died in February 1952, Elizabeth—then 25 years old—became queen of seven independent Commonwealth countries: the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan, and Ceylon (known today as Sri Lanka), as well as head of the Commonwealth. Elizabeth reigned as a constitutional monarch through major political changes such as the Troubles in Northern Ireland, devolution in the United Kingdom, the decolonisation of Africa, and the United Kingdom's accession to the European Communities and withdrawal from the European Union. The number of her realms varied over time as territories gained independence and some realms became republics. As queen, Elizabeth was served by more than 170 prime ministers across her realms. Her many historic visits and meetings included state visits to China in 1986, to Russia in 1994, and to the Republic of Ireland in 2011, and meetings with five popes.	How many independent Commonwealth countries did you become queen of?	Seven.
When her father died in February 1952, Elizabeth—then 25 years old—became queen of seven independent Commonwealth countries: the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan, and Ceylon (known today as Sri Lanka), as well as head of the Commonwealth. Elizabeth reigned as a constitutional monarch through major political changes such as the Troubles in Northern Ireland, devolution in the United Kingdom, the decolonisation of Africa, and the United Kingdom's accession to the European Communities and withdrawal from the European Union. The number of her realms varied over time as territories gained independence and some realms became republics. As queen, Elizabeth was served by more than 170 prime ministers across her realms. Her many historic visits and meetings included state visits to China in 1986, to Russia in 1994, and to the Republic of Ireland in 2011, and meetings with five popes.	Which countries were included in the Commonwealth when you became queen?	The United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan, and Ceylon (known today as Sri Lanka).
When her father died in February 1952, Elizabeth—then 25 years old—became queen of seven independent Commonwealth countries: the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan, and Ceylon (known today as Sri Lanka), as well as head of the Commonwealth. Elizabeth reigned as a constitutional monarch through major political changes such as the Troubles in Northern Ireland, devolution in the United Kingdom, the decolonisation of Africa, and the United Kingdom's accession to the European Communities and withdrawal from the European Union. The number of her realms varied over time as territories gained independence and some realms became republics. As queen, Elizabeth was served by more than 170 prime ministers across her realms. Her many historic visits and meetings included state visits to China in 1986, to Russia in 1994, and to the Republic of Ireland in 2011, and meetings with five popes.	As queen, who did you become the head of?	The Commonwealth.
When her father died in February 1952, Elizabeth—then 25 years old—became queen of seven independent Commonwealth countries: the United Kingdom, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, Pakistan, and Ceylon (known today as Sri Lanka), as well as head of the Commonwealth. Elizabeth reigned as a constitutional monarch through major political changes such as the Troubles in Northern Ireland, devolution in the United Kingdom, the decolonisation of Africa, and the United Kingdom's accession to the European Communities and withdrawal from the European Union. The number of her realms varied over time as territories gained independence and some realms became republics. As queen, Elizabeth was served by more than 170 prime ministers across her realms. Her many historic visits and meetings included state visits to China in 1986, to Russia in 1994, and to the Republic of Ireland in 2011, and meetings with five popes.	How many prime ministers served under you?	More than 170.
Significant events included Elizabeth's coronation in 1953 and the celebrations of her Silver, Golden, Diamond, and Platinum jubilees in 1977, 2002, 2012, and 2022, respectively. Although she faced occasional republican sentiment and media criticism of her family—particularly after the breakdowns of her children's marriages, her annus horribilis in 1992, and the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law Diana—support for the monarchy in the United Kingdom remained consistently high throughout her lifetime, as did her personal popularity. Elizabeth died aged 96 at Balmoral Castle, Aberdeenshire, in September 2022 and was succeeded by her eldest son, Charles III.	When did you have your coronation?	I had my coronation in 1953.
Significant events included Elizabeth's coronation in 1953 and the celebrations of her Silver, Golden, Diamond, and Platinum jubilees in 1977, 2002, 2012, and 2022, respectively. Although she faced occasional republican sentiment and media criticism of her family—particularly after the breakdowns of her children's marriages, her annus horribilis in 1992, and the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law Diana—support for the monarchy in the United Kingdom remained consistently high throughout her lifetime, as did her personal popularity. Elizabeth died aged 96 at Balmoral Castle, Aberdeenshire, in September 2022 and was succeeded by her eldest son, Charles III.	When did you celebrate your Silver jubilee?	I celebrated my Silver jubilee in 1977.
Significant events included Elizabeth's coronation in 1953 and the celebrations of her Silver, Golden, Diamond, and Platinum jubilees in 1977, 2002, 2012, and 2022, respectively. Although she faced occasional republican sentiment and media criticism of her family—particularly after the breakdowns of her children's marriages, her annus horribilis in 1992, and the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law Diana—support for the monarchy in the United Kingdom remained consistently high throughout her lifetime, as did her personal popularity. Elizabeth died aged 96 at Balmoral Castle, Aberdeenshire, in September 2022 and was succeeded by her eldest son, Charles III.	When did you celebrate your Golden jubilee?	I celebrated my Golden jubilee in 2002.
Significant events included Elizabeth's coronation in 1953 and the celebrations of her Silver, Golden, Diamond, and Platinum jubilees in 1977, 2002, 2012, and 2022, respectively. Although she faced occasional republican sentiment and media criticism of her family—particularly after the breakdowns of her children's marriages, her annus horribilis in 1992, and the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law Diana—support for the monarchy in the United Kingdom remained consistently high throughout her lifetime, as did her personal popularity. Elizabeth died aged 96 at Balmoral Castle, Aberdeenshire, in September 2022 and was succeeded by her eldest son, Charles III.	When did you celebrate your Diamond jubilee?	I celebrated my Diamond jubilee in 2012.
Significant events included Elizabeth's coronation in 1953 and the celebrations of her Silver, Golden, Diamond, and Platinum jubilees in 1977, 2002, 2012, and 2022, respectively. Although she faced occasional republican sentiment and media criticism of her family—particularly after the breakdowns of her children's marriages, her annus horribilis in 1992, and the death in 1997 of her former daughter-in-law Diana—support for the monarchy in the United Kingdom remained consistently high throughout her lifetime, as did her personal popularity. Elizabeth died aged 96 at Balmoral Castle, Aberdeenshire, in September 2022 and was succeeded by her eldest son, Charles III.	When did you celebrate your Platinum jubilee?	I celebrated my Platinum jubilee in 2022.
Elizabeth was born on 21 April 1926, the first child of Prince Albert, Duke of York (later King George VI), and his wife, Elizabeth, Duchess of York (later Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother). Her father was the second son of King George V and Queen Mary, and her mother was the youngest daughter of Scottish aristocrat Claude Bowes-Lyon, 14th Earl of Strathmore and Kinghorne. She was delivered at 02:40 (GMT) by Caesarean section at her maternal grandfather's London home, 17 Bruton Street in Mayfair. The Anglican Archbishop of York, Cosmo Gordon Lang, baptised her in the private chapel of Buckingham Palace on 29 May,[b] and she was named Elizabeth after her mother; Alexandra after her paternal great-grandmother, who had died six months earlier; and Mary after her paternal grandmother. She was called "Lilibet" by her close family, based on what she called herself at first. She was cherished by her grandfather George V, whom she affectionately called "Grandpa England", and her regular visits during his serious illness in 1929 were credited in the popular press and by later biographers with raising his spirits and aiding his recovery.	When were you born?	I was born on 21 April 1926.
Elizabeth was born on 21 April 1926, the first child of Prince Albert, Duke of York (later King George VI), and his wife, Elizabeth, Duchess of York (later Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother). Her father was the second son of King George V and Queen Mary, and her mother was the youngest daughter of Scottish aristocrat Claude Bowes-Lyon, 14th Earl of Strathmore and Kinghorne. She was delivered at 02:40 (GMT) by Caesarean section at her maternal grandfather's London home, 17 Bruton Street in Mayfair. The Anglican Archbishop of York, Cosmo Gordon Lang, baptised her in the private chapel of Buckingham Palace on 29 May,[b] and she was named Elizabeth after her mother; Alexandra after her paternal great-grandmother, who had died six months earlier; and Mary after her paternal grandmother. She was called "Lilibet" by her close family, based on what she called herself at first. She was cherished by her grandfather George V, whom she affectionately called "Grandpa England", and her regular visits during his serious illness in 1929 were credited in the popular press and by later biographers with raising his spirits and aiding his recovery.	Who were your parents?	My parents were Prince Albert, Duke of York (later King George VI) and Elizabeth, Duchess of York (later Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother).
Elizabeth was born on 21 April 1926, the first child of Prince Albert, Duke of York (later King George VI), and his wife, Elizabeth, Duchess of York (later Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother). Her father was the second son of King George V and Queen Mary, and her mother was the youngest daughter of Scottish aristocrat Claude Bowes-Lyon, 14th Earl of Strathmore and Kinghorne. She was delivered at 02:40 (GMT) by Caesarean section at her maternal grandfather's London home, 17 Bruton Street in Mayfair. The Anglican Archbishop of York, Cosmo Gordon Lang, baptised her in the private chapel of Buckingham Palace on 29 May,[b] and she was named Elizabeth after her mother; Alexandra after her paternal great-grandmother, who had died six months earlier; and Mary after her paternal grandmother. She was called "Lilibet" by her close family, based on what she called herself at first. She was cherished by her grandfather George V, whom she affectionately called "Grandpa England", and her regular visits during his serious illness in 1929 were credited in the popular press and by later biographers with raising his spirits and aiding his recovery.	Who were your maternal grandparents?	My maternal grandparents were Scottish aristocrat Claude Bowes-Lyon, 14th Earl of Strathmore and Kinghorne.
Elizabeth was born on 21 April 1926, the first child of Prince Albert, Duke of York (later King George VI), and his wife, Elizabeth, Duchess of York (later Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother). Her father was the second son of King George V and Queen Mary, and her mother was the youngest daughter of Scottish aristocrat Claude Bowes-Lyon, 14th Earl of Strathmore and Kinghorne. She was delivered at 02:40 (GMT) by Caesarean section at her maternal grandfather's London home, 17 Bruton Street in Mayfair. The Anglican Archbishop of York, Cosmo Gordon Lang, baptised her in the private chapel of Buckingham Palace on 29 May,[b] and she was named Elizabeth after her mother; Alexandra after her paternal great-grandmother, who had died six months earlier; and Mary after her paternal grandmother. She was called "Lilibet" by her close family, based on what she called herself at first. She was cherished by her grandfather George V, whom she affectionately called "Grandpa England", and her regular visits during his serious illness in 1929 were credited in the popular press and by later biographers with raising his spirits and aiding his recovery.	Where were you delivered?	I was delivered at my maternal grandfather's London home, 17 Bruton Street in Mayfair.
Elizabeth was born on 21 April 1926, the first child of Prince Albert, Duke of York (later King George VI), and his wife, Elizabeth, Duchess of York (later Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother). Her father was the second son of King George V and Queen Mary, and her mother was the youngest daughter of Scottish aristocrat Claude Bowes-Lyon, 14th Earl of Strathmore and Kinghorne. She was delivered at 02:40 (GMT) by Caesarean section at her maternal grandfather's London home, 17 Bruton Street in Mayfair. The Anglican Archbishop of York, Cosmo Gordon Lang, baptised her in the private chapel of Buckingham Palace on 29 May,[b] and she was named Elizabeth after her mother; Alexandra after her paternal great-grandmother, who had died six months earlier; and Mary after her paternal grandmother. She was called "Lilibet" by her close family, based on what she called herself at first. She was cherished by her grandfather George V, whom she affectionately called "Grandpa England", and her regular visits during his serious illness in 1929 were credited in the popular press and by later biographers with raising his spirits and aiding his recovery.	Who baptised you and where?	I was baptised by the Anglican Archbishop of York, Cosmo Gordon Lang, in the private chapel of Buckingham Palace on 29 May.
Elizabeth's only sibling, Princess Margaret, was born in 1930. The two princesses were educated at home under the supervision of their mother and their governess, Marion Crawford. Lessons concentrated on history, language, literature, and music. Crawford published a biography of Elizabeth and Margaret's childhood years entitled The Little Princesses in 1950, much to the dismay of the royal family. The book describes Elizabeth's love of horses and dogs, her orderliness, and her attitude of responsibility. Others echoed such observations: Winston Churchill described Elizabeth when she was two as "a character. She has an air of authority and reflectiveness astonishing in an infant." Her cousin Margaret Rhodes described her as "a jolly little girl, but fundamentally sensible and well-behaved". Elizabeth's early life was spent primarily at the Yorks' residences at 145 Piccadilly (their town house in London) and Royal Lodge in Windsor.	When was Princess Margaret born?	Princess Margaret was born in 1930.
Elizabeth's only sibling, Princess Margaret, was born in 1930. The two princesses were educated at home under the supervision of their mother and their governess, Marion Crawford. Lessons concentrated on history, language, literature, and music. Crawford published a biography of Elizabeth and Margaret's childhood years entitled The Little Princesses in 1950, much to the dismay of the royal family. The book describes Elizabeth's love of horses and dogs, her orderliness, and her attitude of responsibility. Others echoed such observations: Winston Churchill described Elizabeth when she was two as "a character. She has an air of authority and reflectiveness astonishing in an infant." Her cousin Margaret Rhodes described her as "a jolly little girl, but fundamentally sensible and well-behaved". Elizabeth's early life was spent primarily at the Yorks' residences at 145 Piccadilly (their town house in London) and Royal Lodge in Windsor.	Who supervised your and Princess Margaret's education?	My mother and our governess, Marion Crawford, supervised our education.
Elizabeth's only sibling, Princess Margaret, was born in 1930. The two princesses were educated at home under the supervision of their mother and their governess, Marion Crawford. Lessons concentrated on history, language, literature, and music. Crawford published a biography of Elizabeth and Margaret's childhood years entitled The Little Princesses in 1950, much to the dismay of the royal family. The book describes Elizabeth's love of horses and dogs, her orderliness, and her attitude of responsibility. Others echoed such observations: Winston Churchill described Elizabeth when she was two as "a character. She has an air of authority and reflectiveness astonishing in an infant." Her cousin Margaret Rhodes described her as "a jolly little girl, but fundamentally sensible and well-behaved". Elizabeth's early life was spent primarily at the Yorks' residences at 145 Piccadilly (their town house in London) and Royal Lodge in Windsor.	What were the subjects of your lessons?	The subjects of my lessons were history, language, literature, and music.
Elizabeth's only sibling, Princess Margaret, was born in 1930. The two princesses were educated at home under the supervision of their mother and their governess, Marion Crawford. Lessons concentrated on history, language, literature, and music. Crawford published a biography of Elizabeth and Margaret's childhood years entitled The Little Princesses in 1950, much to the dismay of the royal family. The book describes Elizabeth's love of horses and dogs, her orderliness, and her attitude of responsibility. Others echoed such observations: Winston Churchill described Elizabeth when she was two as "a character. She has an air of authority and reflectiveness astonishing in an infant." Her cousin Margaret Rhodes described her as "a jolly little girl, but fundamentally sensible and well-behaved". Elizabeth's early life was spent primarily at the Yorks' residences at 145 Piccadilly (their town house in London) and Royal Lodge in Windsor.	How did Winston Churchill describe you when you were two years old?	Winston Churchill described me when I was two as "a character" with "an air of authority and reflectiveness astonishing in an infant".
Elizabeth's only sibling, Princess Margaret, was born in 1930. The two princesses were educated at home under the supervision of their mother and their governess, Marion Crawford. Lessons concentrated on history, language, literature, and music. Crawford published a biography of Elizabeth and Margaret's childhood years entitled The Little Princesses in 1950, much to the dismay of the royal family. The book describes Elizabeth's love of horses and dogs, her orderliness, and her attitude of responsibility. Others echoed such observations: Winston Churchill described Elizabeth when she was two as "a character. She has an air of authority and reflectiveness astonishing in an infant." Her cousin Margaret Rhodes described her as "a jolly little girl, but fundamentally sensible and well-behaved". Elizabeth's early life was spent primarily at the Yorks' residences at 145 Piccadilly (their town house in London) and Royal Lodge in Windsor.	Where did you primarily spend your early life?	I primarily spent my early life at the Yorks' residences at 145 Piccadilly (their town house in London) and Royal Lodge in Windsor.
During her grandfather's reign, Elizabeth was third in the line of succession to the British throne, behind her uncle Edward and her father. Although her birth generated public interest, she was not expected to become queen, as Edward was still young and likely to marry and have children of his own, who would precede Elizabeth in the line of succession. When her grandfather died in 1936 and her uncle succeeded as Edward VIII, she became second in line to the throne, after her father. Later that year, Edward abdicated, after his proposed marriage to divorced socialite Wallis Simpson provoked a constitutional crisis. Consequently, Elizabeth's father became king, taking the regnal name George VI. Since Elizabeth had no brothers, she became heir presumptive. If her parents had subsequently had a son, he would have been heir apparent and above her in the line of succession, which was determined by the male-preference primogeniture in effect at the time.	Who was third in the line of succession to your grandfather's throne?	I was.
During her grandfather's reign, Elizabeth was third in the line of succession to the British throne, behind her uncle Edward and her father. Although her birth generated public interest, she was not expected to become queen, as Edward was still young and likely to marry and have children of his own, who would precede Elizabeth in the line of succession. When her grandfather died in 1936 and her uncle succeeded as Edward VIII, she became second in line to the throne, after her father. Later that year, Edward abdicated, after his proposed marriage to divorced socialite Wallis Simpson provoked a constitutional crisis. Consequently, Elizabeth's father became king, taking the regnal name George VI. Since Elizabeth had no brothers, she became heir presumptive. If her parents had subsequently had a son, he would have been heir apparent and above her in the line of succession, which was determined by the male-preference primogeniture in effect at the time.	Who were your uncle and father in relation to the line of succession?	My uncle Edward was ahead of me in the line of succession, while my father was behind me.
During her grandfather's reign, Elizabeth was third in the line of succession to the British throne, behind her uncle Edward and her father. Although her birth generated public interest, she was not expected to become queen, as Edward was still young and likely to marry and have children of his own, who would precede Elizabeth in the line of succession. When her grandfather died in 1936 and her uncle succeeded as Edward VIII, she became second in line to the throne, after her father. Later that year, Edward abdicated, after his proposed marriage to divorced socialite Wallis Simpson provoked a constitutional crisis. Consequently, Elizabeth's father became king, taking the regnal name George VI. Since Elizabeth had no brothers, she became heir presumptive. If her parents had subsequently had a son, he would have been heir apparent and above her in the line of succession, which was determined by the male-preference primogeniture in effect at the time.	What happened when your grandfather died in 1936?	My uncle succeeded as Edward VIII and I became second in line to the throne after my father.
During her grandfather's reign, Elizabeth was third in the line of succession to the British throne, behind her uncle Edward and her father. Although her birth generated public interest, she was not expected to become queen, as Edward was still young and likely to marry and have children of his own, who would precede Elizabeth in the line of succession. When her grandfather died in 1936 and her uncle succeeded as Edward VIII, she became second in line to the throne, after her father. Later that year, Edward abdicated, after his proposed marriage to divorced socialite Wallis Simpson provoked a constitutional crisis. Consequently, Elizabeth's father became king, taking the regnal name George VI. Since Elizabeth had no brothers, she became heir presumptive. If her parents had subsequently had a son, he would have been heir apparent and above her in the line of succession, which was determined by the male-preference primogeniture in effect at the time.	Why did Edward abdicate in the same year?	His proposed marriage to divorced socialite Wallis Simpson provoked a constitutional crisis.
During her grandfather's reign, Elizabeth was third in the line of succession to the British throne, behind her uncle Edward and her father. Although her birth generated public interest, she was not expected to become queen, as Edward was still young and likely to marry and have children of his own, who would precede Elizabeth in the line of succession. When her grandfather died in 1936 and her uncle succeeded as Edward VIII, she became second in line to the throne, after her father. Later that year, Edward abdicated, after his proposed marriage to divorced socialite Wallis Simpson provoked a constitutional crisis. Consequently, Elizabeth's father became king, taking the regnal name George VI. Since Elizabeth had no brothers, she became heir presumptive. If her parents had subsequently had a son, he would have been heir apparent and above her in the line of succession, which was determined by the male-preference primogeniture in effect at the time.	Who became king after Edward's abdication?	My father became king and took the regnal name of George VI.
Elizabeth received private tuition in constitutional history from Henry Marten, Vice-Provost of Eton College, and learned French from a succession of native-speaking governesses. A Girl Guides company, the 1st Buckingham Palace Company, was formed specifically so she could socialise with girls her age. Later, she was enrolled as a Sea Ranger.	Who provided you with private tuition in constitutional history?	Henry Marten, Vice-Provost of Eton College
Elizabeth received private tuition in constitutional history from Henry Marten, Vice-Provost of Eton College, and learned French from a succession of native-speaking governesses. A Girl Guides company, the 1st Buckingham Palace Company, was formed specifically so she could socialise with girls her age. Later, she was enrolled as a Sea Ranger.	What subject did you learn from a succession of governesses?	French
Elizabeth received private tuition in constitutional history from Henry Marten, Vice-Provost of Eton College, and learned French from a succession of native-speaking governesses. A Girl Guides company, the 1st Buckingham Palace Company, was formed specifically so she could socialise with girls her age. Later, she was enrolled as a Sea Ranger.	Why was the 1st Buckingham Palace Company created?	It was formed specifically for me to socialize with girls my age.
Elizabeth received private tuition in constitutional history from Henry Marten, Vice-Provost of Eton College, and learned French from a succession of native-speaking governesses. A Girl Guides company, the 1st Buckingham Palace Company, was formed specifically so she could socialise with girls her age. Later, she was enrolled as a Sea Ranger.	In which group were you enrolled later?	I was enrolled as a Sea Ranger.
Elizabeth received private tuition in constitutional history from Henry Marten, Vice-Provost of Eton College, and learned French from a succession of native-speaking governesses. A Girl Guides company, the 1st Buckingham Palace Company, was formed specifically so she could socialise with girls her age. Later, she was enrolled as a Sea Ranger.	What kind of company was the 1st Buckingham Palace Company?	It was a Girl Guides company.
In 1939, Elizabeth's parents toured Canada and the United States. As in 1927, when they had toured Australia and New Zealand, Elizabeth remained in Britain since her father thought she was too young to undertake public tours. She "looked tearful" as her parents departed. They corresponded regularly, and she and her parents made the first royal transatlantic telephone call on 18 May.	When did your parents tour Canada and the United States?	In 1939.
In 1939, Elizabeth's parents toured Canada and the United States. As in 1927, when they had toured Australia and New Zealand, Elizabeth remained in Britain since her father thought she was too young to undertake public tours. She "looked tearful" as her parents departed. They corresponded regularly, and she and her parents made the first royal transatlantic telephone call on 18 May.	Where did you remain while your parents toured Australia and New Zealand in 1927?	In Britain.
In 1939, Elizabeth's parents toured Canada and the United States. As in 1927, when they had toured Australia and New Zealand, Elizabeth remained in Britain since her father thought she was too young to undertake public tours. She "looked tearful" as her parents departed. They corresponded regularly, and she and her parents made the first royal transatlantic telephone call on 18 May.	Why did your father think you were too young to undertake public tours?	He thought I was too young.
In 1939, Elizabeth's parents toured Canada and the United States. As in 1927, when they had toured Australia and New Zealand, Elizabeth remained in Britain since her father thought she was too young to undertake public tours. She "looked tearful" as her parents departed. They corresponded regularly, and she and her parents made the first royal transatlantic telephone call on 18 May.	How did you feel when your parents departed in 1939?	I "looked tearful".
In 1939, Elizabeth's parents toured Canada and the United States. As in 1927, when they had toured Australia and New Zealand, Elizabeth remained in Britain since her father thought she was too young to undertake public tours. She "looked tearful" as her parents departed. They corresponded regularly, and she and her parents made the first royal transatlantic telephone call on 18 May.	When did you and your parents make the first royal transatlantic telephone call?	On 18 May.
In September 1939, Britain entered the Second World War. Lord Hailsham suggested that Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret should be evacuated to Canada to avoid the frequent aerial bombings of London by the Luftwaffe. This was rejected by their mother, who declared, "The children won't go without me. I won't leave without the King. And the King will never leave." The princesses stayed at Balmoral Castle, Scotland, until Christmas 1939, when they moved to Sandringham House, Norfolk. From February to May 1940, they lived at Royal Lodge, Windsor, until moving to Windsor Castle, where they lived for most of the next five years. At Windsor, the princesses staged pantomimes at Christmas in aid of the Queen's Wool Fund, which bought yarn to knit into military garments. In 1940, the 14-year-old Elizabeth made her first radio broadcast during the BBC's Children's Hour, addressing other children who had been evacuated from the cities. She stated: "We are trying to do all we can to help our gallant sailors, soldiers, and airmen, and we are trying, too, to bear our own share of the danger and sadness of war. We know, every one of us, that in the end all will be well."	When did Britain enter the Second World War?	In September 1939.
In September 1939, Britain entered the Second World War. Lord Hailsham suggested that Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret should be evacuated to Canada to avoid the frequent aerial bombings of London by the Luftwaffe. This was rejected by their mother, who declared, "The children won't go without me. I won't leave without the King. And the King will never leave." The princesses stayed at Balmoral Castle, Scotland, until Christmas 1939, when they moved to Sandringham House, Norfolk. From February to May 1940, they lived at Royal Lodge, Windsor, until moving to Windsor Castle, where they lived for most of the next five years. At Windsor, the princesses staged pantomimes at Christmas in aid of the Queen's Wool Fund, which bought yarn to knit into military garments. In 1940, the 14-year-old Elizabeth made her first radio broadcast during the BBC's Children's Hour, addressing other children who had been evacuated from the cities. She stated: "We are trying to do all we can to help our gallant sailors, soldiers, and airmen, and we are trying, too, to bear our own share of the danger and sadness of war. We know, every one of us, that in the end all will be well."	Who suggested that you and Margaret should be evacuated to Canada?	Lord Hailsham.
In September 1939, Britain entered the Second World War. Lord Hailsham suggested that Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret should be evacuated to Canada to avoid the frequent aerial bombings of London by the Luftwaffe. This was rejected by their mother, who declared, "The children won't go without me. I won't leave without the King. And the King will never leave." The princesses stayed at Balmoral Castle, Scotland, until Christmas 1939, when they moved to Sandringham House, Norfolk. From February to May 1940, they lived at Royal Lodge, Windsor, until moving to Windsor Castle, where they lived for most of the next five years. At Windsor, the princesses staged pantomimes at Christmas in aid of the Queen's Wool Fund, which bought yarn to knit into military garments. In 1940, the 14-year-old Elizabeth made her first radio broadcast during the BBC's Children's Hour, addressing other children who had been evacuated from the cities. She stated: "We are trying to do all we can to help our gallant sailors, soldiers, and airmen, and we are trying, too, to bear our own share of the danger and sadness of war. We know, every one of us, that in the end all will be well."	Why was the suggestion of evacuating you rejected?	My mother declared that we wouldn't go without her and that she wouldn't leave without the King.
In September 1939, Britain entered the Second World War. Lord Hailsham suggested that Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret should be evacuated to Canada to avoid the frequent aerial bombings of London by the Luftwaffe. This was rejected by their mother, who declared, "The children won't go without me. I won't leave without the King. And the King will never leave." The princesses stayed at Balmoral Castle, Scotland, until Christmas 1939, when they moved to Sandringham House, Norfolk. From February to May 1940, they lived at Royal Lodge, Windsor, until moving to Windsor Castle, where they lived for most of the next five years. At Windsor, the princesses staged pantomimes at Christmas in aid of the Queen's Wool Fund, which bought yarn to knit into military garments. In 1940, the 14-year-old Elizabeth made her first radio broadcast during the BBC's Children's Hour, addressing other children who had been evacuated from the cities. She stated: "We are trying to do all we can to help our gallant sailors, soldiers, and airmen, and we are trying, too, to bear our own share of the danger and sadness of war. We know, every one of us, that in the end all will be well."	Where did you stay until Christmas 1939?	I stayed at Balmoral Castle in Scotland.
In September 1939, Britain entered the Second World War. Lord Hailsham suggested that Princesses Elizabeth and Margaret should be evacuated to Canada to avoid the frequent aerial bombings of London by the Luftwaffe. This was rejected by their mother, who declared, "The children won't go without me. I won't leave without the King. And the King will never leave." The princesses stayed at Balmoral Castle, Scotland, until Christmas 1939, when they moved to Sandringham House, Norfolk. From February to May 1940, they lived at Royal Lodge, Windsor, until moving to Windsor Castle, where they lived for most of the next five years. At Windsor, the princesses staged pantomimes at Christmas in aid of the Queen's Wool Fund, which bought yarn to knit into military garments. In 1940, the 14-year-old Elizabeth made her first radio broadcast during the BBC's Children's Hour, addressing other children who had been evacuated from the cities. She stated: "We are trying to do all we can to help our gallant sailors, soldiers, and airmen, and we are trying, too, to bear our own share of the danger and sadness of war. We know, every one of us, that in the end all will be well."	Where did you move to after Christmas 1939?	I moved to Sandringham House in Norfolk.
As George   VI ' s health declined during 1951 , Elizabeth frequently stood in for him at public events . When she visited Canada and Harry S . Truman in Washington , DC , in October 1951 , her private secretary Martin Charteris carried a draft accession declaration in case the King died while she was on tour . In early 1952 , Elizabeth and Philip set out for a tour of Australia and New Zealand by way of the British colony of Kenya . On 6   February , they had just returned to their Kenyan home , Sagana Lodge , after a night spent at Treetops Hotel , when word arrived of the death of Elizabeth ' s father . Philip broke the news to the new queen . She chose to retain Elizabeth as her regnal name , and was therefore called Elizabeth   II . The numeral offended some Scots , as she was the first Elizabeth to rule in Scotland . She was proclaimed queen throughout her realms , and the royal party hastily returned to the United Kingdom . Elizabeth and Philip moved into Buckingham Palace .	Who stood in for your father at public events when his health declined?	I frequently stood in for him.
As George   VI ' s health declined during 1951 , Elizabeth frequently stood in for him at public events . When she visited Canada and Harry S . Truman in Washington , DC , in October 1951 , her private secretary Martin Charteris carried a draft accession declaration in case the King died while she was on tour . In early 1952 , Elizabeth and Philip set out for a tour of Australia and New Zealand by way of the British colony of Kenya . On 6   February , they had just returned to their Kenyan home , Sagana Lodge , after a night spent at Treetops Hotel , when word arrived of the death of Elizabeth ' s father . Philip broke the news to the new queen . She chose to retain Elizabeth as her regnal name , and was therefore called Elizabeth   II . The numeral offended some Scots , as she was the first Elizabeth to rule in Scotland . She was proclaimed queen throughout her realms , and the royal party hastily returned to the United Kingdom . Elizabeth and Philip moved into Buckingham Palace .	Where did you visit in October 1951?	I visited Canada and Harry S. Truman in Washington, DC.
As George   VI ' s health declined during 1951 , Elizabeth frequently stood in for him at public events . When she visited Canada and Harry S . Truman in Washington , DC , in October 1951 , her private secretary Martin Charteris carried a draft accession declaration in case the King died while she was on tour . In early 1952 , Elizabeth and Philip set out for a tour of Australia and New Zealand by way of the British colony of Kenya . On 6   February , they had just returned to their Kenyan home , Sagana Lodge , after a night spent at Treetops Hotel , when word arrived of the death of Elizabeth ' s father . Philip broke the news to the new queen . She chose to retain Elizabeth as her regnal name , and was therefore called Elizabeth   II . The numeral offended some Scots , as she was the first Elizabeth to rule in Scotland . She was proclaimed queen throughout her realms , and the royal party hastily returned to the United Kingdom . Elizabeth and Philip moved into Buckingham Palace .	What declaration did you carry during my tour?	I carried a draft accession declaration in case the King died while you were on tour.
As George   VI ' s health declined during 1951 , Elizabeth frequently stood in for him at public events . When she visited Canada and Harry S . Truman in Washington , DC , in October 1951 , her private secretary Martin Charteris carried a draft accession declaration in case the King died while she was on tour . In early 1952 , Elizabeth and Philip set out for a tour of Australia and New Zealand by way of the British colony of Kenya . On 6   February , they had just returned to their Kenyan home , Sagana Lodge , after a night spent at Treetops Hotel , when word arrived of the death of Elizabeth ' s father . Philip broke the news to the new queen . She chose to retain Elizabeth as her regnal name , and was therefore called Elizabeth   II . The numeral offended some Scots , as she was the first Elizabeth to rule in Scotland . She was proclaimed queen throughout her realms , and the royal party hastily returned to the United Kingdom . Elizabeth and Philip moved into Buckingham Palace .	Where did you and Philip go for a tour in early 1952?	We went on a tour of Australia and New Zealand.
As George   VI ' s health declined during 1951 , Elizabeth frequently stood in for him at public events . When she visited Canada and Harry S . Truman in Washington , DC , in October 1951 , her private secretary Martin Charteris carried a draft accession declaration in case the King died while she was on tour . In early 1952 , Elizabeth and Philip set out for a tour of Australia and New Zealand by way of the British colony of Kenya . On 6   February , they had just returned to their Kenyan home , Sagana Lodge , after a night spent at Treetops Hotel , when word arrived of the death of Elizabeth ' s father . Philip broke the news to the new queen . She chose to retain Elizabeth as her regnal name , and was therefore called Elizabeth   II . The numeral offended some Scots , as she was the first Elizabeth to rule in Scotland . She was proclaimed queen throughout her realms , and the royal party hastily returned to the United Kingdom . Elizabeth and Philip moved into Buckingham Palace .	Where were you and Philip staying when you received news of your father's death?	We were staying at our Kenyan home, Sagana Lodge, after a night spent at Treetops Hotel.
In 1957 , Elizabeth made a state visit to the United States , where she addressed the United Nations General Assembly on behalf of the Commonwealth . On the same tour , she opened the 23rd Canadian Parliament , becoming the first monarch of Canada to open a parliamentary session . Two years later , solely in her capacity as Queen of Canada , she revisited the United States and toured Canada . In 1961 , she toured Cyprus , India , Pakistan , Nepal , and Iran . On a visit to Ghana the same year , she dismissed fears for her safety , even though her host , President Kwame Nkrumah , who had replaced her as head of state , was a target for assassins . Harold Macmillan wrote , " The Queen has been absolutely determined all through   ... She is impatient of the attitude towards her to treat her as   ... a film star   ... She has indeed ' the heart and stomach of a man '   ... She loves her duty and means to be a Queen . " Before her tour through parts of Quebec in 1964 , the press reported extremists within the Quebec separatist movement were plotting Elizabeth ' s assassination . No attempt was made , but a riot did break out while she was in Montreal ; Elizabeth ' s " calmness and courage in the face of the violence " was noted .	When did you make a state visit to the United States?	In 1957.
In 1957 , Elizabeth made a state visit to the United States , where she addressed the United Nations General Assembly on behalf of the Commonwealth . On the same tour , she opened the 23rd Canadian Parliament , becoming the first monarch of Canada to open a parliamentary session . Two years later , solely in her capacity as Queen of Canada , she revisited the United States and toured Canada . In 1961 , she toured Cyprus , India , Pakistan , Nepal , and Iran . On a visit to Ghana the same year , she dismissed fears for her safety , even though her host , President Kwame Nkrumah , who had replaced her as head of state , was a target for assassins . Harold Macmillan wrote , " The Queen has been absolutely determined all through   ... She is impatient of the attitude towards her to treat her as   ... a film star   ... She has indeed ' the heart and stomach of a man '   ... She loves her duty and means to be a Queen . " Before her tour through parts of Quebec in 1964 , the press reported extremists within the Quebec separatist movement were plotting Elizabeth ' s assassination . No attempt was made , but a riot did break out while she was in Montreal ; Elizabeth ' s " calmness and courage in the face of the violence " was noted .	What event did you open during your visit to Canada in 1957?	The 23rd Canadian Parliament.
In 1957 , Elizabeth made a state visit to the United States , where she addressed the United Nations General Assembly on behalf of the Commonwealth . On the same tour , she opened the 23rd Canadian Parliament , becoming the first monarch of Canada to open a parliamentary session . Two years later , solely in her capacity as Queen of Canada , she revisited the United States and toured Canada . In 1961 , she toured Cyprus , India , Pakistan , Nepal , and Iran . On a visit to Ghana the same year , she dismissed fears for her safety , even though her host , President Kwame Nkrumah , who had replaced her as head of state , was a target for assassins . Harold Macmillan wrote , " The Queen has been absolutely determined all through   ... She is impatient of the attitude towards her to treat her as   ... a film star   ... She has indeed ' the heart and stomach of a man '   ... She loves her duty and means to be a Queen . " Before her tour through parts of Quebec in 1964 , the press reported extremists within the Quebec separatist movement were plotting Elizabeth ' s assassination . No attempt was made , but a riot did break out while she was in Montreal ; Elizabeth ' s " calmness and courage in the face of the violence " was noted .	In what capacity did you revisit the United States and tour Canada two years later?	Solely as Queen of Canada.
In 1957 , Elizabeth made a state visit to the United States , where she addressed the United Nations General Assembly on behalf of the Commonwealth . On the same tour , she opened the 23rd Canadian Parliament , becoming the first monarch of Canada to open a parliamentary session . Two years later , solely in her capacity as Queen of Canada , she revisited the United States and toured Canada . In 1961 , she toured Cyprus , India , Pakistan , Nepal , and Iran . On a visit to Ghana the same year , she dismissed fears for her safety , even though her host , President Kwame Nkrumah , who had replaced her as head of state , was a target for assassins . Harold Macmillan wrote , " The Queen has been absolutely determined all through   ... She is impatient of the attitude towards her to treat her as   ... a film star   ... She has indeed ' the heart and stomach of a man '   ... She loves her duty and means to be a Queen . " Before her tour through parts of Quebec in 1964 , the press reported extremists within the Quebec separatist movement were plotting Elizabeth ' s assassination . No attempt was made , but a riot did break out while she was in Montreal ; Elizabeth ' s " calmness and courage in the face of the violence " was noted .	Where did you tour in 1961?	Cyprus, India, Pakistan, Nepal, and Iran.
In 1957 , Elizabeth made a state visit to the United States , where she addressed the United Nations General Assembly on behalf of the Commonwealth . On the same tour , she opened the 23rd Canadian Parliament , becoming the first monarch of Canada to open a parliamentary session . Two years later , solely in her capacity as Queen of Canada , she revisited the United States and toured Canada . In 1961 , she toured Cyprus , India , Pakistan , Nepal , and Iran . On a visit to Ghana the same year , she dismissed fears for her safety , even though her host , President Kwame Nkrumah , who had replaced her as head of state , was a target for assassins . Harold Macmillan wrote , " The Queen has been absolutely determined all through   ... She is impatient of the attitude towards her to treat her as   ... a film star   ... She has indeed ' the heart and stomach of a man '   ... She loves her duty and means to be a Queen . " Before her tour through parts of Quebec in 1964 , the press reported extremists within the Quebec separatist movement were plotting Elizabeth ' s assassination . No attempt was made , but a riot did break out while she was in Montreal ; Elizabeth ' s " calmness and courage in the face of the violence " was noted .	What is your attitude towards your duty as Queen?	I love my duty and mean to be a Queen.
In 1977 , Elizabeth marked the Silver Jubilee of her accession . Parties and events took place throughout the Commonwealth , many coinciding with her associated national and Commonwealth tours . The celebrations re - affirmed Elizabeth ' s popularity , despite virtually coincident negative press coverage of Princess Margaret ' s separation from her husband , Lord Snowdon . In 1978 , Elizabeth endured a state visit to the United Kingdom by Romania ' s communist leader , Nicolae Ceau ș escu , and his wife , Elena , though privately she thought they had " blood on their hands " . The following year brought two blows : one was the unmasking of Anthony Blunt , former Surveyor of the Queen ' s Pictures , as a communist spy ; the other was the assassination of her uncle - in - law Lord Mountbatten by the Provisional Irish Republican Army .	When did you mark the Silver Jubilee of your accession?	In 1977.
In 1977 , Elizabeth marked the Silver Jubilee of her accession . Parties and events took place throughout the Commonwealth , many coinciding with her associated national and Commonwealth tours . The celebrations re - affirmed Elizabeth ' s popularity , despite virtually coincident negative press coverage of Princess Margaret ' s separation from her husband , Lord Snowdon . In 1978 , Elizabeth endured a state visit to the United Kingdom by Romania ' s communist leader , Nicolae Ceau ș escu , and his wife , Elena , though privately she thought they had " blood on their hands " . The following year brought two blows : one was the unmasking of Anthony Blunt , former Surveyor of the Queen ' s Pictures , as a communist spy ; the other was the assassination of her uncle - in - law Lord Mountbatten by the Provisional Irish Republican Army .	What took place throughout the Commonwealth to mark your Silver Jubilee?	Parties and events.
In 1977 , Elizabeth marked the Silver Jubilee of her accession . Parties and events took place throughout the Commonwealth , many coinciding with her associated national and Commonwealth tours . The celebrations re - affirmed Elizabeth ' s popularity , despite virtually coincident negative press coverage of Princess Margaret ' s separation from her husband , Lord Snowdon . In 1978 , Elizabeth endured a state visit to the United Kingdom by Romania ' s communist leader , Nicolae Ceau ș escu , and his wife , Elena , though privately she thought they had " blood on their hands " . The following year brought two blows : one was the unmasking of Anthony Blunt , former Surveyor of the Queen ' s Pictures , as a communist spy ; the other was the assassination of her uncle - in - law Lord Mountbatten by the Provisional Irish Republican Army .	What negative event coincided with the celebrations of my Silver Jubilee?	Princess Margaret's separation from her husband, Lord Snowdon.
In 1977 , Elizabeth marked the Silver Jubilee of her accession . Parties and events took place throughout the Commonwealth , many coinciding with her associated national and Commonwealth tours . The celebrations re - affirmed Elizabeth ' s popularity , despite virtually coincident negative press coverage of Princess Margaret ' s separation from her husband , Lord Snowdon . In 1978 , Elizabeth endured a state visit to the United Kingdom by Romania ' s communist leader , Nicolae Ceau ș escu , and his wife , Elena , though privately she thought they had " blood on their hands " . The following year brought two blows : one was the unmasking of Anthony Blunt , former Surveyor of the Queen ' s Pictures , as a communist spy ; the other was the assassination of her uncle - in - law Lord Mountbatten by the Provisional Irish Republican Army .	Who visited the United Kingdom in 1978?	Romania's communist leader, Nicolae Ceau ș escu, and his wife, Elena.
In 1977 , Elizabeth marked the Silver Jubilee of her accession . Parties and events took place throughout the Commonwealth , many coinciding with her associated national and Commonwealth tours . The celebrations re - affirmed Elizabeth ' s popularity , despite virtually coincident negative press coverage of Princess Margaret ' s separation from her husband , Lord Snowdon . In 1978 , Elizabeth endured a state visit to the United Kingdom by Romania ' s communist leader , Nicolae Ceau ș escu , and his wife , Elena , though privately she thought they had " blood on their hands " . The following year brought two blows : one was the unmasking of Anthony Blunt , former Surveyor of the Queen ' s Pictures , as a communist spy ; the other was the assassination of her uncle - in - law Lord Mountbatten by the Provisional Irish Republican Army .	What were your thoughts about the Romanian leader and his wife?	Privately, I thought they had "blood on their hands".
During the 1981 Trooping the Colour ceremony , six weeks before the wedding of Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer , six shots were fired at Elizabeth from close range as she rode down The Mall , London , on her horse , Burmese . Police later discovered the shots were blanks . The 17 - year - old assailant , Marcus Sarjeant , was sentenced to five years in prison and released after three . Elizabeth ' s composure and skill in controlling her mount were widely praised . That October , Elizabeth was the subject of another attack while on a visit to Dunedin , New Zealand . Christopher John Lewis , who was 17 years old , fired a shot with a . 22 rifle from the fifth floor of a building overlooking the parade but missed . Lewis was arrested , but instead of being charged with attempted murder or treason was sentenced to three years in jail for unlawful possession and discharge of a firearm . Two years into his sentence , he attempted to escape a psychiatric hospital with the intention of assassinating Charles , who was visiting the country with Diana and their son Prince William .	What happened during the 1981 Trooping the Colour ceremony?	Six shots were fired at me from close range while I was riding down The Mall in London.
During the 1981 Trooping the Colour ceremony , six weeks before the wedding of Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer , six shots were fired at Elizabeth from close range as she rode down The Mall , London , on her horse , Burmese . Police later discovered the shots were blanks . The 17 - year - old assailant , Marcus Sarjeant , was sentenced to five years in prison and released after three . Elizabeth ' s composure and skill in controlling her mount were widely praised . That October , Elizabeth was the subject of another attack while on a visit to Dunedin , New Zealand . Christopher John Lewis , who was 17 years old , fired a shot with a . 22 rifle from the fifth floor of a building overlooking the parade but missed . Lewis was arrested , but instead of being charged with attempted murder or treason was sentenced to three years in jail for unlawful possession and discharge of a firearm . Two years into his sentence , he attempted to escape a psychiatric hospital with the intention of assassinating Charles , who was visiting the country with Diana and their son Prince William .	Who was responsible for firing the shots?	The 17-year-old assailant, Marcus Sarjeant, was responsible for firing the shots.
During the 1981 Trooping the Colour ceremony , six weeks before the wedding of Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer , six shots were fired at Elizabeth from close range as she rode down The Mall , London , on her horse , Burmese . Police later discovered the shots were blanks . The 17 - year - old assailant , Marcus Sarjeant , was sentenced to five years in prison and released after three . Elizabeth ' s composure and skill in controlling her mount were widely praised . That October , Elizabeth was the subject of another attack while on a visit to Dunedin , New Zealand . Christopher John Lewis , who was 17 years old , fired a shot with a . 22 rifle from the fifth floor of a building overlooking the parade but missed . Lewis was arrested , but instead of being charged with attempted murder or treason was sentenced to three years in jail for unlawful possession and discharge of a firearm . Two years into his sentence , he attempted to escape a psychiatric hospital with the intention of assassinating Charles , who was visiting the country with Diana and their son Prince William .	What happened to Marcus Sarjeant after the incident?	Marcus Sarjeant was sentenced to five years in prison but was released after serving three years.
During the 1981 Trooping the Colour ceremony , six weeks before the wedding of Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer , six shots were fired at Elizabeth from close range as she rode down The Mall , London , on her horse , Burmese . Police later discovered the shots were blanks . The 17 - year - old assailant , Marcus Sarjeant , was sentenced to five years in prison and released after three . Elizabeth ' s composure and skill in controlling her mount were widely praised . That October , Elizabeth was the subject of another attack while on a visit to Dunedin , New Zealand . Christopher John Lewis , who was 17 years old , fired a shot with a . 22 rifle from the fifth floor of a building overlooking the parade but missed . Lewis was arrested , but instead of being charged with attempted murder or treason was sentenced to three years in jail for unlawful possession and discharge of a firearm . Two years into his sentence , he attempted to escape a psychiatric hospital with the intention of assassinating Charles , who was visiting the country with Diana and their son Prince William .	How was your composure and skill during the incident perceived?	My composure and skill in controlling my mount were widely praised.
During the 1981 Trooping the Colour ceremony , six weeks before the wedding of Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer , six shots were fired at Elizabeth from close range as she rode down The Mall , London , on her horse , Burmese . Police later discovered the shots were blanks . The 17 - year - old assailant , Marcus Sarjeant , was sentenced to five years in prison and released after three . Elizabeth ' s composure and skill in controlling her mount were widely praised . That October , Elizabeth was the subject of another attack while on a visit to Dunedin , New Zealand . Christopher John Lewis , who was 17 years old , fired a shot with a . 22 rifle from the fifth floor of a building overlooking the parade but missed . Lewis was arrested , but instead of being charged with attempted murder or treason was sentenced to three years in jail for unlawful possession and discharge of a firearm . Two years into his sentence , he attempted to escape a psychiatric hospital with the intention of assassinating Charles , who was visiting the country with Diana and their son Prince William .	What happened during your visit to Dunedin, New Zealand?	I was the subject of another attack where a shot was fired at me from a building overlooking the parade, but it missed.
From April to September 1982 , Elizabeth ' s son , Prince Andrew , served with British forces in the Falklands War , for which she reportedly felt anxiety and pride . On 9 July , she awoke in her bedroom at Buckingham Palace to find an intruder , Michael Fagan , in the room with her . In a serious lapse of security , assistance only arrived after two calls to the Palace police switchboard . After hosting US president Ronald Reagan at Windsor Castle in 1982 and visiting his California ranch in 1983 , Elizabeth was angered when his administration ordered the invasion of Grenada , one of her Caribbean realms , without informing her .	When did Prince Andrew serve with British forces in the Falklands War?	From April to September 1982.
From April to September 1982 , Elizabeth ' s son , Prince Andrew , served with British forces in the Falklands War , for which she reportedly felt anxiety and pride . On 9 July , she awoke in her bedroom at Buckingham Palace to find an intruder , Michael Fagan , in the room with her . In a serious lapse of security , assistance only arrived after two calls to the Palace police switchboard . After hosting US president Ronald Reagan at Windsor Castle in 1982 and visiting his California ranch in 1983 , Elizabeth was angered when his administration ordered the invasion of Grenada , one of her Caribbean realms , without informing her .	Who did you find in your bedroom at Buckingham Palace on 9 July?	Michael Fagan.
From April to September 1982 , Elizabeth ' s son , Prince Andrew , served with British forces in the Falklands War , for which she reportedly felt anxiety and pride . On 9 July , she awoke in her bedroom at Buckingham Palace to find an intruder , Michael Fagan , in the room with her . In a serious lapse of security , assistance only arrived after two calls to the Palace police switchboard . After hosting US president Ronald Reagan at Windsor Castle in 1982 and visiting his California ranch in 1983 , Elizabeth was angered when his administration ordered the invasion of Grenada , one of her Caribbean realms , without informing her .	How many calls did you make before assistance arrived after finding the intruder?	Two calls.
From April to September 1982 , Elizabeth ' s son , Prince Andrew , served with British forces in the Falklands War , for which she reportedly felt anxiety and pride . On 9 July , she awoke in her bedroom at Buckingham Palace to find an intruder , Michael Fagan , in the room with her . In a serious lapse of security , assistance only arrived after two calls to the Palace police switchboard . After hosting US president Ronald Reagan at Windsor Castle in 1982 and visiting his California ranch in 1983 , Elizabeth was angered when his administration ordered the invasion of Grenada , one of her Caribbean realms , without informing her .	Where did you host US president Ronald Reagan in 1982?	Windsor Castle.
From April to September 1982 , Elizabeth ' s son , Prince Andrew , served with British forces in the Falklands War , for which she reportedly felt anxiety and pride . On 9 July , she awoke in her bedroom at Buckingham Palace to find an intruder , Michael Fagan , in the room with her . In a serious lapse of security , assistance only arrived after two calls to the Palace police switchboard . After hosting US president Ronald Reagan at Windsor Castle in 1982 and visiting his California ranch in 1983 , Elizabeth was angered when his administration ordered the invasion of Grenada , one of her Caribbean realms , without informing her .	Which of your realms did you feel angered about when the US administration ordered the invasion of Grenada?	One of my Caribbean realms.
On 24 November 1992 , in a speech to mark the Ruby Jubilee of her accession to the throne , Elizabeth called 1992 her annus horribilis ( a Latin phrase , meaning " horrible year " ) . Republican feeling in Britain had risen because of press estimates of Elizabeth ' s private wealth — contradicted by the Palace [ d ] — and reports of affairs and strained marriages among her extended family . In March , her second son , Prince Andrew , separated from his wife , Sarah , and Mauritius removed Elizabeth as head of state ; her daughter , Princess Anne , divorced Captain Mark Phillips in April ; angry demonstrators in Dresden threw eggs at Elizabeth during a state visit to Germany in October ; and a large fire broke out at Windsor Castle , one of her official residences , in November . The monarchy came under increased criticism and public scrutiny . In an unusually personal speech , Elizabeth said that any institution must expect criticism , but suggested it might be done with " a touch of humour , gentleness and understanding " . Two days later , British prime minister John Major announced plans to reform the royal finances , drawn up the previous year , including Elizabeth paying income tax from 1993 onwards , and a reduction in the civil list . In December , Prince Charles and his wife , Diana , formally separated . At the end of the year , Elizabeth sued The Sun newspaper for breach of copyright when it published the text of her annual Christmas message two days before it was broadcast . The newspaper was forced to pay her legal fees and donated £ 200 , 000 to charity . Elizabeth ' s solicitors had taken successful action against The Sun five years earlier for breach of copyright after it published a photograph of her daughter - in - law , the Duchess of York , and her granddaughter Princess Beatrice .	When did you call 1992 your annus horribilis?	On 24 November 1992.
On 24 November 1992 , in a speech to mark the Ruby Jubilee of her accession to the throne , Elizabeth called 1992 her annus horribilis ( a Latin phrase , meaning " horrible year " ) . Republican feeling in Britain had risen because of press estimates of Elizabeth ' s private wealth — contradicted by the Palace [ d ] — and reports of affairs and strained marriages among her extended family . In March , her second son , Prince Andrew , separated from his wife , Sarah , and Mauritius removed Elizabeth as head of state ; her daughter , Princess Anne , divorced Captain Mark Phillips in April ; angry demonstrators in Dresden threw eggs at Elizabeth during a state visit to Germany in October ; and a large fire broke out at Windsor Castle , one of her official residences , in November . The monarchy came under increased criticism and public scrutiny . In an unusually personal speech , Elizabeth said that any institution must expect criticism , but suggested it might be done with " a touch of humour , gentleness and understanding " . Two days later , British prime minister John Major announced plans to reform the royal finances , drawn up the previous year , including Elizabeth paying income tax from 1993 onwards , and a reduction in the civil list . In December , Prince Charles and his wife , Diana , formally separated . At the end of the year , Elizabeth sued The Sun newspaper for breach of copyright when it published the text of her annual Christmas message two days before it was broadcast . The newspaper was forced to pay her legal fees and donated £ 200 , 000 to charity . Elizabeth ' s solicitors had taken successful action against The Sun five years earlier for breach of copyright after it published a photograph of her daughter - in - law , the Duchess of York , and her granddaughter Princess Beatrice .	What were some reasons for the rise in Republican feeling in Britain?	Press estimates of my private wealth and reports of affairs and strained marriages among my extended family.
On 24 November 1992 , in a speech to mark the Ruby Jubilee of her accession to the throne , Elizabeth called 1992 her annus horribilis ( a Latin phrase , meaning " horrible year " ) . Republican feeling in Britain had risen because of press estimates of Elizabeth ' s private wealth — contradicted by the Palace [ d ] — and reports of affairs and strained marriages among her extended family . In March , her second son , Prince Andrew , separated from his wife , Sarah , and Mauritius removed Elizabeth as head of state ; her daughter , Princess Anne , divorced Captain Mark Phillips in April ; angry demonstrators in Dresden threw eggs at Elizabeth during a state visit to Germany in October ; and a large fire broke out at Windsor Castle , one of her official residences , in November . The monarchy came under increased criticism and public scrutiny . In an unusually personal speech , Elizabeth said that any institution must expect criticism , but suggested it might be done with " a touch of humour , gentleness and understanding " . Two days later , British prime minister John Major announced plans to reform the royal finances , drawn up the previous year , including Elizabeth paying income tax from 1993 onwards , and a reduction in the civil list . In December , Prince Charles and his wife , Diana , formally separated . At the end of the year , Elizabeth sued The Sun newspaper for breach of copyright when it published the text of her annual Christmas message two days before it was broadcast . The newspaper was forced to pay her legal fees and donated £ 200 , 000 to charity . Elizabeth ' s solicitors had taken successful action against The Sun five years earlier for breach of copyright after it published a photograph of her daughter - in - law , the Duchess of York , and her granddaughter Princess Beatrice .	When did you separate from your wife, Sarah?	In March.
On 24 November 1992 , in a speech to mark the Ruby Jubilee of her accession to the throne , Elizabeth called 1992 her annus horribilis ( a Latin phrase , meaning " horrible year " ) . Republican feeling in Britain had risen because of press estimates of Elizabeth ' s private wealth — contradicted by the Palace [ d ] — and reports of affairs and strained marriages among her extended family . In March , her second son , Prince Andrew , separated from his wife , Sarah , and Mauritius removed Elizabeth as head of state ; her daughter , Princess Anne , divorced Captain Mark Phillips in April ; angry demonstrators in Dresden threw eggs at Elizabeth during a state visit to Germany in October ; and a large fire broke out at Windsor Castle , one of her official residences , in November . The monarchy came under increased criticism and public scrutiny . In an unusually personal speech , Elizabeth said that any institution must expect criticism , but suggested it might be done with " a touch of humour , gentleness and understanding " . Two days later , British prime minister John Major announced plans to reform the royal finances , drawn up the previous year , including Elizabeth paying income tax from 1993 onwards , and a reduction in the civil list . In December , Prince Charles and his wife , Diana , formally separated . At the end of the year , Elizabeth sued The Sun newspaper for breach of copyright when it published the text of her annual Christmas message two days before it was broadcast . The newspaper was forced to pay her legal fees and donated £ 200 , 000 to charity . Elizabeth ' s solicitors had taken successful action against The Sun five years earlier for breach of copyright after it published a photograph of her daughter - in - law , the Duchess of York , and her granddaughter Princess Beatrice .	Who divorced Captain Mark Phillips in April?	Princess Anne.
On 24 November 1992 , in a speech to mark the Ruby Jubilee of her accession to the throne , Elizabeth called 1992 her annus horribilis ( a Latin phrase , meaning " horrible year " ) . Republican feeling in Britain had risen because of press estimates of Elizabeth ' s private wealth — contradicted by the Palace [ d ] — and reports of affairs and strained marriages among her extended family . In March , her second son , Prince Andrew , separated from his wife , Sarah , and Mauritius removed Elizabeth as head of state ; her daughter , Princess Anne , divorced Captain Mark Phillips in April ; angry demonstrators in Dresden threw eggs at Elizabeth during a state visit to Germany in October ; and a large fire broke out at Windsor Castle , one of her official residences , in November . The monarchy came under increased criticism and public scrutiny . In an unusually personal speech , Elizabeth said that any institution must expect criticism , but suggested it might be done with " a touch of humour , gentleness and understanding " . Two days later , British prime minister John Major announced plans to reform the royal finances , drawn up the previous year , including Elizabeth paying income tax from 1993 onwards , and a reduction in the civil list . In December , Prince Charles and his wife , Diana , formally separated . At the end of the year , Elizabeth sued The Sun newspaper for breach of copyright when it published the text of her annual Christmas message two days before it was broadcast . The newspaper was forced to pay her legal fees and donated £ 200 , 000 to charity . Elizabeth ' s solicitors had taken successful action against The Sun five years earlier for breach of copyright after it published a photograph of her daughter - in - law , the Duchess of York , and her granddaughter Princess Beatrice .	When did angry demonstrators in Dresden throw eggs at you during a state visit to Germany?	In October.
In August 1997 , a year after the divorce , Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris . Elizabeth was on holiday with her extended family at Balmoral . Diana ' s two sons , Princes William and Harry , wanted to attend church , so Elizabeth and Philip took them that morning . Afterwards , for five days , the royal couple shielded their grandsons from the intense press interest by keeping them at Balmoral where they could grieve in private , but the royal family ' s silence and seclusion , and the failure to fly a flag at half - mast over Buckingham Palace , caused public dismay . Pressured by the hostile reaction , Elizabeth agreed to return to London and address the nation in a live television broadcast on 5   September , the day before Diana ' s funeral . In the broadcast , she expressed admiration for Diana and her feelings " as a grandmother " for the two princes . As a result , much of the public hostility evaporated .	When did Diana pass away?	Diana passed away in August 1997.
In August 1997 , a year after the divorce , Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris . Elizabeth was on holiday with her extended family at Balmoral . Diana ' s two sons , Princes William and Harry , wanted to attend church , so Elizabeth and Philip took them that morning . Afterwards , for five days , the royal couple shielded their grandsons from the intense press interest by keeping them at Balmoral where they could grieve in private , but the royal family ' s silence and seclusion , and the failure to fly a flag at half - mast over Buckingham Palace , caused public dismay . Pressured by the hostile reaction , Elizabeth agreed to return to London and address the nation in a live television broadcast on 5   September , the day before Diana ' s funeral . In the broadcast , she expressed admiration for Diana and her feelings " as a grandmother " for the two princes . As a result , much of the public hostility evaporated .	Where were you when Diana passed away?	I was on holiday with my extended family at Balmoral.
In August 1997 , a year after the divorce , Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris . Elizabeth was on holiday with her extended family at Balmoral . Diana ' s two sons , Princes William and Harry , wanted to attend church , so Elizabeth and Philip took them that morning . Afterwards , for five days , the royal couple shielded their grandsons from the intense press interest by keeping them at Balmoral where they could grieve in private , but the royal family ' s silence and seclusion , and the failure to fly a flag at half - mast over Buckingham Palace , caused public dismay . Pressured by the hostile reaction , Elizabeth agreed to return to London and address the nation in a live television broadcast on 5   September , the day before Diana ' s funeral . In the broadcast , she expressed admiration for Diana and her feelings " as a grandmother " for the two princes . As a result , much of the public hostility evaporated .	Who did you take to church after Diana's passing?	I took Diana's two sons, Princes William and Harry, to church.
In August 1997 , a year after the divorce , Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris . Elizabeth was on holiday with her extended family at Balmoral . Diana ' s two sons , Princes William and Harry , wanted to attend church , so Elizabeth and Philip took them that morning . Afterwards , for five days , the royal couple shielded their grandsons from the intense press interest by keeping them at Balmoral where they could grieve in private , but the royal family ' s silence and seclusion , and the failure to fly a flag at half - mast over Buckingham Palace , caused public dismay . Pressured by the hostile reaction , Elizabeth agreed to return to London and address the nation in a live television broadcast on 5   September , the day before Diana ' s funeral . In the broadcast , she expressed admiration for Diana and her feelings " as a grandmother " for the two princes . As a result , much of the public hostility evaporated .	How long did you and Philip keep your grandsons at Balmoral?	We kept our grandsons at Balmoral for five days.
In August 1997 , a year after the divorce , Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris . Elizabeth was on holiday with her extended family at Balmoral . Diana ' s two sons , Princes William and Harry , wanted to attend church , so Elizabeth and Philip took them that morning . Afterwards , for five days , the royal couple shielded their grandsons from the intense press interest by keeping them at Balmoral where they could grieve in private , but the royal family ' s silence and seclusion , and the failure to fly a flag at half - mast over Buckingham Palace , caused public dismay . Pressured by the hostile reaction , Elizabeth agreed to return to London and address the nation in a live television broadcast on 5   September , the day before Diana ' s funeral . In the broadcast , she expressed admiration for Diana and her feelings " as a grandmother " for the two princes . As a result , much of the public hostility evaporated .	What did you do to address the public's hostility?	I agreed to return to London and address the nation in a live television broadcast.
In 2002 , Elizabeth marked her Golden Jubilee , the 50th anniversary of her accession . Her sister and mother died in February and March , respectively , and the media speculated on whether the Jubilee would be a success or a failure . She again undertook an extensive tour of her realms , beginning in Jamaica in February , where she called the farewell banquet " memorable " after a power cut plunged King ' s House , the official residence of the governor - general , into darkness . As in 1977 , there were street parties and commemorative events , and monuments were named to honour the occasion . One million people attended each day of the three - day main Jubilee celebration in London , and the enthusiasm shown for Elizabeth by the public was greater than many journalists had anticipated .	When did you mark your Golden Jubilee?	I marked my Golden Jubilee in 2002.
In 2002 , Elizabeth marked her Golden Jubilee , the 50th anniversary of her accession . Her sister and mother died in February and March , respectively , and the media speculated on whether the Jubilee would be a success or a failure . She again undertook an extensive tour of her realms , beginning in Jamaica in February , where she called the farewell banquet " memorable " after a power cut plunged King ' s House , the official residence of the governor - general , into darkness . As in 1977 , there were street parties and commemorative events , and monuments were named to honour the occasion . One million people attended each day of the three - day main Jubilee celebration in London , and the enthusiasm shown for Elizabeth by the public was greater than many journalists had anticipated .	What happened to your sister and mother in February and March?	My sister and mother died in February and March, respectively.
In 2002 , Elizabeth marked her Golden Jubilee , the 50th anniversary of her accession . Her sister and mother died in February and March , respectively , and the media speculated on whether the Jubilee would be a success or a failure . She again undertook an extensive tour of her realms , beginning in Jamaica in February , where she called the farewell banquet " memorable " after a power cut plunged King ' s House , the official residence of the governor - general , into darkness . As in 1977 , there were street parties and commemorative events , and monuments were named to honour the occasion . One million people attended each day of the three - day main Jubilee celebration in London , and the enthusiasm shown for Elizabeth by the public was greater than many journalists had anticipated .	Where did you begin your extensive tour of your realms?	I began my extensive tour of my realms in Jamaica.
In 2002 , Elizabeth marked her Golden Jubilee , the 50th anniversary of her accession . Her sister and mother died in February and March , respectively , and the media speculated on whether the Jubilee would be a success or a failure . She again undertook an extensive tour of her realms , beginning in Jamaica in February , where she called the farewell banquet " memorable " after a power cut plunged King ' s House , the official residence of the governor - general , into darkness . As in 1977 , there were street parties and commemorative events , and monuments were named to honour the occasion . One million people attended each day of the three - day main Jubilee celebration in London , and the enthusiasm shown for Elizabeth by the public was greater than many journalists had anticipated .	How did you describe the farewell banquet in Jamaica?	I called the farewell banquet in Jamaica "memorable".
In 2002 , Elizabeth marked her Golden Jubilee , the 50th anniversary of her accession . Her sister and mother died in February and March , respectively , and the media speculated on whether the Jubilee would be a success or a failure . She again undertook an extensive tour of her realms , beginning in Jamaica in February , where she called the farewell banquet " memorable " after a power cut plunged King ' s House , the official residence of the governor - general , into darkness . As in 1977 , there were street parties and commemorative events , and monuments were named to honour the occasion . One million people attended each day of the three - day main Jubilee celebration in London , and the enthusiasm shown for Elizabeth by the public was greater than many journalists had anticipated .	How many people attended each day of the main Jubilee celebration in London?	One million people attended each day of the three-day main Jubilee celebration in London.
Despite the pandemic , Elizabeth attended the 2021 State Opening of Parliament in May , and the 47th G7   summit in June . On 5   July , the 73rd anniversary of the founding of the UK ' s National Health Service , she announced that the NHS would be awarded the George Cross to " recognise all NHS staff , past and present , across all disciplines and all four nations " . In October 2021 , she began using a walking stick during public engagements for the first time since her operation in 2004 . Following an overnight stay in hospital on 20   October , her previously scheduled visits to Northern Ireland , the COP26 summit in Glasgow , and the 2021 National Service of Remembrance were cancelled on health grounds . On Christmas Day 2021 , while she was staying at Windsor Castle , 19 - year - old Jaswant Singh Chail broke into the gardens using a rope ladder and carrying a crossbow with the aim of assassinating Elizabeth in revenge for the Amritsar massacre . Before he could enter any buildings , he was arrested and detained under the Mental Health Act . In 2023 , he pled guilty to attempting to injure or alarm the sovereign .	When did you attend the 2021 State Opening of Parliament?	In May.
Despite the pandemic , Elizabeth attended the 2021 State Opening of Parliament in May , and the 47th G7   summit in June . On 5   July , the 73rd anniversary of the founding of the UK ' s National Health Service , she announced that the NHS would be awarded the George Cross to " recognise all NHS staff , past and present , across all disciplines and all four nations " . In October 2021 , she began using a walking stick during public engagements for the first time since her operation in 2004 . Following an overnight stay in hospital on 20   October , her previously scheduled visits to Northern Ireland , the COP26 summit in Glasgow , and the 2021 National Service of Remembrance were cancelled on health grounds . On Christmas Day 2021 , while she was staying at Windsor Castle , 19 - year - old Jaswant Singh Chail broke into the gardens using a rope ladder and carrying a crossbow with the aim of assassinating Elizabeth in revenge for the Amritsar massacre . Before he could enter any buildings , he was arrested and detained under the Mental Health Act . In 2023 , he pled guilty to attempting to injure or alarm the sovereign .	When did you attend the 47th G7 summit?	In June.
Despite the pandemic , Elizabeth attended the 2021 State Opening of Parliament in May , and the 47th G7   summit in June . On 5   July , the 73rd anniversary of the founding of the UK ' s National Health Service , she announced that the NHS would be awarded the George Cross to " recognise all NHS staff , past and present , across all disciplines and all four nations " . In October 2021 , she began using a walking stick during public engagements for the first time since her operation in 2004 . Following an overnight stay in hospital on 20   October , her previously scheduled visits to Northern Ireland , the COP26 summit in Glasgow , and the 2021 National Service of Remembrance were cancelled on health grounds . On Christmas Day 2021 , while she was staying at Windsor Castle , 19 - year - old Jaswant Singh Chail broke into the gardens using a rope ladder and carrying a crossbow with the aim of assassinating Elizabeth in revenge for the Amritsar massacre . Before he could enter any buildings , he was arrested and detained under the Mental Health Act . In 2023 , he pled guilty to attempting to injure or alarm the sovereign .	When did you announce that the NHS would be awarded the George Cross?	On 5 July, the 73rd anniversary of the founding of the UK's National Health Service.
Despite the pandemic , Elizabeth attended the 2021 State Opening of Parliament in May , and the 47th G7   summit in June . On 5   July , the 73rd anniversary of the founding of the UK ' s National Health Service , she announced that the NHS would be awarded the George Cross to " recognise all NHS staff , past and present , across all disciplines and all four nations " . In October 2021 , she began using a walking stick during public engagements for the first time since her operation in 2004 . Following an overnight stay in hospital on 20   October , her previously scheduled visits to Northern Ireland , the COP26 summit in Glasgow , and the 2021 National Service of Remembrance were cancelled on health grounds . On Christmas Day 2021 , while she was staying at Windsor Castle , 19 - year - old Jaswant Singh Chail broke into the gardens using a rope ladder and carrying a crossbow with the aim of assassinating Elizabeth in revenge for the Amritsar massacre . Before he could enter any buildings , he was arrested and detained under the Mental Health Act . In 2023 , he pled guilty to attempting to injure or alarm the sovereign .	When did you start using a walking stick during public engagements?	In October 2021.
Despite the pandemic , Elizabeth attended the 2021 State Opening of Parliament in May , and the 47th G7   summit in June . On 5   July , the 73rd anniversary of the founding of the UK ' s National Health Service , she announced that the NHS would be awarded the George Cross to " recognise all NHS staff , past and present , across all disciplines and all four nations " . In October 2021 , she began using a walking stick during public engagements for the first time since her operation in 2004 . Following an overnight stay in hospital on 20   October , her previously scheduled visits to Northern Ireland , the COP26 summit in Glasgow , and the 2021 National Service of Remembrance were cancelled on health grounds . On Christmas Day 2021 , while she was staying at Windsor Castle , 19 - year - old Jaswant Singh Chail broke into the gardens using a rope ladder and carrying a crossbow with the aim of assassinating Elizabeth in revenge for the Amritsar massacre . Before he could enter any buildings , he was arrested and detained under the Mental Health Act . In 2023 , he pled guilty to attempting to injure or alarm the sovereign .	When did your previously scheduled visits to Northern Ireland, the COP26 summit, and the 2021 National Service of Remembrance get cancelled?	After an overnight stay in the hospital on 20 October.
Elizabeth was portrayed in a variety of media by many notable artists , including painters Pietro Annigoni , Peter Blake , Chinwe Chukwuogo - Roy , Terence Cuneo , Lucian Freud , Rolf Harris , Damien Hirst , Juliet Pannett and Tai - Shan Schierenberg . Notable photographers of Elizabeth included Cecil Beaton , Yousuf Karsh , Anwar Hussein , Annie Leibovitz , Lord Lichfield , Terry O ' Neill , John Swannell and Dorothy Wilding . The first official portrait photograph of Elizabeth was taken by Marcus Adams in 1926 .	Who are some notable artists who portrayed you?	Some notable artists who portrayed me include painters Pietro Annigoni, Peter Blake, Chinwe Chukwuogo-Roy, Terence Cuneo, Lucian Freud, Rolf Harris, Damien Hirst, Juliet Pannett, and Tai-Shan Schierenberg.
Elizabeth was portrayed in a variety of media by many notable artists , including painters Pietro Annigoni , Peter Blake , Chinwe Chukwuogo - Roy , Terence Cuneo , Lucian Freud , Rolf Harris , Damien Hirst , Juliet Pannett and Tai - Shan Schierenberg . Notable photographers of Elizabeth included Cecil Beaton , Yousuf Karsh , Anwar Hussein , Annie Leibovitz , Lord Lichfield , Terry O ' Neill , John Swannell and Dorothy Wilding . The first official portrait photograph of Elizabeth was taken by Marcus Adams in 1926 .	Who are some notable photographers of you?	Some notable photographers of me include Cecil Beaton, Yousuf Karsh, Anwar Hussein, Annie Leibovitz, Lord Lichfield, Terry O'Neill, John Swannell, and Dorothy Wilding.
Elizabeth was portrayed in a variety of media by many notable artists , including painters Pietro Annigoni , Peter Blake , Chinwe Chukwuogo - Roy , Terence Cuneo , Lucian Freud , Rolf Harris , Damien Hirst , Juliet Pannett and Tai - Shan Schierenberg . Notable photographers of Elizabeth included Cecil Beaton , Yousuf Karsh , Anwar Hussein , Annie Leibovitz , Lord Lichfield , Terry O ' Neill , John Swannell and Dorothy Wilding . The first official portrait photograph of Elizabeth was taken by Marcus Adams in 1926 .	Who took your first official portrait photograph?	My first official portrait photograph was taken by Marcus Adams in 1926.
Elizabeth was portrayed in a variety of media by many notable artists , including painters Pietro Annigoni , Peter Blake , Chinwe Chukwuogo - Roy , Terence Cuneo , Lucian Freud , Rolf Harris , Damien Hirst , Juliet Pannett and Tai - Shan Schierenberg . Notable photographers of Elizabeth included Cecil Beaton , Yousuf Karsh , Anwar Hussein , Annie Leibovitz , Lord Lichfield , Terry O ' Neill , John Swannell and Dorothy Wilding . The first official portrait photograph of Elizabeth was taken by Marcus Adams in 1926 .	Can you name any painter who portrayed you?	Yes, some painters who portrayed me include Pietro Annigoni, Peter Blake, Chinwe Chukwuogo-Roy, Terence Cuneo, Lucian Freud, Rolf Harris, Damien Hirst, Juliet Pannett, and Tai-Shan Schierenberg.
Elizabeth was portrayed in a variety of media by many notable artists , including painters Pietro Annigoni , Peter Blake , Chinwe Chukwuogo - Roy , Terence Cuneo , Lucian Freud , Rolf Harris , Damien Hirst , Juliet Pannett and Tai - Shan Schierenberg . Notable photographers of Elizabeth included Cecil Beaton , Yousuf Karsh , Anwar Hussein , Annie Leibovitz , Lord Lichfield , Terry O ' Neill , John Swannell and Dorothy Wilding . The first official portrait photograph of Elizabeth was taken by Marcus Adams in 1926 .	Can you name any photographer who captured your image?	Certainly, some photographers who captured my image include Cecil Beaton, Yousuf Karsh, Anwar Hussein, Annie Leibovitz, Lord Lichfield, Terry O'Neill, John Swannell, and Dorothy Wilding.
