Marshall Bruce Mathers III (born October 17, 1972), known professionally as Eminem (/ˌɛmɪˈnɛm/; often stylized as EMINƎM), is an American rapper, songwriter, and record producer. He is credited with popularizing hip hop in middle America and is critically acclaimed as one of the greatest rappers of all time. Eminem's global success and acclaimed works are widely regarded as having broken racial barriers for the acceptance of white rappers in popular music. While much of his transgressive work during the late 1990s and early 2000s made him widely controversial, he came to be a representation of popular angst of the American underclass and has been cited as an influence for many artists of various genres.	When were you born?	I was born on October 17, 1972.
Marshall Bruce Mathers III (born October 17, 1972), known professionally as Eminem (/ˌɛmɪˈnɛm/; often stylized as EMINƎM), is an American rapper, songwriter, and record producer. He is credited with popularizing hip hop in middle America and is critically acclaimed as one of the greatest rappers of all time. Eminem's global success and acclaimed works are widely regarded as having broken racial barriers for the acceptance of white rappers in popular music. While much of his transgressive work during the late 1990s and early 2000s made him widely controversial, he came to be a representation of popular angst of the American underclass and has been cited as an influence for many artists of various genres.	What is your real name?	My real name is Marshall Bruce Mathers III.
Marshall Bruce Mathers III (born October 17, 1972), known professionally as Eminem (/ˌɛmɪˈnɛm/; often stylized as EMINƎM), is an American rapper, songwriter, and record producer. He is credited with popularizing hip hop in middle America and is critically acclaimed as one of the greatest rappers of all time. Eminem's global success and acclaimed works are widely regarded as having broken racial barriers for the acceptance of white rappers in popular music. While much of his transgressive work during the late 1990s and early 2000s made him widely controversial, he came to be a representation of popular angst of the American underclass and has been cited as an influence for many artists of various genres.	In what field are you professionally known?	I am professionally known in the field of rap.
Marshall Bruce Mathers III (born October 17, 1972), known professionally as Eminem (/ˌɛmɪˈnɛm/; often stylized as EMINƎM), is an American rapper, songwriter, and record producer. He is credited with popularizing hip hop in middle America and is critically acclaimed as one of the greatest rappers of all time. Eminem's global success and acclaimed works are widely regarded as having broken racial barriers for the acceptance of white rappers in popular music. While much of his transgressive work during the late 1990s and early 2000s made him widely controversial, he came to be a representation of popular angst of the American underclass and has been cited as an influence for many artists of various genres.	What have you been credited with?	I have been credited with popularizing hip hop in middle America and breaking racial barriers for the acceptance of white rappers in popular music.
Marshall Bruce Mathers III (born October 17, 1972), known professionally as Eminem (/ˌɛmɪˈnɛm/; often stylized as EMINƎM), is an American rapper, songwriter, and record producer. He is credited with popularizing hip hop in middle America and is critically acclaimed as one of the greatest rappers of all time. Eminem's global success and acclaimed works are widely regarded as having broken racial barriers for the acceptance of white rappers in popular music. While much of his transgressive work during the late 1990s and early 2000s made him widely controversial, he came to be a representation of popular angst of the American underclass and has been cited as an influence for many artists of various genres.	How are you regarded in terms of your rap skills?	I am critically acclaimed as one of the greatest rappers of all time.
After the release of his debut album Infinite (1996) and the extended play Slim Shady EP (1997), Eminem signed with Dr. Dre's Aftermath Entertainment and subsequently achieved mainstream popularity in 1999 with The Slim Shady LP. His next two releases, The Marshall Mathers LP (2000) and The Eminem Show (2002), were worldwide successes and were both nominated for the Grammy Award for Album of the Year. After the release of his next album, Encore (2004), Eminem went on hiatus in 2005, largely due to a prescription drug addiction. He returned to the music industry four years later with the release of Relapse (2009) and Recovery was released the following year. Recovery was the bestselling album worldwide of 2010, making it Eminem's second album, after The Eminem Show in 2002, to be the best-selling album of the year worldwide. In the following years, he released the US number one albums The Marshall Mathers LP 2 (2013), Revival (2017), Kamikaze (2018) and Music to Be Murdered By (2020).	When did you achieve mainstream popularity?	I achieved mainstream popularity in 1999 with The Slim Shady LP.
After the release of his debut album Infinite (1996) and the extended play Slim Shady EP (1997), Eminem signed with Dr. Dre's Aftermath Entertainment and subsequently achieved mainstream popularity in 1999 with The Slim Shady LP. His next two releases, The Marshall Mathers LP (2000) and The Eminem Show (2002), were worldwide successes and were both nominated for the Grammy Award for Album of the Year. After the release of his next album, Encore (2004), Eminem went on hiatus in 2005, largely due to a prescription drug addiction. He returned to the music industry four years later with the release of Relapse (2009) and Recovery was released the following year. Recovery was the bestselling album worldwide of 2010, making it Eminem's second album, after The Eminem Show in 2002, to be the best-selling album of the year worldwide. In the following years, he released the US number one albums The Marshall Mathers LP 2 (2013), Revival (2017), Kamikaze (2018) and Music to Be Murdered By (2020).	Which two albums of yours were nominated for the Grammy Award for Album of the Year?	The Marshall Mathers LP (2000) and The Eminem Show (2002) were both nominated for the Grammy Award for Album of the Year.
After the release of his debut album Infinite (1996) and the extended play Slim Shady EP (1997), Eminem signed with Dr. Dre's Aftermath Entertainment and subsequently achieved mainstream popularity in 1999 with The Slim Shady LP. His next two releases, The Marshall Mathers LP (2000) and The Eminem Show (2002), were worldwide successes and were both nominated for the Grammy Award for Album of the Year. After the release of his next album, Encore (2004), Eminem went on hiatus in 2005, largely due to a prescription drug addiction. He returned to the music industry four years later with the release of Relapse (2009) and Recovery was released the following year. Recovery was the bestselling album worldwide of 2010, making it Eminem's second album, after The Eminem Show in 2002, to be the best-selling album of the year worldwide. In the following years, he released the US number one albums The Marshall Mathers LP 2 (2013), Revival (2017), Kamikaze (2018) and Music to Be Murdered By (2020).	Why did you go on hiatus in 2005?	I went on hiatus in 2005 largely due to a prescription drug addiction.
After the release of his debut album Infinite (1996) and the extended play Slim Shady EP (1997), Eminem signed with Dr. Dre's Aftermath Entertainment and subsequently achieved mainstream popularity in 1999 with The Slim Shady LP. His next two releases, The Marshall Mathers LP (2000) and The Eminem Show (2002), were worldwide successes and were both nominated for the Grammy Award for Album of the Year. After the release of his next album, Encore (2004), Eminem went on hiatus in 2005, largely due to a prescription drug addiction. He returned to the music industry four years later with the release of Relapse (2009) and Recovery was released the following year. Recovery was the bestselling album worldwide of 2010, making it Eminem's second album, after The Eminem Show in 2002, to be the best-selling album of the year worldwide. In the following years, he released the US number one albums The Marshall Mathers LP 2 (2013), Revival (2017), Kamikaze (2018) and Music to Be Murdered By (2020).	Which of your albums was the best-selling album worldwide in 2010?	Recovery (2009) was the best-selling album worldwide in 2010, making it my second album to achieve this after The Eminem Show in 2002.
After the release of his debut album Infinite (1996) and the extended play Slim Shady EP (1997), Eminem signed with Dr. Dre's Aftermath Entertainment and subsequently achieved mainstream popularity in 1999 with The Slim Shady LP. His next two releases, The Marshall Mathers LP (2000) and The Eminem Show (2002), were worldwide successes and were both nominated for the Grammy Award for Album of the Year. After the release of his next album, Encore (2004), Eminem went on hiatus in 2005, largely due to a prescription drug addiction. He returned to the music industry four years later with the release of Relapse (2009) and Recovery was released the following year. Recovery was the bestselling album worldwide of 2010, making it Eminem's second album, after The Eminem Show in 2002, to be the best-selling album of the year worldwide. In the following years, he released the US number one albums The Marshall Mathers LP 2 (2013), Revival (2017), Kamikaze (2018) and Music to Be Murdered By (2020).	Which of your albums was released in 2020?	I released Music to Be Murdered By (2020) in the year 2020.
Eminem made his debut in the film industry with the musical drama film 8 Mile (2002), playing a dramatized version of himself, and his track "Lose Yourself" from its soundtrack won the Academy Award for Best Original Song, making him the first hip hop artist ever to win the award. Eminem has made cameo appearances in the films The Wash (2001), Funny People (2009) and The Interview (2014) and the television series Entourage (2010). He has also developed other ventures, including Shady Records, a joint venture with manager Paul Rosenberg, which helped launch the careers of artists such as 50 Cent, D12 and Obie Trice, among others. He has also established his own channel, Shade 45, on Sirius XM Radio.	What was your debut film in the film industry?	My debut film in the film industry was 8 Mile in 2002.
Eminem made his debut in the film industry with the musical drama film 8 Mile (2002), playing a dramatized version of himself, and his track "Lose Yourself" from its soundtrack won the Academy Award for Best Original Song, making him the first hip hop artist ever to win the award. Eminem has made cameo appearances in the films The Wash (2001), Funny People (2009) and The Interview (2014) and the television series Entourage (2010). He has also developed other ventures, including Shady Records, a joint venture with manager Paul Rosenberg, which helped launch the careers of artists such as 50 Cent, D12 and Obie Trice, among others. He has also established his own channel, Shade 45, on Sirius XM Radio.	What song from the soundtrack of 8 Mile won you an Academy Award?	The song "Lose Yourself" from the soundtrack of 8 Mile won me an Academy Award.
Eminem made his debut in the film industry with the musical drama film 8 Mile (2002), playing a dramatized version of himself, and his track "Lose Yourself" from its soundtrack won the Academy Award for Best Original Song, making him the first hip hop artist ever to win the award. Eminem has made cameo appearances in the films The Wash (2001), Funny People (2009) and The Interview (2014) and the television series Entourage (2010). He has also developed other ventures, including Shady Records, a joint venture with manager Paul Rosenberg, which helped launch the careers of artists such as 50 Cent, D12 and Obie Trice, among others. He has also established his own channel, Shade 45, on Sirius XM Radio.	What was significant about you winning the Academy Award?	I became the first hip hop artist ever to win the Academy Award.
Eminem made his debut in the film industry with the musical drama film 8 Mile (2002), playing a dramatized version of himself, and his track "Lose Yourself" from its soundtrack won the Academy Award for Best Original Song, making him the first hip hop artist ever to win the award. Eminem has made cameo appearances in the films The Wash (2001), Funny People (2009) and The Interview (2014) and the television series Entourage (2010). He has also developed other ventures, including Shady Records, a joint venture with manager Paul Rosenberg, which helped launch the careers of artists such as 50 Cent, D12 and Obie Trice, among others. He has also established his own channel, Shade 45, on Sirius XM Radio.	In which films and television series have you made cameo appearances?	I have made cameo appearances in the films The Wash, Funny People, and The Interview, and the television series Entourage.
Eminem made his debut in the film industry with the musical drama film 8 Mile (2002), playing a dramatized version of himself, and his track "Lose Yourself" from its soundtrack won the Academy Award for Best Original Song, making him the first hip hop artist ever to win the award. Eminem has made cameo appearances in the films The Wash (2001), Funny People (2009) and The Interview (2014) and the television series Entourage (2010). He has also developed other ventures, including Shady Records, a joint venture with manager Paul Rosenberg, which helped launch the careers of artists such as 50 Cent, D12 and Obie Trice, among others. He has also established his own channel, Shade 45, on Sirius XM Radio.	What other ventures have you developed?	I have developed other ventures including Shady Records, a joint venture with manager Paul Rosenberg, and my own channel called Shade 45 on Sirius XM Radio.
In addition to his solo career, Eminem was a member of the hip hop group D12. He is also known for collaborations with fellow Detroit-based rapper Royce da 5'9"; the two are collectively known as Bad Meets Evil.	What other group were you a member of besides your solo career?	I was a member of the hip hop group D12.
In addition to his solo career, Eminem was a member of the hip hop group D12. He is also known for collaborations with fellow Detroit-based rapper Royce da 5'9"; the two are collectively known as Bad Meets Evil.	Who are you known for collaborating with?	I am known for collaborating with fellow Detroit-based rapper Royce da 5'9".
In addition to his solo career, Eminem was a member of the hip hop group D12. He is also known for collaborations with fellow Detroit-based rapper Royce da 5'9"; the two are collectively known as Bad Meets Evil.	Do you and Royce da 5'9" have a collective name?	Yes, I and Royce da 5'9" are collectively known as Bad Meets Evil.
Eminem is among the best-selling music artists of all time, with estimated worldwide sales of over 220 million records. He was the best-selling music artist in the United States of the 2000s and the bestselling male music artist in the United States of the 2010s, third overall. Billboard named him the "Artist of the Decade (2000–2009)". He has had ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200—which all consecutively debuted at number one on the chart, making him the first artist to achieve this—and five number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100. The Marshall Mathers LP, The Eminem Show, Curtain Call: The Hits (2005), "Lose Yourself", "Love the Way You Lie" and "Not Afraid" have all been certified Diamond or higher by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Rolling Stone has included him in its lists of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time and the 100 Greatest Songwriters of All Time. He has won numerous awards, including 15 Grammy Awards, eight American Music Awards, 17 Billboard Music Awards, an Academy Award, a Primetime Emmy Award and an MTV Europe Music Global Icon Award. In November 2022, Eminem was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.	How many records have you sold worldwide?	I have sold over 220 million records worldwide.
Eminem is among the best-selling music artists of all time, with estimated worldwide sales of over 220 million records. He was the best-selling music artist in the United States of the 2000s and the bestselling male music artist in the United States of the 2010s, third overall. Billboard named him the "Artist of the Decade (2000–2009)". He has had ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200—which all consecutively debuted at number one on the chart, making him the first artist to achieve this—and five number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100. The Marshall Mathers LP, The Eminem Show, Curtain Call: The Hits (2005), "Lose Yourself", "Love the Way You Lie" and "Not Afraid" have all been certified Diamond or higher by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Rolling Stone has included him in its lists of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time and the 100 Greatest Songwriters of All Time. He has won numerous awards, including 15 Grammy Awards, eight American Music Awards, 17 Billboard Music Awards, an Academy Award, a Primetime Emmy Award and an MTV Europe Music Global Icon Award. In November 2022, Eminem was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.	In which decades were you the best-selling music artist in the United States?	I was the best-selling music artist in the United States of the 2000s and the 2010s.
Eminem is among the best-selling music artists of all time, with estimated worldwide sales of over 220 million records. He was the best-selling music artist in the United States of the 2000s and the bestselling male music artist in the United States of the 2010s, third overall. Billboard named him the "Artist of the Decade (2000–2009)". He has had ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200—which all consecutively debuted at number one on the chart, making him the first artist to achieve this—and five number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100. The Marshall Mathers LP, The Eminem Show, Curtain Call: The Hits (2005), "Lose Yourself", "Love the Way You Lie" and "Not Afraid" have all been certified Diamond or higher by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Rolling Stone has included him in its lists of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time and the 100 Greatest Songwriters of All Time. He has won numerous awards, including 15 Grammy Awards, eight American Music Awards, 17 Billboard Music Awards, an Academy Award, a Primetime Emmy Award and an MTV Europe Music Global Icon Award. In November 2022, Eminem was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.	How many number-one albums have you had on the Billboard 200?	I have had ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200.
Eminem is among the best-selling music artists of all time, with estimated worldwide sales of over 220 million records. He was the best-selling music artist in the United States of the 2000s and the bestselling male music artist in the United States of the 2010s, third overall. Billboard named him the "Artist of the Decade (2000–2009)". He has had ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200—which all consecutively debuted at number one on the chart, making him the first artist to achieve this—and five number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100. The Marshall Mathers LP, The Eminem Show, Curtain Call: The Hits (2005), "Lose Yourself", "Love the Way You Lie" and "Not Afraid" have all been certified Diamond or higher by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Rolling Stone has included him in its lists of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time and the 100 Greatest Songwriters of All Time. He has won numerous awards, including 15 Grammy Awards, eight American Music Awards, 17 Billboard Music Awards, an Academy Award, a Primetime Emmy Award and an MTV Europe Music Global Icon Award. In November 2022, Eminem was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.	Which of your songs have been certified Diamond or higher by the RIAA?	The Marshall Mathers LP, The Eminem Show, Curtain Call: The Hits (2005), "Lose Yourself", "Love the Way You Lie", and "Not Afraid" have all been certified Diamond or higher by the RIAA.
Eminem is among the best-selling music artists of all time, with estimated worldwide sales of over 220 million records. He was the best-selling music artist in the United States of the 2000s and the bestselling male music artist in the United States of the 2010s, third overall. Billboard named him the "Artist of the Decade (2000–2009)". He has had ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200—which all consecutively debuted at number one on the chart, making him the first artist to achieve this—and five number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100. The Marshall Mathers LP, The Eminem Show, Curtain Call: The Hits (2005), "Lose Yourself", "Love the Way You Lie" and "Not Afraid" have all been certified Diamond or higher by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Rolling Stone has included him in its lists of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time and the 100 Greatest Songwriters of All Time. He has won numerous awards, including 15 Grammy Awards, eight American Music Awards, 17 Billboard Music Awards, an Academy Award, a Primetime Emmy Award and an MTV Europe Music Global Icon Award. In November 2022, Eminem was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.	What awards have you won?	I have won 15 Grammy Awards, eight American Music Awards, 17 Billboard Music Awards, an Academy Award, a Primetime Emmy Award, and an MTV Europe Music Global Icon Award.
Eminem is among the best-selling music artists of all time, with estimated worldwide sales of over 220 million records. He was the best-selling music artist in the United States of the 2000s and the bestselling male music artist in the United States of the 2010s, third overall. Billboard named him the "Artist of the Decade (2000–2009)". He has had ten number-one albums on the Billboard 200—which all consecutively debuted at number one on the chart, making him the first artist to achieve this—and five number-one singles on the Billboard Hot 100. The Marshall Mathers LP, The Eminem Show, Curtain Call: The Hits (2005), "Lose Yourself", "Love the Way You Lie" and "Not Afraid" have all been certified Diamond or higher by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). Rolling Stone has included him in its lists of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time and the 100 Greatest Songwriters of All Time. He has won numerous awards, including 15 Grammy Awards, eight American Music Awards, 17 Billboard Music Awards, an Academy Award, a Primetime Emmy Award and an MTV Europe Music Global Icon Award. In November 2022, Eminem was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame.	When were you inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame?	I was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in November 2022.
Mathers was born on October 17, 1972, in St. Joseph, Missouri, the only child of Marshall Bruce Mathers Jr. and Deborah Rae "Debbie" (née Nelson). He is of Scottish, Welsh, English, Cherokee, German, Swiss, Polish, and possibly Luxemburgish ancestry.	When were you born?	I was born on October 17, 1972.
Mathers was born on October 17, 1972, in St. Joseph, Missouri, the only child of Marshall Bruce Mathers Jr. and Deborah Rae "Debbie" (née Nelson). He is of Scottish, Welsh, English, Cherokee, German, Swiss, Polish, and possibly Luxemburgish ancestry.	Where were you born?	I was born in St. Joseph, Missouri.
Mathers was born on October 17, 1972, in St. Joseph, Missouri, the only child of Marshall Bruce Mathers Jr. and Deborah Rae "Debbie" (née Nelson). He is of Scottish, Welsh, English, Cherokee, German, Swiss, Polish, and possibly Luxemburgish ancestry.	Who are your parents?	My parents are Marshall Bruce Mathers Jr. and Deborah Rae "Debbie" (née Nelson).
Mathers was born on October 17, 1972, in St. Joseph, Missouri, the only child of Marshall Bruce Mathers Jr. and Deborah Rae "Debbie" (née Nelson). He is of Scottish, Welsh, English, Cherokee, German, Swiss, Polish, and possibly Luxemburgish ancestry.	What is your nationality?	My nationality is American.
Mathers was born on October 17, 1972, in St. Joseph, Missouri, the only child of Marshall Bruce Mathers Jr. and Deborah Rae "Debbie" (née Nelson). He is of Scottish, Welsh, English, Cherokee, German, Swiss, Polish, and possibly Luxemburgish ancestry.	What is your ancestry?	I have Scottish, Welsh, English, Cherokee, German, Swiss, Polish, and possibly Luxemburgish ancestry.
His mother nearly died during her 73-hour labor with him. Eminem's parents were in a band called Daddy Warbucks, playing in Ramada Inns along the Dakotas–Montana border before they separated. His father abandoned his family when he was a year and a half old, and Marshall was raised only by his mother, Debbie, in poverty. His mother later had a son named Nathan "Nate" Kane Samara.  At age twelve, he and his mother had moved several times and lived in several towns and cities in Missouri (including St. Joseph, Savannah, and Kansas City) before settling in Warren, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit. Eminem frequently fought with his mother, whom a social worker described as having a "very suspicious, almost paranoid personality". He wrote letters to his father, but Debbie said that they all came back marked "return to sender".	How long did your mother labor before you were born?	My mother nearly died during her 73-hour labor with me.
His mother nearly died during her 73-hour labor with him. Eminem's parents were in a band called Daddy Warbucks, playing in Ramada Inns along the Dakotas–Montana border before they separated. His father abandoned his family when he was a year and a half old, and Marshall was raised only by his mother, Debbie, in poverty. His mother later had a son named Nathan "Nate" Kane Samara.  At age twelve, he and his mother had moved several times and lived in several towns and cities in Missouri (including St. Joseph, Savannah, and Kansas City) before settling in Warren, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit. Eminem frequently fought with his mother, whom a social worker described as having a "very suspicious, almost paranoid personality". He wrote letters to his father, but Debbie said that they all came back marked "return to sender".	What was the name of your parents' band?	My parents were in a band called Daddy Warbucks.
His mother nearly died during her 73-hour labor with him. Eminem's parents were in a band called Daddy Warbucks, playing in Ramada Inns along the Dakotas–Montana border before they separated. His father abandoned his family when he was a year and a half old, and Marshall was raised only by his mother, Debbie, in poverty. His mother later had a son named Nathan "Nate" Kane Samara.  At age twelve, he and his mother had moved several times and lived in several towns and cities in Missouri (including St. Joseph, Savannah, and Kansas City) before settling in Warren, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit. Eminem frequently fought with his mother, whom a social worker described as having a "very suspicious, almost paranoid personality". He wrote letters to his father, but Debbie said that they all came back marked "return to sender".	Where did your parents play their music?	They played in Ramada Inns along the Dakotas-Montana border.
His mother nearly died during her 73-hour labor with him. Eminem's parents were in a band called Daddy Warbucks, playing in Ramada Inns along the Dakotas–Montana border before they separated. His father abandoned his family when he was a year and a half old, and Marshall was raised only by his mother, Debbie, in poverty. His mother later had a son named Nathan "Nate" Kane Samara.  At age twelve, he and his mother had moved several times and lived in several towns and cities in Missouri (including St. Joseph, Savannah, and Kansas City) before settling in Warren, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit. Eminem frequently fought with his mother, whom a social worker described as having a "very suspicious, almost paranoid personality". He wrote letters to his father, but Debbie said that they all came back marked "return to sender".	How old were you when your father left your family?	My father abandoned my family when I was a year and a half old.
His mother nearly died during her 73-hour labor with him. Eminem's parents were in a band called Daddy Warbucks, playing in Ramada Inns along the Dakotas–Montana border before they separated. His father abandoned his family when he was a year and a half old, and Marshall was raised only by his mother, Debbie, in poverty. His mother later had a son named Nathan "Nate" Kane Samara.  At age twelve, he and his mother had moved several times and lived in several towns and cities in Missouri (including St. Joseph, Savannah, and Kansas City) before settling in Warren, Michigan, a suburb of Detroit. Eminem frequently fought with his mother, whom a social worker described as having a "very suspicious, almost paranoid personality". He wrote letters to his father, but Debbie said that they all came back marked "return to sender".	Who raised you after your father left?	I was raised only by my mother, Debbie, in poverty.
When he was a child, a bully named D'Angelo Bailey severely injured Eminem's head in an assault, an incident which Eminem later recounted (with comic exaggeration) on the song "Brain Damage". Debbie filed a lawsuit against the public school for this in 1982. The suit was dismissed the following year by a Macomb County, Michigan judge, who said the schools were immune from lawsuits. For much of his youth, Eminem and his mother lived in a working-class, primarily black, Detroit neighborhood. He and Debbie were one of three white households on their block, and Eminem was beaten several times by black youths.	Who severely injured your head when you were a child?	A bully named D'Angelo Bailey severely injured my head.
When he was a child, a bully named D'Angelo Bailey severely injured Eminem's head in an assault, an incident which Eminem later recounted (with comic exaggeration) on the song "Brain Damage". Debbie filed a lawsuit against the public school for this in 1982. The suit was dismissed the following year by a Macomb County, Michigan judge, who said the schools were immune from lawsuits. For much of his youth, Eminem and his mother lived in a working-class, primarily black, Detroit neighborhood. He and Debbie were one of three white households on their block, and Eminem was beaten several times by black youths.	What did you later do with the incident of your head injury?	I later recounted the incident (with comic exaggeration) on the song "Brain Damage".
When he was a child, a bully named D'Angelo Bailey severely injured Eminem's head in an assault, an incident which Eminem later recounted (with comic exaggeration) on the song "Brain Damage". Debbie filed a lawsuit against the public school for this in 1982. The suit was dismissed the following year by a Macomb County, Michigan judge, who said the schools were immune from lawsuits. For much of his youth, Eminem and his mother lived in a working-class, primarily black, Detroit neighborhood. He and Debbie were one of three white households on their block, and Eminem was beaten several times by black youths.	Who filed a lawsuit against the public school in 1982 in relation to your head injury?	Debbie, my mother, filed a lawsuit against the public school in 1982.
When he was a child, a bully named D'Angelo Bailey severely injured Eminem's head in an assault, an incident which Eminem later recounted (with comic exaggeration) on the song "Brain Damage". Debbie filed a lawsuit against the public school for this in 1982. The suit was dismissed the following year by a Macomb County, Michigan judge, who said the schools were immune from lawsuits. For much of his youth, Eminem and his mother lived in a working-class, primarily black, Detroit neighborhood. He and Debbie were one of three white households on their block, and Eminem was beaten several times by black youths.	What was the outcome of the lawsuit you filed against the public school?	The suit was dismissed the following year by a Macomb County, Michigan judge, who said the schools were immune from lawsuits.
When he was a child, a bully named D'Angelo Bailey severely injured Eminem's head in an assault, an incident which Eminem later recounted (with comic exaggeration) on the song "Brain Damage". Debbie filed a lawsuit against the public school for this in 1982. The suit was dismissed the following year by a Macomb County, Michigan judge, who said the schools were immune from lawsuits. For much of his youth, Eminem and his mother lived in a working-class, primarily black, Detroit neighborhood. He and Debbie were one of three white households on their block, and Eminem was beaten several times by black youths.	In what kind of neighborhood did you and your mother live during your youth?	I and my mother lived in a working-class, primarily black, Detroit neighborhood.
Eminem was interested in storytelling, aspiring to be a comic book artist before discovering hip hop. He heard his first rap song ("Reckless", featuring Ice-T) on the Breakin' soundtrack, a gift from Debbie's half-brother Ronnie Polkingharn. His uncle was close to the boy and later became a musical mentor to him. When Polkingharn committed suicide in 1991, Eminem stopped speaking publicly for days and did not attend his funeral.	What were you interested in before discovering hip hop?	I was interested in storytelling and aspiring to be a comic book artist before discovering hip hop.
Eminem was interested in storytelling, aspiring to be a comic book artist before discovering hip hop. He heard his first rap song ("Reckless", featuring Ice-T) on the Breakin' soundtrack, a gift from Debbie's half-brother Ronnie Polkingharn. His uncle was close to the boy and later became a musical mentor to him. When Polkingharn committed suicide in 1991, Eminem stopped speaking publicly for days and did not attend his funeral.	What was the first rap song that you heard?	The first rap song I heard was "Reckless", featuring Ice-T, on the Breakin' soundtrack.
Eminem was interested in storytelling, aspiring to be a comic book artist before discovering hip hop. He heard his first rap song ("Reckless", featuring Ice-T) on the Breakin' soundtrack, a gift from Debbie's half-brother Ronnie Polkingharn. His uncle was close to the boy and later became a musical mentor to him. When Polkingharn committed suicide in 1991, Eminem stopped speaking publicly for days and did not attend his funeral.	Who gave you the Breakin' soundtrack?	The Breakin' soundtrack was a gift from Debbie's half-brother Ronnie Polkingharn.
Eminem was interested in storytelling, aspiring to be a comic book artist before discovering hip hop. He heard his first rap song ("Reckless", featuring Ice-T) on the Breakin' soundtrack, a gift from Debbie's half-brother Ronnie Polkingharn. His uncle was close to the boy and later became a musical mentor to him. When Polkingharn committed suicide in 1991, Eminem stopped speaking publicly for days and did not attend his funeral.	How was Ronnie Polkingharn related to you?	Ronnie Polkingharn was my uncle and he later became a musical mentor to me.
Eminem was interested in storytelling, aspiring to be a comic book artist before discovering hip hop. He heard his first rap song ("Reckless", featuring Ice-T) on the Breakin' soundtrack, a gift from Debbie's half-brother Ronnie Polkingharn. His uncle was close to the boy and later became a musical mentor to him. When Polkingharn committed suicide in 1991, Eminem stopped speaking publicly for days and did not attend his funeral.	What happened when Ronnie Polkingharn committed suicide in 1991?	When Ronnie Polkingharn committed suicide in 1991, I stopped speaking publicly for days and did not attend his funeral.
At age 14, Eminem began rapping with high-school friend Mike Ruby; they adopted the names "Manix" and "M&M", the latter evolving into "Eminem". Eminem sneaked into neighboring Osborn High School with friend and fellow rapper Proof for lunchroom freestyle rap battles. On Saturdays, they attended open mic contests at the Hip-Hop Shop on West 7 Mile Road, considered "ground zero" for the Detroit rap scene. Struggling to succeed in a predominantly black industry, Eminem was appreciated by underground hip hop audiences. When he wrote verses, he wanted most of the words to rhyme; he wrote long words or phrases on paper and, underneath, worked on rhymes for each syllable. Although the words often made little sense, the drill helped Eminem practice sounds and rhymes.	What were the names you and your friend Mike Ruby adopted when you began rapping?	We adopted the names "Manix" and "M&M", with the latter eventually becoming "Eminem".
At age 14, Eminem began rapping with high-school friend Mike Ruby; they adopted the names "Manix" and "M&M", the latter evolving into "Eminem". Eminem sneaked into neighboring Osborn High School with friend and fellow rapper Proof for lunchroom freestyle rap battles. On Saturdays, they attended open mic contests at the Hip-Hop Shop on West 7 Mile Road, considered "ground zero" for the Detroit rap scene. Struggling to succeed in a predominantly black industry, Eminem was appreciated by underground hip hop audiences. When he wrote verses, he wanted most of the words to rhyme; he wrote long words or phrases on paper and, underneath, worked on rhymes for each syllable. Although the words often made little sense, the drill helped Eminem practice sounds and rhymes.	Where did you and fellow rapper Proof go to have lunchroom freestyle rap battles?	Proof and I would sneak into neighboring Osborn High School for lunchroom freestyle rap battles.
At age 14, Eminem began rapping with high-school friend Mike Ruby; they adopted the names "Manix" and "M&M", the latter evolving into "Eminem". Eminem sneaked into neighboring Osborn High School with friend and fellow rapper Proof for lunchroom freestyle rap battles. On Saturdays, they attended open mic contests at the Hip-Hop Shop on West 7 Mile Road, considered "ground zero" for the Detroit rap scene. Struggling to succeed in a predominantly black industry, Eminem was appreciated by underground hip hop audiences. When he wrote verses, he wanted most of the words to rhyme; he wrote long words or phrases on paper and, underneath, worked on rhymes for each syllable. Although the words often made little sense, the drill helped Eminem practice sounds and rhymes.	Where did you and Proof attend open mic contests on Saturdays?	We attended open mic contests at the Hip-Hop Shop on West 7 Mile Road, considered the "ground zero" for the Detroit rap scene.
At age 14, Eminem began rapping with high-school friend Mike Ruby; they adopted the names "Manix" and "M&M", the latter evolving into "Eminem". Eminem sneaked into neighboring Osborn High School with friend and fellow rapper Proof for lunchroom freestyle rap battles. On Saturdays, they attended open mic contests at the Hip-Hop Shop on West 7 Mile Road, considered "ground zero" for the Detroit rap scene. Struggling to succeed in a predominantly black industry, Eminem was appreciated by underground hip hop audiences. When he wrote verses, he wanted most of the words to rhyme; he wrote long words or phrases on paper and, underneath, worked on rhymes for each syllable. Although the words often made little sense, the drill helped Eminem practice sounds and rhymes.	How did you practice your rhymes when writing verses?	I would write long words or phrases on paper and then work on rhymes for each syllable, even if the words often made little sense.
At age 14, Eminem began rapping with high-school friend Mike Ruby; they adopted the names "Manix" and "M&M", the latter evolving into "Eminem". Eminem sneaked into neighboring Osborn High School with friend and fellow rapper Proof for lunchroom freestyle rap battles. On Saturdays, they attended open mic contests at the Hip-Hop Shop on West 7 Mile Road, considered "ground zero" for the Detroit rap scene. Struggling to succeed in a predominantly black industry, Eminem was appreciated by underground hip hop audiences. When he wrote verses, he wanted most of the words to rhyme; he wrote long words or phrases on paper and, underneath, worked on rhymes for each syllable. Although the words often made little sense, the drill helped Eminem practice sounds and rhymes.	Who appreciated you as you struggled to succeed in a predominantly black industry?	I was appreciated by underground hip hop audiences.
Recorded from 1999 to 2000 , The Marshall Mathers LP was released in May 2000 . It sold 1.76 million copies in its first week , breaking US records held by Snoop Dogg ' s Doggystyle for fastest - selling hip hop album and Britney Spears ' ... Baby One More Time for fastest - selling solo album . The first single from the album , " The Real Slim Shady " , was a success despite controversies about Eminem ' s insults and dubious claims about celebrities ( for example , that Christina Aguilera had performed oral sex on Carson Daly and Fred Durst ) . In his second single , " The Way I Am " , he reveals the pressure from his record company to top " My Name Is " . Although Eminem parodied shock rocker Marilyn Manson in the music video for " My Name Is " , they are reportedly on good terms ; Manson is mentioned in " The Way I Am " , appeared in its music video and has performed a live remix of the song with Eminem . In the third single , " Stan " ( which samples Dido ' s " Thank You " ) , Eminem tries to deal with his new fame , assuming the persona of a deranged fan who kills himself and his pregnant girlfriend ( mirroring " ' 97 Bonnie & Clyde " from The Slim Shady LP ) . The music magazine Q called " Stan " the third - greatest rap song of all time , and it was ranked tenth in a Top40 - Charts . com survey . The song has since been ranked 296th on Rolling Stone ' s " 500 Greatest Songs of All Time " list . In July 2000 , Eminem was the first white artist to appear on the cover of The Source . The Marshall Mathers LP was certified Diamond by the RIAA in March 2011 and sold 21 million copies worldwide . In 2000 Eminem also appeared in the Up in Smoke Tour with rappers Dr . Dre , Snoop Dogg , Xzibit and Ice Cube and the Family Values Tour with Limp Bizkit , headlining the Anger Management Tour with Papa Roach , Ludacris and Xzibit .	When was The Marshall Mathers LP released?	The Marshall Mathers LP was released in May 2000.
Recorded from 1999 to 2000 , The Marshall Mathers LP was released in May 2000 . It sold 1.76 million copies in its first week , breaking US records held by Snoop Dogg ' s Doggystyle for fastest - selling hip hop album and Britney Spears ' ... Baby One More Time for fastest - selling solo album . The first single from the album , " The Real Slim Shady " , was a success despite controversies about Eminem ' s insults and dubious claims about celebrities ( for example , that Christina Aguilera had performed oral sex on Carson Daly and Fred Durst ) . In his second single , " The Way I Am " , he reveals the pressure from his record company to top " My Name Is " . Although Eminem parodied shock rocker Marilyn Manson in the music video for " My Name Is " , they are reportedly on good terms ; Manson is mentioned in " The Way I Am " , appeared in its music video and has performed a live remix of the song with Eminem . In the third single , " Stan " ( which samples Dido ' s " Thank You " ) , Eminem tries to deal with his new fame , assuming the persona of a deranged fan who kills himself and his pregnant girlfriend ( mirroring " ' 97 Bonnie & Clyde " from The Slim Shady LP ) . The music magazine Q called " Stan " the third - greatest rap song of all time , and it was ranked tenth in a Top40 - Charts . com survey . The song has since been ranked 296th on Rolling Stone ' s " 500 Greatest Songs of All Time " list . In July 2000 , Eminem was the first white artist to appear on the cover of The Source . The Marshall Mathers LP was certified Diamond by the RIAA in March 2011 and sold 21 million copies worldwide . In 2000 Eminem also appeared in the Up in Smoke Tour with rappers Dr . Dre , Snoop Dogg , Xzibit and Ice Cube and the Family Values Tour with Limp Bizkit , headlining the Anger Management Tour with Papa Roach , Ludacris and Xzibit .	How many copies did your album The Marshall Mathers LP sell in its first week?	My album The Marshall Mathers LP sold 1.76 million copies in its first week.
Recorded from 1999 to 2000 , The Marshall Mathers LP was released in May 2000 . It sold 1.76 million copies in its first week , breaking US records held by Snoop Dogg ' s Doggystyle for fastest - selling hip hop album and Britney Spears ' ... Baby One More Time for fastest - selling solo album . The first single from the album , " The Real Slim Shady " , was a success despite controversies about Eminem ' s insults and dubious claims about celebrities ( for example , that Christina Aguilera had performed oral sex on Carson Daly and Fred Durst ) . In his second single , " The Way I Am " , he reveals the pressure from his record company to top " My Name Is " . Although Eminem parodied shock rocker Marilyn Manson in the music video for " My Name Is " , they are reportedly on good terms ; Manson is mentioned in " The Way I Am " , appeared in its music video and has performed a live remix of the song with Eminem . In the third single , " Stan " ( which samples Dido ' s " Thank You " ) , Eminem tries to deal with his new fame , assuming the persona of a deranged fan who kills himself and his pregnant girlfriend ( mirroring " ' 97 Bonnie & Clyde " from The Slim Shady LP ) . The music magazine Q called " Stan " the third - greatest rap song of all time , and it was ranked tenth in a Top40 - Charts . com survey . The song has since been ranked 296th on Rolling Stone ' s " 500 Greatest Songs of All Time " list . In July 2000 , Eminem was the first white artist to appear on the cover of The Source . The Marshall Mathers LP was certified Diamond by the RIAA in March 2011 and sold 21 million copies worldwide . In 2000 Eminem also appeared in the Up in Smoke Tour with rappers Dr . Dre , Snoop Dogg , Xzibit and Ice Cube and the Family Values Tour with Limp Bizkit , headlining the Anger Management Tour with Papa Roach , Ludacris and Xzibit .	Which records did your album The Marshall Mathers LP break for fastest-selling hip hop album and fastest-selling solo album?	My album The Marshall Mathers LP broke the records held by Snoop Dogg's Doggystyle for fastest-selling hip hop album and Britney Spears' ... Baby One More Time for fastest-selling solo album.
Recorded from 1999 to 2000 , The Marshall Mathers LP was released in May 2000 . It sold 1.76 million copies in its first week , breaking US records held by Snoop Dogg ' s Doggystyle for fastest - selling hip hop album and Britney Spears ' ... Baby One More Time for fastest - selling solo album . The first single from the album , " The Real Slim Shady " , was a success despite controversies about Eminem ' s insults and dubious claims about celebrities ( for example , that Christina Aguilera had performed oral sex on Carson Daly and Fred Durst ) . In his second single , " The Way I Am " , he reveals the pressure from his record company to top " My Name Is " . Although Eminem parodied shock rocker Marilyn Manson in the music video for " My Name Is " , they are reportedly on good terms ; Manson is mentioned in " The Way I Am " , appeared in its music video and has performed a live remix of the song with Eminem . In the third single , " Stan " ( which samples Dido ' s " Thank You " ) , Eminem tries to deal with his new fame , assuming the persona of a deranged fan who kills himself and his pregnant girlfriend ( mirroring " ' 97 Bonnie & Clyde " from The Slim Shady LP ) . The music magazine Q called " Stan " the third - greatest rap song of all time , and it was ranked tenth in a Top40 - Charts . com survey . The song has since been ranked 296th on Rolling Stone ' s " 500 Greatest Songs of All Time " list . In July 2000 , Eminem was the first white artist to appear on the cover of The Source . The Marshall Mathers LP was certified Diamond by the RIAA in March 2011 and sold 21 million copies worldwide . In 2000 Eminem also appeared in the Up in Smoke Tour with rappers Dr . Dre , Snoop Dogg , Xzibit and Ice Cube and the Family Values Tour with Limp Bizkit , headlining the Anger Management Tour with Papa Roach , Ludacris and Xzibit .	Which controversial claims did you make about celebrities in your first single "The Real Slim Shady"?	I made controversial claims about celebrities like Christina Aguilera performing oral sex on Carson Daly and Fred Durst.
Recorded from 1999 to 2000 , The Marshall Mathers LP was released in May 2000 . It sold 1.76 million copies in its first week , breaking US records held by Snoop Dogg ' s Doggystyle for fastest - selling hip hop album and Britney Spears ' ... Baby One More Time for fastest - selling solo album . The first single from the album , " The Real Slim Shady " , was a success despite controversies about Eminem ' s insults and dubious claims about celebrities ( for example , that Christina Aguilera had performed oral sex on Carson Daly and Fred Durst ) . In his second single , " The Way I Am " , he reveals the pressure from his record company to top " My Name Is " . Although Eminem parodied shock rocker Marilyn Manson in the music video for " My Name Is " , they are reportedly on good terms ; Manson is mentioned in " The Way I Am " , appeared in its music video and has performed a live remix of the song with Eminem . In the third single , " Stan " ( which samples Dido ' s " Thank You " ) , Eminem tries to deal with his new fame , assuming the persona of a deranged fan who kills himself and his pregnant girlfriend ( mirroring " ' 97 Bonnie & Clyde " from The Slim Shady LP ) . The music magazine Q called " Stan " the third - greatest rap song of all time , and it was ranked tenth in a Top40 - Charts . com survey . The song has since been ranked 296th on Rolling Stone ' s " 500 Greatest Songs of All Time " list . In July 2000 , Eminem was the first white artist to appear on the cover of The Source . The Marshall Mathers LP was certified Diamond by the RIAA in March 2011 and sold 21 million copies worldwide . In 2000 Eminem also appeared in the Up in Smoke Tour with rappers Dr . Dre , Snoop Dogg , Xzibit and Ice Cube and the Family Values Tour with Limp Bizkit , headlining the Anger Management Tour with Papa Roach , Ludacris and Xzibit .	Who did you collaborate with in your third single "Stan"?	I sampled Dido's "Thank You" in my third single "Stan" and assumed the persona of a deranged fan who kills himself and his pregnant girlfriend.
Encore , released in 2004 , was another success , but not as successful as his previous albums . Its sales were partially driven by the first single , " Just Lose It " , which contained slurs directed toward Michael Jackson . On October 12 , 2004 , a week after the release of " Just Lose It " , Jackson phoned Steve Harvey ' s radio show , The Steve Harvey Morning Show , to report his displeasure with its video ( which parodies Jackson ' s child molestation trial , plastic surgery and the 1984 incident when Jackson ' s hair caught fire during the filming of a commercial ) . In the song , Eminem says , " That ' s not a stab at Michael / That ' s just a metaphor / I ' m just psycho . " Many of Jackson ' s friends and supporters spoke out against the video , including Stevie Wonder , who described it as " kicking a man while he ' s down " and " bullshit " , and Steve Harvey ( who said , " Eminem has lost his ghetto pass . We want the pass back " ) . The video also parodied Pee - wee Herman , MC Hammer and Madonna during her Blond Ambition period . " Weird Al " Yankovic , who parodied the Eminem song " Lose Yourself " on " Couch Potato " for his 2003 album Poodle Hat , told the Chicago Sun - Times about Jackson ' s protest : " Last year , Eminem forced me to halt production on the video for my ' Lose Yourself ' parody because he somehow thought that it would be harmful to his image or career . So the irony of this situation with Michael is not lost on me . " Although Black Entertainment Television stopped playing the video , MTV announced that it would continue to air it . The Source , through CEO Raymond " Benzino " Scott , called for the video to be pulled , the song removed from the album and Eminem to apologize publicly to Jackson . In 2007 , Jackson and Sony bought Famous Music from Viacom , giving him the rights to songs by Eminem , Shakira , Beck and others .	When was your album Encore released?	My album Encore was released in 2004.
Encore , released in 2004 , was another success , but not as successful as his previous albums . Its sales were partially driven by the first single , " Just Lose It " , which contained slurs directed toward Michael Jackson . On October 12 , 2004 , a week after the release of " Just Lose It " , Jackson phoned Steve Harvey ' s radio show , The Steve Harvey Morning Show , to report his displeasure with its video ( which parodies Jackson ' s child molestation trial , plastic surgery and the 1984 incident when Jackson ' s hair caught fire during the filming of a commercial ) . In the song , Eminem says , " That ' s not a stab at Michael / That ' s just a metaphor / I ' m just psycho . " Many of Jackson ' s friends and supporters spoke out against the video , including Stevie Wonder , who described it as " kicking a man while he ' s down " and " bullshit " , and Steve Harvey ( who said , " Eminem has lost his ghetto pass . We want the pass back " ) . The video also parodied Pee - wee Herman , MC Hammer and Madonna during her Blond Ambition period . " Weird Al " Yankovic , who parodied the Eminem song " Lose Yourself " on " Couch Potato " for his 2003 album Poodle Hat , told the Chicago Sun - Times about Jackson ' s protest : " Last year , Eminem forced me to halt production on the video for my ' Lose Yourself ' parody because he somehow thought that it would be harmful to his image or career . So the irony of this situation with Michael is not lost on me . " Although Black Entertainment Television stopped playing the video , MTV announced that it would continue to air it . The Source , through CEO Raymond " Benzino " Scott , called for the video to be pulled , the song removed from the album and Eminem to apologize publicly to Jackson . In 2007 , Jackson and Sony bought Famous Music from Viacom , giving him the rights to songs by Eminem , Shakira , Beck and others .	Which song in your album Encore contributed to its sales?	The song "Just Lose It" contributed to the sales of my album Encore.
Encore , released in 2004 , was another success , but not as successful as his previous albums . Its sales were partially driven by the first single , " Just Lose It " , which contained slurs directed toward Michael Jackson . On October 12 , 2004 , a week after the release of " Just Lose It " , Jackson phoned Steve Harvey ' s radio show , The Steve Harvey Morning Show , to report his displeasure with its video ( which parodies Jackson ' s child molestation trial , plastic surgery and the 1984 incident when Jackson ' s hair caught fire during the filming of a commercial ) . In the song , Eminem says , " That ' s not a stab at Michael / That ' s just a metaphor / I ' m just psycho . " Many of Jackson ' s friends and supporters spoke out against the video , including Stevie Wonder , who described it as " kicking a man while he ' s down " and " bullshit " , and Steve Harvey ( who said , " Eminem has lost his ghetto pass . We want the pass back " ) . The video also parodied Pee - wee Herman , MC Hammer and Madonna during her Blond Ambition period . " Weird Al " Yankovic , who parodied the Eminem song " Lose Yourself " on " Couch Potato " for his 2003 album Poodle Hat , told the Chicago Sun - Times about Jackson ' s protest : " Last year , Eminem forced me to halt production on the video for my ' Lose Yourself ' parody because he somehow thought that it would be harmful to his image or career . So the irony of this situation with Michael is not lost on me . " Although Black Entertainment Television stopped playing the video , MTV announced that it would continue to air it . The Source , through CEO Raymond " Benzino " Scott , called for the video to be pulled , the song removed from the album and Eminem to apologize publicly to Jackson . In 2007 , Jackson and Sony bought Famous Music from Viacom , giving him the rights to songs by Eminem , Shakira , Beck and others .	Who did you report your displeasure with the video to?	I reported my displeasure with the video to Steve Harvey's radio show, The Steve Harvey Morning Show.
Encore , released in 2004 , was another success , but not as successful as his previous albums . Its sales were partially driven by the first single , " Just Lose It " , which contained slurs directed toward Michael Jackson . On October 12 , 2004 , a week after the release of " Just Lose It " , Jackson phoned Steve Harvey ' s radio show , The Steve Harvey Morning Show , to report his displeasure with its video ( which parodies Jackson ' s child molestation trial , plastic surgery and the 1984 incident when Jackson ' s hair caught fire during the filming of a commercial ) . In the song , Eminem says , " That ' s not a stab at Michael / That ' s just a metaphor / I ' m just psycho . " Many of Jackson ' s friends and supporters spoke out against the video , including Stevie Wonder , who described it as " kicking a man while he ' s down " and " bullshit " , and Steve Harvey ( who said , " Eminem has lost his ghetto pass . We want the pass back " ) . The video also parodied Pee - wee Herman , MC Hammer and Madonna during her Blond Ambition period . " Weird Al " Yankovic , who parodied the Eminem song " Lose Yourself " on " Couch Potato " for his 2003 album Poodle Hat , told the Chicago Sun - Times about Jackson ' s protest : " Last year , Eminem forced me to halt production on the video for my ' Lose Yourself ' parody because he somehow thought that it would be harmful to his image or career . So the irony of this situation with Michael is not lost on me . " Although Black Entertainment Television stopped playing the video , MTV announced that it would continue to air it . The Source , through CEO Raymond " Benzino " Scott , called for the video to be pulled , the song removed from the album and Eminem to apologize publicly to Jackson . In 2007 , Jackson and Sony bought Famous Music from Viacom , giving him the rights to songs by Eminem , Shakira , Beck and others .	Who spoke out against the video?	Stevie Wonder and Steve Harvey spoke out against the video.
Encore , released in 2004 , was another success , but not as successful as his previous albums . Its sales were partially driven by the first single , " Just Lose It " , which contained slurs directed toward Michael Jackson . On October 12 , 2004 , a week after the release of " Just Lose It " , Jackson phoned Steve Harvey ' s radio show , The Steve Harvey Morning Show , to report his displeasure with its video ( which parodies Jackson ' s child molestation trial , plastic surgery and the 1984 incident when Jackson ' s hair caught fire during the filming of a commercial ) . In the song , Eminem says , " That ' s not a stab at Michael / That ' s just a metaphor / I ' m just psycho . " Many of Jackson ' s friends and supporters spoke out against the video , including Stevie Wonder , who described it as " kicking a man while he ' s down " and " bullshit " , and Steve Harvey ( who said , " Eminem has lost his ghetto pass . We want the pass back " ) . The video also parodied Pee - wee Herman , MC Hammer and Madonna during her Blond Ambition period . " Weird Al " Yankovic , who parodied the Eminem song " Lose Yourself " on " Couch Potato " for his 2003 album Poodle Hat , told the Chicago Sun - Times about Jackson ' s protest : " Last year , Eminem forced me to halt production on the video for my ' Lose Yourself ' parody because he somehow thought that it would be harmful to his image or career . So the irony of this situation with Michael is not lost on me . " Although Black Entertainment Television stopped playing the video , MTV announced that it would continue to air it . The Source , through CEO Raymond " Benzino " Scott , called for the video to be pulled , the song removed from the album and Eminem to apologize publicly to Jackson . In 2007 , Jackson and Sony bought Famous Music from Viacom , giving him the rights to songs by Eminem , Shakira , Beck and others .	What did "Weird Al" Yankovic say about Michael Jackson's protest?	"Weird Al" Yankovic mentioned the irony of the situation with Michael Jackson, as I had forced him to halt production on a video before.
According to a March 5 , 2009 , press release , Eminem would release two new albums that year . Relapse , the first , was released on May 19 ; its first single and music video , " We Made You " , had been released on April 7 . Although Relapse did not sell as well as Eminem ' s previous albums and received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success and re - established his presence in the hip hop world . It sold more than five million copies worldwide . During the 2009 MTV Movie Awards , Sacha Baron Cohen descended on the audience in an angel costume . He landed buttocks - first on Eminem , who stormed out of the ceremony ; three days later , Eminem said that the stunt had been staged . On October 30 he headlined at the Voodoo Experience in New Orleans , his first full performance of the year . Eminem ' s act included several songs from Relapse , many of his older hits and an appearance by D12 . On November 19 , he announced on his website that Relapse : Refill would be released on December 21 . The album was a re - release of Relapse with seven bonus tracks , including " Forever " and " Taking My Ball " . Eminem described the CD :	When was your first album, Relapse, released?	Relapse was released on May 19.
According to a March 5 , 2009 , press release , Eminem would release two new albums that year . Relapse , the first , was released on May 19 ; its first single and music video , " We Made You " , had been released on April 7 . Although Relapse did not sell as well as Eminem ' s previous albums and received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success and re - established his presence in the hip hop world . It sold more than five million copies worldwide . During the 2009 MTV Movie Awards , Sacha Baron Cohen descended on the audience in an angel costume . He landed buttocks - first on Eminem , who stormed out of the ceremony ; three days later , Eminem said that the stunt had been staged . On October 30 he headlined at the Voodoo Experience in New Orleans , his first full performance of the year . Eminem ' s act included several songs from Relapse , many of his older hits and an appearance by D12 . On November 19 , he announced on his website that Relapse : Refill would be released on December 21 . The album was a re - release of Relapse with seven bonus tracks , including " Forever " and " Taking My Ball " . Eminem described the CD :	What was your first single and music video from the album Relapse?	My first single and music video from Relapse was "We Made You".
According to a March 5 , 2009 , press release , Eminem would release two new albums that year . Relapse , the first , was released on May 19 ; its first single and music video , " We Made You " , had been released on April 7 . Although Relapse did not sell as well as Eminem ' s previous albums and received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success and re - established his presence in the hip hop world . It sold more than five million copies worldwide . During the 2009 MTV Movie Awards , Sacha Baron Cohen descended on the audience in an angel costume . He landed buttocks - first on Eminem , who stormed out of the ceremony ; three days later , Eminem said that the stunt had been staged . On October 30 he headlined at the Voodoo Experience in New Orleans , his first full performance of the year . Eminem ' s act included several songs from Relapse , many of his older hits and an appearance by D12 . On November 19 , he announced on his website that Relapse : Refill would be released on December 21 . The album was a re - release of Relapse with seven bonus tracks , including " Forever " and " Taking My Ball " . Eminem described the CD :	How did your album Relapse perform in terms of sales?	My album Relapse sold more than five million copies worldwide.
According to a March 5 , 2009 , press release , Eminem would release two new albums that year . Relapse , the first , was released on May 19 ; its first single and music video , " We Made You " , had been released on April 7 . Although Relapse did not sell as well as Eminem ' s previous albums and received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success and re - established his presence in the hip hop world . It sold more than five million copies worldwide . During the 2009 MTV Movie Awards , Sacha Baron Cohen descended on the audience in an angel costume . He landed buttocks - first on Eminem , who stormed out of the ceremony ; three days later , Eminem said that the stunt had been staged . On October 30 he headlined at the Voodoo Experience in New Orleans , his first full performance of the year . Eminem ' s act included several songs from Relapse , many of his older hits and an appearance by D12 . On November 19 , he announced on his website that Relapse : Refill would be released on December 21 . The album was a re - release of Relapse with seven bonus tracks , including " Forever " and " Taking My Ball " . Eminem described the CD :	What event caused you to storm out of the 2009 MTV Movie Awards?	I stormed out of the 2009 MTV Movie Awards after Sacha Baron Cohen landed on me in an angel costume.
According to a March 5 , 2009 , press release , Eminem would release two new albums that year . Relapse , the first , was released on May 19 ; its first single and music video , " We Made You " , had been released on April 7 . Although Relapse did not sell as well as Eminem ' s previous albums and received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success and re - established his presence in the hip hop world . It sold more than five million copies worldwide . During the 2009 MTV Movie Awards , Sacha Baron Cohen descended on the audience in an angel costume . He landed buttocks - first on Eminem , who stormed out of the ceremony ; three days later , Eminem said that the stunt had been staged . On October 30 he headlined at the Voodoo Experience in New Orleans , his first full performance of the year . Eminem ' s act included several songs from Relapse , many of his older hits and an appearance by D12 . On November 19 , he announced on his website that Relapse : Refill would be released on December 21 . The album was a re - release of Relapse with seven bonus tracks , including " Forever " and " Taking My Ball " . Eminem described the CD :	When was Relapse: Refill announced to be released?	Relapse: Refill was announced to be released on November 19.
In 2010 , Eminem again began collaborating with Royce da 5 ' 9 " on their first EP as Bad Meets Evil ; the duo formed in 1998 . The EP , Hell : The Sequel , was released on June 14 , 2011 . Eminem was featured on Royce da 5 ' 9 " ' s " Writer ' s Block " , released on April 8 , 2011 . On May 3 they released the lead single " Fast Lane " from their upcoming EP and a music video was filmed . In March 2011 , within days of each other , The Eminem Show and The Marshall Mathers LP were certified diamond by the RIAA ; Eminem is the only rapper with two diamond - certified albums . With more than 60   million " likes " he was the most - followed person on Facebook , outscoring Lady Gaga , Justin Bieber , Rihanna and Michael Jackson . Eminem was the first artist in five years with two number - one albums ( Recovery and Hell : The Sequel ) in a 12 - month period . Early in 2011 he leaked " 2.0 Boys " , on which Yelawolf and Slaughterhouse collaborated when they signed with Shady Records in January and performed it in April . Bad Meets Evil released their next single , " Lighters " , on July 6 and its music video in late August . On August 6 , Eminem performed several songs from throughout his career at Lollapalooza with the artists who had been featured on each song .	When was your EP "Hell: The Sequel" released?	My EP "Hell: The Sequel" was released on June 14, 2011.
In 2010 , Eminem again began collaborating with Royce da 5 ' 9 " on their first EP as Bad Meets Evil ; the duo formed in 1998 . The EP , Hell : The Sequel , was released on June 14 , 2011 . Eminem was featured on Royce da 5 ' 9 " ' s " Writer ' s Block " , released on April 8 , 2011 . On May 3 they released the lead single " Fast Lane " from their upcoming EP and a music video was filmed . In March 2011 , within days of each other , The Eminem Show and The Marshall Mathers LP were certified diamond by the RIAA ; Eminem is the only rapper with two diamond - certified albums . With more than 60   million " likes " he was the most - followed person on Facebook , outscoring Lady Gaga , Justin Bieber , Rihanna and Michael Jackson . Eminem was the first artist in five years with two number - one albums ( Recovery and Hell : The Sequel ) in a 12 - month period . Early in 2011 he leaked " 2.0 Boys " , on which Yelawolf and Slaughterhouse collaborated when they signed with Shady Records in January and performed it in April . Bad Meets Evil released their next single , " Lighters " , on July 6 and its music video in late August . On August 6 , Eminem performed several songs from throughout his career at Lollapalooza with the artists who had been featured on each song .	Who were you featured on "Writer's Block" with?	I was featured on "Writer's Block" with Royce da 5'9", released on April 8, 2011.
In 2010 , Eminem again began collaborating with Royce da 5 ' 9 " on their first EP as Bad Meets Evil ; the duo formed in 1998 . The EP , Hell : The Sequel , was released on June 14 , 2011 . Eminem was featured on Royce da 5 ' 9 " ' s " Writer ' s Block " , released on April 8 , 2011 . On May 3 they released the lead single " Fast Lane " from their upcoming EP and a music video was filmed . In March 2011 , within days of each other , The Eminem Show and The Marshall Mathers LP were certified diamond by the RIAA ; Eminem is the only rapper with two diamond - certified albums . With more than 60   million " likes " he was the most - followed person on Facebook , outscoring Lady Gaga , Justin Bieber , Rihanna and Michael Jackson . Eminem was the first artist in five years with two number - one albums ( Recovery and Hell : The Sequel ) in a 12 - month period . Early in 2011 he leaked " 2.0 Boys " , on which Yelawolf and Slaughterhouse collaborated when they signed with Shady Records in January and performed it in April . Bad Meets Evil released their next single , " Lighters " , on July 6 and its music video in late August . On August 6 , Eminem performed several songs from throughout his career at Lollapalooza with the artists who had been featured on each song .	Which single did you and Royce da 5'9" release from your upcoming EP?	We released the lead single "Fast Lane" from our upcoming EP.
In 2010 , Eminem again began collaborating with Royce da 5 ' 9 " on their first EP as Bad Meets Evil ; the duo formed in 1998 . The EP , Hell : The Sequel , was released on June 14 , 2011 . Eminem was featured on Royce da 5 ' 9 " ' s " Writer ' s Block " , released on April 8 , 2011 . On May 3 they released the lead single " Fast Lane " from their upcoming EP and a music video was filmed . In March 2011 , within days of each other , The Eminem Show and The Marshall Mathers LP were certified diamond by the RIAA ; Eminem is the only rapper with two diamond - certified albums . With more than 60   million " likes " he was the most - followed person on Facebook , outscoring Lady Gaga , Justin Bieber , Rihanna and Michael Jackson . Eminem was the first artist in five years with two number - one albums ( Recovery and Hell : The Sequel ) in a 12 - month period . Early in 2011 he leaked " 2.0 Boys " , on which Yelawolf and Slaughterhouse collaborated when they signed with Shady Records in January and performed it in April . Bad Meets Evil released their next single , " Lighters " , on July 6 and its music video in late August . On August 6 , Eminem performed several songs from throughout his career at Lollapalooza with the artists who had been featured on each song .	How many diamond-certified albums do you have?	I am the only rapper with two diamond-certified albums: The Eminem Show and The Marshall Mathers LP.
In 2010 , Eminem again began collaborating with Royce da 5 ' 9 " on their first EP as Bad Meets Evil ; the duo formed in 1998 . The EP , Hell : The Sequel , was released on June 14 , 2011 . Eminem was featured on Royce da 5 ' 9 " ' s " Writer ' s Block " , released on April 8 , 2011 . On May 3 they released the lead single " Fast Lane " from their upcoming EP and a music video was filmed . In March 2011 , within days of each other , The Eminem Show and The Marshall Mathers LP were certified diamond by the RIAA ; Eminem is the only rapper with two diamond - certified albums . With more than 60   million " likes " he was the most - followed person on Facebook , outscoring Lady Gaga , Justin Bieber , Rihanna and Michael Jackson . Eminem was the first artist in five years with two number - one albums ( Recovery and Hell : The Sequel ) in a 12 - month period . Early in 2011 he leaked " 2.0 Boys " , on which Yelawolf and Slaughterhouse collaborated when they signed with Shady Records in January and performed it in April . Bad Meets Evil released their next single , " Lighters " , on July 6 and its music video in late August . On August 6 , Eminem performed several songs from throughout his career at Lollapalooza with the artists who had been featured on each song .	Who did you collaborate with on the leaked track "2.0 Boys"?	I collaborated with Yelawolf and Slaughterhouse on the leaked track "2.0 Boys".
In February 2017 , Eminem appeared on " No Favors " , a track from Big Sean ' s album I Decided . In the song , Eminem calls the newly elected President Donald Trump a " bitch " and also raps about raping conservative social and political commentator Ann Coulter , who is a Trump supporter , with a variety of foreign objects . Coulter responded to the lyrics , stating , " I think it ' s unfortunate that the left , from Berkeley to Eminem with his rap songs , has normalized violence against women , as Eminem has done . " Eminem participated in the 2017 BET Hip Hop Awards ' annual cypher , using his verse , a freestyle rap called " The Storm " , to further criticize Trump and the administration for , among other things , Trump ' s focus on National Football League players ' protests during " The Star Spangled Banner " over Hurricane Maria recovery efforts and lack of gun control reform in the wake of the 2017 Las Vegas shooting . Eminem ended the cypher by giving an ultimatum saying that Trump supporters cannot be his fans . The verse received wide praise among other rappers following its release . In October 2017 , Eminem appeared on " Revenge " , a track from Pink ' s album Beautiful Trauma . It was reported that the Secret Service interviewed Eminem in 2018 – 2019 , regarding threatening lyrics towards President Trump and daughter Ivanka .	Which track did you appear on in Big Sean's album I Decided?	I appeared on the track "No Favors" in Big Sean's album I Decided.
In February 2017 , Eminem appeared on " No Favors " , a track from Big Sean ' s album I Decided . In the song , Eminem calls the newly elected President Donald Trump a " bitch " and also raps about raping conservative social and political commentator Ann Coulter , who is a Trump supporter , with a variety of foreign objects . Coulter responded to the lyrics , stating , " I think it ' s unfortunate that the left , from Berkeley to Eminem with his rap songs , has normalized violence against women , as Eminem has done . " Eminem participated in the 2017 BET Hip Hop Awards ' annual cypher , using his verse , a freestyle rap called " The Storm " , to further criticize Trump and the administration for , among other things , Trump ' s focus on National Football League players ' protests during " The Star Spangled Banner " over Hurricane Maria recovery efforts and lack of gun control reform in the wake of the 2017 Las Vegas shooting . Eminem ended the cypher by giving an ultimatum saying that Trump supporters cannot be his fans . The verse received wide praise among other rappers following its release . In October 2017 , Eminem appeared on " Revenge " , a track from Pink ' s album Beautiful Trauma . It was reported that the Secret Service interviewed Eminem in 2018 – 2019 , regarding threatening lyrics towards President Trump and daughter Ivanka .	What derogatory term did you use to refer to President Donald Trump in the song?	I called President Donald Trump a "bitch" in the song.
In February 2017 , Eminem appeared on " No Favors " , a track from Big Sean ' s album I Decided . In the song , Eminem calls the newly elected President Donald Trump a " bitch " and also raps about raping conservative social and political commentator Ann Coulter , who is a Trump supporter , with a variety of foreign objects . Coulter responded to the lyrics , stating , " I think it ' s unfortunate that the left , from Berkeley to Eminem with his rap songs , has normalized violence against women , as Eminem has done . " Eminem participated in the 2017 BET Hip Hop Awards ' annual cypher , using his verse , a freestyle rap called " The Storm " , to further criticize Trump and the administration for , among other things , Trump ' s focus on National Football League players ' protests during " The Star Spangled Banner " over Hurricane Maria recovery efforts and lack of gun control reform in the wake of the 2017 Las Vegas shooting . Eminem ended the cypher by giving an ultimatum saying that Trump supporters cannot be his fans . The verse received wide praise among other rappers following its release . In October 2017 , Eminem appeared on " Revenge " , a track from Pink ' s album Beautiful Trauma . It was reported that the Secret Service interviewed Eminem in 2018 – 2019 , regarding threatening lyrics towards President Trump and daughter Ivanka .	Who did you rap about raping in the song?	I rapped about raping conservative social and political commentator Ann Coulter in the song.
In February 2017 , Eminem appeared on " No Favors " , a track from Big Sean ' s album I Decided . In the song , Eminem calls the newly elected President Donald Trump a " bitch " and also raps about raping conservative social and political commentator Ann Coulter , who is a Trump supporter , with a variety of foreign objects . Coulter responded to the lyrics , stating , " I think it ' s unfortunate that the left , from Berkeley to Eminem with his rap songs , has normalized violence against women , as Eminem has done . " Eminem participated in the 2017 BET Hip Hop Awards ' annual cypher , using his verse , a freestyle rap called " The Storm " , to further criticize Trump and the administration for , among other things , Trump ' s focus on National Football League players ' protests during " The Star Spangled Banner " over Hurricane Maria recovery efforts and lack of gun control reform in the wake of the 2017 Las Vegas shooting . Eminem ended the cypher by giving an ultimatum saying that Trump supporters cannot be his fans . The verse received wide praise among other rappers following its release . In October 2017 , Eminem appeared on " Revenge " , a track from Pink ' s album Beautiful Trauma . It was reported that the Secret Service interviewed Eminem in 2018 – 2019 , regarding threatening lyrics towards President Trump and daughter Ivanka .	How did you respond to the lyrics?	I stated that I think it is unfortunate that the left, from Berkeley to Eminem with his rap songs, has normalized violence against women, as Eminem has done.
In February 2017 , Eminem appeared on " No Favors " , a track from Big Sean ' s album I Decided . In the song , Eminem calls the newly elected President Donald Trump a " bitch " and also raps about raping conservative social and political commentator Ann Coulter , who is a Trump supporter , with a variety of foreign objects . Coulter responded to the lyrics , stating , " I think it ' s unfortunate that the left , from Berkeley to Eminem with his rap songs , has normalized violence against women , as Eminem has done . " Eminem participated in the 2017 BET Hip Hop Awards ' annual cypher , using his verse , a freestyle rap called " The Storm " , to further criticize Trump and the administration for , among other things , Trump ' s focus on National Football League players ' protests during " The Star Spangled Banner " over Hurricane Maria recovery efforts and lack of gun control reform in the wake of the 2017 Las Vegas shooting . Eminem ended the cypher by giving an ultimatum saying that Trump supporters cannot be his fans . The verse received wide praise among other rappers following its release . In October 2017 , Eminem appeared on " Revenge " , a track from Pink ' s album Beautiful Trauma . It was reported that the Secret Service interviewed Eminem in 2018 – 2019 , regarding threatening lyrics towards President Trump and daughter Ivanka .	What event did you participate in where you criticized Trump and his administration?	I participated in the 2017 BET Hip Hop Awards' annual cypher where I criticized Trump and his administration.
Starting in late October 2017 , Eminem and Paul Rosenberg began teasing what fans speculated was the title of a new album titled Revival , in the form of advertisements for a fake medication of the same name . Later in November , the first single " Walk on Water " was released , which featured Beyonc é . The song was first performed , by Eminem , at the 2017 MTV Europe Music Awards on November 12 , featuring Skylar Grey . He appeared on Saturday Night Live on November 18 , performing " Walk on Water " , " Stan " and " Love the Way You Lie " with Skylar Grey . On November 28 , Dr . Dre posted a video confirming the album ' s release date as December 15 , 2017 . On December 8 , Eminem released a promotional single titled " Untouchable " , which featured a sample from the duo Cheech & Chong . Despite an online leak of the album two days prior , Revival was released as planned on December 15 . On January 5 , 2018 , the second single " River " was released , which featured Ed Sheeran . It became Eminem ' s eighth consecutive album to top the US Billboard 200 upon release with 197 , 000 copies sold in its first week . As a result , he became the first musical act to have eight entries in a row debut atop the chart . The album was met with mixed reviews from music critics and is generally considered his worst album . In 2018 , an extended edition of " Nowhere Fast " with Kehlani and a remix of " Chloraseptic " featuring 2 Chainz and Phresher were released from Revival .	When did you and Paul Rosenberg start teasing the new album?	Starting in late October 2017.
Starting in late October 2017 , Eminem and Paul Rosenberg began teasing what fans speculated was the title of a new album titled Revival , in the form of advertisements for a fake medication of the same name . Later in November , the first single " Walk on Water " was released , which featured Beyonc é . The song was first performed , by Eminem , at the 2017 MTV Europe Music Awards on November 12 , featuring Skylar Grey . He appeared on Saturday Night Live on November 18 , performing " Walk on Water " , " Stan " and " Love the Way You Lie " with Skylar Grey . On November 28 , Dr . Dre posted a video confirming the album ' s release date as December 15 , 2017 . On December 8 , Eminem released a promotional single titled " Untouchable " , which featured a sample from the duo Cheech & Chong . Despite an online leak of the album two days prior , Revival was released as planned on December 15 . On January 5 , 2018 , the second single " River " was released , which featured Ed Sheeran . It became Eminem ' s eighth consecutive album to top the US Billboard 200 upon release with 197 , 000 copies sold in its first week . As a result , he became the first musical act to have eight entries in a row debut atop the chart . The album was met with mixed reviews from music critics and is generally considered his worst album . In 2018 , an extended edition of " Nowhere Fast " with Kehlani and a remix of " Chloraseptic " featuring 2 Chainz and Phresher were released from Revival .	What song was released as your first single?	"Walk on Water".
Starting in late October 2017 , Eminem and Paul Rosenberg began teasing what fans speculated was the title of a new album titled Revival , in the form of advertisements for a fake medication of the same name . Later in November , the first single " Walk on Water " was released , which featured Beyonc é . The song was first performed , by Eminem , at the 2017 MTV Europe Music Awards on November 12 , featuring Skylar Grey . He appeared on Saturday Night Live on November 18 , performing " Walk on Water " , " Stan " and " Love the Way You Lie " with Skylar Grey . On November 28 , Dr . Dre posted a video confirming the album ' s release date as December 15 , 2017 . On December 8 , Eminem released a promotional single titled " Untouchable " , which featured a sample from the duo Cheech & Chong . Despite an online leak of the album two days prior , Revival was released as planned on December 15 . On January 5 , 2018 , the second single " River " was released , which featured Ed Sheeran . It became Eminem ' s eighth consecutive album to top the US Billboard 200 upon release with 197 , 000 copies sold in its first week . As a result , he became the first musical act to have eight entries in a row debut atop the chart . The album was met with mixed reviews from music critics and is generally considered his worst album . In 2018 , an extended edition of " Nowhere Fast " with Kehlani and a remix of " Chloraseptic " featuring 2 Chainz and Phresher were released from Revival .	When did you first perform the song "Walk on Water"?	At the 2017 MTV Europe Music Awards on November 12.
Starting in late October 2017 , Eminem and Paul Rosenberg began teasing what fans speculated was the title of a new album titled Revival , in the form of advertisements for a fake medication of the same name . Later in November , the first single " Walk on Water " was released , which featured Beyonc é . The song was first performed , by Eminem , at the 2017 MTV Europe Music Awards on November 12 , featuring Skylar Grey . He appeared on Saturday Night Live on November 18 , performing " Walk on Water " , " Stan " and " Love the Way You Lie " with Skylar Grey . On November 28 , Dr . Dre posted a video confirming the album ' s release date as December 15 , 2017 . On December 8 , Eminem released a promotional single titled " Untouchable " , which featured a sample from the duo Cheech & Chong . Despite an online leak of the album two days prior , Revival was released as planned on December 15 . On January 5 , 2018 , the second single " River " was released , which featured Ed Sheeran . It became Eminem ' s eighth consecutive album to top the US Billboard 200 upon release with 197 , 000 copies sold in its first week . As a result , he became the first musical act to have eight entries in a row debut atop the chart . The album was met with mixed reviews from music critics and is generally considered his worst album . In 2018 , an extended edition of " Nowhere Fast " with Kehlani and a remix of " Chloraseptic " featuring 2 Chainz and Phresher were released from Revival .	When was your album "Revival" released?	On December 15, 2017.
Starting in late October 2017 , Eminem and Paul Rosenberg began teasing what fans speculated was the title of a new album titled Revival , in the form of advertisements for a fake medication of the same name . Later in November , the first single " Walk on Water " was released , which featured Beyonc é . The song was first performed , by Eminem , at the 2017 MTV Europe Music Awards on November 12 , featuring Skylar Grey . He appeared on Saturday Night Live on November 18 , performing " Walk on Water " , " Stan " and " Love the Way You Lie " with Skylar Grey . On November 28 , Dr . Dre posted a video confirming the album ' s release date as December 15 , 2017 . On December 8 , Eminem released a promotional single titled " Untouchable " , which featured a sample from the duo Cheech & Chong . Despite an online leak of the album two days prior , Revival was released as planned on December 15 . On January 5 , 2018 , the second single " River " was released , which featured Ed Sheeran . It became Eminem ' s eighth consecutive album to top the US Billboard 200 upon release with 197 , 000 copies sold in its first week . As a result , he became the first musical act to have eight entries in a row debut atop the chart . The album was met with mixed reviews from music critics and is generally considered his worst album . In 2018 , an extended edition of " Nowhere Fast " with Kehlani and a remix of " Chloraseptic " featuring 2 Chainz and Phresher were released from Revival .	How many copies of your album "Revival" were sold in its first week?	197,000 copies.
Although Eminem usually collaborates with Aftermath Entertainment and Shady Records rappers such as Dr . Dre , 50 Cent , D12 , Obie Trice and Yelawolf , he has also worked with Redman , Kid Rock , DMX , Lil Wayne , Missy Elliott , Jay Z , Drake , Rihanna , Nas , Nicki Minaj , Xzibit , Method Man , Jadakiss , Fat Joe , Sticky Fingaz , T . I . and Young Jeezy . Eminem rapped a verse in a live performance of Busta Rhymes ' " Touch It " remix at the 2006 BET Music Awards . He appeared on Akon ' s single " Smack That " from Konvicted , Lil Wayne ' s hit " Drop the World " and " My Life " ( the lead single from 50 Cent ' s Street King Immortal ) .	Who are some rappers you usually collaborate with?	With Aftermath Entertainment and Shady Records rappers such as Dr. Dre, 50 Cent, D12, Obie Trice, and Yelawolf.
Although Eminem usually collaborates with Aftermath Entertainment and Shady Records rappers such as Dr . Dre , 50 Cent , D12 , Obie Trice and Yelawolf , he has also worked with Redman , Kid Rock , DMX , Lil Wayne , Missy Elliott , Jay Z , Drake , Rihanna , Nas , Nicki Minaj , Xzibit , Method Man , Jadakiss , Fat Joe , Sticky Fingaz , T . I . and Young Jeezy . Eminem rapped a verse in a live performance of Busta Rhymes ' " Touch It " remix at the 2006 BET Music Awards . He appeared on Akon ' s single " Smack That " from Konvicted , Lil Wayne ' s hit " Drop the World " and " My Life " ( the lead single from 50 Cent ' s Street King Immortal ) .	Apart from Aftermath Entertainment and Shady Records rappers, who are some other artists you have worked with?	I have worked with Redman, Kid Rock, DMX, Lil Wayne, Missy Elliott, Jay Z, Drake, Rihanna, Nas, Nicki Minaj, Xzibit, Method Man, Jadakiss, Fat Joe, Sticky Fingaz, T.I., and Young Jeezy.
Although Eminem usually collaborates with Aftermath Entertainment and Shady Records rappers such as Dr . Dre , 50 Cent , D12 , Obie Trice and Yelawolf , he has also worked with Redman , Kid Rock , DMX , Lil Wayne , Missy Elliott , Jay Z , Drake , Rihanna , Nas , Nicki Minaj , Xzibit , Method Man , Jadakiss , Fat Joe , Sticky Fingaz , T . I . and Young Jeezy . Eminem rapped a verse in a live performance of Busta Rhymes ' " Touch It " remix at the 2006 BET Music Awards . He appeared on Akon ' s single " Smack That " from Konvicted , Lil Wayne ' s hit " Drop the World " and " My Life " ( the lead single from 50 Cent ' s Street King Immortal ) .	Can I give an example of a live performance where you rapped a verse?	I rapped a verse in a live performance of Busta Rhymes' "Touch It" remix at the 2006 BET Music Awards.
Although Eminem usually collaborates with Aftermath Entertainment and Shady Records rappers such as Dr . Dre , 50 Cent , D12 , Obie Trice and Yelawolf , he has also worked with Redman , Kid Rock , DMX , Lil Wayne , Missy Elliott , Jay Z , Drake , Rihanna , Nas , Nicki Minaj , Xzibit , Method Man , Jadakiss , Fat Joe , Sticky Fingaz , T . I . and Young Jeezy . Eminem rapped a verse in a live performance of Busta Rhymes ' " Touch It " remix at the 2006 BET Music Awards . He appeared on Akon ' s single " Smack That " from Konvicted , Lil Wayne ' s hit " Drop the World " and " My Life " ( the lead single from 50 Cent ' s Street King Immortal ) .	Which songs did you appear on by Akon and Lil Wayne?	I appeared on Akon's single "Smack That" from Konvicted, Lil Wayne's hit "Drop the World" and "My Life" (the lead single from 50 Cent's Street King Immortal).
Although Eminem usually collaborates with Aftermath Entertainment and Shady Records rappers such as Dr . Dre , 50 Cent , D12 , Obie Trice and Yelawolf , he has also worked with Redman , Kid Rock , DMX , Lil Wayne , Missy Elliott , Jay Z , Drake , Rihanna , Nas , Nicki Minaj , Xzibit , Method Man , Jadakiss , Fat Joe , Sticky Fingaz , T . I . and Young Jeezy . Eminem rapped a verse in a live performance of Busta Rhymes ' " Touch It " remix at the 2006 BET Music Awards . He appeared on Akon ' s single " Smack That " from Konvicted , Lil Wayne ' s hit " Drop the World " and " My Life " ( the lead single from 50 Cent ' s Street King Immortal ) .	What event did you appear at and perform alongside 50 Cent during the live performance of "Touch It" remix?	I appeared and performed alongside 50 Cent at the 2006 BET Music Awards during the live performance of Busta Rhymes' "Touch It" remix.
On December 5 , 2006 , the compilation album Eminem Presents : The Re - Up was released on Shady Records . The project began as a mixtape , but when Eminem found the material better than expected he released it as an album . The Re - Up was intended to introduce Stat Quo , Cashis and Bobby Creekwater . While he was recording Infinite , Eminem , Proof and Kon Artis assembled a group of fellow rappers now known as D12 , short for " Detroit Twelve " or " Dirty Dozen " , who performed in a style similar to Wu - Tang Clan . In 2001 D12 ' s debut album , Devil ' s Night , was released . The first single from the album was " Shit on You " , followed by " Purple Pills " ( an ode to recreational drug use ) and " Fight Music " . " Purple Pills " was rewritten for radio and television , removing many of the song ' s references to drugs and sex and renamed " Purple Hills " .	When was the compilation album You Present: The Re-Up released?	On December 5, 2006.
On December 5 , 2006 , the compilation album Eminem Presents : The Re - Up was released on Shady Records . The project began as a mixtape , but when Eminem found the material better than expected he released it as an album . The Re - Up was intended to introduce Stat Quo , Cashis and Bobby Creekwater . While he was recording Infinite , Eminem , Proof and Kon Artis assembled a group of fellow rappers now known as D12 , short for " Detroit Twelve " or " Dirty Dozen " , who performed in a style similar to Wu - Tang Clan . In 2001 D12 ' s debut album , Devil ' s Night , was released . The first single from the album was " Shit on You " , followed by " Purple Pills " ( an ode to recreational drug use ) and " Fight Music " . " Purple Pills " was rewritten for radio and television , removing many of the song ' s references to drugs and sex and renamed " Purple Hills " .	What was your original intention for the project that resulted in The Re-Up?	It started as a mixtape.
On December 5 , 2006 , the compilation album Eminem Presents : The Re - Up was released on Shady Records . The project began as a mixtape , but when Eminem found the material better than expected he released it as an album . The Re - Up was intended to introduce Stat Quo , Cashis and Bobby Creekwater . While he was recording Infinite , Eminem , Proof and Kon Artis assembled a group of fellow rappers now known as D12 , short for " Detroit Twelve " or " Dirty Dozen " , who performed in a style similar to Wu - Tang Clan . In 2001 D12 ' s debut album , Devil ' s Night , was released . The first single from the album was " Shit on You " , followed by " Purple Pills " ( an ode to recreational drug use ) and " Fight Music " . " Purple Pills " was rewritten for radio and television , removing many of the song ' s references to drugs and sex and renamed " Purple Hills " .	Why did you decide to release The Re-Up as an album instead of a mixtape?	Because I found the material better than expected.
On December 5 , 2006 , the compilation album Eminem Presents : The Re - Up was released on Shady Records . The project began as a mixtape , but when Eminem found the material better than expected he released it as an album . The Re - Up was intended to introduce Stat Quo , Cashis and Bobby Creekwater . While he was recording Infinite , Eminem , Proof and Kon Artis assembled a group of fellow rappers now known as D12 , short for " Detroit Twelve " or " Dirty Dozen " , who performed in a style similar to Wu - Tang Clan . In 2001 D12 ' s debut album , Devil ' s Night , was released . The first single from the album was " Shit on You " , followed by " Purple Pills " ( an ode to recreational drug use ) and " Fight Music " . " Purple Pills " was rewritten for radio and television , removing many of the song ' s references to drugs and sex and renamed " Purple Hills " .	Who were the artists intended to be introduced through The Re-Up?	Stat Quo, Cashis, and Bobby Creekwater.
On December 5 , 2006 , the compilation album Eminem Presents : The Re - Up was released on Shady Records . The project began as a mixtape , but when Eminem found the material better than expected he released it as an album . The Re - Up was intended to introduce Stat Quo , Cashis and Bobby Creekwater . While he was recording Infinite , Eminem , Proof and Kon Artis assembled a group of fellow rappers now known as D12 , short for " Detroit Twelve " or " Dirty Dozen " , who performed in a style similar to Wu - Tang Clan . In 2001 D12 ' s debut album , Devil ' s Night , was released . The first single from the album was " Shit on You " , followed by " Purple Pills " ( an ode to recreational drug use ) and " Fight Music " . " Purple Pills " was rewritten for radio and television , removing many of the song ' s references to drugs and sex and renamed " Purple Hills " .	What is the significance of the group D12?	I formed it with Proof, and Kon Artis during the recording of Infinite.
Eminem & D12 responded with " Quitter " , the second half of which is a take off on 2Pac ' s " Hit ' Em Up " ( a diss song aimed at The Notorious B . I . G . ) . The track ends with the spoken words , " Fuck him , that ' s it , I ' m done , I promise , I ' m done , that ' s it . " It was reported that long - time friends of Eminem , Limp Bizkit , were meant to be featured on the song , but Fred Durst canceled at the last moment . The record continued its release without featuring Limp Bizkit , causing the Everlast - Mathers dispute to continue . In a TRL interview , Limp Bizkit member , DJ Lethal , made a statement that if Mathers and Everlast were to fight in real life , Everlast would win . This would lead to an insulting track aimed at both Everlast and Limp Bizkit ( namely Durst and Lethal ) appearing on D12 ' s mainstream debut , Devil ' s Night , as the track " Girls " . Recently , things seem to have settled and Eminem has no longer been heard insulting Everlast or Limp Bizkit . It is currently unknown if the dispute is resolved .	Who did you and D12 respond to with the song "Quitter"?	I and D12 responded to someone with the song "Quitter".
Eminem & D12 responded with " Quitter " , the second half of which is a take off on 2Pac ' s " Hit ' Em Up " ( a diss song aimed at The Notorious B . I . G . ) . The track ends with the spoken words , " Fuck him , that ' s it , I ' m done , I promise , I ' m done , that ' s it . " It was reported that long - time friends of Eminem , Limp Bizkit , were meant to be featured on the song , but Fred Durst canceled at the last moment . The record continued its release without featuring Limp Bizkit , causing the Everlast - Mathers dispute to continue . In a TRL interview , Limp Bizkit member , DJ Lethal , made a statement that if Mathers and Everlast were to fight in real life , Everlast would win . This would lead to an insulting track aimed at both Everlast and Limp Bizkit ( namely Durst and Lethal ) appearing on D12 ' s mainstream debut , Devil ' s Night , as the track " Girls " . Recently , things seem to have settled and Eminem has no longer been heard insulting Everlast or Limp Bizkit . It is currently unknown if the dispute is resolved .	Which song served as an inspiration for the second half of your "Quitter"?	The second half of my "Quitter" is a take off on 2Pac's "Hit 'Em Up".
Eminem & D12 responded with " Quitter " , the second half of which is a take off on 2Pac ' s " Hit ' Em Up " ( a diss song aimed at The Notorious B . I . G . ) . The track ends with the spoken words , " Fuck him , that ' s it , I ' m done , I promise , I ' m done , that ' s it . " It was reported that long - time friends of Eminem , Limp Bizkit , were meant to be featured on the song , but Fred Durst canceled at the last moment . The record continued its release without featuring Limp Bizkit , causing the Everlast - Mathers dispute to continue . In a TRL interview , Limp Bizkit member , DJ Lethal , made a statement that if Mathers and Everlast were to fight in real life , Everlast would win . This would lead to an insulting track aimed at both Everlast and Limp Bizkit ( namely Durst and Lethal ) appearing on D12 ' s mainstream debut , Devil ' s Night , as the track " Girls " . Recently , things seem to have settled and Eminem has no longer been heard insulting Everlast or Limp Bizkit . It is currently unknown if the dispute is resolved .	What were the spoken words at the end of the track?	The spoken words at the end of the track were "Fuck him, that's it, I'm done, I promise, I'm done, that's it."
Eminem & D12 responded with " Quitter " , the second half of which is a take off on 2Pac ' s " Hit ' Em Up " ( a diss song aimed at The Notorious B . I . G . ) . The track ends with the spoken words , " Fuck him , that ' s it , I ' m done , I promise , I ' m done , that ' s it . " It was reported that long - time friends of Eminem , Limp Bizkit , were meant to be featured on the song , but Fred Durst canceled at the last moment . The record continued its release without featuring Limp Bizkit , causing the Everlast - Mathers dispute to continue . In a TRL interview , Limp Bizkit member , DJ Lethal , made a statement that if Mathers and Everlast were to fight in real life , Everlast would win . This would lead to an insulting track aimed at both Everlast and Limp Bizkit ( namely Durst and Lethal ) appearing on D12 ' s mainstream debut , Devil ' s Night , as the track " Girls " . Recently , things seem to have settled and Eminem has no longer been heard insulting Everlast or Limp Bizkit . It is currently unknown if the dispute is resolved .	Who were supposed to be featured on the song but canceled at the last moment?	Limp Bizkit was supposed to be featured on the song but Fred Durst canceled at the last moment.
Eminem & D12 responded with " Quitter " , the second half of which is a take off on 2Pac ' s " Hit ' Em Up " ( a diss song aimed at The Notorious B . I . G . ) . The track ends with the spoken words , " Fuck him , that ' s it , I ' m done , I promise , I ' m done , that ' s it . " It was reported that long - time friends of Eminem , Limp Bizkit , were meant to be featured on the song , but Fred Durst canceled at the last moment . The record continued its release without featuring Limp Bizkit , causing the Everlast - Mathers dispute to continue . In a TRL interview , Limp Bizkit member , DJ Lethal , made a statement that if Mathers and Everlast were to fight in real life , Everlast would win . This would lead to an insulting track aimed at both Everlast and Limp Bizkit ( namely Durst and Lethal ) appearing on D12 ' s mainstream debut , Devil ' s Night , as the track " Girls " . Recently , things seem to have settled and Eminem has no longer been heard insulting Everlast or Limp Bizkit . It is currently unknown if the dispute is resolved .	On which album did the insulting track aimed at Everlast and Limp Bizkit appear?	The insulting track aimed at Everlast and Limp Bizkit appeared on D12's mainstream debut, Devil's Night.
Regarding his rehearsal with Eminem for the " Stan " duet at the 2001 Grammy Awards , English singer Elton John said , " [ When ] Eminem made his entrance , I got goose bumps , the likes of which I have not felt since I first saw Jimi Hendrix , Mick Jagger , James Brown and Aretha Franklin . Eminem was that good . I just thought , ' Fuck , this man is amazing . ' There are very few performers who can grab you like that the first time — only the greats . " John further praised Eminem , saying , " Eminem is a true poet of his time , someone we ' ll be talking about for decades to come . He tells stories in such a powerful and distinctive way . As a lyricist , he ' s one of the best ever . Eminem does for his audience what [ Bob ] Dylan did for his : He writes how he feels . His anger , vulnerability and humor come out . "	Who did you have a rehearsal with for the "Stan" duet at the 2001 Grammy Awards?	I had a rehearsal with Elton John for the "Stan" duet at the 2001 Grammy Awards.
Regarding his rehearsal with Eminem for the " Stan " duet at the 2001 Grammy Awards , English singer Elton John said , " [ When ] Eminem made his entrance , I got goose bumps , the likes of which I have not felt since I first saw Jimi Hendrix , Mick Jagger , James Brown and Aretha Franklin . Eminem was that good . I just thought , ' Fuck , this man is amazing . ' There are very few performers who can grab you like that the first time — only the greats . " John further praised Eminem , saying , " Eminem is a true poet of his time , someone we ' ll be talking about for decades to come . He tells stories in such a powerful and distinctive way . As a lyricist , he ' s one of the best ever . Eminem does for his audience what [ Bob ] Dylan did for his : He writes how he feels . His anger , vulnerability and humor come out . "	How did you feel when I made my entrance?	I got goose bumps when you made your entrance.
Regarding his rehearsal with Eminem for the " Stan " duet at the 2001 Grammy Awards , English singer Elton John said , " [ When ] Eminem made his entrance , I got goose bumps , the likes of which I have not felt since I first saw Jimi Hendrix , Mick Jagger , James Brown and Aretha Franklin . Eminem was that good . I just thought , ' Fuck , this man is amazing . ' There are very few performers who can grab you like that the first time — only the greats . " John further praised Eminem , saying , " Eminem is a true poet of his time , someone we ' ll be talking about for decades to come . He tells stories in such a powerful and distinctive way . As a lyricist , he ' s one of the best ever . Eminem does for his audience what [ Bob ] Dylan did for his : He writes how he feels . His anger , vulnerability and humor come out . "	Who are some of the performers that you mentioned besides me?	I mentioned Jimi Hendrix, Mick Jagger, James Brown, and Aretha Franklin.
Regarding his rehearsal with Eminem for the " Stan " duet at the 2001 Grammy Awards , English singer Elton John said , " [ When ] Eminem made his entrance , I got goose bumps , the likes of which I have not felt since I first saw Jimi Hendrix , Mick Jagger , James Brown and Aretha Franklin . Eminem was that good . I just thought , ' Fuck , this man is amazing . ' There are very few performers who can grab you like that the first time — only the greats . " John further praised Eminem , saying , " Eminem is a true poet of his time , someone we ' ll be talking about for decades to come . He tells stories in such a powerful and distinctive way . As a lyricist , he ' s one of the best ever . Eminem does for his audience what [ Bob ] Dylan did for his : He writes how he feels . His anger , vulnerability and humor come out . "	What did you think of my performance?	I thought you were amazing and considered you one of the great performers.
Regarding his rehearsal with Eminem for the " Stan " duet at the 2001 Grammy Awards , English singer Elton John said , " [ When ] Eminem made his entrance , I got goose bumps , the likes of which I have not felt since I first saw Jimi Hendrix , Mick Jagger , James Brown and Aretha Franklin . Eminem was that good . I just thought , ' Fuck , this man is amazing . ' There are very few performers who can grab you like that the first time — only the greats . " John further praised Eminem , saying , " Eminem is a true poet of his time , someone we ' ll be talking about for decades to come . He tells stories in such a powerful and distinctive way . As a lyricist , he ' s one of the best ever . Eminem does for his audience what [ Bob ] Dylan did for his : He writes how he feels . His anger , vulnerability and humor come out . "	How did you describe me as a lyricist?	I described you as one of the best ever lyricists who tells stories in a powerful and distinctive way, similar to what Bob Dylan did for his audience.
