Freddie Mercury (born Farrokh Bulsara; 5 September 1946 – 24 November 1991) was a British singer and songwriter, who achieved worldwide fame as the lead vocalist of the rock band Queen. Regarded as one of the greatest singers in the history of rock music, he was known for his flamboyant stage persona and four-octave vocal range. Mercury defied the conventions of a rock frontman with his theatrical style, influencing the artistic direction of Queen.	When were you born?	I was born on 5 September 1946.
Freddie Mercury (born Farrokh Bulsara; 5 September 1946 – 24 November 1991) was a British singer and songwriter, who achieved worldwide fame as the lead vocalist of the rock band Queen. Regarded as one of the greatest singers in the history of rock music, he was known for his flamboyant stage persona and four-octave vocal range. Mercury defied the conventions of a rock frontman with his theatrical style, influencing the artistic direction of Queen.	What nationality are you?	I am British.
Freddie Mercury (born Farrokh Bulsara; 5 September 1946 – 24 November 1991) was a British singer and songwriter, who achieved worldwide fame as the lead vocalist of the rock band Queen. Regarded as one of the greatest singers in the history of rock music, he was known for his flamboyant stage persona and four-octave vocal range. Mercury defied the conventions of a rock frontman with his theatrical style, influencing the artistic direction of Queen.	In which band were you the lead vocalist?	I was the lead vocalist of the rock band Queen.
Freddie Mercury (born Farrokh Bulsara; 5 September 1946 – 24 November 1991) was a British singer and songwriter, who achieved worldwide fame as the lead vocalist of the rock band Queen. Regarded as one of the greatest singers in the history of rock music, he was known for his flamboyant stage persona and four-octave vocal range. Mercury defied the conventions of a rock frontman with his theatrical style, influencing the artistic direction of Queen.	What are you known for?	I am known for my flamboyant stage persona and four-octave vocal range.
Freddie Mercury (born Farrokh Bulsara; 5 September 1946 – 24 November 1991) was a British singer and songwriter, who achieved worldwide fame as the lead vocalist of the rock band Queen. Regarded as one of the greatest singers in the history of rock music, he was known for his flamboyant stage persona and four-octave vocal range. Mercury defied the conventions of a rock frontman with his theatrical style, influencing the artistic direction of Queen.	How did you influence Queen?	I influenced the artistic direction of Queen with my theatrical style.
Born in 1946 in Zanzibar to Parsi-Indian parents, Mercury attended English-style boarding schools in India from the age of eight and returned to Zanzibar after secondary school. In 1964, his family fled the Zanzibar Revolution, moving to Middlesex, England. Having studied and written music for years, he formed Queen in 1970 with guitarist Brian May and drummer Roger Taylor. Mercury wrote numerous hits for Queen, including "Killer Queen", "Bohemian Rhapsody", "Somebody to Love", "We Are the Champions", "Don't Stop Me Now" and "Crazy Little Thing Called Love". His charismatic stage performances often saw him interact with the audience, as displayed at the 1985 Live Aid concert. He also led a solo career and was a producer and guest musician for other artists.	When and where were you born?	I was born in 1946 in Zanzibar.
Born in 1946 in Zanzibar to Parsi-Indian parents, Mercury attended English-style boarding schools in India from the age of eight and returned to Zanzibar after secondary school. In 1964, his family fled the Zanzibar Revolution, moving to Middlesex, England. Having studied and written music for years, he formed Queen in 1970 with guitarist Brian May and drummer Roger Taylor. Mercury wrote numerous hits for Queen, including "Killer Queen", "Bohemian Rhapsody", "Somebody to Love", "We Are the Champions", "Don't Stop Me Now" and "Crazy Little Thing Called Love". His charismatic stage performances often saw him interact with the audience, as displayed at the 1985 Live Aid concert. He also led a solo career and was a producer and guest musician for other artists.	Where did you attend boarding schools?	I attended English-style boarding schools in India.
Born in 1946 in Zanzibar to Parsi-Indian parents, Mercury attended English-style boarding schools in India from the age of eight and returned to Zanzibar after secondary school. In 1964, his family fled the Zanzibar Revolution, moving to Middlesex, England. Having studied and written music for years, he formed Queen in 1970 with guitarist Brian May and drummer Roger Taylor. Mercury wrote numerous hits for Queen, including "Killer Queen", "Bohemian Rhapsody", "Somebody to Love", "We Are the Champions", "Don't Stop Me Now" and "Crazy Little Thing Called Love". His charismatic stage performances often saw him interact with the audience, as displayed at the 1985 Live Aid concert. He also led a solo career and was a producer and guest musician for other artists.	Where did your family move to after the Zanzibar Revolution?	After the Zanzibar Revolution, my family moved to Middlesex, England.
Born in 1946 in Zanzibar to Parsi-Indian parents, Mercury attended English-style boarding schools in India from the age of eight and returned to Zanzibar after secondary school. In 1964, his family fled the Zanzibar Revolution, moving to Middlesex, England. Having studied and written music for years, he formed Queen in 1970 with guitarist Brian May and drummer Roger Taylor. Mercury wrote numerous hits for Queen, including "Killer Queen", "Bohemian Rhapsody", "Somebody to Love", "We Are the Champions", "Don't Stop Me Now" and "Crazy Little Thing Called Love". His charismatic stage performances often saw him interact with the audience, as displayed at the 1985 Live Aid concert. He also led a solo career and was a producer and guest musician for other artists.	Who did you form Queen with?	I formed Queen with guitarist Brian May and drummer Roger Taylor.
Born in 1946 in Zanzibar to Parsi-Indian parents, Mercury attended English-style boarding schools in India from the age of eight and returned to Zanzibar after secondary school. In 1964, his family fled the Zanzibar Revolution, moving to Middlesex, England. Having studied and written music for years, he formed Queen in 1970 with guitarist Brian May and drummer Roger Taylor. Mercury wrote numerous hits for Queen, including "Killer Queen", "Bohemian Rhapsody", "Somebody to Love", "We Are the Champions", "Don't Stop Me Now" and "Crazy Little Thing Called Love". His charismatic stage performances often saw him interact with the audience, as displayed at the 1985 Live Aid concert. He also led a solo career and was a producer and guest musician for other artists.	What are some of the hits that you wrote for Queen?	Some hits that I wrote for Queen include "Killer Queen", "Bohemian Rhapsody", "Somebody to Love", "We Are the Champions", "Don't Stop Me Now", and "Crazy Little Thing Called Love".
Mercury was diagnosed with AIDS in 1987. He continued to record with Queen, and posthumously featured on their final album, Made in Heaven (1995). In 1991, the day after announcing his diagnosis, he died from complications of the disease,  at the age of 45. In 1992, a concert in tribute to him was held at Wembley Stadium, in benefit of AIDS awareness. His career with Queen was dramatised in the 2018 biopic Bohemian Rhapsody.	When did you announce your diagnosis?	I announced my diagnosis in 1991.
Mercury was diagnosed with AIDS in 1987. He continued to record with Queen, and posthumously featured on their final album, Made in Heaven (1995). In 1991, the day after announcing his diagnosis, he died from complications of the disease,  at the age of 45. In 1992, a concert in tribute to him was held at Wembley Stadium, in benefit of AIDS awareness. His career with Queen was dramatised in the 2018 biopic Bohemian Rhapsody.	What was the cause of your death?	I died from complications of AIDS.
Mercury was diagnosed with AIDS in 1987. He continued to record with Queen, and posthumously featured on their final album, Made in Heaven (1995). In 1991, the day after announcing his diagnosis, he died from complications of the disease,  at the age of 45. In 1992, a concert in tribute to him was held at Wembley Stadium, in benefit of AIDS awareness. His career with Queen was dramatised in the 2018 biopic Bohemian Rhapsody.	How old were you when you passed away?	I was 45 years old when I passed away.
Mercury was diagnosed with AIDS in 1987. He continued to record with Queen, and posthumously featured on their final album, Made in Heaven (1995). In 1991, the day after announcing his diagnosis, he died from complications of the disease,  at the age of 45. In 1992, a concert in tribute to him was held at Wembley Stadium, in benefit of AIDS awareness. His career with Queen was dramatised in the 2018 biopic Bohemian Rhapsody.	When was the concert in tribute to you held?	The concert in tribute to me was held in 1992.
Mercury was diagnosed with AIDS in 1987. He continued to record with Queen, and posthumously featured on their final album, Made in Heaven (1995). In 1991, the day after announcing his diagnosis, he died from complications of the disease,  at the age of 45. In 1992, a concert in tribute to him was held at Wembley Stadium, in benefit of AIDS awareness. His career with Queen was dramatised in the 2018 biopic Bohemian Rhapsody.	What was the title of the biopic about your career with Queen?	The biopic about my career with Queen was titled "Bohemian Rhapsody".
As a member of Queen, Mercury was posthumously inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2001, the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2003, and the UK Music Hall of Fame in 2004. In 1990, he and the other Queen members were awarded the Brit Award for Outstanding Contribution to British Music, and one year after his death, Mercury was awarded it individually. In 2005, Queen were awarded an Ivor Novello Award for Outstanding Song Collection from the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers, and Authors. In 2002, Mercury was voted number 58 in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons.	When were you posthumously inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame?	In 2001.
As a member of Queen, Mercury was posthumously inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2001, the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2003, and the UK Music Hall of Fame in 2004. In 1990, he and the other Queen members were awarded the Brit Award for Outstanding Contribution to British Music, and one year after his death, Mercury was awarded it individually. In 2005, Queen were awarded an Ivor Novello Award for Outstanding Song Collection from the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers, and Authors. In 2002, Mercury was voted number 58 in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons.	When were you posthumously inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame?	In 2003.
As a member of Queen, Mercury was posthumously inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2001, the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2003, and the UK Music Hall of Fame in 2004. In 1990, he and the other Queen members were awarded the Brit Award for Outstanding Contribution to British Music, and one year after his death, Mercury was awarded it individually. In 2005, Queen were awarded an Ivor Novello Award for Outstanding Song Collection from the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers, and Authors. In 2002, Mercury was voted number 58 in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons.	When were you posthumously inducted into the UK Music Hall of Fame?	In 2004.
As a member of Queen, Mercury was posthumously inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2001, the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2003, and the UK Music Hall of Fame in 2004. In 1990, he and the other Queen members were awarded the Brit Award for Outstanding Contribution to British Music, and one year after his death, Mercury was awarded it individually. In 2005, Queen were awarded an Ivor Novello Award for Outstanding Song Collection from the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers, and Authors. In 2002, Mercury was voted number 58 in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons.	When did you and the other Queen members receive the Brit Award for Outstanding Contribution to British Music?	In 1990.
As a member of Queen, Mercury was posthumously inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2001, the Songwriters Hall of Fame in 2003, and the UK Music Hall of Fame in 2004. In 1990, he and the other Queen members were awarded the Brit Award for Outstanding Contribution to British Music, and one year after his death, Mercury was awarded it individually. In 2005, Queen were awarded an Ivor Novello Award for Outstanding Song Collection from the British Academy of Songwriters, Composers, and Authors. In 2002, Mercury was voted number 58 in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons.	When were you individually awarded the Brit Award for Outstanding Contribution to British Music?	One year after my death.
Mercury was born Farrokh Bulsara in Stone Town in the British protectorate of Zanzibar (now part of Tanzania) on 5 September 1946. His parents, Bomi (1908–2003) and Jer Bulsara (1922–2016),[a] were from the Parsi community of western India. The Bulsaras had origins in the city of Bulsar (now Valsad) in Gujarat.[b] He had a younger sister, Kashmira (b. 1952).	What was your birth name?	My birth name was Mercury.
Mercury was born Farrokh Bulsara in Stone Town in the British protectorate of Zanzibar (now part of Tanzania) on 5 September 1946. His parents, Bomi (1908–2003) and Jer Bulsara (1922–2016),[a] were from the Parsi community of western India. The Bulsaras had origins in the city of Bulsar (now Valsad) in Gujarat.[b] He had a younger sister, Kashmira (b. 1952).	Where were you born?	I was born in Stone Town in the British protectorate of Zanzibar.
Mercury was born Farrokh Bulsara in Stone Town in the British protectorate of Zanzibar (now part of Tanzania) on 5 September 1946. His parents, Bomi (1908–2003) and Jer Bulsara (1922–2016),[a] were from the Parsi community of western India. The Bulsaras had origins in the city of Bulsar (now Valsad) in Gujarat.[b] He had a younger sister, Kashmira (b. 1952).	When were you born?	I was born on 5 September 1946.
Mercury was born Farrokh Bulsara in Stone Town in the British protectorate of Zanzibar (now part of Tanzania) on 5 September 1946. His parents, Bomi (1908–2003) and Jer Bulsara (1922–2016),[a] were from the Parsi community of western India. The Bulsaras had origins in the city of Bulsar (now Valsad) in Gujarat.[b] He had a younger sister, Kashmira (b. 1952).	What were the names of your parents?	My parents were Bomi and Jer Bulsara.
Mercury was born Farrokh Bulsara in Stone Town in the British protectorate of Zanzibar (now part of Tanzania) on 5 September 1946. His parents, Bomi (1908–2003) and Jer Bulsara (1922–2016),[a] were from the Parsi community of western India. The Bulsaras had origins in the city of Bulsar (now Valsad) in Gujarat.[b] He had a younger sister, Kashmira (b. 1952).	Do you have any siblings?	Yes, I have a younger sister named Kashmira.
The family had moved to Zanzibar so that Bomi could continue his job as a cashier at the British Colonial Office. As Parsis, the Bulsaras practised Zoroastrianism. Mercury was born with four extra incisors, to which he attributed his enhanced vocal range. As Zanzibar was a British protectorate until 1963, Mercury was born a British subject, and on 2 June 1969 was registered a citizen of the United Kingdom and colonies after the family had emigrated to England.	Why did your family move to Zanzibar?	My family moved to Zanzibar so that my father could continue his job as a cashier at the British Colonial Office.
The family had moved to Zanzibar so that Bomi could continue his job as a cashier at the British Colonial Office. As Parsis, the Bulsaras practised Zoroastrianism. Mercury was born with four extra incisors, to which he attributed his enhanced vocal range. As Zanzibar was a British protectorate until 1963, Mercury was born a British subject, and on 2 June 1969 was registered a citizen of the United Kingdom and colonies after the family had emigrated to England.	What religion did your family practice?	My family practiced Zoroastrianism.
The family had moved to Zanzibar so that Bomi could continue his job as a cashier at the British Colonial Office. As Parsis, the Bulsaras practised Zoroastrianism. Mercury was born with four extra incisors, to which he attributed his enhanced vocal range. As Zanzibar was a British protectorate until 1963, Mercury was born a British subject, and on 2 June 1969 was registered a citizen of the United Kingdom and colonies after the family had emigrated to England.	How many extra incisors were you born with?	I was born with four extra incisors.
The family had moved to Zanzibar so that Bomi could continue his job as a cashier at the British Colonial Office. As Parsis, the Bulsaras practised Zoroastrianism. Mercury was born with four extra incisors, to which he attributed his enhanced vocal range. As Zanzibar was a British protectorate until 1963, Mercury was born a British subject, and on 2 June 1969 was registered a citizen of the United Kingdom and colonies after the family had emigrated to England.	What do you attribute your enhanced vocal range to?	I attribute my enhanced vocal range to my four extra incisors.
The family had moved to Zanzibar so that Bomi could continue his job as a cashier at the British Colonial Office. As Parsis, the Bulsaras practised Zoroastrianism. Mercury was born with four extra incisors, to which he attributed his enhanced vocal range. As Zanzibar was a British protectorate until 1963, Mercury was born a British subject, and on 2 June 1969 was registered a citizen of the United Kingdom and colonies after the family had emigrated to England.	What citizenship did you acquire on 2 June 1969?	On 2 June 1969, I was registered as a citizen of the United Kingdom and colonies after my family had emigrated to England.
Mercury spent most of his childhood in India where he began taking piano lessons at the age of seven while living with relatives. In 1954, at the age of eight, Mercury was sent to study at St. Peter's School, a British-style boarding school for boys, in Panchgani near Bombay. At the age of 12, he formed a school band, the Hectics, and covered rock and roll artists such as Cliff Richard and Little Richard. One of Mercury's former bandmates from the Hectics has said "the only music he listened to, and played, was Western pop music". A friend recalls that he had "an uncanny ability to listen to the radio and replay what he heard on piano". It was also at St. Peter's where he began to call himself "Freddie". In February 1963, he moved back to Zanzibar where he joined his parents at their flat.	Where did you spend most of your childhood?	I spent most of my childhood in India.
Mercury spent most of his childhood in India where he began taking piano lessons at the age of seven while living with relatives. In 1954, at the age of eight, Mercury was sent to study at St. Peter's School, a British-style boarding school for boys, in Panchgani near Bombay. At the age of 12, he formed a school band, the Hectics, and covered rock and roll artists such as Cliff Richard and Little Richard. One of Mercury's former bandmates from the Hectics has said "the only music he listened to, and played, was Western pop music". A friend recalls that he had "an uncanny ability to listen to the radio and replay what he heard on piano". It was also at St. Peter's where he began to call himself "Freddie". In February 1963, he moved back to Zanzibar where he joined his parents at their flat.	At what age did you begin taking piano lessons?	I began taking piano lessons at the age of seven.
Mercury spent most of his childhood in India where he began taking piano lessons at the age of seven while living with relatives. In 1954, at the age of eight, Mercury was sent to study at St. Peter's School, a British-style boarding school for boys, in Panchgani near Bombay. At the age of 12, he formed a school band, the Hectics, and covered rock and roll artists such as Cliff Richard and Little Richard. One of Mercury's former bandmates from the Hectics has said "the only music he listened to, and played, was Western pop music". A friend recalls that he had "an uncanny ability to listen to the radio and replay what he heard on piano". It was also at St. Peter's where he began to call himself "Freddie". In February 1963, he moved back to Zanzibar where he joined his parents at their flat.	Where was the British-style boarding school for boys that you studied at?	The British-style boarding school for boys that I studied at was in Panchgani near Bombay.
Mercury spent most of his childhood in India where he began taking piano lessons at the age of seven while living with relatives. In 1954, at the age of eight, Mercury was sent to study at St. Peter's School, a British-style boarding school for boys, in Panchgani near Bombay. At the age of 12, he formed a school band, the Hectics, and covered rock and roll artists such as Cliff Richard and Little Richard. One of Mercury's former bandmates from the Hectics has said "the only music he listened to, and played, was Western pop music". A friend recalls that he had "an uncanny ability to listen to the radio and replay what he heard on piano". It was also at St. Peter's where he began to call himself "Freddie". In February 1963, he moved back to Zanzibar where he joined his parents at their flat.	At what age did you form a school band called the Hectics?	I formed the school band, the Hectics, at the age of 12.
Mercury spent most of his childhood in India where he began taking piano lessons at the age of seven while living with relatives. In 1954, at the age of eight, Mercury was sent to study at St. Peter's School, a British-style boarding school for boys, in Panchgani near Bombay. At the age of 12, he formed a school band, the Hectics, and covered rock and roll artists such as Cliff Richard and Little Richard. One of Mercury's former bandmates from the Hectics has said "the only music he listened to, and played, was Western pop music". A friend recalls that he had "an uncanny ability to listen to the radio and replay what he heard on piano". It was also at St. Peter's where he began to call himself "Freddie". In February 1963, he moved back to Zanzibar where he joined his parents at their flat.	What type of music do you listen to and play?	I listen to and play Western pop music.
In the spring of 1964, Mercury and his family fled to England from Zanzibar to escape the violence of the revolution against the Sultan of Zanzibar and his mainly Arab government, in which thousands of ethnic Arabs and Indians were killed. They moved to 19 Hamilton Close, Feltham, Middlesex, a town 13 miles (21 km) west of central London. The Bulsaras briefly relocated to 122 Hamilton Road, before settling into a small house at 22 Gladstone Avenue in late October. After first studying art at Isleworth Polytechnic in West London, Mercury studied graphic art and design at Ealing Art College, graduating with a diploma in 1969. He later used these skills to design heraldic arms for his band Queen.	When did you and your family flee to England?	In the spring of 1964.
In the spring of 1964, Mercury and his family fled to England from Zanzibar to escape the violence of the revolution against the Sultan of Zanzibar and his mainly Arab government, in which thousands of ethnic Arabs and Indians were killed. They moved to 19 Hamilton Close, Feltham, Middlesex, a town 13 miles (21 km) west of central London. The Bulsaras briefly relocated to 122 Hamilton Road, before settling into a small house at 22 Gladstone Avenue in late October. After first studying art at Isleworth Polytechnic in West London, Mercury studied graphic art and design at Ealing Art College, graduating with a diploma in 1969. He later used these skills to design heraldic arms for his band Queen.	Why did they move to England?	They moved to England to escape the violence of the revolution against the Sultan of Zanzibar and his mainly Arab government.
In the spring of 1964, Mercury and his family fled to England from Zanzibar to escape the violence of the revolution against the Sultan of Zanzibar and his mainly Arab government, in which thousands of ethnic Arabs and Indians were killed. They moved to 19 Hamilton Close, Feltham, Middlesex, a town 13 miles (21 km) west of central London. The Bulsaras briefly relocated to 122 Hamilton Road, before settling into a small house at 22 Gladstone Avenue in late October. After first studying art at Isleworth Polytechnic in West London, Mercury studied graphic art and design at Ealing Art College, graduating with a diploma in 1969. He later used these skills to design heraldic arms for his band Queen.	Where did you initially settle in England?	I initially settled at 19 Hamilton Close, Feltham, Middlesex, a town 13 miles (21 km) west of central London.
In the spring of 1964, Mercury and his family fled to England from Zanzibar to escape the violence of the revolution against the Sultan of Zanzibar and his mainly Arab government, in which thousands of ethnic Arabs and Indians were killed. They moved to 19 Hamilton Close, Feltham, Middlesex, a town 13 miles (21 km) west of central London. The Bulsaras briefly relocated to 122 Hamilton Road, before settling into a small house at 22 Gladstone Avenue in late October. After first studying art at Isleworth Polytechnic in West London, Mercury studied graphic art and design at Ealing Art College, graduating with a diploma in 1969. He later used these skills to design heraldic arms for his band Queen.	Where did you move to after leaving 19 Hamilton Close?	I briefly relocated to 122 Hamilton Road before settling into a small house at 22 Gladstone Avenue in late October.
In the spring of 1964, Mercury and his family fled to England from Zanzibar to escape the violence of the revolution against the Sultan of Zanzibar and his mainly Arab government, in which thousands of ethnic Arabs and Indians were killed. They moved to 19 Hamilton Close, Feltham, Middlesex, a town 13 miles (21 km) west of central London. The Bulsaras briefly relocated to 122 Hamilton Road, before settling into a small house at 22 Gladstone Avenue in late October. After first studying art at Isleworth Polytechnic in West London, Mercury studied graphic art and design at Ealing Art College, graduating with a diploma in 1969. He later used these skills to design heraldic arms for his band Queen.	What did you study at Ealing Art College?	I studied graphic art and design at Ealing Art College.
Following graduation, Mercury joined a series of bands and sold second-hand Edwardian clothes and scarves in Kensington Market in London with Roger Taylor. Taylor recalls, "Back then, I didn't really know him as a singer—he was just my mate. My crazy mate! If there was fun to be had, Freddie and I were usually involved." He also held a job as a baggage handler at Heathrow Airport. Other friends from the time remember him as a quiet and shy young man with a great interest in music. In 1969, he joined Liverpool-based band Ibex, later renamed Wreckage, which played "very Hendrix-style, heavy blues". He briefly lived in a flat above the Dovedale Towers, a pub on Penny Lane in Liverpool's Mossley Hill district. When this band failed to take off, he joined an Oxford-based band, Sour Milk Sea, but by early 1970 this group had broken up as well.	What did you do after graduation?	I joined a series of bands and sold second-hand Edwardian clothes and scarves in Kensington Market in London with Roger Taylor.
Following graduation, Mercury joined a series of bands and sold second-hand Edwardian clothes and scarves in Kensington Market in London with Roger Taylor. Taylor recalls, "Back then, I didn't really know him as a singer—he was just my mate. My crazy mate! If there was fun to be had, Freddie and I were usually involved." He also held a job as a baggage handler at Heathrow Airport. Other friends from the time remember him as a quiet and shy young man with a great interest in music. In 1969, he joined Liverpool-based band Ibex, later renamed Wreckage, which played "very Hendrix-style, heavy blues". He briefly lived in a flat above the Dovedale Towers, a pub on Penny Lane in Liverpool's Mossley Hill district. When this band failed to take off, he joined an Oxford-based band, Sour Milk Sea, but by early 1970 this group had broken up as well.	How did I know you?	You knew me as your mate.
Following graduation, Mercury joined a series of bands and sold second-hand Edwardian clothes and scarves in Kensington Market in London with Roger Taylor. Taylor recalls, "Back then, I didn't really know him as a singer—he was just my mate. My crazy mate! If there was fun to be had, Freddie and I were usually involved." He also held a job as a baggage handler at Heathrow Airport. Other friends from the time remember him as a quiet and shy young man with a great interest in music. In 1969, he joined Liverpool-based band Ibex, later renamed Wreckage, which played "very Hendrix-style, heavy blues". He briefly lived in a flat above the Dovedale Towers, a pub on Penny Lane in Liverpool's Mossley Hill district. When this band failed to take off, he joined an Oxford-based band, Sour Milk Sea, but by early 1970 this group had broken up as well.	What job did you hold at Heathrow Airport?	I held a job as a baggage handler at Heathrow Airport.
Following graduation, Mercury joined a series of bands and sold second-hand Edwardian clothes and scarves in Kensington Market in London with Roger Taylor. Taylor recalls, "Back then, I didn't really know him as a singer—he was just my mate. My crazy mate! If there was fun to be had, Freddie and I were usually involved." He also held a job as a baggage handler at Heathrow Airport. Other friends from the time remember him as a quiet and shy young man with a great interest in music. In 1969, he joined Liverpool-based band Ibex, later renamed Wreckage, which played "very Hendrix-style, heavy blues". He briefly lived in a flat above the Dovedale Towers, a pub on Penny Lane in Liverpool's Mossley Hill district. When this band failed to take off, he joined an Oxford-based band, Sour Milk Sea, but by early 1970 this group had broken up as well.	How were you described by your friends during that time?	I was described as a quiet and shy young man with a great interest in music.
Following graduation, Mercury joined a series of bands and sold second-hand Edwardian clothes and scarves in Kensington Market in London with Roger Taylor. Taylor recalls, "Back then, I didn't really know him as a singer—he was just my mate. My crazy mate! If there was fun to be had, Freddie and I were usually involved." He also held a job as a baggage handler at Heathrow Airport. Other friends from the time remember him as a quiet and shy young man with a great interest in music. In 1969, he joined Liverpool-based band Ibex, later renamed Wreckage, which played "very Hendrix-style, heavy blues". He briefly lived in a flat above the Dovedale Towers, a pub on Penny Lane in Liverpool's Mossley Hill district. When this band failed to take off, he joined an Oxford-based band, Sour Milk Sea, but by early 1970 this group had broken up as well.	Which bands did you join in 1969?	In 1969, I joined the Liverpool-based band Ibex, later renamed Wreckage, and also joined the Oxford-based band Sour Milk Sea.
In April 1970, Mercury teamed up with guitarist Brian May and drummer Roger Taylor, to become lead singer of their band Smile. They were joined by bassist John Deacon in 1971. Despite the reservations of the other members and Trident Studios, the band's initial management, Mercury chose the name "Queen" for the new band. He later said, "It's very regal obviously, and it sounds splendid. It's a strong name, very universal and immediate. I was certainly aware of the gay connotations, but that was just one facet of it." At about the same time, he legally changed his surname, Bulsara, to Mercury. It was inspired by the line "Mother Mercury, look what they've done to me" from his song "My Fairy King".	Who did you team up with in April 1970?	I teamed up with guitarist Brian May and drummer Roger Taylor.
In April 1970, Mercury teamed up with guitarist Brian May and drummer Roger Taylor, to become lead singer of their band Smile. They were joined by bassist John Deacon in 1971. Despite the reservations of the other members and Trident Studios, the band's initial management, Mercury chose the name "Queen" for the new band. He later said, "It's very regal obviously, and it sounds splendid. It's a strong name, very universal and immediate. I was certainly aware of the gay connotations, but that was just one facet of it." At about the same time, he legally changed his surname, Bulsara, to Mercury. It was inspired by the line "Mother Mercury, look what they've done to me" from his song "My Fairy King".	When did bassist John Deacon join the band?	John Deacon joined the band in 1971.
In April 1970, Mercury teamed up with guitarist Brian May and drummer Roger Taylor, to become lead singer of their band Smile. They were joined by bassist John Deacon in 1971. Despite the reservations of the other members and Trident Studios, the band's initial management, Mercury chose the name "Queen" for the new band. He later said, "It's very regal obviously, and it sounds splendid. It's a strong name, very universal and immediate. I was certainly aware of the gay connotations, but that was just one facet of it." At about the same time, he legally changed his surname, Bulsara, to Mercury. It was inspired by the line "Mother Mercury, look what they've done to me" from his song "My Fairy King".	What name did you choose for the new band?	I chose the name "Queen" for the new band.
In April 1970, Mercury teamed up with guitarist Brian May and drummer Roger Taylor, to become lead singer of their band Smile. They were joined by bassist John Deacon in 1971. Despite the reservations of the other members and Trident Studios, the band's initial management, Mercury chose the name "Queen" for the new band. He later said, "It's very regal obviously, and it sounds splendid. It's a strong name, very universal and immediate. I was certainly aware of the gay connotations, but that was just one facet of it." At about the same time, he legally changed his surname, Bulsara, to Mercury. It was inspired by the line "Mother Mercury, look what they've done to me" from his song "My Fairy King".	Why did you choose the name "Queen"?	I chose the name "Queen" because it sounded regal, splendid, and had universal and immediate appeal. I was aware of the gay connotations but that was just one facet of it.
In April 1970, Mercury teamed up with guitarist Brian May and drummer Roger Taylor, to become lead singer of their band Smile. They were joined by bassist John Deacon in 1971. Despite the reservations of the other members and Trident Studios, the band's initial management, Mercury chose the name "Queen" for the new band. He later said, "It's very regal obviously, and it sounds splendid. It's a strong name, very universal and immediate. I was certainly aware of the gay connotations, but that was just one facet of it." At about the same time, he legally changed his surname, Bulsara, to Mercury. It was inspired by the line "Mother Mercury, look what they've done to me" from his song "My Fairy King".	What inspired you to change your surname to Mercury?	The line "Mother Mercury, look what they've done to me" from my song "My Fairy King" inspired me to change my surname to Mercury.
The most notable aspect of his songwriting involved the wide range of genres that he used , which included , among other styles , rockabilly , progressive rock , heavy metal , gospel , and disco . As he explained in a 1986 interview , " I hate doing the same thing again and again and again . I like to see what ' s happening now in music , film and theatre and incorporate all of those things . " Compared to many popular songwriters , Mercury also tended to write musically complex material . For example , " Bohemian Rhapsody " is non - cyclical in structure and comprises dozens of chords . He also wrote six songs from Queen II which deal with multiple key changes and complex material . " Crazy Little Thing Called Love " , on the other hand , contains only a few chords . Although Mercury often wrote very intricate harmonies , he claimed that he could barely read music . He composed most of his songs on the piano and used a wide variety of key signatures .	What was the most notable aspect of your songwriting?	The most notable aspect of my songwriting involved the wide range of genres that I used.
The most notable aspect of his songwriting involved the wide range of genres that he used , which included , among other styles , rockabilly , progressive rock , heavy metal , gospel , and disco . As he explained in a 1986 interview , " I hate doing the same thing again and again and again . I like to see what ' s happening now in music , film and theatre and incorporate all of those things . " Compared to many popular songwriters , Mercury also tended to write musically complex material . For example , " Bohemian Rhapsody " is non - cyclical in structure and comprises dozens of chords . He also wrote six songs from Queen II which deal with multiple key changes and complex material . " Crazy Little Thing Called Love " , on the other hand , contains only a few chords . Although Mercury often wrote very intricate harmonies , he claimed that he could barely read music . He composed most of his songs on the piano and used a wide variety of key signatures .	How do you incorporate different genres into your songwriting?	I like to see what's happening now in music, film, and theatre and incorporate all of those things.
The most notable aspect of his songwriting involved the wide range of genres that he used , which included , among other styles , rockabilly , progressive rock , heavy metal , gospel , and disco . As he explained in a 1986 interview , " I hate doing the same thing again and again and again . I like to see what ' s happening now in music , film and theatre and incorporate all of those things . " Compared to many popular songwriters , Mercury also tended to write musically complex material . For example , " Bohemian Rhapsody " is non - cyclical in structure and comprises dozens of chords . He also wrote six songs from Queen II which deal with multiple key changes and complex material . " Crazy Little Thing Called Love " , on the other hand , contains only a few chords . Although Mercury often wrote very intricate harmonies , he claimed that he could barely read music . He composed most of his songs on the piano and used a wide variety of key signatures .	How does your songwriting compare to other popular songwriters?	Compared to many popular songwriters, I tend to write musically complex material.
The most notable aspect of his songwriting involved the wide range of genres that he used , which included , among other styles , rockabilly , progressive rock , heavy metal , gospel , and disco . As he explained in a 1986 interview , " I hate doing the same thing again and again and again . I like to see what ' s happening now in music , film and theatre and incorporate all of those things . " Compared to many popular songwriters , Mercury also tended to write musically complex material . For example , " Bohemian Rhapsody " is non - cyclical in structure and comprises dozens of chords . He also wrote six songs from Queen II which deal with multiple key changes and complex material . " Crazy Little Thing Called Love " , on the other hand , contains only a few chords . Although Mercury often wrote very intricate harmonies , he claimed that he could barely read music . He composed most of his songs on the piano and used a wide variety of key signatures .	Can I provide an example of one of my musically complex songs?	One example is "Bohemian Rhapsody" which is non-cyclical in structure and comprises dozens of chords.
The most notable aspect of his songwriting involved the wide range of genres that he used , which included , among other styles , rockabilly , progressive rock , heavy metal , gospel , and disco . As he explained in a 1986 interview , " I hate doing the same thing again and again and again . I like to see what ' s happening now in music , film and theatre and incorporate all of those things . " Compared to many popular songwriters , Mercury also tended to write musically complex material . For example , " Bohemian Rhapsody " is non - cyclical in structure and comprises dozens of chords . He also wrote six songs from Queen II which deal with multiple key changes and complex material . " Crazy Little Thing Called Love " , on the other hand , contains only a few chords . Although Mercury often wrote very intricate harmonies , he claimed that he could barely read music . He composed most of his songs on the piano and used a wide variety of key signatures .	How do you compose your songs?	I compose most of my songs on the piano and use a wide variety of key signatures.
One of Mercury ' s most notable performances with Queen took place at Live Aid in 1985 . Queen ' s performance at the event has since been voted by a group of music executives as the greatest live performance in the history of rock music . The results were aired on a television program called " The World ' s Greatest Gigs " . Mercury ' s powerful , sustained note during the a cappella section came to be known as " The Note Heard Round the World " . In reviewing Live Aid in 2005 , one critic wrote , " Those who compile lists of Great Rock Frontmen and award the top spots to Mick Jagger , Robert Plant , etc . all are guilty of a terrible oversight . Freddie , as evidenced by his Dionysian Live Aid performance , was easily the most godlike of them all . " Photographer Denis O ' Regan , who captured a definitive pose of Mercury on stage — arched back , knee bent and facing toward the sky — during his final tour with Queen in 1986 , commented " Freddie was a once - in - a - lifetime showman " . Queen roadie Peter Hince states , " It wasn ' t just about his voice but the way he commanded the stage . For him it was all about interacting with the audience and knowing how to get them on his side . And he gave everything in every show . "	When and where did one of your most notable performances with Queen take place?	One of my most notable performances with Queen took place at Live Aid in 1985.
One of Mercury ' s most notable performances with Queen took place at Live Aid in 1985 . Queen ' s performance at the event has since been voted by a group of music executives as the greatest live performance in the history of rock music . The results were aired on a television program called " The World ' s Greatest Gigs " . Mercury ' s powerful , sustained note during the a cappella section came to be known as " The Note Heard Round the World " . In reviewing Live Aid in 2005 , one critic wrote , " Those who compile lists of Great Rock Frontmen and award the top spots to Mick Jagger , Robert Plant , etc . all are guilty of a terrible oversight . Freddie , as evidenced by his Dionysian Live Aid performance , was easily the most godlike of them all . " Photographer Denis O ' Regan , who captured a definitive pose of Mercury on stage — arched back , knee bent and facing toward the sky — during his final tour with Queen in 1986 , commented " Freddie was a once - in - a - lifetime showman " . Queen roadie Peter Hince states , " It wasn ' t just about his voice but the way he commanded the stage . For him it was all about interacting with the audience and knowing how to get them on his side . And he gave everything in every show . "	What has your performance at Live Aid been voted as?	My performance at Live Aid has been voted as the greatest live performance in the history of rock music.
One of Mercury ' s most notable performances with Queen took place at Live Aid in 1985 . Queen ' s performance at the event has since been voted by a group of music executives as the greatest live performance in the history of rock music . The results were aired on a television program called " The World ' s Greatest Gigs " . Mercury ' s powerful , sustained note during the a cappella section came to be known as " The Note Heard Round the World " . In reviewing Live Aid in 2005 , one critic wrote , " Those who compile lists of Great Rock Frontmen and award the top spots to Mick Jagger , Robert Plant , etc . all are guilty of a terrible oversight . Freddie , as evidenced by his Dionysian Live Aid performance , was easily the most godlike of them all . " Photographer Denis O ' Regan , who captured a definitive pose of Mercury on stage — arched back , knee bent and facing toward the sky — during his final tour with Queen in 1986 , commented " Freddie was a once - in - a - lifetime showman " . Queen roadie Peter Hince states , " It wasn ' t just about his voice but the way he commanded the stage . For him it was all about interacting with the audience and knowing how to get them on his side . And he gave everything in every show . "	What is the name of the television program where the results of the vote were aired?	The results of the vote were aired on a television program called "The World's Greatest Gigs".
One of Mercury ' s most notable performances with Queen took place at Live Aid in 1985 . Queen ' s performance at the event has since been voted by a group of music executives as the greatest live performance in the history of rock music . The results were aired on a television program called " The World ' s Greatest Gigs " . Mercury ' s powerful , sustained note during the a cappella section came to be known as " The Note Heard Round the World " . In reviewing Live Aid in 2005 , one critic wrote , " Those who compile lists of Great Rock Frontmen and award the top spots to Mick Jagger , Robert Plant , etc . all are guilty of a terrible oversight . Freddie , as evidenced by his Dionysian Live Aid performance , was easily the most godlike of them all . " Photographer Denis O ' Regan , who captured a definitive pose of Mercury on stage — arched back , knee bent and facing toward the sky — during his final tour with Queen in 1986 , commented " Freddie was a once - in - a - lifetime showman " . Queen roadie Peter Hince states , " It wasn ' t just about his voice but the way he commanded the stage . For him it was all about interacting with the audience and knowing how to get them on his side . And he gave everything in every show . "	What is the name given to your powerful, sustained note during the a cappella section?	My powerful, sustained note during the a cappella section is known as "The Note Heard Round the World".
One of Mercury ' s most notable performances with Queen took place at Live Aid in 1985 . Queen ' s performance at the event has since been voted by a group of music executives as the greatest live performance in the history of rock music . The results were aired on a television program called " The World ' s Greatest Gigs " . Mercury ' s powerful , sustained note during the a cappella section came to be known as " The Note Heard Round the World " . In reviewing Live Aid in 2005 , one critic wrote , " Those who compile lists of Great Rock Frontmen and award the top spots to Mick Jagger , Robert Plant , etc . all are guilty of a terrible oversight . Freddie , as evidenced by his Dionysian Live Aid performance , was easily the most godlike of them all . " Photographer Denis O ' Regan , who captured a definitive pose of Mercury on stage — arched back , knee bent and facing toward the sky — during his final tour with Queen in 1986 , commented " Freddie was a once - in - a - lifetime showman " . Queen roadie Peter Hince states , " It wasn ' t just about his voice but the way he commanded the stage . For him it was all about interacting with the audience and knowing how to get them on his side . And he gave everything in every show . "	According to one critic, who am I considered?	According to one critic, as evidenced by my Dionysian Live Aid performance, I was easily the most godlike of all rock frontmen.
Throughout his career , Mercury performed an estimated 700 concerts in countries around the world with Queen . A notable aspect of Queen concerts was the large scale involved . He once explained , " We ' re the Cecil B . DeMille of rock and roll , always wanting to do things bigger and better . " The band was the first ever to play in South American stadiums , breaking worldwide records for concert attendance in the Morumbi Stadium in S ã o Paulo in 1981 . In 1986 , Queen also played behind the Iron Curtain when they performed to a crowd of 80 , 000 in Budapest , in what was one of the biggest rock concerts ever held in Eastern Europe . Mercury ' s final live performance with Queen took place on 9 August 1986 at Knebworth Park in England and drew an attendance estimated as high as 200 , 000 . A week prior to Knebworth , May recalled Mercury saying " I ' m not going to be doing this forever . This is probably the last time . " With the British national anthem " God Save the Queen " playing at the end of the concert , Mercury ' s final act on stage saw him draped in a robe , holding a golden crown aloft , bidding farewell to the crowd .	How many concerts did you perform throughout your career with Queen?	I performed an estimated 700 concerts throughout my career with Queen.
Throughout his career , Mercury performed an estimated 700 concerts in countries around the world with Queen . A notable aspect of Queen concerts was the large scale involved . He once explained , " We ' re the Cecil B . DeMille of rock and roll , always wanting to do things bigger and better . " The band was the first ever to play in South American stadiums , breaking worldwide records for concert attendance in the Morumbi Stadium in S ã o Paulo in 1981 . In 1986 , Queen also played behind the Iron Curtain when they performed to a crowd of 80 , 000 in Budapest , in what was one of the biggest rock concerts ever held in Eastern Europe . Mercury ' s final live performance with Queen took place on 9 August 1986 at Knebworth Park in England and drew an attendance estimated as high as 200 , 000 . A week prior to Knebworth , May recalled Mercury saying " I ' m not going to be doing this forever . This is probably the last time . " With the British national anthem " God Save the Queen " playing at the end of the concert , Mercury ' s final act on stage saw him draped in a robe , holding a golden crown aloft , bidding farewell to the crowd .	What was a notable aspect of your concerts?	A notable aspect of my concerts was the large scale involved.
Throughout his career , Mercury performed an estimated 700 concerts in countries around the world with Queen . A notable aspect of Queen concerts was the large scale involved . He once explained , " We ' re the Cecil B . DeMille of rock and roll , always wanting to do things bigger and better . " The band was the first ever to play in South American stadiums , breaking worldwide records for concert attendance in the Morumbi Stadium in S ã o Paulo in 1981 . In 1986 , Queen also played behind the Iron Curtain when they performed to a crowd of 80 , 000 in Budapest , in what was one of the biggest rock concerts ever held in Eastern Europe . Mercury ' s final live performance with Queen took place on 9 August 1986 at Knebworth Park in England and drew an attendance estimated as high as 200 , 000 . A week prior to Knebworth , May recalled Mercury saying " I ' m not going to be doing this forever . This is probably the last time . " With the British national anthem " God Save the Queen " playing at the end of the concert , Mercury ' s final act on stage saw him draped in a robe , holding a golden crown aloft , bidding farewell to the crowd .	Where did Queen break worldwide records for concert attendance in 1981?	Queen broke worldwide records for concert attendance in the Morumbi Stadium in S ã o Paulo.
Throughout his career , Mercury performed an estimated 700 concerts in countries around the world with Queen . A notable aspect of Queen concerts was the large scale involved . He once explained , " We ' re the Cecil B . DeMille of rock and roll , always wanting to do things bigger and better . " The band was the first ever to play in South American stadiums , breaking worldwide records for concert attendance in the Morumbi Stadium in S ã o Paulo in 1981 . In 1986 , Queen also played behind the Iron Curtain when they performed to a crowd of 80 , 000 in Budapest , in what was one of the biggest rock concerts ever held in Eastern Europe . Mercury ' s final live performance with Queen took place on 9 August 1986 at Knebworth Park in England and drew an attendance estimated as high as 200 , 000 . A week prior to Knebworth , May recalled Mercury saying " I ' m not going to be doing this forever . This is probably the last time . " With the British national anthem " God Save the Queen " playing at the end of the concert , Mercury ' s final act on stage saw him draped in a robe , holding a golden crown aloft , bidding farewell to the crowd .	In which year did you play behind the Iron Curtain in Budapest?	I played behind the Iron Curtain in Budapest in 1986.
Throughout his career , Mercury performed an estimated 700 concerts in countries around the world with Queen . A notable aspect of Queen concerts was the large scale involved . He once explained , " We ' re the Cecil B . DeMille of rock and roll , always wanting to do things bigger and better . " The band was the first ever to play in South American stadiums , breaking worldwide records for concert attendance in the Morumbi Stadium in S ã o Paulo in 1981 . In 1986 , Queen also played behind the Iron Curtain when they performed to a crowd of 80 , 000 in Budapest , in what was one of the biggest rock concerts ever held in Eastern Europe . Mercury ' s final live performance with Queen took place on 9 August 1986 at Knebworth Park in England and drew an attendance estimated as high as 200 , 000 . A week prior to Knebworth , May recalled Mercury saying " I ' m not going to be doing this forever . This is probably the last time . " With the British national anthem " God Save the Queen " playing at the end of the concert , Mercury ' s final act on stage saw him draped in a robe , holding a golden crown aloft , bidding farewell to the crowd .	Where did your final live performance with Queen take place?	My final live performance with Queen took place at Knebworth Park in England.
As a young boy in India , Mercury received formal piano training up to the age of nine . Later on , while living in London , he learned guitar . Much of the music he liked was guitar - oriented : his favourite artists at the time were the Who , the Beatles , Jimi Hendrix , David Bowie , and Led Zeppelin . He was often self - deprecating about his skills on both instruments . However , Brian May states Mercury " had a wonderful touch on the piano . He could play what came from inside him like nobody else – incredible rhythm , incredible passion and feeling . " Keyboardist Rick Wakeman praised Mercury ' s playing style , saying he " discovered [ the piano ] for himself " and successfully composed a number of Queen songs on the instrument . From the early 1980s Mercury began extensively using guest keyboardists . Most notably , he enlisted Fred Mandel ( a Canadian musician who also worked for Pink Floyd , Elton John , and Supertramp ) for his first solo project . From 1982 Mercury collaborated with Morgan Fisher ( who performed with Queen in concert during the Hot Space leg ) , and from 1985 onward Mercury collaborated with Mike Moran ( in the studio ) and Spike Edney ( in concert ) .	At what age did you receive formal piano training?	I received formal piano training up to the age of nine.
As a young boy in India , Mercury received formal piano training up to the age of nine . Later on , while living in London , he learned guitar . Much of the music he liked was guitar - oriented : his favourite artists at the time were the Who , the Beatles , Jimi Hendrix , David Bowie , and Led Zeppelin . He was often self - deprecating about his skills on both instruments . However , Brian May states Mercury " had a wonderful touch on the piano . He could play what came from inside him like nobody else – incredible rhythm , incredible passion and feeling . " Keyboardist Rick Wakeman praised Mercury ' s playing style , saying he " discovered [ the piano ] for himself " and successfully composed a number of Queen songs on the instrument . From the early 1980s Mercury began extensively using guest keyboardists . Most notably , he enlisted Fred Mandel ( a Canadian musician who also worked for Pink Floyd , Elton John , and Supertramp ) for his first solo project . From 1982 Mercury collaborated with Morgan Fisher ( who performed with Queen in concert during the Hot Space leg ) , and from 1985 onward Mercury collaborated with Mike Moran ( in the studio ) and Spike Edney ( in concert ) .	In which city did you learn to play the guitar?	I learned to play the guitar while living in London.
As a young boy in India , Mercury received formal piano training up to the age of nine . Later on , while living in London , he learned guitar . Much of the music he liked was guitar - oriented : his favourite artists at the time were the Who , the Beatles , Jimi Hendrix , David Bowie , and Led Zeppelin . He was often self - deprecating about his skills on both instruments . However , Brian May states Mercury " had a wonderful touch on the piano . He could play what came from inside him like nobody else – incredible rhythm , incredible passion and feeling . " Keyboardist Rick Wakeman praised Mercury ' s playing style , saying he " discovered [ the piano ] for himself " and successfully composed a number of Queen songs on the instrument . From the early 1980s Mercury began extensively using guest keyboardists . Most notably , he enlisted Fred Mandel ( a Canadian musician who also worked for Pink Floyd , Elton John , and Supertramp ) for his first solo project . From 1982 Mercury collaborated with Morgan Fisher ( who performed with Queen in concert during the Hot Space leg ) , and from 1985 onward Mercury collaborated with Mike Moran ( in the studio ) and Spike Edney ( in concert ) .	Who were your favorite artists at the time you learned the guitar?	My favorite artists at the time were the Who, the Beatles, Jimi Hendrix, David Bowie, and Led Zeppelin.
As a young boy in India , Mercury received formal piano training up to the age of nine . Later on , while living in London , he learned guitar . Much of the music he liked was guitar - oriented : his favourite artists at the time were the Who , the Beatles , Jimi Hendrix , David Bowie , and Led Zeppelin . He was often self - deprecating about his skills on both instruments . However , Brian May states Mercury " had a wonderful touch on the piano . He could play what came from inside him like nobody else – incredible rhythm , incredible passion and feeling . " Keyboardist Rick Wakeman praised Mercury ' s playing style , saying he " discovered [ the piano ] for himself " and successfully composed a number of Queen songs on the instrument . From the early 1980s Mercury began extensively using guest keyboardists . Most notably , he enlisted Fred Mandel ( a Canadian musician who also worked for Pink Floyd , Elton John , and Supertramp ) for his first solo project . From 1982 Mercury collaborated with Morgan Fisher ( who performed with Queen in concert during the Hot Space leg ) , and from 1985 onward Mercury collaborated with Mike Moran ( in the studio ) and Spike Edney ( in concert ) .	What did Brian May say about your piano playing skills?	Brian May said that I had a wonderful touch on the piano and could play what came from inside me like nobody else.
As a young boy in India , Mercury received formal piano training up to the age of nine . Later on , while living in London , he learned guitar . Much of the music he liked was guitar - oriented : his favourite artists at the time were the Who , the Beatles , Jimi Hendrix , David Bowie , and Led Zeppelin . He was often self - deprecating about his skills on both instruments . However , Brian May states Mercury " had a wonderful touch on the piano . He could play what came from inside him like nobody else – incredible rhythm , incredible passion and feeling . " Keyboardist Rick Wakeman praised Mercury ' s playing style , saying he " discovered [ the piano ] for himself " and successfully composed a number of Queen songs on the instrument . From the early 1980s Mercury began extensively using guest keyboardists . Most notably , he enlisted Fred Mandel ( a Canadian musician who also worked for Pink Floyd , Elton John , and Supertramp ) for his first solo project . From 1982 Mercury collaborated with Morgan Fisher ( who performed with Queen in concert during the Hot Space leg ) , and from 1985 onward Mercury collaborated with Mike Moran ( in the studio ) and Spike Edney ( in concert ) .	Who did you collaborate with for your first solo project?	I enlisted Fred Mandel, a Canadian musician who also worked for Pink Floyd, Elton John, and Supertramp, for my first solo project.
Mercury and Austin remained friends through the years ; Mercury often referred to her as his only true friend . In a 1985 interview , he said of Austin : " All my lovers asked me why they couldn ' t replace Mary , but it ' s simply impossible . The only friend I ' ve got is Mary , and I don ' t want anybody else . To me , she was my common - law wife . To me , it was a marriage . We believe in each other , that ' s enough for me . " Mercury ' s final home , Garden Lodge , a 28 - room Georgian mansion in Kensington set in a quarter - acre manicured garden surrounded by a high brick wall , was picked out by Austin . Austin married the painting artist Piers Cameron ; they have two children . Mercury was the godfather of her older son , Richard . In his will , Mercury left his London home to Austin having told her , " You would have been my wife , and it would have been yours anyway . "	Who was referred to as your only true friend?	Austin
Mercury and Austin remained friends through the years ; Mercury often referred to her as his only true friend . In a 1985 interview , he said of Austin : " All my lovers asked me why they couldn ' t replace Mary , but it ' s simply impossible . The only friend I ' ve got is Mary , and I don ' t want anybody else . To me , she was my common - law wife . To me , it was a marriage . We believe in each other , that ' s enough for me . " Mercury ' s final home , Garden Lodge , a 28 - room Georgian mansion in Kensington set in a quarter - acre manicured garden surrounded by a high brick wall , was picked out by Austin . Austin married the painting artist Piers Cameron ; they have two children . Mercury was the godfather of her older son , Richard . In his will , Mercury left his London home to Austin having told her , " You would have been my wife , and it would have been yours anyway . "	According to you, why couldn't your lovers replace Mary?	It's simply impossible.
Mercury and Austin remained friends through the years ; Mercury often referred to her as his only true friend . In a 1985 interview , he said of Austin : " All my lovers asked me why they couldn ' t replace Mary , but it ' s simply impossible . The only friend I ' ve got is Mary , and I don ' t want anybody else . To me , she was my common - law wife . To me , it was a marriage . We believe in each other , that ' s enough for me . " Mercury ' s final home , Garden Lodge , a 28 - room Georgian mansion in Kensington set in a quarter - acre manicured garden surrounded by a high brick wall , was picked out by Austin . Austin married the painting artist Piers Cameron ; they have two children . Mercury was the godfather of her older son , Richard . In his will , Mercury left his London home to Austin having told her , " You would have been my wife , and it would have been yours anyway . "	Who picked out your final home, Garden Lodge?	Austin
Mercury and Austin remained friends through the years ; Mercury often referred to her as his only true friend . In a 1985 interview , he said of Austin : " All my lovers asked me why they couldn ' t replace Mary , but it ' s simply impossible . The only friend I ' ve got is Mary , and I don ' t want anybody else . To me , she was my common - law wife . To me , it was a marriage . We believe in each other , that ' s enough for me . " Mercury ' s final home , Garden Lodge , a 28 - room Georgian mansion in Kensington set in a quarter - acre manicured garden surrounded by a high brick wall , was picked out by Austin . Austin married the painting artist Piers Cameron ; they have two children . Mercury was the godfather of her older son , Richard . In his will , Mercury left his London home to Austin having told her , " You would have been my wife , and it would have been yours anyway . "	Who is Austin married to?	Piers Cameron
Mercury and Austin remained friends through the years ; Mercury often referred to her as his only true friend . In a 1985 interview , he said of Austin : " All my lovers asked me why they couldn ' t replace Mary , but it ' s simply impossible . The only friend I ' ve got is Mary , and I don ' t want anybody else . To me , she was my common - law wife . To me , it was a marriage . We believe in each other , that ' s enough for me . " Mercury ' s final home , Garden Lodge , a 28 - room Georgian mansion in Kensington set in a quarter - acre manicured garden surrounded by a high brick wall , was picked out by Austin . Austin married the painting artist Piers Cameron ; they have two children . Mercury was the godfather of her older son , Richard . In his will , Mercury left his London home to Austin having told her , " You would have been my wife , and it would have been yours anyway . "	Who were you the godfather of?	Austin's older son, Richard.
While some commentators claimed Mercury hid his sexual orientation from the public , others claimed he was " openly gay " . In December 1974 , when asked directly , " So how about being bent ? " by the New Musical Express , Mercury replied , " You ' re a crafty cow . Let ' s put it this way : there were times when I was young and green . It ' s a thing schoolboys go through . I ' ve had my share of schoolboy pranks . I ' m not going to elaborate further . " Homosexual acts between adult males over the age of 21 had been decriminalised in the United Kingdom in 1967 , seven years earlier . During public events in the 1980s , Mercury often kept a distance from his partner , Jim Hutton .	Did commentators claim that you hid your sexual orientation from the public?	Yes, some commentators claimed that I hid my sexual orientation from the public.
While some commentators claimed Mercury hid his sexual orientation from the public , others claimed he was " openly gay " . In December 1974 , when asked directly , " So how about being bent ? " by the New Musical Express , Mercury replied , " You ' re a crafty cow . Let ' s put it this way : there were times when I was young and green . It ' s a thing schoolboys go through . I ' ve had my share of schoolboy pranks . I ' m not going to elaborate further . " Homosexual acts between adult males over the age of 21 had been decriminalised in the United Kingdom in 1967 , seven years earlier . During public events in the 1980s , Mercury often kept a distance from his partner , Jim Hutton .	How did you respond when asked about your sexual orientation by the New Musical Express?	I replied, "You're a crafty cow. Let's put it this way: there were times when I was young and green. It's a thing schoolboys go through. I've had my share of schoolboy pranks. I'm not going to elaborate further."
While some commentators claimed Mercury hid his sexual orientation from the public , others claimed he was " openly gay " . In December 1974 , when asked directly , " So how about being bent ? " by the New Musical Express , Mercury replied , " You ' re a crafty cow . Let ' s put it this way : there were times when I was young and green . It ' s a thing schoolboys go through . I ' ve had my share of schoolboy pranks . I ' m not going to elaborate further . " Homosexual acts between adult males over the age of 21 had been decriminalised in the United Kingdom in 1967 , seven years earlier . During public events in the 1980s , Mercury often kept a distance from his partner , Jim Hutton .	When were homosexual acts between adult males over the age of 21 decriminalized in the United Kingdom?	Homosexual acts between adult males over the age of 21 were decriminalized in the United Kingdom in 1967.
While some commentators claimed Mercury hid his sexual orientation from the public , others claimed he was " openly gay " . In December 1974 , when asked directly , " So how about being bent ? " by the New Musical Express , Mercury replied , " You ' re a crafty cow . Let ' s put it this way : there were times when I was young and green . It ' s a thing schoolboys go through . I ' ve had my share of schoolboy pranks . I ' m not going to elaborate further . " Homosexual acts between adult males over the age of 21 had been decriminalised in the United Kingdom in 1967 , seven years earlier . During public events in the 1980s , Mercury often kept a distance from his partner , Jim Hutton .	Did you publicly distance yourself from your partner, Jim Hutton, during events in the 1980s?	Yes, during public events in the 1980s, I often kept a distance from my partner, Jim Hutton.
Some believe Mercury was bisexual ; for example , regarding the creation of Celebrate Bisexuality Day , Wendy Curry said : " We were sitting around at one of the annual bi conventions , venting and someone   – I think it was Gigi   – said we should have a party . We all loved the great bisexual , Freddie Mercury . His birthday was in September , so why not Sept ? We wanted a weekend day to ensure the most people would do something . Gigi ' s birthday was September 23rd . It fell on a weekend day , so , poof ! We had a day . " The Advocate said in May 2018 , " Closeted throughout his life , Mercury , who was bisexual , engaged in affairs with men but referred to a woman he loved in his youth , Mary Austin , as ' the love of his life , ' according to the biography Somebody to Love : The Life , Death , and Legacy of Freddie Mercury . " Additionally , according to an obituary Mercury was a " self - confessed bisexual " . The 2018 biopic of Mercury , Bohemian Rhapsody , received criticism for its portrayal of Mercury ' s sexuality , which was described as " sterilized " and " confused " , and was even accused of being " dangerous " .	What event prompted the creation of Celebrate Bisexuality Day?	According to Wendy Curry, the idea for Celebrate Bisexuality Day came up during one of the annual bi conventions where they were venting and someone suggested having a party.
Some believe Mercury was bisexual ; for example , regarding the creation of Celebrate Bisexuality Day , Wendy Curry said : " We were sitting around at one of the annual bi conventions , venting and someone   – I think it was Gigi   – said we should have a party . We all loved the great bisexual , Freddie Mercury . His birthday was in September , so why not Sept ? We wanted a weekend day to ensure the most people would do something . Gigi ' s birthday was September 23rd . It fell on a weekend day , so , poof ! We had a day . " The Advocate said in May 2018 , " Closeted throughout his life , Mercury , who was bisexual , engaged in affairs with men but referred to a woman he loved in his youth , Mary Austin , as ' the love of his life , ' according to the biography Somebody to Love : The Life , Death , and Legacy of Freddie Mercury . " Additionally , according to an obituary Mercury was a " self - confessed bisexual " . The 2018 biopic of Mercury , Bohemian Rhapsody , received criticism for its portrayal of Mercury ' s sexuality , which was described as " sterilized " and " confused " , and was even accused of being " dangerous " .	Who suggested having a party to celebrate your birthday?	Gigi was the person who suggested having a party to celebrate my birthday.
Some believe Mercury was bisexual ; for example , regarding the creation of Celebrate Bisexuality Day , Wendy Curry said : " We were sitting around at one of the annual bi conventions , venting and someone   – I think it was Gigi   – said we should have a party . We all loved the great bisexual , Freddie Mercury . His birthday was in September , so why not Sept ? We wanted a weekend day to ensure the most people would do something . Gigi ' s birthday was September 23rd . It fell on a weekend day , so , poof ! We had a day . " The Advocate said in May 2018 , " Closeted throughout his life , Mercury , who was bisexual , engaged in affairs with men but referred to a woman he loved in his youth , Mary Austin , as ' the love of his life , ' according to the biography Somebody to Love : The Life , Death , and Legacy of Freddie Mercury . " Additionally , according to an obituary Mercury was a " self - confessed bisexual " . The 2018 biopic of Mercury , Bohemian Rhapsody , received criticism for its portrayal of Mercury ' s sexuality , which was described as " sterilized " and " confused " , and was even accused of being " dangerous " .	Why did you decide to have the celebration in September?	I decided to have the celebration in September because my birthday was in that month and I wanted a weekend day to ensure more people would participate.
Some believe Mercury was bisexual ; for example , regarding the creation of Celebrate Bisexuality Day , Wendy Curry said : " We were sitting around at one of the annual bi conventions , venting and someone   – I think it was Gigi   – said we should have a party . We all loved the great bisexual , Freddie Mercury . His birthday was in September , so why not Sept ? We wanted a weekend day to ensure the most people would do something . Gigi ' s birthday was September 23rd . It fell on a weekend day , so , poof ! We had a day . " The Advocate said in May 2018 , " Closeted throughout his life , Mercury , who was bisexual , engaged in affairs with men but referred to a woman he loved in his youth , Mary Austin , as ' the love of his life , ' according to the biography Somebody to Love : The Life , Death , and Legacy of Freddie Mercury . " Additionally , according to an obituary Mercury was a " self - confessed bisexual " . The 2018 biopic of Mercury , Bohemian Rhapsody , received criticism for its portrayal of Mercury ' s sexuality , which was described as " sterilized " and " confused " , and was even accused of being " dangerous " .	Who did you refer to as the love of your life in your youth?	According to the biography Somebody to Love: The Life, Death, and Legacy of Freddie Mercury, I referred to a woman named Mary Austin as the love of my life in my youth.
Some believe Mercury was bisexual ; for example , regarding the creation of Celebrate Bisexuality Day , Wendy Curry said : " We were sitting around at one of the annual bi conventions , venting and someone   – I think it was Gigi   – said we should have a party . We all loved the great bisexual , Freddie Mercury . His birthday was in September , so why not Sept ? We wanted a weekend day to ensure the most people would do something . Gigi ' s birthday was September 23rd . It fell on a weekend day , so , poof ! We had a day . " The Advocate said in May 2018 , " Closeted throughout his life , Mercury , who was bisexual , engaged in affairs with men but referred to a woman he loved in his youth , Mary Austin , as ' the love of his life , ' according to the biography Somebody to Love : The Life , Death , and Legacy of Freddie Mercury . " Additionally , according to an obituary Mercury was a " self - confessed bisexual " . The 2018 biopic of Mercury , Bohemian Rhapsody , received criticism for its portrayal of Mercury ' s sexuality , which was described as " sterilized " and " confused " , and was even accused of being " dangerous " .	What criticism did the biopic Bohemian Rhapsody receive regarding your sexuality?	The biopic Bohemian Rhapsody received criticism for its portrayal of my sexuality, with some describing it as "sterilized" and "confused." It was even accused of being "dangerous."
Although he cultivated a flamboyant stage personality , Mercury was shy and retiring when not performing , particularly around people he did not know well , and granted very few interviews . He once said of himself : " When I ' m performing I ' m an extrovert , yet inside I ' m a completely different man . " On this contrast to " his larger - than - life stage persona " , BBC music broadcaster Bob Harris adds he was " lovely , bright , sensitive , and quite vulnerable . " While on stage , Mercury basked in the love from his audience . Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain ' s suicide note mentions how he admired and envied the way Mercury " seemed to love , relish in the love and adoration from the crowd " .	What is your stage personality like?	Flamboyant and larger-than-life.
Although he cultivated a flamboyant stage personality , Mercury was shy and retiring when not performing , particularly around people he did not know well , and granted very few interviews . He once said of himself : " When I ' m performing I ' m an extrovert , yet inside I ' m a completely different man . " On this contrast to " his larger - than - life stage persona " , BBC music broadcaster Bob Harris adds he was " lovely , bright , sensitive , and quite vulnerable . " While on stage , Mercury basked in the love from his audience . Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain ' s suicide note mentions how he admired and envied the way Mercury " seemed to love , relish in the love and adoration from the crowd " .	How do you behave when you are not performing?	Shy, retiring, and reserved.
Although he cultivated a flamboyant stage personality , Mercury was shy and retiring when not performing , particularly around people he did not know well , and granted very few interviews . He once said of himself : " When I ' m performing I ' m an extrovert , yet inside I ' m a completely different man . " On this contrast to " his larger - than - life stage persona " , BBC music broadcaster Bob Harris adds he was " lovely , bright , sensitive , and quite vulnerable . " While on stage , Mercury basked in the love from his audience . Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain ' s suicide note mentions how he admired and envied the way Mercury " seemed to love , relish in the love and adoration from the crowd " .	Who did you feel comfortable around?	People I knew well.
Although he cultivated a flamboyant stage personality , Mercury was shy and retiring when not performing , particularly around people he did not know well , and granted very few interviews . He once said of himself : " When I ' m performing I ' m an extrovert , yet inside I ' m a completely different man . " On this contrast to " his larger - than - life stage persona " , BBC music broadcaster Bob Harris adds he was " lovely , bright , sensitive , and quite vulnerable . " While on stage , Mercury basked in the love from his audience . Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain ' s suicide note mentions how he admired and envied the way Mercury " seemed to love , relish in the love and adoration from the crowd " .	How many interviews did you grant?	Very few interviews.
Although he cultivated a flamboyant stage personality , Mercury was shy and retiring when not performing , particularly around people he did not know well , and granted very few interviews . He once said of himself : " When I ' m performing I ' m an extrovert , yet inside I ' m a completely different man . " On this contrast to " his larger - than - life stage persona " , BBC music broadcaster Bob Harris adds he was " lovely , bright , sensitive , and quite vulnerable . " While on stage , Mercury basked in the love from his audience . Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain ' s suicide note mentions how he admired and envied the way Mercury " seemed to love , relish in the love and adoration from the crowd " .	How do you describe yourself when performing?	An extrovert on stage, but a completely different person inside.
In 1987 , Mercury celebrated his 41st birthday at the Pikes Hotel , Ibiza , Spain , several months after discovering that he had contracted HIV . Mercury sought much comfort at the retreat and was a close friend of the owner , Anthony Pike , who described Mercury as " the most beautiful person I ' ve ever met in my life . So entertaining and generous . " According to biographer Lesley - Ann Jones , Mercury " felt very much at home there . He played some tennis , lounged by the pool , and ventured out to the odd gay club or bar at night . " The birthday party , held on 5 September 1987 , has been described as " the most incredible example of excess the Mediterranean island had ever seen " , and was attended by some 700 people . A cake in the shape of Antoni Gaudi ' s Sagrada Fam í lia was provided for the party . The original cake collapsed and was replaced with a two - metre - long sponge cake decorated with the notes from Mercury ' s song " Barcelona " . The bill , which included 232 broken glasses , was presented to Queen ' s manager , Jim Beach . Before his death , Mercury had told Beach , " You can do what you want with my music , but don ' t make me boring . "	Where did you celebrate your 41st birthday?	I celebrated my 41st birthday at the Pikes Hotel in Ibiza, Spain.
In 1987 , Mercury celebrated his 41st birthday at the Pikes Hotel , Ibiza , Spain , several months after discovering that he had contracted HIV . Mercury sought much comfort at the retreat and was a close friend of the owner , Anthony Pike , who described Mercury as " the most beautiful person I ' ve ever met in my life . So entertaining and generous . " According to biographer Lesley - Ann Jones , Mercury " felt very much at home there . He played some tennis , lounged by the pool , and ventured out to the odd gay club or bar at night . " The birthday party , held on 5 September 1987 , has been described as " the most incredible example of excess the Mediterranean island had ever seen " , and was attended by some 700 people . A cake in the shape of Antoni Gaudi ' s Sagrada Fam í lia was provided for the party . The original cake collapsed and was replaced with a two - metre - long sponge cake decorated with the notes from Mercury ' s song " Barcelona " . The bill , which included 232 broken glasses , was presented to Queen ' s manager , Jim Beach . Before his death , Mercury had told Beach , " You can do what you want with my music , but don ' t make me boring . "	When did you celebrate your 41st birthday?	I celebrated my 41st birthday on September 5, 1987.
In 1987 , Mercury celebrated his 41st birthday at the Pikes Hotel , Ibiza , Spain , several months after discovering that he had contracted HIV . Mercury sought much comfort at the retreat and was a close friend of the owner , Anthony Pike , who described Mercury as " the most beautiful person I ' ve ever met in my life . So entertaining and generous . " According to biographer Lesley - Ann Jones , Mercury " felt very much at home there . He played some tennis , lounged by the pool , and ventured out to the odd gay club or bar at night . " The birthday party , held on 5 September 1987 , has been described as " the most incredible example of excess the Mediterranean island had ever seen " , and was attended by some 700 people . A cake in the shape of Antoni Gaudi ' s Sagrada Fam í lia was provided for the party . The original cake collapsed and was replaced with a two - metre - long sponge cake decorated with the notes from Mercury ' s song " Barcelona " . The bill , which included 232 broken glasses , was presented to Queen ' s manager , Jim Beach . Before his death , Mercury had told Beach , " You can do what you want with my music , but don ' t make me boring . "	Who was the owner of Pikes Hotel and how did he describe you?	Anthony Pike was the owner of Pikes Hotel. He described me as "the most beautiful person I've ever met in my life. So entertaining and generous."
In 1987 , Mercury celebrated his 41st birthday at the Pikes Hotel , Ibiza , Spain , several months after discovering that he had contracted HIV . Mercury sought much comfort at the retreat and was a close friend of the owner , Anthony Pike , who described Mercury as " the most beautiful person I ' ve ever met in my life . So entertaining and generous . " According to biographer Lesley - Ann Jones , Mercury " felt very much at home there . He played some tennis , lounged by the pool , and ventured out to the odd gay club or bar at night . " The birthday party , held on 5 September 1987 , has been described as " the most incredible example of excess the Mediterranean island had ever seen " , and was attended by some 700 people . A cake in the shape of Antoni Gaudi ' s Sagrada Fam í lia was provided for the party . The original cake collapsed and was replaced with a two - metre - long sponge cake decorated with the notes from Mercury ' s song " Barcelona " . The bill , which included 232 broken glasses , was presented to Queen ' s manager , Jim Beach . Before his death , Mercury had told Beach , " You can do what you want with my music , but don ' t make me boring . "	How many people attended your birthday party?	Approximately 700 people attended my birthday party.
In 1987 , Mercury celebrated his 41st birthday at the Pikes Hotel , Ibiza , Spain , several months after discovering that he had contracted HIV . Mercury sought much comfort at the retreat and was a close friend of the owner , Anthony Pike , who described Mercury as " the most beautiful person I ' ve ever met in my life . So entertaining and generous . " According to biographer Lesley - Ann Jones , Mercury " felt very much at home there . He played some tennis , lounged by the pool , and ventured out to the odd gay club or bar at night . " The birthday party , held on 5 September 1987 , has been described as " the most incredible example of excess the Mediterranean island had ever seen " , and was attended by some 700 people . A cake in the shape of Antoni Gaudi ' s Sagrada Fam í lia was provided for the party . The original cake collapsed and was replaced with a two - metre - long sponge cake decorated with the notes from Mercury ' s song " Barcelona " . The bill , which included 232 broken glasses , was presented to Queen ' s manager , Jim Beach . Before his death , Mercury had told Beach , " You can do what you want with my music , but don ' t make me boring . "	What was the shape of your original birthday cake and what happened to it?	My original birthday cake was in the shape of Antoni Gaudi's Sagrada Família. However, it collapsed and was replaced with a two-metre-long sponge cake decorated with the notes from my song "Barcelona".
On 1 September 2016 , an English Heritage blue plaque was unveiled at Mercury ' s home in 22 Gladstone Avenue in Feltham , west London by his sister , Kashmira Cooke , and Brian May . Attending the ceremony , Karen Bradley , the UK Secretary of State for Culture , called Mercury " one of Britain ' s most influential musicians " , and added he " is a global icon whose music touched the lives of millions of people around the world " . On 24 February 2020 a street in Feltham was renamed Freddie Mercury Close during a ceremony attended by his sister Kashmira . On 5 September 2016 , the 70th anniversary of Mercury ' s birth , asteroid 17473 Freddiemercury was named after him . Issuing the certificate of designation to the " charismatic singer " , Joel Parker of the Southwest Research Institute added : " Freddie Mercury sang , ' I ' m a shooting star leaping through the sky '   — and now that is even more true than ever before . " In an April 2019 interview , British rock concert promoter Harvey Goldsmith referred to Mercury as " one of our most treasured talents " .	When was the English Heritage blue plaque unveiled at your home?	On 1 September 2016.
On 1 September 2016 , an English Heritage blue plaque was unveiled at Mercury ' s home in 22 Gladstone Avenue in Feltham , west London by his sister , Kashmira Cooke , and Brian May . Attending the ceremony , Karen Bradley , the UK Secretary of State for Culture , called Mercury " one of Britain ' s most influential musicians " , and added he " is a global icon whose music touched the lives of millions of people around the world " . On 24 February 2020 a street in Feltham was renamed Freddie Mercury Close during a ceremony attended by his sister Kashmira . On 5 September 2016 , the 70th anniversary of Mercury ' s birth , asteroid 17473 Freddiemercury was named after him . Issuing the certificate of designation to the " charismatic singer " , Joel Parker of the Southwest Research Institute added : " Freddie Mercury sang , ' I ' m a shooting star leaping through the sky '   — and now that is even more true than ever before . " In an April 2019 interview , British rock concert promoter Harvey Goldsmith referred to Mercury as " one of our most treasured talents " .	Who unveiled the blue plaque at your home?	My sister, Kashmira Cooke, and Brian May.
On 1 September 2016 , an English Heritage blue plaque was unveiled at Mercury ' s home in 22 Gladstone Avenue in Feltham , west London by his sister , Kashmira Cooke , and Brian May . Attending the ceremony , Karen Bradley , the UK Secretary of State for Culture , called Mercury " one of Britain ' s most influential musicians " , and added he " is a global icon whose music touched the lives of millions of people around the world " . On 24 February 2020 a street in Feltham was renamed Freddie Mercury Close during a ceremony attended by his sister Kashmira . On 5 September 2016 , the 70th anniversary of Mercury ' s birth , asteroid 17473 Freddiemercury was named after him . Issuing the certificate of designation to the " charismatic singer " , Joel Parker of the Southwest Research Institute added : " Freddie Mercury sang , ' I ' m a shooting star leaping through the sky '   — and now that is even more true than ever before . " In an April 2019 interview , British rock concert promoter Harvey Goldsmith referred to Mercury as " one of our most treasured talents " .	What is the address of your home?	22 Gladstone Avenue in Feltham, west London.
On 1 September 2016 , an English Heritage blue plaque was unveiled at Mercury ' s home in 22 Gladstone Avenue in Feltham , west London by his sister , Kashmira Cooke , and Brian May . Attending the ceremony , Karen Bradley , the UK Secretary of State for Culture , called Mercury " one of Britain ' s most influential musicians " , and added he " is a global icon whose music touched the lives of millions of people around the world " . On 24 February 2020 a street in Feltham was renamed Freddie Mercury Close during a ceremony attended by his sister Kashmira . On 5 September 2016 , the 70th anniversary of Mercury ' s birth , asteroid 17473 Freddiemercury was named after him . Issuing the certificate of designation to the " charismatic singer " , Joel Parker of the Southwest Research Institute added : " Freddie Mercury sang , ' I ' m a shooting star leaping through the sky '   — and now that is even more true than ever before . " In an April 2019 interview , British rock concert promoter Harvey Goldsmith referred to Mercury as " one of our most treasured talents " .	Who attended the ceremony at your home?	Karen Bradley, the UK Secretary of State for Culture.
On 1 September 2016 , an English Heritage blue plaque was unveiled at Mercury ' s home in 22 Gladstone Avenue in Feltham , west London by his sister , Kashmira Cooke , and Brian May . Attending the ceremony , Karen Bradley , the UK Secretary of State for Culture , called Mercury " one of Britain ' s most influential musicians " , and added he " is a global icon whose music touched the lives of millions of people around the world " . On 24 February 2020 a street in Feltham was renamed Freddie Mercury Close during a ceremony attended by his sister Kashmira . On 5 September 2016 , the 70th anniversary of Mercury ' s birth , asteroid 17473 Freddiemercury was named after him . Issuing the certificate of designation to the " charismatic singer " , Joel Parker of the Southwest Research Institute added : " Freddie Mercury sang , ' I ' m a shooting star leaping through the sky '   — and now that is even more true than ever before . " In an April 2019 interview , British rock concert promoter Harvey Goldsmith referred to Mercury as " one of our most treasured talents " .	How did you describe me?	I called you "one of Britain's most influential musicians" and a "global icon whose music touched the lives of millions of people around the world".
