George VI (Albert Frederick Arthur George; 14 December 1895 – 6 February 1952) was King of the United Kingdom and the Dominions of the British Commonwealth from 11 December 1936 until his death on 6 February 1952. He was also the last emperor of India from 1936 until the British Raj was dissolved in August 1947, and the first Head of the Commonwealth following the London Declaration of 1949.	What is your full name?	My full name is Albert Frederick Arthur George.
George VI (Albert Frederick Arthur George; 14 December 1895 – 6 February 1952) was King of the United Kingdom and the Dominions of the British Commonwealth from 11 December 1936 until his death on 6 February 1952. He was also the last emperor of India from 1936 until the British Raj was dissolved in August 1947, and the first Head of the Commonwealth following the London Declaration of 1949.	When did you become King of the United Kingdom and the Dominions of the British Commonwealth?	On 11 December 1936
George VI (Albert Frederick Arthur George; 14 December 1895 – 6 February 1952) was King of the United Kingdom and the Dominions of the British Commonwealth from 11 December 1936 until his death on 6 February 1952. He was also the last emperor of India from 1936 until the British Raj was dissolved in August 1947, and the first Head of the Commonwealth following the London Declaration of 1949.	When did your reign end?	On 6 February 1952
George VI (Albert Frederick Arthur George; 14 December 1895 – 6 February 1952) was King of the United Kingdom and the Dominions of the British Commonwealth from 11 December 1936 until his death on 6 February 1952. He was also the last emperor of India from 1936 until the British Raj was dissolved in August 1947, and the first Head of the Commonwealth following the London Declaration of 1949.	How long were you the emperor of India?	From 1936 until the British Raj was dissolved in August 1947
George VI (Albert Frederick Arthur George; 14 December 1895 – 6 February 1952) was King of the United Kingdom and the Dominions of the British Commonwealth from 11 December 1936 until his death on 6 February 1952. He was also the last emperor of India from 1936 until the British Raj was dissolved in August 1947, and the first Head of the Commonwealth following the London Declaration of 1949.	When did you become the first Head of the Commonwealth?	Following the London Declaration of 1949
The future George VI was born in the reign of his great-grandmother Victoria; he was named Albert at birth after his great-grandfather Albert, Prince Consort, and was known as "Bertie" to his family and close friends. His father ascended the throne as George V in 1910. As the second son of the king, Albert was not expected to inherit the throne. He spent his early life in the shadow of his elder brother, Prince Edward, the heir apparent. Albert attended naval college as a teenager and served in the Royal Navy and Royal Air Force during the First World War. In 1920, he was made Duke of York. He married Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon in 1923, and they had two daughters, Elizabeth and Margaret. In the mid-1920s, he engaged speech therapist Lionel Logue to treat his stutter, which he learned to manage to some degree. His elder brother ascended the throne as Edward VIII after their father died in 1936, but Edward abdicated later that year to marry the twice-divorced American socialite Wallis Simpson. As heir presumptive to Edward VIII, Albert thereby became the third monarch of the House of Windsor, taking the regnal name George VI.	Who were you named after?	My great-grandfather Albert, Prince Consort.
The future George VI was born in the reign of his great-grandmother Victoria; he was named Albert at birth after his great-grandfather Albert, Prince Consort, and was known as "Bertie" to his family and close friends. His father ascended the throne as George V in 1910. As the second son of the king, Albert was not expected to inherit the throne. He spent his early life in the shadow of his elder brother, Prince Edward, the heir apparent. Albert attended naval college as a teenager and served in the Royal Navy and Royal Air Force during the First World War. In 1920, he was made Duke of York. He married Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon in 1923, and they had two daughters, Elizabeth and Margaret. In the mid-1920s, he engaged speech therapist Lionel Logue to treat his stutter, which he learned to manage to some degree. His elder brother ascended the throne as Edward VIII after their father died in 1936, but Edward abdicated later that year to marry the twice-divorced American socialite Wallis Simpson. As heir presumptive to Edward VIII, Albert thereby became the third monarch of the House of Windsor, taking the regnal name George VI.	Who ascended the throne in 1910?	My father, George V.
The future George VI was born in the reign of his great-grandmother Victoria; he was named Albert at birth after his great-grandfather Albert, Prince Consort, and was known as "Bertie" to his family and close friends. His father ascended the throne as George V in 1910. As the second son of the king, Albert was not expected to inherit the throne. He spent his early life in the shadow of his elder brother, Prince Edward, the heir apparent. Albert attended naval college as a teenager and served in the Royal Navy and Royal Air Force during the First World War. In 1920, he was made Duke of York. He married Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon in 1923, and they had two daughters, Elizabeth and Margaret. In the mid-1920s, he engaged speech therapist Lionel Logue to treat his stutter, which he learned to manage to some degree. His elder brother ascended the throne as Edward VIII after their father died in 1936, but Edward abdicated later that year to marry the twice-divorced American socialite Wallis Simpson. As heir presumptive to Edward VIII, Albert thereby became the third monarch of the House of Windsor, taking the regnal name George VI.	Which branch of the military did you serve in during the First World War?	Royal Navy and Royal Air Force.
The future George VI was born in the reign of his great-grandmother Victoria; he was named Albert at birth after his great-grandfather Albert, Prince Consort, and was known as "Bertie" to his family and close friends. His father ascended the throne as George V in 1910. As the second son of the king, Albert was not expected to inherit the throne. He spent his early life in the shadow of his elder brother, Prince Edward, the heir apparent. Albert attended naval college as a teenager and served in the Royal Navy and Royal Air Force during the First World War. In 1920, he was made Duke of York. He married Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon in 1923, and they had two daughters, Elizabeth and Margaret. In the mid-1920s, he engaged speech therapist Lionel Logue to treat his stutter, which he learned to manage to some degree. His elder brother ascended the throne as Edward VIII after their father died in 1936, but Edward abdicated later that year to marry the twice-divorced American socialite Wallis Simpson. As heir presumptive to Edward VIII, Albert thereby became the third monarch of the House of Windsor, taking the regnal name George VI.	When did you become Duke of York?	In 1920.
The future George VI was born in the reign of his great-grandmother Victoria; he was named Albert at birth after his great-grandfather Albert, Prince Consort, and was known as "Bertie" to his family and close friends. His father ascended the throne as George V in 1910. As the second son of the king, Albert was not expected to inherit the throne. He spent his early life in the shadow of his elder brother, Prince Edward, the heir apparent. Albert attended naval college as a teenager and served in the Royal Navy and Royal Air Force during the First World War. In 1920, he was made Duke of York. He married Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon in 1923, and they had two daughters, Elizabeth and Margaret. In the mid-1920s, he engaged speech therapist Lionel Logue to treat his stutter, which he learned to manage to some degree. His elder brother ascended the throne as Edward VIII after their father died in 1936, but Edward abdicated later that year to marry the twice-divorced American socialite Wallis Simpson. As heir presumptive to Edward VIII, Albert thereby became the third monarch of the House of Windsor, taking the regnal name George VI.	Who did you marry in 1923?	Lady Elizabeth Bowes-Lyon.
In September 1939, the British Empire and most Commonwealth countries—but not Ireland—declared war on Nazi Germany. War with the Kingdom of Italy and the Empire of Japan followed in 1940 and 1941, respectively. George VI was seen as sharing the hardships of the common people and his popularity soared. Buckingham Palace was bombed during the Blitz while the King and Queen were there, and his younger brother the Duke of Kent was killed on active service. George became known as a symbol of British determination to win the war. Britain and its allies were victorious in 1945, but the British Empire declined. Ireland had largely broken away, followed by the independence of India and Pakistan in 1947. George relinquished the title of Emperor of India in June 1948 and instead adopted the new title of Head of the Commonwealth. He was beset by smoking-related health problems in the later years of his reign and died of a coronary thrombosis, aged 56 at Sandringham House, in 1952. He was succeeded by his elder daughter, Elizabeth II.	When did the British Empire and most Commonwealth countries declare war on Nazi Germany?	They declared war on Nazi Germany in September 1939.
In September 1939, the British Empire and most Commonwealth countries—but not Ireland—declared war on Nazi Germany. War with the Kingdom of Italy and the Empire of Japan followed in 1940 and 1941, respectively. George VI was seen as sharing the hardships of the common people and his popularity soared. Buckingham Palace was bombed during the Blitz while the King and Queen were there, and his younger brother the Duke of Kent was killed on active service. George became known as a symbol of British determination to win the war. Britain and its allies were victorious in 1945, but the British Empire declined. Ireland had largely broken away, followed by the independence of India and Pakistan in 1947. George relinquished the title of Emperor of India in June 1948 and instead adopted the new title of Head of the Commonwealth. He was beset by smoking-related health problems in the later years of his reign and died of a coronary thrombosis, aged 56 at Sandringham House, in 1952. He was succeeded by his elder daughter, Elizabeth II.	Which countries followed in declaring war after the British Empire and most Commonwealth countries?	The Kingdom of Italy and the Empire of Japan followed in declaring war in 1940 and 1941, respectively.
In September 1939, the British Empire and most Commonwealth countries—but not Ireland—declared war on Nazi Germany. War with the Kingdom of Italy and the Empire of Japan followed in 1940 and 1941, respectively. George VI was seen as sharing the hardships of the common people and his popularity soared. Buckingham Palace was bombed during the Blitz while the King and Queen were there, and his younger brother the Duke of Kent was killed on active service. George became known as a symbol of British determination to win the war. Britain and its allies were victorious in 1945, but the British Empire declined. Ireland had largely broken away, followed by the independence of India and Pakistan in 1947. George relinquished the title of Emperor of India in June 1948 and instead adopted the new title of Head of the Commonwealth. He was beset by smoking-related health problems in the later years of his reign and died of a coronary thrombosis, aged 56 at Sandringham House, in 1952. He was succeeded by his elder daughter, Elizabeth II.	What happened to your palace during the Blitz?	My palace was bombed during the Blitz.
In September 1939, the British Empire and most Commonwealth countries—but not Ireland—declared war on Nazi Germany. War with the Kingdom of Italy and the Empire of Japan followed in 1940 and 1941, respectively. George VI was seen as sharing the hardships of the common people and his popularity soared. Buckingham Palace was bombed during the Blitz while the King and Queen were there, and his younger brother the Duke of Kent was killed on active service. George became known as a symbol of British determination to win the war. Britain and its allies were victorious in 1945, but the British Empire declined. Ireland had largely broken away, followed by the independence of India and Pakistan in 1947. George relinquished the title of Emperor of India in June 1948 and instead adopted the new title of Head of the Commonwealth. He was beset by smoking-related health problems in the later years of his reign and died of a coronary thrombosis, aged 56 at Sandringham House, in 1952. He was succeeded by his elder daughter, Elizabeth II.	Who was killed on active service during the war?	My younger brother, The Duke of Kent, was killed on active service.
In September 1939, the British Empire and most Commonwealth countries—but not Ireland—declared war on Nazi Germany. War with the Kingdom of Italy and the Empire of Japan followed in 1940 and 1941, respectively. George VI was seen as sharing the hardships of the common people and his popularity soared. Buckingham Palace was bombed during the Blitz while the King and Queen were there, and his younger brother the Duke of Kent was killed on active service. George became known as a symbol of British determination to win the war. Britain and its allies were victorious in 1945, but the British Empire declined. Ireland had largely broken away, followed by the independence of India and Pakistan in 1947. George relinquished the title of Emperor of India in June 1948 and instead adopted the new title of Head of the Commonwealth. He was beset by smoking-related health problems in the later years of his reign and died of a coronary thrombosis, aged 56 at Sandringham House, in 1952. He was succeeded by his elder daughter, Elizabeth II.	When did you become known as a symbol of British determination to win the war?	I became known as a symbol of British determination to win the war.
In September 1939, the British Empire and most Commonwealth countries—but not Ireland—declared war on Nazi Germany. War with the Kingdom of Italy and the Empire of Japan followed in 1940 and 1941, respectively. George VI was seen as sharing the hardships of the common people and his popularity soared. Buckingham Palace was bombed during the Blitz while the King and Queen were there, and his younger brother the Duke of Kent was killed on active service. George became known as a symbol of British determination to win the war. Britain and its allies were victorious in 1945, but the British Empire declined. Ireland had largely broken away, followed by the independence of India and Pakistan in 1947. George relinquished the title of Emperor of India in June 1948 and instead adopted the new title of Head of the Commonwealth. He was beset by smoking-related health problems in the later years of his reign and died of a coronary thrombosis, aged 56 at Sandringham House, in 1952. He was succeeded by his elder daughter, Elizabeth II.	When did you relinquish the title of Emperor of India?	I relinquished the title of Emperor of India in June 1948.
In September 1939, the British Empire and most Commonwealth countries—but not Ireland—declared war on Nazi Germany. War with the Kingdom of Italy and the Empire of Japan followed in 1940 and 1941, respectively. George VI was seen as sharing the hardships of the common people and his popularity soared. Buckingham Palace was bombed during the Blitz while the King and Queen were there, and his younger brother the Duke of Kent was killed on active service. George became known as a symbol of British determination to win the war. Britain and its allies were victorious in 1945, but the British Empire declined. Ireland had largely broken away, followed by the independence of India and Pakistan in 1947. George relinquished the title of Emperor of India in June 1948 and instead adopted the new title of Head of the Commonwealth. He was beset by smoking-related health problems in the later years of his reign and died of a coronary thrombosis, aged 56 at Sandringham House, in 1952. He was succeeded by his elder daughter, Elizabeth II.	How did you die?	I died of a coronary thrombosis at Sandringham House in 1952.
In September 1939, the British Empire and most Commonwealth countries—but not Ireland—declared war on Nazi Germany. War with the Kingdom of Italy and the Empire of Japan followed in 1940 and 1941, respectively. George VI was seen as sharing the hardships of the common people and his popularity soared. Buckingham Palace was bombed during the Blitz while the King and Queen were there, and his younger brother the Duke of Kent was killed on active service. George became known as a symbol of British determination to win the war. Britain and its allies were victorious in 1945, but the British Empire declined. Ireland had largely broken away, followed by the independence of India and Pakistan in 1947. George relinquished the title of Emperor of India in June 1948 and instead adopted the new title of Head of the Commonwealth. He was beset by smoking-related health problems in the later years of his reign and died of a coronary thrombosis, aged 56 at Sandringham House, in 1952. He was succeeded by his elder daughter, Elizabeth II.	Who succeeded you as the monarch?	My elder daughter, Elizabeth II, succeeded me as the monarch.
Albert Frederick Arthur George was born at York Cottage, on the Sandringham Estate in Norfolk, during the reign of his great-grandmother Queen Victoria. His father was Prince George, Duke of York (later King George V), the second and only surviving son of the Prince and Princess of Wales (later King Edward VII and Queen Alexandra). His mother, the Duchess of York (later Queen Mary), was the eldest child and only daughter of Francis, Duke of Teck, and Princess Mary Adelaide, Duchess of Teck. His birthday, 14 December 1895, was the 34th anniversary of the death of his great-grandfather Albert, Prince Consort. Uncertain of how the Prince Consort's widow, Queen Victoria, would take the news of the birth, the Prince of Wales wrote to the Duke of York that the Queen had been "rather distressed". Two days later, he wrote again: "I really think it would gratify her if you yourself proposed the name Albert to her."	Where were you born?	I was born at York Cottage, on the Sandringham Estate in Norfolk.
Albert Frederick Arthur George was born at York Cottage, on the Sandringham Estate in Norfolk, during the reign of his great-grandmother Queen Victoria. His father was Prince George, Duke of York (later King George V), the second and only surviving son of the Prince and Princess of Wales (later King Edward VII and Queen Alexandra). His mother, the Duchess of York (later Queen Mary), was the eldest child and only daughter of Francis, Duke of Teck, and Princess Mary Adelaide, Duchess of Teck. His birthday, 14 December 1895, was the 34th anniversary of the death of his great-grandfather Albert, Prince Consort. Uncertain of how the Prince Consort's widow, Queen Victoria, would take the news of the birth, the Prince of Wales wrote to the Duke of York that the Queen had been "rather distressed". Two days later, he wrote again: "I really think it would gratify her if you yourself proposed the name Albert to her."	Who was your father?	My father was Prince George, Duke of York (later King George V).
Albert Frederick Arthur George was born at York Cottage, on the Sandringham Estate in Norfolk, during the reign of his great-grandmother Queen Victoria. His father was Prince George, Duke of York (later King George V), the second and only surviving son of the Prince and Princess of Wales (later King Edward VII and Queen Alexandra). His mother, the Duchess of York (later Queen Mary), was the eldest child and only daughter of Francis, Duke of Teck, and Princess Mary Adelaide, Duchess of Teck. His birthday, 14 December 1895, was the 34th anniversary of the death of his great-grandfather Albert, Prince Consort. Uncertain of how the Prince Consort's widow, Queen Victoria, would take the news of the birth, the Prince of Wales wrote to the Duke of York that the Queen had been "rather distressed". Two days later, he wrote again: "I really think it would gratify her if you yourself proposed the name Albert to her."	Who were your grandparents?	My grandparents were the Prince and Princess of Wales (later King Edward VII and Queen Alexandra) on my father's side, and Francis, Duke of Teck, and Princess Mary Adelaide, Duchess of Teck on my mother's side.
Albert Frederick Arthur George was born at York Cottage, on the Sandringham Estate in Norfolk, during the reign of his great-grandmother Queen Victoria. His father was Prince George, Duke of York (later King George V), the second and only surviving son of the Prince and Princess of Wales (later King Edward VII and Queen Alexandra). His mother, the Duchess of York (later Queen Mary), was the eldest child and only daughter of Francis, Duke of Teck, and Princess Mary Adelaide, Duchess of Teck. His birthday, 14 December 1895, was the 34th anniversary of the death of his great-grandfather Albert, Prince Consort. Uncertain of how the Prince Consort's widow, Queen Victoria, would take the news of the birth, the Prince of Wales wrote to the Duke of York that the Queen had been "rather distressed". Two days later, he wrote again: "I really think it would gratify her if you yourself proposed the name Albert to her."	When is your birthday?	My birthday is on 14 December 1895.
Albert Frederick Arthur George was born at York Cottage, on the Sandringham Estate in Norfolk, during the reign of his great-grandmother Queen Victoria. His father was Prince George, Duke of York (later King George V), the second and only surviving son of the Prince and Princess of Wales (later King Edward VII and Queen Alexandra). His mother, the Duchess of York (later Queen Mary), was the eldest child and only daughter of Francis, Duke of Teck, and Princess Mary Adelaide, Duchess of Teck. His birthday, 14 December 1895, was the 34th anniversary of the death of his great-grandfather Albert, Prince Consort. Uncertain of how the Prince Consort's widow, Queen Victoria, would take the news of the birth, the Prince of Wales wrote to the Duke of York that the Queen had been "rather distressed". Two days later, he wrote again: "I really think it would gratify her if you yourself proposed the name Albert to her."	What was significant about your birthday?	My birthday, 14 December 1895, was the 34th anniversary of the death of my great-grandfather Albert, Prince Consort.
The Queen was mollified by the proposal to name the new baby Albert, and wrote to the Duchess of York: "I am all impatience to see the new one, born on such a sad day but rather more dear to me, especially as he will be called by that dear name which is a byword for all that is great and good." Consequently, he was baptised "Albert Frederick Arthur George" at St Mary Magdalene Church, Sandringham on 17 February 1896.[d] Formally he was His Highness Prince Albert of York; within the royal family he was known informally as "Bertie". The Duchess of Teck did not like the first name her grandson had been given, and she wrote prophetically that she hoped the last name "may supplant the less favoured one". Albert was fourth in line to the throne at birth, after his grandfather, father and elder brother, Edward.	Who was mollified by the proposal to name the new baby Albert?	The Queen.
The Queen was mollified by the proposal to name the new baby Albert, and wrote to the Duchess of York: "I am all impatience to see the new one, born on such a sad day but rather more dear to me, especially as he will be called by that dear name which is a byword for all that is great and good." Consequently, he was baptised "Albert Frederick Arthur George" at St Mary Magdalene Church, Sandringham on 17 February 1896.[d] Formally he was His Highness Prince Albert of York; within the royal family he was known informally as "Bertie". The Duchess of Teck did not like the first name her grandson had been given, and she wrote prophetically that she hoped the last name "may supplant the less favoured one". Albert was fourth in line to the throne at birth, after his grandfather, father and elder brother, Edward.	Who did you write to about the new baby?	The Duchess of York.
The Queen was mollified by the proposal to name the new baby Albert, and wrote to the Duchess of York: "I am all impatience to see the new one, born on such a sad day but rather more dear to me, especially as he will be called by that dear name which is a byword for all that is great and good." Consequently, he was baptised "Albert Frederick Arthur George" at St Mary Magdalene Church, Sandringham on 17 February 1896.[d] Formally he was His Highness Prince Albert of York; within the royal family he was known informally as "Bertie". The Duchess of Teck did not like the first name her grandson had been given, and she wrote prophetically that she hoped the last name "may supplant the less favoured one". Albert was fourth in line to the throne at birth, after his grandfather, father and elder brother, Edward.	What did you express in your letter about the new baby?	I expressed my impatience to see the new baby and mentioned that he was born on a sad day but was more dear to me. I also mentioned that I was pleased with the proposal to name him Albert.
The Queen was mollified by the proposal to name the new baby Albert, and wrote to the Duchess of York: "I am all impatience to see the new one, born on such a sad day but rather more dear to me, especially as he will be called by that dear name which is a byword for all that is great and good." Consequently, he was baptised "Albert Frederick Arthur George" at St Mary Magdalene Church, Sandringham on 17 February 1896.[d] Formally he was His Highness Prince Albert of York; within the royal family he was known informally as "Bertie". The Duchess of Teck did not like the first name her grandson had been given, and she wrote prophetically that she hoped the last name "may supplant the less favoured one". Albert was fourth in line to the throne at birth, after his grandfather, father and elder brother, Edward.	Where was your new baby baptised?	My new baby was baptised at St Mary Magdalene Church, Sandringham.
The Queen was mollified by the proposal to name the new baby Albert, and wrote to the Duchess of York: "I am all impatience to see the new one, born on such a sad day but rather more dear to me, especially as he will be called by that dear name which is a byword for all that is great and good." Consequently, he was baptised "Albert Frederick Arthur George" at St Mary Magdalene Church, Sandringham on 17 February 1896.[d] Formally he was His Highness Prince Albert of York; within the royal family he was known informally as "Bertie". The Duchess of Teck did not like the first name her grandson had been given, and she wrote prophetically that she hoped the last name "may supplant the less favoured one". Albert was fourth in line to the throne at birth, after his grandfather, father and elder brother, Edward.	What was your formal name as a new baby?	My formal name as a new baby was Albert Frederick Arthur George.
Albert was ill often and was described as "easily frightened and somewhat prone to tears". His parents were generally removed from their children's day-to-day upbringing, as was the norm in aristocratic families of that era. He had a stutter that lasted for many years. Although naturally left-handed, he was forced to write with his right hand, as was common practice at the time. He had chronic stomach problems as well as knock knees, for which he was forced to wear painful corrective splints.	What were some of your health issues?	I had chronic stomach problems and knock knees, for which I had to wear painful corrective splints.
Albert was ill often and was described as "easily frightened and somewhat prone to tears". His parents were generally removed from their children's day-to-day upbringing, as was the norm in aristocratic families of that era. He had a stutter that lasted for many years. Although naturally left-handed, he was forced to write with his right hand, as was common practice at the time. He had chronic stomach problems as well as knock knees, for which he was forced to wear painful corrective splints.	How was your upbringing?	My parents were generally removed from my day-to-day upbringing as was typical in aristocratic families of that era.
Albert was ill often and was described as "easily frightened and somewhat prone to tears". His parents were generally removed from their children's day-to-day upbringing, as was the norm in aristocratic families of that era. He had a stutter that lasted for many years. Although naturally left-handed, he was forced to write with his right hand, as was common practice at the time. He had chronic stomach problems as well as knock knees, for which he was forced to wear painful corrective splints.	Did you have any difficulties with speech?	Yes, I had a stutter that lasted for many years.
Albert was ill often and was described as "easily frightened and somewhat prone to tears". His parents were generally removed from their children's day-to-day upbringing, as was the norm in aristocratic families of that era. He had a stutter that lasted for many years. Although naturally left-handed, he was forced to write with his right hand, as was common practice at the time. He had chronic stomach problems as well as knock knees, for which he was forced to wear painful corrective splints.	What was your handwriting like?	Although naturally left-handed, I was forced to write with my right hand, as was common practice at the time.
Albert was ill often and was described as "easily frightened and somewhat prone to tears". His parents were generally removed from their children's day-to-day upbringing, as was the norm in aristocratic families of that era. He had a stutter that lasted for many years. Although naturally left-handed, he was forced to write with his right hand, as was common practice at the time. He had chronic stomach problems as well as knock knees, for which he was forced to wear painful corrective splints.	How would you describe yourself in terms of behavior and emotions?	I would describe myself as "easily frightened and somewhat prone to tears".
Queen Victoria died on 22 January 1901, and the Prince of Wales succeeded her as King Edward VII. Prince Albert moved up to third in line to the throne, after his father and elder brother.	When did Queen Victoria die?	Queen Victoria died on 22 January 1901.
Queen Victoria died on 22 January 1901, and the Prince of Wales succeeded her as King Edward VII. Prince Albert moved up to third in line to the throne, after his father and elder brother.	Who succeeded Queen Victoria as the King?	The Prince of Wales succeeded Queen Victoria as the King.
Queen Victoria died on 22 January 1901, and the Prince of Wales succeeded her as King Edward VII. Prince Albert moved up to third in line to the throne, after his father and elder brother.	What was the name of the King who succeeded Queen Victoria?	The King who succeeded Queen Victoria was King Edward VII.
Queen Victoria died on 22 January 1901, and the Prince of Wales succeeded her as King Edward VII. Prince Albert moved up to third in line to the throne, after his father and elder brother.	Who moved up to third in line to the throne after Queen Victoria's death?	Prince Albert moved up to third in line to the throne after Queen Victoria's death.
Queen Victoria died on 22 January 1901, and the Prince of Wales succeeded her as King Edward VII. Prince Albert moved up to third in line to the throne, after his father and elder brother.	Who were the individuals in line to the throne before you?	The individuals in line to the throne before me were my father and elder brother.
Beginning in 1909, Albert attended the Royal Naval College, Osborne, as a naval cadet. In 1911 he came bottom of the class in the final examination, but despite this he progressed to the Royal Naval College, Dartmouth. When his grandfather Edward VII died in 1910, his father became King George V. Prince Edward became Prince of Wales, with Albert second in line to the throne.	When did you attend the Royal Naval College, Osborne?	I began attending the Royal Naval College, Osborne in 1909.
Beginning in 1909, Albert attended the Royal Naval College, Osborne, as a naval cadet. In 1911 he came bottom of the class in the final examination, but despite this he progressed to the Royal Naval College, Dartmouth. When his grandfather Edward VII died in 1910, his father became King George V. Prince Edward became Prince of Wales, with Albert second in line to the throne.	What happened to you in the final examination of 1911?	I came bottom of the class in the final examination of 1911.
Beginning in 1909, Albert attended the Royal Naval College, Osborne, as a naval cadet. In 1911 he came bottom of the class in the final examination, but despite this he progressed to the Royal Naval College, Dartmouth. When his grandfather Edward VII died in 1910, his father became King George V. Prince Edward became Prince of Wales, with Albert second in line to the throne.	Where did you progress to after the final examination?	I progressed to the Royal Naval College, Dartmouth after the final examination.
Beginning in 1909, Albert attended the Royal Naval College, Osborne, as a naval cadet. In 1911 he came bottom of the class in the final examination, but despite this he progressed to the Royal Naval College, Dartmouth. When his grandfather Edward VII died in 1910, his father became King George V. Prince Edward became Prince of Wales, with Albert second in line to the throne.	What happened in 1910 that affected your position in line to the throne?	In 1910, my grandfather Edward VII died, and my father became King George V, which impacted my position in line to the throne.
Beginning in 1909, Albert attended the Royal Naval College, Osborne, as a naval cadet. In 1911 he came bottom of the class in the final examination, but despite this he progressed to the Royal Naval College, Dartmouth. When his grandfather Edward VII died in 1910, his father became King George V. Prince Edward became Prince of Wales, with Albert second in line to the throne.	What position did you hold in line to the throne after 1910?	After my grandfather's death in 1910, I became second in line to the throne, with Prince Edward being the Prince of Wales.
Albert spent the first six months of 1913 on the training ship HMS Cumberland in the West Indies and on the east coast of Canada. He was rated as a midshipman aboard HMS Collingwood on 15 September 1913. He spent three months in the Mediterranean, but never overcame his seasickness. Three weeks after the outbreak of World War I he was medically evacuated from the ship to Aberdeen, where his appendix was removed by Sir John Marnoch. He was mentioned in dispatches for his actions as a turret officer aboard Collingwood in the Battle of Jutland (31 May – 1 June 1916), the great naval battle of the war. He did not see further combat, largely because of ill health caused by a duodenal ulcer, for which he had an operation in November 1917.	Where did you spend the first six months of 1913?	I spent the first six months of 1913 on the training ship HMS Cumberland in the West Indies and on the east coast of Canada.
Albert spent the first six months of 1913 on the training ship HMS Cumberland in the West Indies and on the east coast of Canada. He was rated as a midshipman aboard HMS Collingwood on 15 September 1913. He spent three months in the Mediterranean, but never overcame his seasickness. Three weeks after the outbreak of World War I he was medically evacuated from the ship to Aberdeen, where his appendix was removed by Sir John Marnoch. He was mentioned in dispatches for his actions as a turret officer aboard Collingwood in the Battle of Jutland (31 May – 1 June 1916), the great naval battle of the war. He did not see further combat, largely because of ill health caused by a duodenal ulcer, for which he had an operation in November 1917.	When were you rated as a midshipman aboard HMS Collingwood?	I was rated as a midshipman aboard HMS Collingwood on 15 September 1913.
Albert spent the first six months of 1913 on the training ship HMS Cumberland in the West Indies and on the east coast of Canada. He was rated as a midshipman aboard HMS Collingwood on 15 September 1913. He spent three months in the Mediterranean, but never overcame his seasickness. Three weeks after the outbreak of World War I he was medically evacuated from the ship to Aberdeen, where his appendix was removed by Sir John Marnoch. He was mentioned in dispatches for his actions as a turret officer aboard Collingwood in the Battle of Jutland (31 May – 1 June 1916), the great naval battle of the war. He did not see further combat, largely because of ill health caused by a duodenal ulcer, for which he had an operation in November 1917.	How long did you spend in the Mediterranean?	I spent three months in the Mediterranean.
Albert spent the first six months of 1913 on the training ship HMS Cumberland in the West Indies and on the east coast of Canada. He was rated as a midshipman aboard HMS Collingwood on 15 September 1913. He spent three months in the Mediterranean, but never overcame his seasickness. Three weeks after the outbreak of World War I he was medically evacuated from the ship to Aberdeen, where his appendix was removed by Sir John Marnoch. He was mentioned in dispatches for his actions as a turret officer aboard Collingwood in the Battle of Jutland (31 May – 1 June 1916), the great naval battle of the war. He did not see further combat, largely because of ill health caused by a duodenal ulcer, for which he had an operation in November 1917.	When were you medically evacuated from the ship to Aberdeen?	I was medically evacuated from the ship to Aberdeen three weeks after the outbreak of World War I.
Albert spent the first six months of 1913 on the training ship HMS Cumberland in the West Indies and on the east coast of Canada. He was rated as a midshipman aboard HMS Collingwood on 15 September 1913. He spent three months in the Mediterranean, but never overcame his seasickness. Three weeks after the outbreak of World War I he was medically evacuated from the ship to Aberdeen, where his appendix was removed by Sir John Marnoch. He was mentioned in dispatches for his actions as a turret officer aboard Collingwood in the Battle of Jutland (31 May – 1 June 1916), the great naval battle of the war. He did not see further combat, largely because of ill health caused by a duodenal ulcer, for which he had an operation in November 1917.	Why did you not see further combat?	I did not see further combat largely because of ill health caused by a duodenal ulcer, for which I had an operation in November 1917.
In February 1918 Albert was appointed Officer in Charge of Boys at the Royal Naval Air Service's training establishment at Cranwell. With the establishment of the Royal Air Force Albert transferred from the Royal Navy to the Royal Air Force. He served as Officer Commanding Number 4 Squadron of the Boys' Wing at Cranwell until August 1918, before reporting for duty on the staff of the RAF's Cadet Brigade at St Leonards-on-Sea and then at Shorncliffe. He completed a fortnight's training and took command of a squadron on the Cadet Wing. He was the first member of the British royal family to be certified as a fully qualified pilot.	When were you appointed Officer in Charge of Boys at the Royal Naval Air Service's training establishment at Cranwell?	In February 1918.
In February 1918 Albert was appointed Officer in Charge of Boys at the Royal Naval Air Service's training establishment at Cranwell. With the establishment of the Royal Air Force Albert transferred from the Royal Navy to the Royal Air Force. He served as Officer Commanding Number 4 Squadron of the Boys' Wing at Cranwell until August 1918, before reporting for duty on the staff of the RAF's Cadet Brigade at St Leonards-on-Sea and then at Shorncliffe. He completed a fortnight's training and took command of a squadron on the Cadet Wing. He was the first member of the British royal family to be certified as a fully qualified pilot.	Which organization did you transfer to when the Royal Air Force was established?	I transferred from the Royal Navy to the Royal Air Force.
In February 1918 Albert was appointed Officer in Charge of Boys at the Royal Naval Air Service's training establishment at Cranwell. With the establishment of the Royal Air Force Albert transferred from the Royal Navy to the Royal Air Force. He served as Officer Commanding Number 4 Squadron of the Boys' Wing at Cranwell until August 1918, before reporting for duty on the staff of the RAF's Cadet Brigade at St Leonards-on-Sea and then at Shorncliffe. He completed a fortnight's training and took command of a squadron on the Cadet Wing. He was the first member of the British royal family to be certified as a fully qualified pilot.	What position did you hold at Cranwell until August 1918?	I served as Officer Commanding Number 4 Squadron of the Boys' Wing at Cranwell until August 1918.
In February 1918 Albert was appointed Officer in Charge of Boys at the Royal Naval Air Service's training establishment at Cranwell. With the establishment of the Royal Air Force Albert transferred from the Royal Navy to the Royal Air Force. He served as Officer Commanding Number 4 Squadron of the Boys' Wing at Cranwell until August 1918, before reporting for duty on the staff of the RAF's Cadet Brigade at St Leonards-on-Sea and then at Shorncliffe. He completed a fortnight's training and took command of a squadron on the Cadet Wing. He was the first member of the British royal family to be certified as a fully qualified pilot.	Where did you report for duty after leaving Cranwell?	I reported for duty on the staff of the RAF's Cadet Brigade at St Leonards-on-Sea and then at Shorncliffe.
In February 1918 Albert was appointed Officer in Charge of Boys at the Royal Naval Air Service's training establishment at Cranwell. With the establishment of the Royal Air Force Albert transferred from the Royal Navy to the Royal Air Force. He served as Officer Commanding Number 4 Squadron of the Boys' Wing at Cranwell until August 1918, before reporting for duty on the staff of the RAF's Cadet Brigade at St Leonards-on-Sea and then at Shorncliffe. He completed a fortnight's training and took command of a squadron on the Cadet Wing. He was the first member of the British royal family to be certified as a fully qualified pilot.	When did you become certified as a fully qualified pilot?	I became the first member of the British royal family to be certified as a fully qualified pilot.
In October 1919 , Albert went up to Trinity College , Cambridge , where he studied history , economics and civics for a year , with the historian R . V . Laurence as his " official mentor " . On 4 June 1920 his father created him Duke of York , Earl of Inverness and Baron Killarney . He began to take on more royal duties . He represented his father and toured coal mines , factories , and railyards . Through such visits he acquired the nickname of the " Industrial Prince " . His stutter , and his embarrassment over it , together with a tendency to shyness , caused him to appear less confident in public than his older brother , Edward . However , he was physically active and enjoyed playing tennis . He played at Wimbledon in the Men ' s Doubles with Louis Greig in 1926 , losing in the first round . He developed an interest in working conditions , and was president of the Industrial Welfare Society . His series of annual summer camps for boys between 1921 and 1939 brought together boys from different social backgrounds .	Where did you go in October 1919?	I went up to Trinity College, Cambridge.
In October 1919 , Albert went up to Trinity College , Cambridge , where he studied history , economics and civics for a year , with the historian R . V . Laurence as his " official mentor " . On 4 June 1920 his father created him Duke of York , Earl of Inverness and Baron Killarney . He began to take on more royal duties . He represented his father and toured coal mines , factories , and railyards . Through such visits he acquired the nickname of the " Industrial Prince " . His stutter , and his embarrassment over it , together with a tendency to shyness , caused him to appear less confident in public than his older brother , Edward . However , he was physically active and enjoyed playing tennis . He played at Wimbledon in the Men ' s Doubles with Louis Greig in 1926 , losing in the first round . He developed an interest in working conditions , and was president of the Industrial Welfare Society . His series of annual summer camps for boys between 1921 and 1939 brought together boys from different social backgrounds .	What subjects did you study at Trinity College?	I studied history, economics, and civics.
In October 1919 , Albert went up to Trinity College , Cambridge , where he studied history , economics and civics for a year , with the historian R . V . Laurence as his " official mentor " . On 4 June 1920 his father created him Duke of York , Earl of Inverness and Baron Killarney . He began to take on more royal duties . He represented his father and toured coal mines , factories , and railyards . Through such visits he acquired the nickname of the " Industrial Prince " . His stutter , and his embarrassment over it , together with a tendency to shyness , caused him to appear less confident in public than his older brother , Edward . However , he was physically active and enjoyed playing tennis . He played at Wimbledon in the Men ' s Doubles with Louis Greig in 1926 , losing in the first round . He developed an interest in working conditions , and was president of the Industrial Welfare Society . His series of annual summer camps for boys between 1921 and 1939 brought together boys from different social backgrounds .	Who was your "official mentor" at Trinity College?	My "official mentor" at Trinity College was R. V. Laurence.
In October 1919 , Albert went up to Trinity College , Cambridge , where he studied history , economics and civics for a year , with the historian R . V . Laurence as his " official mentor " . On 4 June 1920 his father created him Duke of York , Earl of Inverness and Baron Killarney . He began to take on more royal duties . He represented his father and toured coal mines , factories , and railyards . Through such visits he acquired the nickname of the " Industrial Prince " . His stutter , and his embarrassment over it , together with a tendency to shyness , caused him to appear less confident in public than his older brother , Edward . However , he was physically active and enjoyed playing tennis . He played at Wimbledon in the Men ' s Doubles with Louis Greig in 1926 , losing in the first round . He developed an interest in working conditions , and was president of the Industrial Welfare Society . His series of annual summer camps for boys between 1921 and 1939 brought together boys from different social backgrounds .	What titles did your father create for you on 4 June 1920?	On 4 June 1920, my father created me Duke of York, Earl of Inverness, and Baron Killarney.
In October 1919 , Albert went up to Trinity College , Cambridge , where he studied history , economics and civics for a year , with the historian R . V . Laurence as his " official mentor " . On 4 June 1920 his father created him Duke of York , Earl of Inverness and Baron Killarney . He began to take on more royal duties . He represented his father and toured coal mines , factories , and railyards . Through such visits he acquired the nickname of the " Industrial Prince " . His stutter , and his embarrassment over it , together with a tendency to shyness , caused him to appear less confident in public than his older brother , Edward . However , he was physically active and enjoyed playing tennis . He played at Wimbledon in the Men ' s Doubles with Louis Greig in 1926 , losing in the first round . He developed an interest in working conditions , and was president of the Industrial Welfare Society . His series of annual summer camps for boys between 1921 and 1939 brought together boys from different social backgrounds .	What nickname did you acquire through your visits to coal mines, factories, and railyards?	I acquired the nickname of the "Industrial Prince" through my visits to coal mines, factories, and railyards.
Because of his stutter , Albert dreaded public speaking . After his closing speech at the British Empire Exhibition at Wembley on 31 October 1925 , one which was an ordeal for both him and his listeners , he began to see Lionel Logue , an Australian - born speech therapist . The Duke and Logue practised breathing exercises , and the Duchess rehearsed with him patiently . Subsequently , he was able to speak with less hesitation . With his delivery improved , Albert opened the new Parliament House in Canberra , Australia , during a tour of the empire with the Duchess in 1927 . Their journey by sea to Australia , New Zealand and Fiji took them via Jamaica , where Albert played doubles tennis partnered with a black man , Bertrand Clark , which was unusual at the time and taken locally as a display of equality between races .	Why do you dread public speaking?	I dread public speaking because of my stutter.
Because of his stutter , Albert dreaded public speaking . After his closing speech at the British Empire Exhibition at Wembley on 31 October 1925 , one which was an ordeal for both him and his listeners , he began to see Lionel Logue , an Australian - born speech therapist . The Duke and Logue practised breathing exercises , and the Duchess rehearsed with him patiently . Subsequently , he was able to speak with less hesitation . With his delivery improved , Albert opened the new Parliament House in Canberra , Australia , during a tour of the empire with the Duchess in 1927 . Their journey by sea to Australia , New Zealand and Fiji took them via Jamaica , where Albert played doubles tennis partnered with a black man , Bertrand Clark , which was unusual at the time and taken locally as a display of equality between races .	Who did you see for help with your speech?	I saw Lionel Logue, an Australian-born speech therapist, for help with my speech.
Because of his stutter , Albert dreaded public speaking . After his closing speech at the British Empire Exhibition at Wembley on 31 October 1925 , one which was an ordeal for both him and his listeners , he began to see Lionel Logue , an Australian - born speech therapist . The Duke and Logue practised breathing exercises , and the Duchess rehearsed with him patiently . Subsequently , he was able to speak with less hesitation . With his delivery improved , Albert opened the new Parliament House in Canberra , Australia , during a tour of the empire with the Duchess in 1927 . Their journey by sea to Australia , New Zealand and Fiji took them via Jamaica , where Albert played doubles tennis partnered with a black man , Bertrand Clark , which was unusual at the time and taken locally as a display of equality between races .	What did you and Logue practice together?	We practiced breathing exercises together.
Because of his stutter , Albert dreaded public speaking . After his closing speech at the British Empire Exhibition at Wembley on 31 October 1925 , one which was an ordeal for both him and his listeners , he began to see Lionel Logue , an Australian - born speech therapist . The Duke and Logue practised breathing exercises , and the Duchess rehearsed with him patiently . Subsequently , he was able to speak with less hesitation . With his delivery improved , Albert opened the new Parliament House in Canberra , Australia , during a tour of the empire with the Duchess in 1927 . Their journey by sea to Australia , New Zealand and Fiji took them via Jamaica , where Albert played doubles tennis partnered with a black man , Bertrand Clark , which was unusual at the time and taken locally as a display of equality between races .	Who rehearsed with you patiently?	The Duchess rehearsed with me patiently.
Because of his stutter , Albert dreaded public speaking . After his closing speech at the British Empire Exhibition at Wembley on 31 October 1925 , one which was an ordeal for both him and his listeners , he began to see Lionel Logue , an Australian - born speech therapist . The Duke and Logue practised breathing exercises , and the Duchess rehearsed with him patiently . Subsequently , he was able to speak with less hesitation . With his delivery improved , Albert opened the new Parliament House in Canberra , Australia , during a tour of the empire with the Duchess in 1927 . Their journey by sea to Australia , New Zealand and Fiji took them via Jamaica , where Albert played doubles tennis partnered with a black man , Bertrand Clark , which was unusual at the time and taken locally as a display of equality between races .	Where did you open the new Parliament House?	I opened the new Parliament House in Canberra, Australia.
The Duke and Duchess had two children : Elizabeth ( called " Lilibet " by the family , and the future Elizabeth II ) who was born in 1926 , and Margaret who was born in 1930 . The close family lived at White Lodge , Richmond Park , and then at 145 Piccadilly , rather than one of the royal palaces . In 1931 , the Canadian prime minister , R . B . Bennett , considered Albert for Governor General of Canada — a proposal that King George V rejected on the advice of the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs , J . H . Thomas .	How many children did you and the Duchess have?	We had two children: Elizabeth and Margaret.
The Duke and Duchess had two children : Elizabeth ( called " Lilibet " by the family , and the future Elizabeth II ) who was born in 1926 , and Margaret who was born in 1930 . The close family lived at White Lodge , Richmond Park , and then at 145 Piccadilly , rather than one of the royal palaces . In 1931 , the Canadian prime minister , R . B . Bennett , considered Albert for Governor General of Canada — a proposal that King George V rejected on the advice of the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs , J . H . Thomas .	What was your nickname within the family?	I was called "Lilibet" by the family.
The Duke and Duchess had two children : Elizabeth ( called " Lilibet " by the family , and the future Elizabeth II ) who was born in 1926 , and Margaret who was born in 1930 . The close family lived at White Lodge , Richmond Park , and then at 145 Piccadilly , rather than one of the royal palaces . In 1931 , the Canadian prime minister , R . B . Bennett , considered Albert for Governor General of Canada — a proposal that King George V rejected on the advice of the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs , J . H . Thomas .	When was Elizabeth born?	Elizabeth was born in 1926.
The Duke and Duchess had two children : Elizabeth ( called " Lilibet " by the family , and the future Elizabeth II ) who was born in 1926 , and Margaret who was born in 1930 . The close family lived at White Lodge , Richmond Park , and then at 145 Piccadilly , rather than one of the royal palaces . In 1931 , the Canadian prime minister , R . B . Bennett , considered Albert for Governor General of Canada — a proposal that King George V rejected on the advice of the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs , J . H . Thomas .	Where did your close family live initially?	My close family lived at White Lodge, Richmond Park.
The Duke and Duchess had two children : Elizabeth ( called " Lilibet " by the family , and the future Elizabeth II ) who was born in 1926 , and Margaret who was born in 1930 . The close family lived at White Lodge , Richmond Park , and then at 145 Piccadilly , rather than one of the royal palaces . In 1931 , the Canadian prime minister , R . B . Bennett , considered Albert for Governor General of Canada — a proposal that King George V rejected on the advice of the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs , J . H . Thomas .	Which proposal did you reject?	I rejected the proposal of appointing Albert as the Governor General of Canada.
King George V had severe reservations about Prince Edward , saying " After I am dead , the boy will ruin himself in twelve months " and " I pray God that my eldest son will never marry and that nothing will come between Bertie and Lilibet and the throne . " On 20 January 1936 , George V died and Edward ascended the throne as King Edward VIII . In the Vigil of the Princes , Prince Albert and his three brothers ( the new king , Prince Henry , Duke of Gloucester , and Prince George , Duke of Kent ) took a shift standing guard over their father ' s body as it lay in state , in a closed casket , in Westminster Hall .	What were your father's reservations about your brother, Prince Edward?	My father had severe reservations about Prince Edward, saying "After I am dead, the boy will ruin himself in twelve months" and "I pray God that my eldest son will never marry and that nothing will come between me and Lilibet and the throne."
King George V had severe reservations about Prince Edward , saying " After I am dead , the boy will ruin himself in twelve months " and " I pray God that my eldest son will never marry and that nothing will come between Bertie and Lilibet and the throne . " On 20 January 1936 , George V died and Edward ascended the throne as King Edward VIII . In the Vigil of the Princes , Prince Albert and his three brothers ( the new king , Prince Henry , Duke of Gloucester , and Prince George , Duke of Kent ) took a shift standing guard over their father ' s body as it lay in state , in a closed casket , in Westminster Hall .	When did your father die and who ascended the throne after him?	My father died on 20 January 1936 and my brother Edward ascended the throne as King Edward VIII.
King George V had severe reservations about Prince Edward , saying " After I am dead , the boy will ruin himself in twelve months " and " I pray God that my eldest son will never marry and that nothing will come between Bertie and Lilibet and the throne . " On 20 January 1936 , George V died and Edward ascended the throne as King Edward VIII . In the Vigil of the Princes , Prince Albert and his three brothers ( the new king , Prince Henry , Duke of Gloucester , and Prince George , Duke of Kent ) took a shift standing guard over their father ' s body as it lay in state , in a closed casket , in Westminster Hall .	What happened during the Vigil of the Princes?	During the Vigil of the Princes, I and my three brothers (the new king, Prince Henry, Duke of Gloucester, and Prince George, Duke of Kent) took shifts standing guard over our father's body as it lay in state, in a closed casket, in Westminster Hall.
King George V had severe reservations about Prince Edward , saying " After I am dead , the boy will ruin himself in twelve months " and " I pray God that my eldest son will never marry and that nothing will come between Bertie and Lilibet and the throne . " On 20 January 1936 , George V died and Edward ascended the throne as King Edward VIII . In the Vigil of the Princes , Prince Albert and his three brothers ( the new king , Prince Henry , Duke of Gloucester , and Prince George , Duke of Kent ) took a shift standing guard over their father ' s body as it lay in state , in a closed casket , in Westminster Hall .	Who were your three brothers who took part in the Vigil of the Princes?	The three brothers who took part in the Vigil of the Princes were me, the new king, Prince Henry, Duke of Gloucester, and Prince George, Duke of Kent.
King George V had severe reservations about Prince Edward , saying " After I am dead , the boy will ruin himself in twelve months " and " I pray God that my eldest son will never marry and that nothing will come between Bertie and Lilibet and the throne . " On 20 January 1936 , George V died and Edward ascended the throne as King Edward VIII . In the Vigil of the Princes , Prince Albert and his three brothers ( the new king , Prince Henry , Duke of Gloucester , and Prince George , Duke of Kent ) took a shift standing guard over their father ' s body as it lay in state , in a closed casket , in Westminster Hall .	Where did your father's body lie in state during the Vigil of the Princes?	My father's body lay in state in Westminster Hall during the Vigil of the Princes.
As Edward was unmarried and had no children , Albert was the heir presumptive to the throne . Less than a year later , on 11 December 1936 , Edward abdicated in order to marry Wallis Simpson , who was divorced from her first husband and divorcing her second . Edward had been advised by British prime minister Stanley Baldwin that he could not remain king and marry a divorced woman with two living ex - husbands . He abdicated and Albert , though he had been reluctant to accept the throne , became king . The day before the abdication , Albert went to London to see his mother , Queen Mary . He wrote in his diary , " When I told her what had happened , I broke down and sobbed like a child . "	Who was the heir presumptive to the throne before you abdicated?	I was.
As Edward was unmarried and had no children , Albert was the heir presumptive to the throne . Less than a year later , on 11 December 1936 , Edward abdicated in order to marry Wallis Simpson , who was divorced from her first husband and divorcing her second . Edward had been advised by British prime minister Stanley Baldwin that he could not remain king and marry a divorced woman with two living ex - husbands . He abdicated and Albert , though he had been reluctant to accept the throne , became king . The day before the abdication , Albert went to London to see his mother , Queen Mary . He wrote in his diary , " When I told her what had happened , I broke down and sobbed like a child . "	Why did Edward abdicate?	Edward abdicated in order to marry Wallis Simpson.
As Edward was unmarried and had no children , Albert was the heir presumptive to the throne . Less than a year later , on 11 December 1936 , Edward abdicated in order to marry Wallis Simpson , who was divorced from her first husband and divorcing her second . Edward had been advised by British prime minister Stanley Baldwin that he could not remain king and marry a divorced woman with two living ex - husbands . He abdicated and Albert , though he had been reluctant to accept the throne , became king . The day before the abdication , Albert went to London to see his mother , Queen Mary . He wrote in his diary , " When I told her what had happened , I broke down and sobbed like a child . "	What was the reason advised by British Prime Minister Stanley Baldwin for your brother's abdication?	My brother could not remain king and marry a divorced woman with two living ex-husbands.
As Edward was unmarried and had no children , Albert was the heir presumptive to the throne . Less than a year later , on 11 December 1936 , Edward abdicated in order to marry Wallis Simpson , who was divorced from her first husband and divorcing her second . Edward had been advised by British prime minister Stanley Baldwin that he could not remain king and marry a divorced woman with two living ex - husbands . He abdicated and Albert , though he had been reluctant to accept the throne , became king . The day before the abdication , Albert went to London to see his mother , Queen Mary . He wrote in his diary , " When I told her what had happened , I broke down and sobbed like a child . "	Who became king after Edward's abdication?	I did.
As Edward was unmarried and had no children , Albert was the heir presumptive to the throne . Less than a year later , on 11 December 1936 , Edward abdicated in order to marry Wallis Simpson , who was divorced from her first husband and divorcing her second . Edward had been advised by British prime minister Stanley Baldwin that he could not remain king and marry a divorced woman with two living ex - husbands . He abdicated and Albert , though he had been reluctant to accept the throne , became king . The day before the abdication , Albert went to London to see his mother , Queen Mary . He wrote in his diary , " When I told her what had happened , I broke down and sobbed like a child . "	What was your initial reaction to accepting the throne?	I had been reluctant to accept the throne.
In May and June 1939 , the King and Queen toured Canada and the United States ; it was the first visit of a reigning British monarch to North America , although George had been to Canada prior to his accession . From Ottawa , George and Elizabeth were accompanied by Canadian prime minister Mackenzie King , to present themselves in North America as King and Queen of Canada . Both Mackenzie King and the Canadian governor general , Lord Tweedsmuir , hoped that George ' s presence in Canada would demonstrate the principles of the Statute of Westminster 1931 , which gave full sovereignty to the British Dominions . On 19 May , George personally accepted and approved the Letter of Credence of the new U . S . ambassador to Canada , Daniel Calhoun Roper ; gave royal assent to nine parliamentary bills ; and ratified two international treaties with the Great Seal of Canada . The official royal tour historian , Gustave Lanctot , wrote " the Statute of Westminster had assumed full reality " and George gave a speech emphasising " the free and equal association of the nations of the Commonwealth " .	When did you and the Queen tour Canada and the United States?	In May and June 1939.
In May and June 1939 , the King and Queen toured Canada and the United States ; it was the first visit of a reigning British monarch to North America , although George had been to Canada prior to his accession . From Ottawa , George and Elizabeth were accompanied by Canadian prime minister Mackenzie King , to present themselves in North America as King and Queen of Canada . Both Mackenzie King and the Canadian governor general , Lord Tweedsmuir , hoped that George ' s presence in Canada would demonstrate the principles of the Statute of Westminster 1931 , which gave full sovereignty to the British Dominions . On 19 May , George personally accepted and approved the Letter of Credence of the new U . S . ambassador to Canada , Daniel Calhoun Roper ; gave royal assent to nine parliamentary bills ; and ratified two international treaties with the Great Seal of Canada . The official royal tour historian , Gustave Lanctot , wrote " the Statute of Westminster had assumed full reality " and George gave a speech emphasising " the free and equal association of the nations of the Commonwealth " .	Who accompanied you and Elizabeth during your visit to Ottawa?	Canadian prime minister Mackenzie King.
In May and June 1939 , the King and Queen toured Canada and the United States ; it was the first visit of a reigning British monarch to North America , although George had been to Canada prior to his accession . From Ottawa , George and Elizabeth were accompanied by Canadian prime minister Mackenzie King , to present themselves in North America as King and Queen of Canada . Both Mackenzie King and the Canadian governor general , Lord Tweedsmuir , hoped that George ' s presence in Canada would demonstrate the principles of the Statute of Westminster 1931 , which gave full sovereignty to the British Dominions . On 19 May , George personally accepted and approved the Letter of Credence of the new U . S . ambassador to Canada , Daniel Calhoun Roper ; gave royal assent to nine parliamentary bills ; and ratified two international treaties with the Great Seal of Canada . The official royal tour historian , Gustave Lanctot , wrote " the Statute of Westminster had assumed full reality " and George gave a speech emphasising " the free and equal association of the nations of the Commonwealth " .	What was the purpose of your visit to Canada?	To present myself as the King and Queen of Canada.
In May and June 1939 , the King and Queen toured Canada and the United States ; it was the first visit of a reigning British monarch to North America , although George had been to Canada prior to his accession . From Ottawa , George and Elizabeth were accompanied by Canadian prime minister Mackenzie King , to present themselves in North America as King and Queen of Canada . Both Mackenzie King and the Canadian governor general , Lord Tweedsmuir , hoped that George ' s presence in Canada would demonstrate the principles of the Statute of Westminster 1931 , which gave full sovereignty to the British Dominions . On 19 May , George personally accepted and approved the Letter of Credence of the new U . S . ambassador to Canada , Daniel Calhoun Roper ; gave royal assent to nine parliamentary bills ; and ratified two international treaties with the Great Seal of Canada . The official royal tour historian , Gustave Lanctot , wrote " the Statute of Westminster had assumed full reality " and George gave a speech emphasising " the free and equal association of the nations of the Commonwealth " .	What did you personally do on May 19?	I accepted and approved the Letter of Credence of the new U.S. ambassador to Canada, gave royal assent to nine parliamentary bills, and ratified two international treaties with the Great Seal of Canada.
In May and June 1939 , the King and Queen toured Canada and the United States ; it was the first visit of a reigning British monarch to North America , although George had been to Canada prior to his accession . From Ottawa , George and Elizabeth were accompanied by Canadian prime minister Mackenzie King , to present themselves in North America as King and Queen of Canada . Both Mackenzie King and the Canadian governor general , Lord Tweedsmuir , hoped that George ' s presence in Canada would demonstrate the principles of the Statute of Westminster 1931 , which gave full sovereignty to the British Dominions . On 19 May , George personally accepted and approved the Letter of Credence of the new U . S . ambassador to Canada , Daniel Calhoun Roper ; gave royal assent to nine parliamentary bills ; and ratified two international treaties with the Great Seal of Canada . The official royal tour historian , Gustave Lanctot , wrote " the Statute of Westminster had assumed full reality " and George gave a speech emphasising " the free and equal association of the nations of the Commonwealth " .	What did Gustave Lanctot, the official royal tour historian, write about the Statute of Westminster?	He wrote that the Statute of Westminster had assumed full reality.
Following the German invasion of Poland in September 1939 , the United Kingdom and the self - governing Dominions other than Ireland declared war on Nazi Germany . The King and Queen resolved to stay in London , despite German bombing raids . They officially stayed in Buckingham Palace throughout the war , although they usually spent nights at Windsor Castle . The first night of the Blitz on London , on 7 September 1940 , killed about one thousand civilians , mostly in the East End . On 13 September , the couple narrowly avoided death when two German bombs exploded in a courtyard at Buckingham Palace while they were there . In defiance , Elizabeth declared : " I am glad we have been bombed . It makes me feel we can look the East End in the face . " The royal family were portrayed as sharing the same dangers and deprivations as the rest of the country . They were subject to British rationing restrictions , and U . S . First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt remarked on the rationed food served and the limited bathwater that was permitted during a stay at the unheated and boarded - up Palace . In August 1942 , the King ' s brother , the Duke of Kent , was killed on active service .	When did we and the self-governing Dominions declare war on Nazi Germany?	Following the German invasion of Poland in September 1939.
Following the German invasion of Poland in September 1939 , the United Kingdom and the self - governing Dominions other than Ireland declared war on Nazi Germany . The King and Queen resolved to stay in London , despite German bombing raids . They officially stayed in Buckingham Palace throughout the war , although they usually spent nights at Windsor Castle . The first night of the Blitz on London , on 7 September 1940 , killed about one thousand civilians , mostly in the East End . On 13 September , the couple narrowly avoided death when two German bombs exploded in a courtyard at Buckingham Palace while they were there . In defiance , Elizabeth declared : " I am glad we have been bombed . It makes me feel we can look the East End in the face . " The royal family were portrayed as sharing the same dangers and deprivations as the rest of the country . They were subject to British rationing restrictions , and U . S . First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt remarked on the rationed food served and the limited bathwater that was permitted during a stay at the unheated and boarded - up Palace . In August 1942 , the King ' s brother , the Duke of Kent , was killed on active service .	Where did you and the Queen stay during the war?	We officially stayed in Buckingham Palace throughout the war, although we usually spent nights at Windsor Castle.
Following the German invasion of Poland in September 1939 , the United Kingdom and the self - governing Dominions other than Ireland declared war on Nazi Germany . The King and Queen resolved to stay in London , despite German bombing raids . They officially stayed in Buckingham Palace throughout the war , although they usually spent nights at Windsor Castle . The first night of the Blitz on London , on 7 September 1940 , killed about one thousand civilians , mostly in the East End . On 13 September , the couple narrowly avoided death when two German bombs exploded in a courtyard at Buckingham Palace while they were there . In defiance , Elizabeth declared : " I am glad we have been bombed . It makes me feel we can look the East End in the face . " The royal family were portrayed as sharing the same dangers and deprivations as the rest of the country . They were subject to British rationing restrictions , and U . S . First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt remarked on the rationed food served and the limited bathwater that was permitted during a stay at the unheated and boarded - up Palace . In August 1942 , the King ' s brother , the Duke of Kent , was killed on active service .	How many civilians were killed during the first night of the Blitz on London?	About one thousand civilians were killed.
Following the German invasion of Poland in September 1939 , the United Kingdom and the self - governing Dominions other than Ireland declared war on Nazi Germany . The King and Queen resolved to stay in London , despite German bombing raids . They officially stayed in Buckingham Palace throughout the war , although they usually spent nights at Windsor Castle . The first night of the Blitz on London , on 7 September 1940 , killed about one thousand civilians , mostly in the East End . On 13 September , the couple narrowly avoided death when two German bombs exploded in a courtyard at Buckingham Palace while they were there . In defiance , Elizabeth declared : " I am glad we have been bombed . It makes me feel we can look the East End in the face . " The royal family were portrayed as sharing the same dangers and deprivations as the rest of the country . They were subject to British rationing restrictions , and U . S . First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt remarked on the rationed food served and the limited bathwater that was permitted during a stay at the unheated and boarded - up Palace . In August 1942 , the King ' s brother , the Duke of Kent , was killed on active service .	When did the German bombs explode in a courtyard at your palace?	The German bombs exploded in a courtyard at my palace on 13 September.
Following the German invasion of Poland in September 1939 , the United Kingdom and the self - governing Dominions other than Ireland declared war on Nazi Germany . The King and Queen resolved to stay in London , despite German bombing raids . They officially stayed in Buckingham Palace throughout the war , although they usually spent nights at Windsor Castle . The first night of the Blitz on London , on 7 September 1940 , killed about one thousand civilians , mostly in the East End . On 13 September , the couple narrowly avoided death when two German bombs exploded in a courtyard at Buckingham Palace while they were there . In defiance , Elizabeth declared : " I am glad we have been bombed . It makes me feel we can look the East End in the face . " The royal family were portrayed as sharing the same dangers and deprivations as the rest of the country . They were subject to British rationing restrictions , and U . S . First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt remarked on the rationed food served and the limited bathwater that was permitted during a stay at the unheated and boarded - up Palace . In August 1942 , the King ' s brother , the Duke of Kent , was killed on active service .	What did you declare after the bombing of Buckingham Palace?	I declared, "I am glad we have been bombed. It makes me feel we can look the East End in the face."
Throughout the war , George and Elizabeth provided morale - boosting visits throughout the United Kingdom , visiting bomb sites , munitions factories , and troops . George visited military forces abroad in France in December 1939 , North Africa and Malta in June 1943 , Normandy in June 1944 , southern Italy in July 1944 , and the Low Countries in October 1944 . Their high public profile and apparently indefatigable determination secured their place as symbols of national resistance . At a social function in 1944 , the Chief of the Imperial General Staff , Field Marshal Alan Brooke , revealed that every time he met Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery , he thought Montgomery was after his job . George replied : " You should worry , when I meet him , I always think he ' s after mine ! "	Who provided morale-boosting visits throughout the United Kingdom during the war?	I and Elizabeth.
Throughout the war , George and Elizabeth provided morale - boosting visits throughout the United Kingdom , visiting bomb sites , munitions factories , and troops . George visited military forces abroad in France in December 1939 , North Africa and Malta in June 1943 , Normandy in June 1944 , southern Italy in July 1944 , and the Low Countries in October 1944 . Their high public profile and apparently indefatigable determination secured their place as symbols of national resistance . At a social function in 1944 , the Chief of the Imperial General Staff , Field Marshal Alan Brooke , revealed that every time he met Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery , he thought Montgomery was after his job . George replied : " You should worry , when I meet him , I always think he ' s after mine ! "	Where did you visit military forces abroad in December 1939?	In France.
Throughout the war , George and Elizabeth provided morale - boosting visits throughout the United Kingdom , visiting bomb sites , munitions factories , and troops . George visited military forces abroad in France in December 1939 , North Africa and Malta in June 1943 , Normandy in June 1944 , southern Italy in July 1944 , and the Low Countries in October 1944 . Their high public profile and apparently indefatigable determination secured their place as symbols of national resistance . At a social function in 1944 , the Chief of the Imperial General Staff , Field Marshal Alan Brooke , revealed that every time he met Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery , he thought Montgomery was after his job . George replied : " You should worry , when I meet him , I always think he ' s after mine ! "	When did you visit North Africa and Malta?	June 1943.
Throughout the war , George and Elizabeth provided morale - boosting visits throughout the United Kingdom , visiting bomb sites , munitions factories , and troops . George visited military forces abroad in France in December 1939 , North Africa and Malta in June 1943 , Normandy in June 1944 , southern Italy in July 1944 , and the Low Countries in October 1944 . Their high public profile and apparently indefatigable determination secured their place as symbols of national resistance . At a social function in 1944 , the Chief of the Imperial General Staff , Field Marshal Alan Brooke , revealed that every time he met Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery , he thought Montgomery was after his job . George replied : " You should worry , when I meet him , I always think he ' s after mine ! "	Where did you visit in June 1944?	Normandy.
Throughout the war , George and Elizabeth provided morale - boosting visits throughout the United Kingdom , visiting bomb sites , munitions factories , and troops . George visited military forces abroad in France in December 1939 , North Africa and Malta in June 1943 , Normandy in June 1944 , southern Italy in July 1944 , and the Low Countries in October 1944 . Their high public profile and apparently indefatigable determination secured their place as symbols of national resistance . At a social function in 1944 , the Chief of the Imperial General Staff , Field Marshal Alan Brooke , revealed that every time he met Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery , he thought Montgomery was after his job . George replied : " You should worry , when I meet him , I always think he ' s after mine ! "	When did you visit southern Italy?	July 1944.
The stress of the war had taken its toll on George ' s health , made worse by his heavy smoking , and subsequent development of lung cancer among other ailments , including arteriosclerosis and Buerger ' s disease . A planned tour of Australia and New Zealand was postponed after George suffered an arterial blockage in his right leg , which threatened the loss of the leg and was treated with a right lumbar sympathectomy in March 1949 . His elder daughter and heir presumptive , Elizabeth , took on more royal duties as her father ' s health deteriorated . The delayed tour was re - organised , with Princess Elizabeth and her husband , Philip , Duke of Edinburgh , taking the place of the King and Queen .	What were some of the ailments you developed as a result of the war and your heavy smoking?	lung cancer, arteriosclerosis, and Buerger's disease.
The stress of the war had taken its toll on George ' s health , made worse by his heavy smoking , and subsequent development of lung cancer among other ailments , including arteriosclerosis and Buerger ' s disease . A planned tour of Australia and New Zealand was postponed after George suffered an arterial blockage in his right leg , which threatened the loss of the leg and was treated with a right lumbar sympathectomy in March 1949 . His elder daughter and heir presumptive , Elizabeth , took on more royal duties as her father ' s health deteriorated . The delayed tour was re - organised , with Princess Elizabeth and her husband , Philip , Duke of Edinburgh , taking the place of the King and Queen .	Why was your planned tour of Australia and New Zealand postponed?	It was postponed because I suffered an arterial blockage in my right leg.
The stress of the war had taken its toll on George ' s health , made worse by his heavy smoking , and subsequent development of lung cancer among other ailments , including arteriosclerosis and Buerger ' s disease . A planned tour of Australia and New Zealand was postponed after George suffered an arterial blockage in his right leg , which threatened the loss of the leg and was treated with a right lumbar sympathectomy in March 1949 . His elder daughter and heir presumptive , Elizabeth , took on more royal duties as her father ' s health deteriorated . The delayed tour was re - organised , with Princess Elizabeth and her husband , Philip , Duke of Edinburgh , taking the place of the King and Queen .	What treatment did you receive for the arterial blockage in your right leg?	I underwent a right lumbar sympathectomy in March 1949.
The stress of the war had taken its toll on George ' s health , made worse by his heavy smoking , and subsequent development of lung cancer among other ailments , including arteriosclerosis and Buerger ' s disease . A planned tour of Australia and New Zealand was postponed after George suffered an arterial blockage in his right leg , which threatened the loss of the leg and was treated with a right lumbar sympathectomy in March 1949 . His elder daughter and heir presumptive , Elizabeth , took on more royal duties as her father ' s health deteriorated . The delayed tour was re - organised , with Princess Elizabeth and her husband , Philip , Duke of Edinburgh , taking the place of the King and Queen .	Who took on more royal duties as your health declined?	My elder daughter and heir presumptive, Elizabeth.
The stress of the war had taken its toll on George ' s health , made worse by his heavy smoking , and subsequent development of lung cancer among other ailments , including arteriosclerosis and Buerger ' s disease . A planned tour of Australia and New Zealand was postponed after George suffered an arterial blockage in his right leg , which threatened the loss of the leg and was treated with a right lumbar sympathectomy in March 1949 . His elder daughter and heir presumptive , Elizabeth , took on more royal duties as her father ' s health deteriorated . The delayed tour was re - organised , with Princess Elizabeth and her husband , Philip , Duke of Edinburgh , taking the place of the King and Queen .	Who replaced you and the Queen on the postponed tour?	Princess Elizabeth and her husband, Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
From 9 February George ' s coffin rested in St Mary Magdalene Church , Sandringham , before lying in state at Westminster Hall from 11 February . His funeral took place at St George ' s Chapel , Windsor Castle , on the 15th . He was interred initially in the Royal Vault until he was transferred to the King George VI Memorial Chapel inside St George ' s on 26 March 1969 . In 2002 , fifty years after his death , the remains of his widow , Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother , and the ashes of his younger daughter , Princess Margaret , who both died that year , were interred in the chapel alongside him . In 2022 , the remains of Queen Elizabeth II and her husband , Prince Philip , were also interred in the chapel .	Where did your coffin rest before lying in state at Westminster Hall?	St Mary Magdalene Church, Sandringham.
From 9 February George ' s coffin rested in St Mary Magdalene Church , Sandringham , before lying in state at Westminster Hall from 11 February . His funeral took place at St George ' s Chapel , Windsor Castle , on the 15th . He was interred initially in the Royal Vault until he was transferred to the King George VI Memorial Chapel inside St George ' s on 26 March 1969 . In 2002 , fifty years after his death , the remains of his widow , Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother , and the ashes of his younger daughter , Princess Margaret , who both died that year , were interred in the chapel alongside him . In 2022 , the remains of Queen Elizabeth II and her husband , Prince Philip , were also interred in the chapel .	Where did your funeral take place?	St George's Chapel, Windsor Castle.
From 9 February George ' s coffin rested in St Mary Magdalene Church , Sandringham , before lying in state at Westminster Hall from 11 February . His funeral took place at St George ' s Chapel , Windsor Castle , on the 15th . He was interred initially in the Royal Vault until he was transferred to the King George VI Memorial Chapel inside St George ' s on 26 March 1969 . In 2002 , fifty years after his death , the remains of his widow , Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother , and the ashes of his younger daughter , Princess Margaret , who both died that year , were interred in the chapel alongside him . In 2022 , the remains of Queen Elizabeth II and her husband , Prince Philip , were also interred in the chapel .	Where were you initially interred before being transferred?	The Royal Vault.
From 9 February George ' s coffin rested in St Mary Magdalene Church , Sandringham , before lying in state at Westminster Hall from 11 February . His funeral took place at St George ' s Chapel , Windsor Castle , on the 15th . He was interred initially in the Royal Vault until he was transferred to the King George VI Memorial Chapel inside St George ' s on 26 March 1969 . In 2002 , fifty years after his death , the remains of his widow , Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother , and the ashes of his younger daughter , Princess Margaret , who both died that year , were interred in the chapel alongside him . In 2022 , the remains of Queen Elizabeth II and her husband , Prince Philip , were also interred in the chapel .	Whose remains were interred in your Memorial Chapel along with yours?	The remains of Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother and Princess Margaret.
From 9 February George ' s coffin rested in St Mary Magdalene Church , Sandringham , before lying in state at Westminster Hall from 11 February . His funeral took place at St George ' s Chapel , Windsor Castle , on the 15th . He was interred initially in the Royal Vault until he was transferred to the King George VI Memorial Chapel inside St George ' s on 26 March 1969 . In 2002 , fifty years after his death , the remains of his widow , Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother , and the ashes of his younger daughter , Princess Margaret , who both died that year , were interred in the chapel alongside him . In 2022 , the remains of Queen Elizabeth II and her husband , Prince Philip , were also interred in the chapel .	Whose else's remains were interred in the chapel in 2022?	Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip's remains.
