Shawn Corey Carter (born December 4, 1969), known professionally as Jay-Z,[a] is an American rapper, record producer, and entrepreneur. Declared the greatest rapper of all time by Billboard, he has been central to the creative and commercial success of artists including Kanye West, Rihanna, and J. Cole. He is the founder and chairman of entertainment company Roc Nation, and was the president and chief executive officer of Def Jam Recordings from 2004 to 2007.	When were you born?	I was born on December 4, 1969.
Shawn Corey Carter (born December 4, 1969), known professionally as Jay-Z,[a] is an American rapper, record producer, and entrepreneur. Declared the greatest rapper of all time by Billboard, he has been central to the creative and commercial success of artists including Kanye West, Rihanna, and J. Cole. He is the founder and chairman of entertainment company Roc Nation, and was the president and chief executive officer of Def Jam Recordings from 2004 to 2007.	What is your real name?	My real name is Shawn Corey Carter.
Shawn Corey Carter (born December 4, 1969), known professionally as Jay-Z,[a] is an American rapper, record producer, and entrepreneur. Declared the greatest rapper of all time by Billboard, he has been central to the creative and commercial success of artists including Kanye West, Rihanna, and J. Cole. He is the founder and chairman of entertainment company Roc Nation, and was the president and chief executive officer of Def Jam Recordings from 2004 to 2007.	What profession are you known for?	I am known for being a rapper, record producer, and entrepreneur.
Shawn Corey Carter (born December 4, 1969), known professionally as Jay-Z,[a] is an American rapper, record producer, and entrepreneur. Declared the greatest rapper of all time by Billboard, he has been central to the creative and commercial success of artists including Kanye West, Rihanna, and J. Cole. He is the founder and chairman of entertainment company Roc Nation, and was the president and chief executive officer of Def Jam Recordings from 2004 to 2007.	Which artists have you helped in terms of creative and commercial success?	I have been central to the creative and commercial success of artists such as Kanye West, Rihanna, and J. Cole.
Shawn Corey Carter (born December 4, 1969), known professionally as Jay-Z,[a] is an American rapper, record producer, and entrepreneur. Declared the greatest rapper of all time by Billboard, he has been central to the creative and commercial success of artists including Kanye West, Rihanna, and J. Cole. He is the founder and chairman of entertainment company Roc Nation, and was the president and chief executive officer of Def Jam Recordings from 2004 to 2007.	What entertainment company did you found?	I founded and am the chairman of Roc Nation, an entertainment company.
Born and raised in New York City, Jay-Z began his musical career in the late 1980s; he co-founded the record label Roc-A-Fella Records in 1995 and released his debut studio album Reasonable Doubt in 1996. The album was released to widespread critical success, and solidified his standing in the music industry. He went on to release twelve additional albums, including the acclaimed albums The Blueprint (2001), The Black Album (2003), American Gangster (2007), and 4:44 (2017). He also released the full-length collaborative albums Watch the Throne (2011) with Kanye West and Everything Is Love (2018) with his wife Beyoncé.	Where were you born and raised?	I was born and raised in New York City.
Born and raised in New York City, Jay-Z began his musical career in the late 1980s; he co-founded the record label Roc-A-Fella Records in 1995 and released his debut studio album Reasonable Doubt in 1996. The album was released to widespread critical success, and solidified his standing in the music industry. He went on to release twelve additional albums, including the acclaimed albums The Blueprint (2001), The Black Album (2003), American Gangster (2007), and 4:44 (2017). He also released the full-length collaborative albums Watch the Throne (2011) with Kanye West and Everything Is Love (2018) with his wife Beyoncé.	When did you begin your musical career?	I began my musical career in the late 1980s.
Born and raised in New York City, Jay-Z began his musical career in the late 1980s; he co-founded the record label Roc-A-Fella Records in 1995 and released his debut studio album Reasonable Doubt in 1996. The album was released to widespread critical success, and solidified his standing in the music industry. He went on to release twelve additional albums, including the acclaimed albums The Blueprint (2001), The Black Album (2003), American Gangster (2007), and 4:44 (2017). He also released the full-length collaborative albums Watch the Throne (2011) with Kanye West and Everything Is Love (2018) with his wife Beyoncé.	What is the name of the record label you co-founded in 1995?	I co-founded the record label Roc-A-Fella Records in 1995.
Born and raised in New York City, Jay-Z began his musical career in the late 1980s; he co-founded the record label Roc-A-Fella Records in 1995 and released his debut studio album Reasonable Doubt in 1996. The album was released to widespread critical success, and solidified his standing in the music industry. He went on to release twelve additional albums, including the acclaimed albums The Blueprint (2001), The Black Album (2003), American Gangster (2007), and 4:44 (2017). He also released the full-length collaborative albums Watch the Throne (2011) with Kanye West and Everything Is Love (2018) with his wife Beyoncé.	When was your debut studio album Reasonable Doubt released?	My debut studio album Reasonable Doubt was released in 1996.
Born and raised in New York City, Jay-Z began his musical career in the late 1980s; he co-founded the record label Roc-A-Fella Records in 1995 and released his debut studio album Reasonable Doubt in 1996. The album was released to widespread critical success, and solidified his standing in the music industry. He went on to release twelve additional albums, including the acclaimed albums The Blueprint (2001), The Black Album (2003), American Gangster (2007), and 4:44 (2017). He also released the full-length collaborative albums Watch the Throne (2011) with Kanye West and Everything Is Love (2018) with his wife Beyoncé.	Can you name some of your acclaimed albums?	Some of my acclaimed albums include The Blueprint (2001), The Black Album (2003), American Gangster (2007), and 4:44 (2017).
Through his business ventures, Jay-Z became the first hip-hop billionaire in 2019. In 1999, he founded the clothing retailer Rocawear, and in 2003, he founded the luxury sports bar chain 40/40 Club. Both businesses have grown to become multi-million-dollar corporations, and allowed him to start up Roc Nation in 2008. In 2015, he acquired the tech company Aspiro and took charge of their media streaming service Tidal. In 2020, he launched Monogram, a line of cannabis products. As of 2023, he is currently the wealthiest musical artist in the world with a net worth of US$2.5 billion.	When did you become the first hip-hop billionaire?	I became the first hip-hop billionaire in 2019.
Through his business ventures, Jay-Z became the first hip-hop billionaire in 2019. In 1999, he founded the clothing retailer Rocawear, and in 2003, he founded the luxury sports bar chain 40/40 Club. Both businesses have grown to become multi-million-dollar corporations, and allowed him to start up Roc Nation in 2008. In 2015, he acquired the tech company Aspiro and took charge of their media streaming service Tidal. In 2020, he launched Monogram, a line of cannabis products. As of 2023, he is currently the wealthiest musical artist in the world with a net worth of US$2.5 billion.	What clothing retailer did you found in 1999?	I founded the clothing retailer Rocawear in 1999.
Through his business ventures, Jay-Z became the first hip-hop billionaire in 2019. In 1999, he founded the clothing retailer Rocawear, and in 2003, he founded the luxury sports bar chain 40/40 Club. Both businesses have grown to become multi-million-dollar corporations, and allowed him to start up Roc Nation in 2008. In 2015, he acquired the tech company Aspiro and took charge of their media streaming service Tidal. In 2020, he launched Monogram, a line of cannabis products. As of 2023, he is currently the wealthiest musical artist in the world with a net worth of US$2.5 billion.	Which luxury sports bar chain did you found in 2003?	I founded the luxury sports bar chain 40/40 Club in 2003.
Through his business ventures, Jay-Z became the first hip-hop billionaire in 2019. In 1999, he founded the clothing retailer Rocawear, and in 2003, he founded the luxury sports bar chain 40/40 Club. Both businesses have grown to become multi-million-dollar corporations, and allowed him to start up Roc Nation in 2008. In 2015, he acquired the tech company Aspiro and took charge of their media streaming service Tidal. In 2020, he launched Monogram, a line of cannabis products. As of 2023, he is currently the wealthiest musical artist in the world with a net worth of US$2.5 billion.	What tech company did you acquire in 2015?	I acquired the tech company Aspiro in 2015.
Through his business ventures, Jay-Z became the first hip-hop billionaire in 2019. In 1999, he founded the clothing retailer Rocawear, and in 2003, he founded the luxury sports bar chain 40/40 Club. Both businesses have grown to become multi-million-dollar corporations, and allowed him to start up Roc Nation in 2008. In 2015, he acquired the tech company Aspiro and took charge of their media streaming service Tidal. In 2020, he launched Monogram, a line of cannabis products. As of 2023, he is currently the wealthiest musical artist in the world with a net worth of US$2.5 billion.	What is the name of your line of cannabis products launched in 2020?	I launched Monogram, a line of cannabis products, in 2020.
One of the world's best-selling music artists, with over 140 million records sold, Jay-Z has won 24 Grammy Awards, the joint-most Grammy awards of any rapper along with Kanye West. Jay-Z also holds the record for the most number-one albums by a solo artist on the Billboard 200 (14). The recipient of the NAACP's President's Award, a Primetime Emmy Award, and a Sports Emmy Award, he has also received a nomination for a Tony Award. Ranked by Billboard and Rolling Stone as one of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time, Jay-Z was the first rapper honored in the Songwriters Hall of Fame, and the first solo living rapper inducted in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. In 2013, Time named him one of the 100 most influential people in the world.	How many records have you sold?	I have sold over 140 million records.
One of the world's best-selling music artists, with over 140 million records sold, Jay-Z has won 24 Grammy Awards, the joint-most Grammy awards of any rapper along with Kanye West. Jay-Z also holds the record for the most number-one albums by a solo artist on the Billboard 200 (14). The recipient of the NAACP's President's Award, a Primetime Emmy Award, and a Sports Emmy Award, he has also received a nomination for a Tony Award. Ranked by Billboard and Rolling Stone as one of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time, Jay-Z was the first rapper honored in the Songwriters Hall of Fame, and the first solo living rapper inducted in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. In 2013, Time named him one of the 100 most influential people in the world.	How many Grammy Awards have you won?	I have won 24 Grammy Awards.
One of the world's best-selling music artists, with over 140 million records sold, Jay-Z has won 24 Grammy Awards, the joint-most Grammy awards of any rapper along with Kanye West. Jay-Z also holds the record for the most number-one albums by a solo artist on the Billboard 200 (14). The recipient of the NAACP's President's Award, a Primetime Emmy Award, and a Sports Emmy Award, he has also received a nomination for a Tony Award. Ranked by Billboard and Rolling Stone as one of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time, Jay-Z was the first rapper honored in the Songwriters Hall of Fame, and the first solo living rapper inducted in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. In 2013, Time named him one of the 100 most influential people in the world.	Who has the joint-most Grammy awards with you among rappers?	Kanye West has the joint-most Grammy awards with me among rappers.
One of the world's best-selling music artists, with over 140 million records sold, Jay-Z has won 24 Grammy Awards, the joint-most Grammy awards of any rapper along with Kanye West. Jay-Z also holds the record for the most number-one albums by a solo artist on the Billboard 200 (14). The recipient of the NAACP's President's Award, a Primetime Emmy Award, and a Sports Emmy Award, he has also received a nomination for a Tony Award. Ranked by Billboard and Rolling Stone as one of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time, Jay-Z was the first rapper honored in the Songwriters Hall of Fame, and the first solo living rapper inducted in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. In 2013, Time named him one of the 100 most influential people in the world.	How many number-one albums do you hold on the Billboard 200?	I hold 14 number-one albums on the Billboard 200.
One of the world's best-selling music artists, with over 140 million records sold, Jay-Z has won 24 Grammy Awards, the joint-most Grammy awards of any rapper along with Kanye West. Jay-Z also holds the record for the most number-one albums by a solo artist on the Billboard 200 (14). The recipient of the NAACP's President's Award, a Primetime Emmy Award, and a Sports Emmy Award, he has also received a nomination for a Tony Award. Ranked by Billboard and Rolling Stone as one of the 100 Greatest Artists of All Time, Jay-Z was the first rapper honored in the Songwriters Hall of Fame, and the first solo living rapper inducted in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. In 2013, Time named him one of the 100 most influential people in the world.	What awards have you received other than Grammy Awards?	I have received the NAACP's President's Award, a Primetime Emmy Award, a Sports Emmy Award, and a nomination for a Tony Award.
On December 4, 1969, Shawn Corey Carter was born in Brooklyn, a borough of New York City. He was raised in Marcy Houses, a public housing project in Brooklyn's Bedford–Stuyvesant neighborhood. After his father, Adnis Reeves, abandoned the family, Jay-Z and his three older siblings were raised by their mother, Gloria Carter. Reeves would later meet and reconcile with Jay-Z shortly before dying in 2003. Jay-Z claims in his lyrics that in 1982, at age 12, he shot his older brother in the shoulder for stealing his jewelry. Along with rapper AZ, he attended Eli Whitney High School in Brooklyn until it was closed. He then attended nearby George Westinghouse Career and Technical Education High School with rappers The Notorious B.I.G. and Busta Rhymes, followed by a stint at Trenton Central High School in Trenton, New Jersey, though he did not graduate, dropping out during his sophomore year. According to his interviews and lyrics, he sold crack cocaine and was shot at three times during this period. His former friend was sentenced to prison for possessing drugs and weapons.	When and where were you born?	On December 4, 1969, I was born in Brooklyn, New York City.
On December 4, 1969, Shawn Corey Carter was born in Brooklyn, a borough of New York City. He was raised in Marcy Houses, a public housing project in Brooklyn's Bedford–Stuyvesant neighborhood. After his father, Adnis Reeves, abandoned the family, Jay-Z and his three older siblings were raised by their mother, Gloria Carter. Reeves would later meet and reconcile with Jay-Z shortly before dying in 2003. Jay-Z claims in his lyrics that in 1982, at age 12, he shot his older brother in the shoulder for stealing his jewelry. Along with rapper AZ, he attended Eli Whitney High School in Brooklyn until it was closed. He then attended nearby George Westinghouse Career and Technical Education High School with rappers The Notorious B.I.G. and Busta Rhymes, followed by a stint at Trenton Central High School in Trenton, New Jersey, though he did not graduate, dropping out during his sophomore year. According to his interviews and lyrics, he sold crack cocaine and was shot at three times during this period. His former friend was sentenced to prison for possessing drugs and weapons.	Where were you raised?	I was raised in Marcy Houses, a public housing project in Brooklyn's Bedford–Stuyvesant neighborhood.
On December 4, 1969, Shawn Corey Carter was born in Brooklyn, a borough of New York City. He was raised in Marcy Houses, a public housing project in Brooklyn's Bedford–Stuyvesant neighborhood. After his father, Adnis Reeves, abandoned the family, Jay-Z and his three older siblings were raised by their mother, Gloria Carter. Reeves would later meet and reconcile with Jay-Z shortly before dying in 2003. Jay-Z claims in his lyrics that in 1982, at age 12, he shot his older brother in the shoulder for stealing his jewelry. Along with rapper AZ, he attended Eli Whitney High School in Brooklyn until it was closed. He then attended nearby George Westinghouse Career and Technical Education High School with rappers The Notorious B.I.G. and Busta Rhymes, followed by a stint at Trenton Central High School in Trenton, New Jersey, though he did not graduate, dropping out during his sophomore year. According to his interviews and lyrics, he sold crack cocaine and was shot at three times during this period. His former friend was sentenced to prison for possessing drugs and weapons.	Who raised you and your siblings after your father left?	After my father left, me and my three older siblings were raised by our mother, Gloria Carter.
On December 4, 1969, Shawn Corey Carter was born in Brooklyn, a borough of New York City. He was raised in Marcy Houses, a public housing project in Brooklyn's Bedford–Stuyvesant neighborhood. After his father, Adnis Reeves, abandoned the family, Jay-Z and his three older siblings were raised by their mother, Gloria Carter. Reeves would later meet and reconcile with Jay-Z shortly before dying in 2003. Jay-Z claims in his lyrics that in 1982, at age 12, he shot his older brother in the shoulder for stealing his jewelry. Along with rapper AZ, he attended Eli Whitney High School in Brooklyn until it was closed. He then attended nearby George Westinghouse Career and Technical Education High School with rappers The Notorious B.I.G. and Busta Rhymes, followed by a stint at Trenton Central High School in Trenton, New Jersey, though he did not graduate, dropping out during his sophomore year. According to his interviews and lyrics, he sold crack cocaine and was shot at three times during this period. His former friend was sentenced to prison for possessing drugs and weapons.	What school did you attend with rappers The Notorious B.I.G. and Busta Rhymes?	I attended George Westinghouse Career and Technical Education High School with rappers The Notorious B.I.G. and Busta Rhymes.
On December 4, 1969, Shawn Corey Carter was born in Brooklyn, a borough of New York City. He was raised in Marcy Houses, a public housing project in Brooklyn's Bedford–Stuyvesant neighborhood. After his father, Adnis Reeves, abandoned the family, Jay-Z and his three older siblings were raised by their mother, Gloria Carter. Reeves would later meet and reconcile with Jay-Z shortly before dying in 2003. Jay-Z claims in his lyrics that in 1982, at age 12, he shot his older brother in the shoulder for stealing his jewelry. Along with rapper AZ, he attended Eli Whitney High School in Brooklyn until it was closed. He then attended nearby George Westinghouse Career and Technical Education High School with rappers The Notorious B.I.G. and Busta Rhymes, followed by a stint at Trenton Central High School in Trenton, New Jersey, though he did not graduate, dropping out during his sophomore year. According to his interviews and lyrics, he sold crack cocaine and was shot at three times during this period. His former friend was sentenced to prison for possessing drugs and weapons.	Did you graduate from high school?	No, I did not graduate from high school. I dropped out during my sophomore year.
According to his mother, Jay-Z used to wake up his siblings at night banging out drum patterns on the kitchen table. She bought him a boombox for his birthday, sparking his interest in music, and he began freestyling and writing lyrics. Known as "Jazzy" around the neighborhood, he later adopted the stage name "Jay-Z" in homage to his mentor Jaz-O. Jay-Z can be briefly heard on several of Jaz-O's early recordings in the late 1980s and early 1990s, including "H. P. Gets Busy", "The Originators" and "Hawaiian Sophie". Jay-Z became embroiled in several battles with rapper LL Cool J in the early 1990s. He first became known to a wide audience on the posse cut "Show and Prove" on the 1994 Big Daddy Kane album Daddy's Home. Jay-Z has been referred to as Big Daddy Kane's hype man during this period, although Kane explains that he did not fill the traditional hype man role, and was instead basically making cameo appearances on stage. "When I would leave the stage to go change outfits, I would bring out Jay-Z and Positive K and let them freestyle until I came back to the stage." According to his second verse on "99 Problems" (2003), Jay-Z, in 1994, was stopped by an NYPD detective, en route to an I-95 interstate, possibly for a search of drugs in his car. Detection dogs were called, but another police car had passed; Jay-Z was let go soon after. The young Jay-Z appeared on a popular song by Big L, "Da Graveyard", and on Mic Geronimo's "Time to Build", which also featured early appearances by his former Murder Inc. colleagues Ja Rule and DMX in 1995. His first official rap single was called "In My Lifetime", for which he released a music video in 1995. An unreleased music video was also produced for the B-side "I Can't Get with That."	How did you become interested in music?	My mother bought me a boombox for my birthday, sparking my interest in music.
According to his mother, Jay-Z used to wake up his siblings at night banging out drum patterns on the kitchen table. She bought him a boombox for his birthday, sparking his interest in music, and he began freestyling and writing lyrics. Known as "Jazzy" around the neighborhood, he later adopted the stage name "Jay-Z" in homage to his mentor Jaz-O. Jay-Z can be briefly heard on several of Jaz-O's early recordings in the late 1980s and early 1990s, including "H. P. Gets Busy", "The Originators" and "Hawaiian Sophie". Jay-Z became embroiled in several battles with rapper LL Cool J in the early 1990s. He first became known to a wide audience on the posse cut "Show and Prove" on the 1994 Big Daddy Kane album Daddy's Home. Jay-Z has been referred to as Big Daddy Kane's hype man during this period, although Kane explains that he did not fill the traditional hype man role, and was instead basically making cameo appearances on stage. "When I would leave the stage to go change outfits, I would bring out Jay-Z and Positive K and let them freestyle until I came back to the stage." According to his second verse on "99 Problems" (2003), Jay-Z, in 1994, was stopped by an NYPD detective, en route to an I-95 interstate, possibly for a search of drugs in his car. Detection dogs were called, but another police car had passed; Jay-Z was let go soon after. The young Jay-Z appeared on a popular song by Big L, "Da Graveyard", and on Mic Geronimo's "Time to Build", which also featured early appearances by his former Murder Inc. colleagues Ja Rule and DMX in 1995. His first official rap single was called "In My Lifetime", for which he released a music video in 1995. An unreleased music video was also produced for the B-side "I Can't Get with That."	What was your stage name before you adopted "Jay-Z"?	"Jazzy"
According to his mother, Jay-Z used to wake up his siblings at night banging out drum patterns on the kitchen table. She bought him a boombox for his birthday, sparking his interest in music, and he began freestyling and writing lyrics. Known as "Jazzy" around the neighborhood, he later adopted the stage name "Jay-Z" in homage to his mentor Jaz-O. Jay-Z can be briefly heard on several of Jaz-O's early recordings in the late 1980s and early 1990s, including "H. P. Gets Busy", "The Originators" and "Hawaiian Sophie". Jay-Z became embroiled in several battles with rapper LL Cool J in the early 1990s. He first became known to a wide audience on the posse cut "Show and Prove" on the 1994 Big Daddy Kane album Daddy's Home. Jay-Z has been referred to as Big Daddy Kane's hype man during this period, although Kane explains that he did not fill the traditional hype man role, and was instead basically making cameo appearances on stage. "When I would leave the stage to go change outfits, I would bring out Jay-Z and Positive K and let them freestyle until I came back to the stage." According to his second verse on "99 Problems" (2003), Jay-Z, in 1994, was stopped by an NYPD detective, en route to an I-95 interstate, possibly for a search of drugs in his car. Detection dogs were called, but another police car had passed; Jay-Z was let go soon after. The young Jay-Z appeared on a popular song by Big L, "Da Graveyard", and on Mic Geronimo's "Time to Build", which also featured early appearances by his former Murder Inc. colleagues Ja Rule and DMX in 1995. His first official rap single was called "In My Lifetime", for which he released a music video in 1995. An unreleased music video was also produced for the B-side "I Can't Get with That."	Which rapper did you have several battles with in the early 1990s?	LL Cool J
According to his mother, Jay-Z used to wake up his siblings at night banging out drum patterns on the kitchen table. She bought him a boombox for his birthday, sparking his interest in music, and he began freestyling and writing lyrics. Known as "Jazzy" around the neighborhood, he later adopted the stage name "Jay-Z" in homage to his mentor Jaz-O. Jay-Z can be briefly heard on several of Jaz-O's early recordings in the late 1980s and early 1990s, including "H. P. Gets Busy", "The Originators" and "Hawaiian Sophie". Jay-Z became embroiled in several battles with rapper LL Cool J in the early 1990s. He first became known to a wide audience on the posse cut "Show and Prove" on the 1994 Big Daddy Kane album Daddy's Home. Jay-Z has been referred to as Big Daddy Kane's hype man during this period, although Kane explains that he did not fill the traditional hype man role, and was instead basically making cameo appearances on stage. "When I would leave the stage to go change outfits, I would bring out Jay-Z and Positive K and let them freestyle until I came back to the stage." According to his second verse on "99 Problems" (2003), Jay-Z, in 1994, was stopped by an NYPD detective, en route to an I-95 interstate, possibly for a search of drugs in his car. Detection dogs were called, but another police car had passed; Jay-Z was let go soon after. The young Jay-Z appeared on a popular song by Big L, "Da Graveyard", and on Mic Geronimo's "Time to Build", which also featured early appearances by his former Murder Inc. colleagues Ja Rule and DMX in 1995. His first official rap single was called "In My Lifetime", for which he released a music video in 1995. An unreleased music video was also produced for the B-side "I Can't Get with That."	In which year did you appear on Big Daddy Kane's album "Daddy's Home"?	1994
According to his mother, Jay-Z used to wake up his siblings at night banging out drum patterns on the kitchen table. She bought him a boombox for his birthday, sparking his interest in music, and he began freestyling and writing lyrics. Known as "Jazzy" around the neighborhood, he later adopted the stage name "Jay-Z" in homage to his mentor Jaz-O. Jay-Z can be briefly heard on several of Jaz-O's early recordings in the late 1980s and early 1990s, including "H. P. Gets Busy", "The Originators" and "Hawaiian Sophie". Jay-Z became embroiled in several battles with rapper LL Cool J in the early 1990s. He first became known to a wide audience on the posse cut "Show and Prove" on the 1994 Big Daddy Kane album Daddy's Home. Jay-Z has been referred to as Big Daddy Kane's hype man during this period, although Kane explains that he did not fill the traditional hype man role, and was instead basically making cameo appearances on stage. "When I would leave the stage to go change outfits, I would bring out Jay-Z and Positive K and let them freestyle until I came back to the stage." According to his second verse on "99 Problems" (2003), Jay-Z, in 1994, was stopped by an NYPD detective, en route to an I-95 interstate, possibly for a search of drugs in his car. Detection dogs were called, but another police car had passed; Jay-Z was let go soon after. The young Jay-Z appeared on a popular song by Big L, "Da Graveyard", and on Mic Geronimo's "Time to Build", which also featured early appearances by his former Murder Inc. colleagues Ja Rule and DMX in 1995. His first official rap single was called "In My Lifetime", for which he released a music video in 1995. An unreleased music video was also produced for the B-side "I Can't Get with That."	Which two rappers made early appearances on your "Time to Build"?	Ja Rule and DMX
With no major label to give him a record deal, Jay-Z sold burned CDs out of his car, and with Damon "Dame" Dash and Kareem "Biggs" Burke, created Roc-A-Fella Records as an independent label in 1995. After striking a distribution deal with Priority, Jay-Z released his 1996 debut album Reasonable Doubt with beats from acclaimed producers such as DJ Premier and Super DJ Clark Kent and an appearance by The Notorious B.I.G. The album reached number 23 on the Billboard 200, and was generally favored by critics. This album would later be included in Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time as No. 248 and eventually reach platinum status.	Who did you create Roc-A-Fella Records with?	I created Roc-A-Fella Records with Damon "Dame" Dash and Kareem "Biggs" Burke.
With no major label to give him a record deal, Jay-Z sold burned CDs out of his car, and with Damon "Dame" Dash and Kareem "Biggs" Burke, created Roc-A-Fella Records as an independent label in 1995. After striking a distribution deal with Priority, Jay-Z released his 1996 debut album Reasonable Doubt with beats from acclaimed producers such as DJ Premier and Super DJ Clark Kent and an appearance by The Notorious B.I.G. The album reached number 23 on the Billboard 200, and was generally favored by critics. This album would later be included in Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time as No. 248 and eventually reach platinum status.	When did you release your debut album Reasonable Doubt?	I released my debut album Reasonable Doubt in 1996.
With no major label to give him a record deal, Jay-Z sold burned CDs out of his car, and with Damon "Dame" Dash and Kareem "Biggs" Burke, created Roc-A-Fella Records as an independent label in 1995. After striking a distribution deal with Priority, Jay-Z released his 1996 debut album Reasonable Doubt with beats from acclaimed producers such as DJ Premier and Super DJ Clark Kent and an appearance by The Notorious B.I.G. The album reached number 23 on the Billboard 200, and was generally favored by critics. This album would later be included in Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time as No. 248 and eventually reach platinum status.	What position did your album Reasonable Doubt reach on the Billboard 200?	My album Reasonable Doubt reached number 23 on the Billboard 200.
With no major label to give him a record deal, Jay-Z sold burned CDs out of his car, and with Damon "Dame" Dash and Kareem "Biggs" Burke, created Roc-A-Fella Records as an independent label in 1995. After striking a distribution deal with Priority, Jay-Z released his 1996 debut album Reasonable Doubt with beats from acclaimed producers such as DJ Premier and Super DJ Clark Kent and an appearance by The Notorious B.I.G. The album reached number 23 on the Billboard 200, and was generally favored by critics. This album would later be included in Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time as No. 248 and eventually reach platinum status.	Which producers did you collaborate with on your debut album?	I collaborated with acclaimed producers DJ Premier and Super DJ Clark Kent on my debut album.
With no major label to give him a record deal, Jay-Z sold burned CDs out of his car, and with Damon "Dame" Dash and Kareem "Biggs" Burke, created Roc-A-Fella Records as an independent label in 1995. After striking a distribution deal with Priority, Jay-Z released his 1996 debut album Reasonable Doubt with beats from acclaimed producers such as DJ Premier and Super DJ Clark Kent and an appearance by The Notorious B.I.G. The album reached number 23 on the Billboard 200, and was generally favored by critics. This album would later be included in Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time as No. 248 and eventually reach platinum status.	What recognition did your album Reasonable Doubt receive?	My album Reasonable Doubt was included in Rolling Stone's 500 Greatest Albums of All Time as No. 248 and eventually reached platinum status.
After reaching a new label distribution deal with Def Jam in 1997, Jay-Z released his follow-up In My Lifetime, Vol. 1. Produced by Sean "Puff Daddy" Combs, it outsold his previous release.[citation needed] Jay-Z later explained that the album was made during one of the worst periods of his life when he was reeling from the death of his close friend, The Notorious B.I.G. The album was a personal revelation for Jay-Z as he told the stories of his difficult upbringing.[citation needed] The album's glossy production stood as a contrast to his first release, and some dedicated fans felt he had "sold out." However, the album did feature some beats from producers who had worked with him on Reasonable Doubt, namely DJ Premier and Ski. Like its predecessor, In My Lifetime, Vol. 1 earned platinum status in the United States.	Who produced your album In My Lifetime, Vol. 1?	Sean "Puff Daddy" Combs produced my album.
After reaching a new label distribution deal with Def Jam in 1997, Jay-Z released his follow-up In My Lifetime, Vol. 1. Produced by Sean "Puff Daddy" Combs, it outsold his previous release.[citation needed] Jay-Z later explained that the album was made during one of the worst periods of his life when he was reeling from the death of his close friend, The Notorious B.I.G. The album was a personal revelation for Jay-Z as he told the stories of his difficult upbringing.[citation needed] The album's glossy production stood as a contrast to his first release, and some dedicated fans felt he had "sold out." However, the album did feature some beats from producers who had worked with him on Reasonable Doubt, namely DJ Premier and Ski. Like its predecessor, In My Lifetime, Vol. 1 earned platinum status in the United States.	What was the label distribution deal that you made in 1997?	I made a new label distribution deal with Def Jam in 1997.
After reaching a new label distribution deal with Def Jam in 1997, Jay-Z released his follow-up In My Lifetime, Vol. 1. Produced by Sean "Puff Daddy" Combs, it outsold his previous release.[citation needed] Jay-Z later explained that the album was made during one of the worst periods of his life when he was reeling from the death of his close friend, The Notorious B.I.G. The album was a personal revelation for Jay-Z as he told the stories of his difficult upbringing.[citation needed] The album's glossy production stood as a contrast to his first release, and some dedicated fans felt he had "sold out." However, the album did feature some beats from producers who had worked with him on Reasonable Doubt, namely DJ Premier and Ski. Like its predecessor, In My Lifetime, Vol. 1 earned platinum status in the United States.	What was the significance of In My Lifetime, Vol. 1 in terms of my sales?	In My Lifetime, Vol. 1 outsold my previous release.
After reaching a new label distribution deal with Def Jam in 1997, Jay-Z released his follow-up In My Lifetime, Vol. 1. Produced by Sean "Puff Daddy" Combs, it outsold his previous release.[citation needed] Jay-Z later explained that the album was made during one of the worst periods of his life when he was reeling from the death of his close friend, The Notorious B.I.G. The album was a personal revelation for Jay-Z as he told the stories of his difficult upbringing.[citation needed] The album's glossy production stood as a contrast to his first release, and some dedicated fans felt he had "sold out." However, the album did feature some beats from producers who had worked with him on Reasonable Doubt, namely DJ Premier and Ski. Like its predecessor, In My Lifetime, Vol. 1 earned platinum status in the United States.	During what period in your life was In My Lifetime, Vol. 1 made?	In My Lifetime, Vol. 1 was made during one of the worst periods of my life when I was reeling from the death of my close friend, The Notorious B.I.G.
After reaching a new label distribution deal with Def Jam in 1997, Jay-Z released his follow-up In My Lifetime, Vol. 1. Produced by Sean "Puff Daddy" Combs, it outsold his previous release.[citation needed] Jay-Z later explained that the album was made during one of the worst periods of his life when he was reeling from the death of his close friend, The Notorious B.I.G. The album was a personal revelation for Jay-Z as he told the stories of his difficult upbringing.[citation needed] The album's glossy production stood as a contrast to his first release, and some dedicated fans felt he had "sold out." However, the album did feature some beats from producers who had worked with him on Reasonable Doubt, namely DJ Premier and Ski. Like its predecessor, In My Lifetime, Vol. 1 earned platinum status in the United States.	Did In My Lifetime, Vol. 1 receive platinum status in the United States?	Yes, In My Lifetime, Vol. 1 earned platinum status in the United States.
In 1998, Jay-Z released Vol. 2... Hard Knock Life which spawned the biggest hit of his career at the time, "Hard Knock Life (Ghetto Anthem)". He relied more on flow and wordplay, and he continued with his penchant for mining beats from the popular producers of the day such as Swizz Beatz, an upstart in-house producer for Ruff Ryders, and Timbaland. Other producers included DJ Premier, Erick Sermon, The 45 King, and Kid Capri. Charting hits from this album included "Can I Get A...", featuring Ja Rule and Amil, and "Nigga What, Nigga Who", featuring Amil and Jaz-O. Vol. 2 would eventually become Jay-Z's most commercially successful album; it was certified 5× Platinum in the United States and has to date sold over five million copies. The album went on to win a Grammy Award, although Jay-Z boycotted the ceremony protesting DMX's failure to garner a Grammy nomination and the academy's decision to not broadcast urban music categories.	What was the biggest hit of your career at the time of your album "Vol. 2... Hard Knock Life"?	The biggest hit of my career at the time of my album "Vol. 2... Hard Knock Life" was "Hard Knock Life (Ghetto Anthem)".
In 1998, Jay-Z released Vol. 2... Hard Knock Life which spawned the biggest hit of his career at the time, "Hard Knock Life (Ghetto Anthem)". He relied more on flow and wordplay, and he continued with his penchant for mining beats from the popular producers of the day such as Swizz Beatz, an upstart in-house producer for Ruff Ryders, and Timbaland. Other producers included DJ Premier, Erick Sermon, The 45 King, and Kid Capri. Charting hits from this album included "Can I Get A...", featuring Ja Rule and Amil, and "Nigga What, Nigga Who", featuring Amil and Jaz-O. Vol. 2 would eventually become Jay-Z's most commercially successful album; it was certified 5× Platinum in the United States and has to date sold over five million copies. The album went on to win a Grammy Award, although Jay-Z boycotted the ceremony protesting DMX's failure to garner a Grammy nomination and the academy's decision to not broadcast urban music categories.	Which producers did you rely on for your album "Vol. 2... Hard Knock Life"?	I relied on producers such as Swizz Beatz, DJ Premier, Erick Sermon, The 45 King, and Kid Capri for my album "Vol. 2... Hard Knock Life".
In 1998, Jay-Z released Vol. 2... Hard Knock Life which spawned the biggest hit of his career at the time, "Hard Knock Life (Ghetto Anthem)". He relied more on flow and wordplay, and he continued with his penchant for mining beats from the popular producers of the day such as Swizz Beatz, an upstart in-house producer for Ruff Ryders, and Timbaland. Other producers included DJ Premier, Erick Sermon, The 45 King, and Kid Capri. Charting hits from this album included "Can I Get A...", featuring Ja Rule and Amil, and "Nigga What, Nigga Who", featuring Amil and Jaz-O. Vol. 2 would eventually become Jay-Z's most commercially successful album; it was certified 5× Platinum in the United States and has to date sold over five million copies. The album went on to win a Grammy Award, although Jay-Z boycotted the ceremony protesting DMX's failure to garner a Grammy nomination and the academy's decision to not broadcast urban music categories.	Which songs from your album "Vol. 2... Hard Knock Life" charted hits?	The songs "Can I Get A..." featuring Ja Rule and Amil, and "Nigga What, Nigga Who" featuring Amil and Jaz-O charted hits from my album "Vol. 2... Hard Knock Life".
In 1998, Jay-Z released Vol. 2... Hard Knock Life which spawned the biggest hit of his career at the time, "Hard Knock Life (Ghetto Anthem)". He relied more on flow and wordplay, and he continued with his penchant for mining beats from the popular producers of the day such as Swizz Beatz, an upstart in-house producer for Ruff Ryders, and Timbaland. Other producers included DJ Premier, Erick Sermon, The 45 King, and Kid Capri. Charting hits from this album included "Can I Get A...", featuring Ja Rule and Amil, and "Nigga What, Nigga Who", featuring Amil and Jaz-O. Vol. 2 would eventually become Jay-Z's most commercially successful album; it was certified 5× Platinum in the United States and has to date sold over five million copies. The album went on to win a Grammy Award, although Jay-Z boycotted the ceremony protesting DMX's failure to garner a Grammy nomination and the academy's decision to not broadcast urban music categories.	How commercially successful was your album "Vol. 2... Hard Knock Life"?	My album "Vol. 2... Hard Knock Life" was my most commercially successful album. It was certified 5× Platinum in the United States and to date has sold over five million copies.
In 1998, Jay-Z released Vol. 2... Hard Knock Life which spawned the biggest hit of his career at the time, "Hard Knock Life (Ghetto Anthem)". He relied more on flow and wordplay, and he continued with his penchant for mining beats from the popular producers of the day such as Swizz Beatz, an upstart in-house producer for Ruff Ryders, and Timbaland. Other producers included DJ Premier, Erick Sermon, The 45 King, and Kid Capri. Charting hits from this album included "Can I Get A...", featuring Ja Rule and Amil, and "Nigga What, Nigga Who", featuring Amil and Jaz-O. Vol. 2 would eventually become Jay-Z's most commercially successful album; it was certified 5× Platinum in the United States and has to date sold over five million copies. The album went on to win a Grammy Award, although Jay-Z boycotted the ceremony protesting DMX's failure to garner a Grammy nomination and the academy's decision to not broadcast urban music categories.	Why did you boycott the Grammy Awards?	I boycotted the Grammy Awards in protest of DMX's failure to garner a Grammy nomination and the academy's decision to not broadcast urban music categories.
In 1999, Jay-Z collaborated with Mariah Carey on "Heartbreaker", a song from her seventh album, Rainbow. The song became Jay-Z's first chart-topper in the US, spending two weeks atop the Billboard Hot 100. In that same year, Jay-Z released Vol. 3... Life and Times of S. Carter. The album proved successful and sold over 3 million copies. Vol. 3's most successful single was "Big Pimpin", featuring UGK.	Who did you collaborate with on the song "Heartbreaker"?	Mariah Carey
In 1999, Jay-Z collaborated with Mariah Carey on "Heartbreaker", a song from her seventh album, Rainbow. The song became Jay-Z's first chart-topper in the US, spending two weeks atop the Billboard Hot 100. In that same year, Jay-Z released Vol. 3... Life and Times of S. Carter. The album proved successful and sold over 3 million copies. Vol. 3's most successful single was "Big Pimpin", featuring UGK.	What was the title of your album released in 1999?	Vol. 3... Life and Times of S. Carter
In 1999, Jay-Z collaborated with Mariah Carey on "Heartbreaker", a song from her seventh album, Rainbow. The song became Jay-Z's first chart-topper in the US, spending two weeks atop the Billboard Hot 100. In that same year, Jay-Z released Vol. 3... Life and Times of S. Carter. The album proved successful and sold over 3 million copies. Vol. 3's most successful single was "Big Pimpin", featuring UGK.	How many weeks did your song "Heartbreaker" spend atop the Billboard Hot 100?	Two weeks
In 1999, Jay-Z collaborated with Mariah Carey on "Heartbreaker", a song from her seventh album, Rainbow. The song became Jay-Z's first chart-topper in the US, spending two weeks atop the Billboard Hot 100. In that same year, Jay-Z released Vol. 3... Life and Times of S. Carter. The album proved successful and sold over 3 million copies. Vol. 3's most successful single was "Big Pimpin", featuring UGK.	How many copies did your album Vol. 3... Life and Times of S. Carter sell?	Over 3 million copies
In 1999, Jay-Z collaborated with Mariah Carey on "Heartbreaker", a song from her seventh album, Rainbow. The song became Jay-Z's first chart-topper in the US, spending two weeks atop the Billboard Hot 100. In that same year, Jay-Z released Vol. 3... Life and Times of S. Carter. The album proved successful and sold over 3 million copies. Vol. 3's most successful single was "Big Pimpin", featuring UGK.	Which artist featured in your most successful single from Vol. 3?	UGK
On November 25 , 2003 , Jay - Z held a concert — billed as a " retirement party " at Madison Square Garden in New York City , which would later be the focus of his film Fade to Black . All proceeds went to charity . Other performers included collaborators like the Roots ( in the form of his backing band ) , Missy Elliott , Memphis Bleek , Beanie Siegel , Freeway , Mary J . Blige , Beyonc é , Twista , Ghostface Killah , Foxy Brown , Pharrell Williams and R . Kelly with special appearances by Voletta Wallace and Afeni Shakur , the mothers of The Notorious B . I . G . and Tupac Shakur , respectively . While Jay - Z had attested to a retirement from making new studio albums , various side projects and appearances soon followed . Included in these were a greatest hits record , as well as the release and tour of Unfinished Business , the second collaborative album between Jay - Z and R . Kelly .	When and where did you hold your retirement party concert?	On November 25, 2003, I held my retirement party concert at Madison Square Garden in New York City.
On November 25 , 2003 , Jay - Z held a concert — billed as a " retirement party " at Madison Square Garden in New York City , which would later be the focus of his film Fade to Black . All proceeds went to charity . Other performers included collaborators like the Roots ( in the form of his backing band ) , Missy Elliott , Memphis Bleek , Beanie Siegel , Freeway , Mary J . Blige , Beyonc é , Twista , Ghostface Killah , Foxy Brown , Pharrell Williams and R . Kelly with special appearances by Voletta Wallace and Afeni Shakur , the mothers of The Notorious B . I . G . and Tupac Shakur , respectively . While Jay - Z had attested to a retirement from making new studio albums , various side projects and appearances soon followed . Included in these were a greatest hits record , as well as the release and tour of Unfinished Business , the second collaborative album between Jay - Z and R . Kelly .	What was the focus of your film?	The focus of my film was my retirement party concert at Madison Square Garden.
On November 25 , 2003 , Jay - Z held a concert — billed as a " retirement party " at Madison Square Garden in New York City , which would later be the focus of his film Fade to Black . All proceeds went to charity . Other performers included collaborators like the Roots ( in the form of his backing band ) , Missy Elliott , Memphis Bleek , Beanie Siegel , Freeway , Mary J . Blige , Beyonc é , Twista , Ghostface Killah , Foxy Brown , Pharrell Williams and R . Kelly with special appearances by Voletta Wallace and Afeni Shakur , the mothers of The Notorious B . I . G . and Tupac Shakur , respectively . While Jay - Z had attested to a retirement from making new studio albums , various side projects and appearances soon followed . Included in these were a greatest hits record , as well as the release and tour of Unfinished Business , the second collaborative album between Jay - Z and R . Kelly .	Where did the proceeds from your concert go?	The proceeds from my concert went to charity.
On November 25 , 2003 , Jay - Z held a concert — billed as a " retirement party " at Madison Square Garden in New York City , which would later be the focus of his film Fade to Black . All proceeds went to charity . Other performers included collaborators like the Roots ( in the form of his backing band ) , Missy Elliott , Memphis Bleek , Beanie Siegel , Freeway , Mary J . Blige , Beyonc é , Twista , Ghostface Killah , Foxy Brown , Pharrell Williams and R . Kelly with special appearances by Voletta Wallace and Afeni Shakur , the mothers of The Notorious B . I . G . and Tupac Shakur , respectively . While Jay - Z had attested to a retirement from making new studio albums , various side projects and appearances soon followed . Included in these were a greatest hits record , as well as the release and tour of Unfinished Business , the second collaborative album between Jay - Z and R . Kelly .	Who were some of the performers at the concert?	Some of the performers at the concert included the Roots, Missy Elliott, Memphis Bleek, Beanie Siegel, Freeway, Mary J. Blige, Beyoncé, Twista, Ghostface Killah, Foxy Brown, Pharrell Williams, and R. Kelly.
On November 25 , 2003 , Jay - Z held a concert — billed as a " retirement party " at Madison Square Garden in New York City , which would later be the focus of his film Fade to Black . All proceeds went to charity . Other performers included collaborators like the Roots ( in the form of his backing band ) , Missy Elliott , Memphis Bleek , Beanie Siegel , Freeway , Mary J . Blige , Beyonc é , Twista , Ghostface Killah , Foxy Brown , Pharrell Williams and R . Kelly with special appearances by Voletta Wallace and Afeni Shakur , the mothers of The Notorious B . I . G . and Tupac Shakur , respectively . While Jay - Z had attested to a retirement from making new studio albums , various side projects and appearances soon followed . Included in these were a greatest hits record , as well as the release and tour of Unfinished Business , the second collaborative album between Jay - Z and R . Kelly .	Who made special appearances at the concert?	Special appearances were made by Voletta Wallace and Afeni Shakur, the mothers of The Notorious B.I.G. and Tupac Shakur, respectively.
In 2004 , Jay - Z collaborated with rock group Linkin Park , in which they released their collaborative remix EP Collision Course , which featured mashups of both artists ' songs , as well as a concert DVD . The album ' s only single , " Numb / Encore " , went on to win a Grammy for Best Rap / Sung Collaboration , and was performed with Linkin Park live at the Grammys , with a special appearance by Paul McCartney , who added verses from the song " Yesterday " . The EP sold over 1   million copies in the U . S . Jay - Z was the executive producer of The Rising Tied , the debut album of Fort Minor , the hip hop side project of Linkin Park rapper Mike Shinoda . Jay - Z also planned to retire in 2004 .	Which rock group did you collaborate with in 2004?	Linkin Park.
In 2004 , Jay - Z collaborated with rock group Linkin Park , in which they released their collaborative remix EP Collision Course , which featured mashups of both artists ' songs , as well as a concert DVD . The album ' s only single , " Numb / Encore " , went on to win a Grammy for Best Rap / Sung Collaboration , and was performed with Linkin Park live at the Grammys , with a special appearance by Paul McCartney , who added verses from the song " Yesterday " . The EP sold over 1   million copies in the U . S . Jay - Z was the executive producer of The Rising Tied , the debut album of Fort Minor , the hip hop side project of Linkin Park rapper Mike Shinoda . Jay - Z also planned to retire in 2004 .	What is the name of the collaborative remix EP I released with Linkin Park in 2004?	Collision Course.
In 2004 , Jay - Z collaborated with rock group Linkin Park , in which they released their collaborative remix EP Collision Course , which featured mashups of both artists ' songs , as well as a concert DVD . The album ' s only single , " Numb / Encore " , went on to win a Grammy for Best Rap / Sung Collaboration , and was performed with Linkin Park live at the Grammys , with a special appearance by Paul McCartney , who added verses from the song " Yesterday " . The EP sold over 1   million copies in the U . S . Jay - Z was the executive producer of The Rising Tied , the debut album of Fort Minor , the hip hop side project of Linkin Park rapper Mike Shinoda . Jay - Z also planned to retire in 2004 .	Which song from my EP "Collision Course" won a Grammy for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration?	"Numb/Encore".
In 2004 , Jay - Z collaborated with rock group Linkin Park , in which they released their collaborative remix EP Collision Course , which featured mashups of both artists ' songs , as well as a concert DVD . The album ' s only single , " Numb / Encore " , went on to win a Grammy for Best Rap / Sung Collaboration , and was performed with Linkin Park live at the Grammys , with a special appearance by Paul McCartney , who added verses from the song " Yesterday " . The EP sold over 1   million copies in the U . S . Jay - Z was the executive producer of The Rising Tied , the debut album of Fort Minor , the hip hop side project of Linkin Park rapper Mike Shinoda . Jay - Z also planned to retire in 2004 .	What special appearance was made by Paul McCartney during the performance of "Numb/Encore" at the Grammys?	Paul McCartney added verses from the song "Yesterday".
In 2004 , Jay - Z collaborated with rock group Linkin Park , in which they released their collaborative remix EP Collision Course , which featured mashups of both artists ' songs , as well as a concert DVD . The album ' s only single , " Numb / Encore " , went on to win a Grammy for Best Rap / Sung Collaboration , and was performed with Linkin Park live at the Grammys , with a special appearance by Paul McCartney , who added verses from the song " Yesterday " . The EP sold over 1   million copies in the U . S . Jay - Z was the executive producer of The Rising Tied , the debut album of Fort Minor , the hip hop side project of Linkin Park rapper Mike Shinoda . Jay - Z also planned to retire in 2004 .	How many copies of your EP "Collision Course" were sold in the U.S.?	Over 1 million copies.
On October 27 , 2005 , Jay - Z headlined New York ' s Power 105.1 annual concert , Powerhouse . The concert was entitled the " I Declare War " concert leading to intense speculation in the weeks preceding the event on whom exactly Jay - Z would declare war . As he had previously " declared war " on other artists taking lyrical shots at him at other events , many believed that the Powerhouse show would represent an all - out assault by Jay - Z upon his rivals . The theme of the concert was Jay - Z ' s position as president and CEO of Def Jam , complete with an on - stage mock - up of the Oval Office . Many artists made appearances such as the old roster of Roc - A - Fella records artists , as well as Ne - Yo , Teairra Mar í , T . I . , Young Jeezy , Akon , Kanye West , Paul Wall , The LOX , and Diddy .	When did you headline New York's Power 105.1 annual concert?	I headlined New York's Power 105.1 annual concert on October 27, 2005.
On October 27 , 2005 , Jay - Z headlined New York ' s Power 105.1 annual concert , Powerhouse . The concert was entitled the " I Declare War " concert leading to intense speculation in the weeks preceding the event on whom exactly Jay - Z would declare war . As he had previously " declared war " on other artists taking lyrical shots at him at other events , many believed that the Powerhouse show would represent an all - out assault by Jay - Z upon his rivals . The theme of the concert was Jay - Z ' s position as president and CEO of Def Jam , complete with an on - stage mock - up of the Oval Office . Many artists made appearances such as the old roster of Roc - A - Fella records artists , as well as Ne - Yo , Teairra Mar í , T . I . , Young Jeezy , Akon , Kanye West , Paul Wall , The LOX , and Diddy .	What was the title of the concert?	The concert was entitled the "I Declare War" concert.
On October 27 , 2005 , Jay - Z headlined New York ' s Power 105.1 annual concert , Powerhouse . The concert was entitled the " I Declare War " concert leading to intense speculation in the weeks preceding the event on whom exactly Jay - Z would declare war . As he had previously " declared war " on other artists taking lyrical shots at him at other events , many believed that the Powerhouse show would represent an all - out assault by Jay - Z upon his rivals . The theme of the concert was Jay - Z ' s position as president and CEO of Def Jam , complete with an on - stage mock - up of the Oval Office . Many artists made appearances such as the old roster of Roc - A - Fella records artists , as well as Ne - Yo , Teairra Mar í , T . I . , Young Jeezy , Akon , Kanye West , Paul Wall , The LOX , and Diddy .	What was the speculation surrounding your concert?	There was intense speculation on whom exactly I would declare war on during the concert.
On October 27 , 2005 , Jay - Z headlined New York ' s Power 105.1 annual concert , Powerhouse . The concert was entitled the " I Declare War " concert leading to intense speculation in the weeks preceding the event on whom exactly Jay - Z would declare war . As he had previously " declared war " on other artists taking lyrical shots at him at other events , many believed that the Powerhouse show would represent an all - out assault by Jay - Z upon his rivals . The theme of the concert was Jay - Z ' s position as president and CEO of Def Jam , complete with an on - stage mock - up of the Oval Office . Many artists made appearances such as the old roster of Roc - A - Fella records artists , as well as Ne - Yo , Teairra Mar í , T . I . , Young Jeezy , Akon , Kanye West , Paul Wall , The LOX , and Diddy .	What was the theme of your concert?	The theme of my concert was my position as president and CEO of Def Jam, complete with an on-stage mock-up of the Oval Office.
On October 27 , 2005 , Jay - Z headlined New York ' s Power 105.1 annual concert , Powerhouse . The concert was entitled the " I Declare War " concert leading to intense speculation in the weeks preceding the event on whom exactly Jay - Z would declare war . As he had previously " declared war " on other artists taking lyrical shots at him at other events , many believed that the Powerhouse show would represent an all - out assault by Jay - Z upon his rivals . The theme of the concert was Jay - Z ' s position as president and CEO of Def Jam , complete with an on - stage mock - up of the Oval Office . Many artists made appearances such as the old roster of Roc - A - Fella records artists , as well as Ne - Yo , Teairra Mar í , T . I . , Young Jeezy , Akon , Kanye West , Paul Wall , The LOX , and Diddy .	Which artists made appearances at the concert?	Artists such as the old roster of Roc-A-Fella records artists, Ne-Yo, Teairra Marí, T.I., Young Jeezy, Akon, Kanye West, Paul Wall, The LOX, and Diddy made appearances at the concert.
Jay - Z returned with his comeback album on November 21 , 2006 , titled Kingdom Come . Jay - Z ' s comeback single , " Show Me What You Got " , was leaked on the Internet in early October 2006 , scheduled to be released later on that month , received heavy air - play after its leak , causing the FBI to step in and investigate . Jay - Z worked with video director Hype Williams , and the single ' s video was directed by F . Gary Gray . The album features production from Just Blaze , Pharrell , Kanye West , Dr . Dre and Coldplay ' s Chris Martin ( single entitled " Beach Chair " ) . The first week saw 680 , 000 sales of the CD , which Entertainment Weekly said was " the highest single - week total in Jay ' s decade long career " . This album has sold 2   million copies in the U . S .	When did you release your comeback album?	I released my comeback album on November 21, 2006.
Jay - Z returned with his comeback album on November 21 , 2006 , titled Kingdom Come . Jay - Z ' s comeback single , " Show Me What You Got " , was leaked on the Internet in early October 2006 , scheduled to be released later on that month , received heavy air - play after its leak , causing the FBI to step in and investigate . Jay - Z worked with video director Hype Williams , and the single ' s video was directed by F . Gary Gray . The album features production from Just Blaze , Pharrell , Kanye West , Dr . Dre and Coldplay ' s Chris Martin ( single entitled " Beach Chair " ) . The first week saw 680 , 000 sales of the CD , which Entertainment Weekly said was " the highest single - week total in Jay ' s decade long career " . This album has sold 2   million copies in the U . S .	What was the title of your comeback album?	The title of my comeback album was "Kingdom Come".
Jay - Z returned with his comeback album on November 21 , 2006 , titled Kingdom Come . Jay - Z ' s comeback single , " Show Me What You Got " , was leaked on the Internet in early October 2006 , scheduled to be released later on that month , received heavy air - play after its leak , causing the FBI to step in and investigate . Jay - Z worked with video director Hype Williams , and the single ' s video was directed by F . Gary Gray . The album features production from Just Blaze , Pharrell , Kanye West , Dr . Dre and Coldplay ' s Chris Martin ( single entitled " Beach Chair " ) . The first week saw 680 , 000 sales of the CD , which Entertainment Weekly said was " the highest single - week total in Jay ' s decade long career " . This album has sold 2   million copies in the U . S .	Which single from your album was leaked on the Internet?	The single that was leaked on the Internet was called "Show Me What You Got".
Jay - Z returned with his comeback album on November 21 , 2006 , titled Kingdom Come . Jay - Z ' s comeback single , " Show Me What You Got " , was leaked on the Internet in early October 2006 , scheduled to be released later on that month , received heavy air - play after its leak , causing the FBI to step in and investigate . Jay - Z worked with video director Hype Williams , and the single ' s video was directed by F . Gary Gray . The album features production from Just Blaze , Pharrell , Kanye West , Dr . Dre and Coldplay ' s Chris Martin ( single entitled " Beach Chair " ) . The first week saw 680 , 000 sales of the CD , which Entertainment Weekly said was " the highest single - week total in Jay ' s decade long career " . This album has sold 2   million copies in the U . S .	Who directed the music video for the single?	The music video for the single was directed by F. Gary Gray.
Jay - Z returned with his comeback album on November 21 , 2006 , titled Kingdom Come . Jay - Z ' s comeback single , " Show Me What You Got " , was leaked on the Internet in early October 2006 , scheduled to be released later on that month , received heavy air - play after its leak , causing the FBI to step in and investigate . Jay - Z worked with video director Hype Williams , and the single ' s video was directed by F . Gary Gray . The album features production from Just Blaze , Pharrell , Kanye West , Dr . Dre and Coldplay ' s Chris Martin ( single entitled " Beach Chair " ) . The first week saw 680 , 000 sales of the CD , which Entertainment Weekly said was " the highest single - week total in Jay ' s decade long career " . This album has sold 2   million copies in the U . S .	How many copies of the album were sold in the first week?	In the first week, 680,000 copies of the album were sold.
In winter 2008 , it was announced that Jay - Z would become the first major hip hop artist to headline Britain ' s Glastonbury Festival . Tickets sold out quickly . Former headliner Noel Gallagher of Oasis condemned the festival organizers for choosing Jay - Z to headline a traditionally guitar - driven festival . " I ' m sorry , but Jay - Z ? " Gallagher asked , swearing . " No chance . Glastonbury has a tradition of , kind of , guitar music , do you know what I mean ? And even when they throw the odd curve balls in on a Sunday night — you go , ' Kylie Minogue ? I don ' t know about that ' , do you know what I mean ? — but I ' m not having hip hop at Glastonbury , no way , no , no . It ' s wrong . " As controversy mounted , Jay - Z replied , " We don ' t play guitars , Noel , but hip hop has put in its work like any other form of music . This headline show is just a natural progression . Rap music is still evolving . We have to respect each other ' s genre of music and move forward . " Jay - Z opened his Glastonbury set with a tongue - in - cheek cover of Oasis ' s iconic song " Wonderwall " , and went on to deliver a performance heralded as a successful response to pre - festival criticism .	When was it announced that you would headline Britain's Glastonbury Festival?	In winter 2008.
In winter 2008 , it was announced that Jay - Z would become the first major hip hop artist to headline Britain ' s Glastonbury Festival . Tickets sold out quickly . Former headliner Noel Gallagher of Oasis condemned the festival organizers for choosing Jay - Z to headline a traditionally guitar - driven festival . " I ' m sorry , but Jay - Z ? " Gallagher asked , swearing . " No chance . Glastonbury has a tradition of , kind of , guitar music , do you know what I mean ? And even when they throw the odd curve balls in on a Sunday night — you go , ' Kylie Minogue ? I don ' t know about that ' , do you know what I mean ? — but I ' m not having hip hop at Glastonbury , no way , no , no . It ' s wrong . " As controversy mounted , Jay - Z replied , " We don ' t play guitars , Noel , but hip hop has put in its work like any other form of music . This headline show is just a natural progression . Rap music is still evolving . We have to respect each other ' s genre of music and move forward . " Jay - Z opened his Glastonbury set with a tongue - in - cheek cover of Oasis ' s iconic song " Wonderwall " , and went on to deliver a performance heralded as a successful response to pre - festival criticism .	Who criticized the festival organizers for choosing you as the headliner?	Noel Gallagher of Oasis.
In winter 2008 , it was announced that Jay - Z would become the first major hip hop artist to headline Britain ' s Glastonbury Festival . Tickets sold out quickly . Former headliner Noel Gallagher of Oasis condemned the festival organizers for choosing Jay - Z to headline a traditionally guitar - driven festival . " I ' m sorry , but Jay - Z ? " Gallagher asked , swearing . " No chance . Glastonbury has a tradition of , kind of , guitar music , do you know what I mean ? And even when they throw the odd curve balls in on a Sunday night — you go , ' Kylie Minogue ? I don ' t know about that ' , do you know what I mean ? — but I ' m not having hip hop at Glastonbury , no way , no , no . It ' s wrong . " As controversy mounted , Jay - Z replied , " We don ' t play guitars , Noel , but hip hop has put in its work like any other form of music . This headline show is just a natural progression . Rap music is still evolving . We have to respect each other ' s genre of music and move forward . " Jay - Z opened his Glastonbury set with a tongue - in - cheek cover of Oasis ' s iconic song " Wonderwall " , and went on to deliver a performance heralded as a successful response to pre - festival criticism .	What did Noel Gallagher say about you headlining the festival?	"I'm sorry, but me? No chance. Glastonbury has a tradition of, kind of, guitar music, do you know what I mean? And even when they throw the odd curve balls in on a Sunday night — you go, 'Kylie Minogue? I don't know about that', do you know what I mean? — but I'm not having hip hop at Glastonbury, no way, no, no. It's wrong."
In winter 2008 , it was announced that Jay - Z would become the first major hip hop artist to headline Britain ' s Glastonbury Festival . Tickets sold out quickly . Former headliner Noel Gallagher of Oasis condemned the festival organizers for choosing Jay - Z to headline a traditionally guitar - driven festival . " I ' m sorry , but Jay - Z ? " Gallagher asked , swearing . " No chance . Glastonbury has a tradition of , kind of , guitar music , do you know what I mean ? And even when they throw the odd curve balls in on a Sunday night — you go , ' Kylie Minogue ? I don ' t know about that ' , do you know what I mean ? — but I ' m not having hip hop at Glastonbury , no way , no , no . It ' s wrong . " As controversy mounted , Jay - Z replied , " We don ' t play guitars , Noel , but hip hop has put in its work like any other form of music . This headline show is just a natural progression . Rap music is still evolving . We have to respect each other ' s genre of music and move forward . " Jay - Z opened his Glastonbury set with a tongue - in - cheek cover of Oasis ' s iconic song " Wonderwall " , and went on to deliver a performance heralded as a successful response to pre - festival criticism .	How did you respond to the controversy?	I replied, "We don't play guitars, Noel, but hip hop has put in its work like any other form of music. This headline show is just a natural progression. Rap music is still evolving. We have to respect each other's genre of music and move forward."
In winter 2008 , it was announced that Jay - Z would become the first major hip hop artist to headline Britain ' s Glastonbury Festival . Tickets sold out quickly . Former headliner Noel Gallagher of Oasis condemned the festival organizers for choosing Jay - Z to headline a traditionally guitar - driven festival . " I ' m sorry , but Jay - Z ? " Gallagher asked , swearing . " No chance . Glastonbury has a tradition of , kind of , guitar music , do you know what I mean ? And even when they throw the odd curve balls in on a Sunday night — you go , ' Kylie Minogue ? I don ' t know about that ' , do you know what I mean ? — but I ' m not having hip hop at Glastonbury , no way , no , no . It ' s wrong . " As controversy mounted , Jay - Z replied , " We don ' t play guitars , Noel , but hip hop has put in its work like any other form of music . This headline show is just a natural progression . Rap music is still evolving . We have to respect each other ' s genre of music and move forward . " Jay - Z opened his Glastonbury set with a tongue - in - cheek cover of Oasis ' s iconic song " Wonderwall " , and went on to deliver a performance heralded as a successful response to pre - festival criticism .	What song did you cover at the beginning of your Glastonbury set?	I opened my Glastonbury set with a tongue-in-cheek cover of Oasis's iconic song "Wonderwall".
He also headlined many other summer festivals in 2008 , including Roskilde Festival in Denmark , Hove Festival in Norway and O2 Wireless Festival in London . During Kanye West ' s concert of August 6 , 2008 , at Madison Square Garden , Jay - Z came out to perform a new song and he and West proclaimed that it was to be on The Blueprint 3 . On May 21 , 2009 , Jay - Z announced he would be parting ways with Def Jam , and had struck a multi - million - dollar deal to sign with Live Nation , with whom he would start his Roc Nation imprint which would serve as a record label , talent / management agency , and music publishing company and also partnered with production team Stargate to start a record label called StarRoc . Jay - Z ' s 11th studio album The Blueprint 3 was originally to be released on September 11 , 2009 , but was instead released in North America on September 8 , 2009 , due to increasing anticipation . Its international release followed on September 14 . It is his 11th album to reach No . 1 on the Billboard 200 and has surpassed Elvis Presley ' s previous record , making him the current solo - artist record holder . On October 9 , 2009 , Jay - Z kicked off his tour for The Blueprint 3 , during which he supported his new album in North America . In a Shave Magazine review of his performance at Rexall Place in Edmonton , Jake Tomlinson expressed that " It was the type of smooth performance you would expect from the hip - hop superstar . " The review gave this performance 4 stars . His North American tour continued until November 22 , 2009 . At his concert on November 8 , 2009 , at UCLA ' s Pauley Pavilion , Rihanna joined him on stage and performed " Hard " for the first time , then performed " Run This Town " with Jay - Z . Among his success , Jay - Z has ventured into producing Broadway shows . Along with Jada Pinkett Smith and Will Smith , Jay - Z helped produce the play Fela ! , a musical celebrating the work of the late Nigerian star Fela Kuti . Jay - Z said he was inspired by the power of Kuti ' s work and his life story , which resulted in his interest to help produce the musical . Fela ! is a story about an African pioneer and political activist who made his first moves on the scene during the 1970s .	Which festivals did you headline in 2008?	Roskilde Festival in Denmark, Hove Festival in Norway, and O2 Wireless Festival in London.
He also headlined many other summer festivals in 2008 , including Roskilde Festival in Denmark , Hove Festival in Norway and O2 Wireless Festival in London . During Kanye West ' s concert of August 6 , 2008 , at Madison Square Garden , Jay - Z came out to perform a new song and he and West proclaimed that it was to be on The Blueprint 3 . On May 21 , 2009 , Jay - Z announced he would be parting ways with Def Jam , and had struck a multi - million - dollar deal to sign with Live Nation , with whom he would start his Roc Nation imprint which would serve as a record label , talent / management agency , and music publishing company and also partnered with production team Stargate to start a record label called StarRoc . Jay - Z ' s 11th studio album The Blueprint 3 was originally to be released on September 11 , 2009 , but was instead released in North America on September 8 , 2009 , due to increasing anticipation . Its international release followed on September 14 . It is his 11th album to reach No . 1 on the Billboard 200 and has surpassed Elvis Presley ' s previous record , making him the current solo - artist record holder . On October 9 , 2009 , Jay - Z kicked off his tour for The Blueprint 3 , during which he supported his new album in North America . In a Shave Magazine review of his performance at Rexall Place in Edmonton , Jake Tomlinson expressed that " It was the type of smooth performance you would expect from the hip - hop superstar . " The review gave this performance 4 stars . His North American tour continued until November 22 , 2009 . At his concert on November 8 , 2009 , at UCLA ' s Pauley Pavilion , Rihanna joined him on stage and performed " Hard " for the first time , then performed " Run This Town " with Jay - Z . Among his success , Jay - Z has ventured into producing Broadway shows . Along with Jada Pinkett Smith and Will Smith , Jay - Z helped produce the play Fela ! , a musical celebrating the work of the late Nigerian star Fela Kuti . Jay - Z said he was inspired by the power of Kuti ' s work and his life story , which resulted in his interest to help produce the musical . Fela ! is a story about an African pioneer and political activist who made his first moves on the scene during the 1970s .	When did you announce your departure from Def Jam?	On May 21, 2009.
He also headlined many other summer festivals in 2008 , including Roskilde Festival in Denmark , Hove Festival in Norway and O2 Wireless Festival in London . During Kanye West ' s concert of August 6 , 2008 , at Madison Square Garden , Jay - Z came out to perform a new song and he and West proclaimed that it was to be on The Blueprint 3 . On May 21 , 2009 , Jay - Z announced he would be parting ways with Def Jam , and had struck a multi - million - dollar deal to sign with Live Nation , with whom he would start his Roc Nation imprint which would serve as a record label , talent / management agency , and music publishing company and also partnered with production team Stargate to start a record label called StarRoc . Jay - Z ' s 11th studio album The Blueprint 3 was originally to be released on September 11 , 2009 , but was instead released in North America on September 8 , 2009 , due to increasing anticipation . Its international release followed on September 14 . It is his 11th album to reach No . 1 on the Billboard 200 and has surpassed Elvis Presley ' s previous record , making him the current solo - artist record holder . On October 9 , 2009 , Jay - Z kicked off his tour for The Blueprint 3 , during which he supported his new album in North America . In a Shave Magazine review of his performance at Rexall Place in Edmonton , Jake Tomlinson expressed that " It was the type of smooth performance you would expect from the hip - hop superstar . " The review gave this performance 4 stars . His North American tour continued until November 22 , 2009 . At his concert on November 8 , 2009 , at UCLA ' s Pauley Pavilion , Rihanna joined him on stage and performed " Hard " for the first time , then performed " Run This Town " with Jay - Z . Among his success , Jay - Z has ventured into producing Broadway shows . Along with Jada Pinkett Smith and Will Smith , Jay - Z helped produce the play Fela ! , a musical celebrating the work of the late Nigerian star Fela Kuti . Jay - Z said he was inspired by the power of Kuti ' s work and his life story , which resulted in his interest to help produce the musical . Fela ! is a story about an African pioneer and political activist who made his first moves on the scene during the 1970s .	Who did you partner with to start the record label StarRoc?	I partnered with production team Stargate.
He also headlined many other summer festivals in 2008 , including Roskilde Festival in Denmark , Hove Festival in Norway and O2 Wireless Festival in London . During Kanye West ' s concert of August 6 , 2008 , at Madison Square Garden , Jay - Z came out to perform a new song and he and West proclaimed that it was to be on The Blueprint 3 . On May 21 , 2009 , Jay - Z announced he would be parting ways with Def Jam , and had struck a multi - million - dollar deal to sign with Live Nation , with whom he would start his Roc Nation imprint which would serve as a record label , talent / management agency , and music publishing company and also partnered with production team Stargate to start a record label called StarRoc . Jay - Z ' s 11th studio album The Blueprint 3 was originally to be released on September 11 , 2009 , but was instead released in North America on September 8 , 2009 , due to increasing anticipation . Its international release followed on September 14 . It is his 11th album to reach No . 1 on the Billboard 200 and has surpassed Elvis Presley ' s previous record , making him the current solo - artist record holder . On October 9 , 2009 , Jay - Z kicked off his tour for The Blueprint 3 , during which he supported his new album in North America . In a Shave Magazine review of his performance at Rexall Place in Edmonton , Jake Tomlinson expressed that " It was the type of smooth performance you would expect from the hip - hop superstar . " The review gave this performance 4 stars . His North American tour continued until November 22 , 2009 . At his concert on November 8 , 2009 , at UCLA ' s Pauley Pavilion , Rihanna joined him on stage and performed " Hard " for the first time , then performed " Run This Town " with Jay - Z . Among his success , Jay - Z has ventured into producing Broadway shows . Along with Jada Pinkett Smith and Will Smith , Jay - Z helped produce the play Fela ! , a musical celebrating the work of the late Nigerian star Fela Kuti . Jay - Z said he was inspired by the power of Kuti ' s work and his life story , which resulted in his interest to help produce the musical . Fela ! is a story about an African pioneer and political activist who made his first moves on the scene during the 1970s .	When was The Blueprint 3 originally supposed to be released?	The Blueprint 3 was originally supposed to be released on September 11, 2009.
He also headlined many other summer festivals in 2008 , including Roskilde Festival in Denmark , Hove Festival in Norway and O2 Wireless Festival in London . During Kanye West ' s concert of August 6 , 2008 , at Madison Square Garden , Jay - Z came out to perform a new song and he and West proclaimed that it was to be on The Blueprint 3 . On May 21 , 2009 , Jay - Z announced he would be parting ways with Def Jam , and had struck a multi - million - dollar deal to sign with Live Nation , with whom he would start his Roc Nation imprint which would serve as a record label , talent / management agency , and music publishing company and also partnered with production team Stargate to start a record label called StarRoc . Jay - Z ' s 11th studio album The Blueprint 3 was originally to be released on September 11 , 2009 , but was instead released in North America on September 8 , 2009 , due to increasing anticipation . Its international release followed on September 14 . It is his 11th album to reach No . 1 on the Billboard 200 and has surpassed Elvis Presley ' s previous record , making him the current solo - artist record holder . On October 9 , 2009 , Jay - Z kicked off his tour for The Blueprint 3 , during which he supported his new album in North America . In a Shave Magazine review of his performance at Rexall Place in Edmonton , Jake Tomlinson expressed that " It was the type of smooth performance you would expect from the hip - hop superstar . " The review gave this performance 4 stars . His North American tour continued until November 22 , 2009 . At his concert on November 8 , 2009 , at UCLA ' s Pauley Pavilion , Rihanna joined him on stage and performed " Hard " for the first time , then performed " Run This Town " with Jay - Z . Among his success , Jay - Z has ventured into producing Broadway shows . Along with Jada Pinkett Smith and Will Smith , Jay - Z helped produce the play Fela ! , a musical celebrating the work of the late Nigerian star Fela Kuti . Jay - Z said he was inspired by the power of Kuti ' s work and his life story , which resulted in his interest to help produce the musical . Fela ! is a story about an African pioneer and political activist who made his first moves on the scene during the 1970s .	Who joined you on stage at your concert on November 8, 2009?	Rihanna joined me on stage at my concert on November 8, 2009.
On January 23 , 2010 , Jay - Z released a track , " Stranded ( Haiti Mon Amour ) " , with Rihanna , and U2 ' s Bono and The Edge , as well as performing it at the Hope For Haiti Now telethon . In June 2010 , Eminem and Jay - Z announced they would perform together in a pair of concerts in Detroit and New York . The event was dubbed The Home & Home Tour . The first two concerts rapidly sold out , prompting the scheduling of an additional show at each venue . Jay - Z was the supporting act for U2 on the Australian and New Zealand leg of their U2 360 ° Tour , beginning in Auckland , New Zealand , in November 2010 , followed by Melbourne , Sydney , Brisbane and Perth in December . Jay - Z also appeared on stage during U2 performances of " Sunday Bloody Sunday " , and in Auckland also on a five - track EP entitled Watch the Throne , although it was later revealed by West that the project had become a full - length LP . Recording sessions for the album took place at various recording locations and began in November 2010 . The first single released for the project was " H • A • M " . The track was co - produced by Lex Luger and West himself . The track ended up being on the deluxe edition of the album . The follow - up to that was the second single " Otis " , which premiered on Funkmaster Flex ' s Hot 97 radio show , and was later released to the iTunes Store eleven days later . The song ' s existence , along with several other tracks from the album , was confirmed during a listening session hosted by Jay - Z . The album was first released on the iTunes Store , five days prior to its being released in physical format , a strategy Jay - Z later said was used to block an internet leak . It debuted at No . 1 on the iTunes Store in 23 countries . It also broke Coldplay ' s record for most albums sold in one week on the online retailer , selling 290 , 000 copies on iTunes alone . It held that record until Lil Wayne ' s Tha Carter IV was released twenty - one days later , selling 10 , 000 copies more . It debuted on the U . S . Billboard 200 chart at No . 1 , selling 436 , 000 copies in its first week . The album received generally positive reviews . Jay - Z and West later gave a surprise performance of " Otis " at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards .	Who did you release a track with on January 23, 2010?	I released a track with Rihanna, U2's Bono and The Edge.
On January 23 , 2010 , Jay - Z released a track , " Stranded ( Haiti Mon Amour ) " , with Rihanna , and U2 ' s Bono and The Edge , as well as performing it at the Hope For Haiti Now telethon . In June 2010 , Eminem and Jay - Z announced they would perform together in a pair of concerts in Detroit and New York . The event was dubbed The Home & Home Tour . The first two concerts rapidly sold out , prompting the scheduling of an additional show at each venue . Jay - Z was the supporting act for U2 on the Australian and New Zealand leg of their U2 360 ° Tour , beginning in Auckland , New Zealand , in November 2010 , followed by Melbourne , Sydney , Brisbane and Perth in December . Jay - Z also appeared on stage during U2 performances of " Sunday Bloody Sunday " , and in Auckland also on a five - track EP entitled Watch the Throne , although it was later revealed by West that the project had become a full - length LP . Recording sessions for the album took place at various recording locations and began in November 2010 . The first single released for the project was " H • A • M " . The track was co - produced by Lex Luger and West himself . The track ended up being on the deluxe edition of the album . The follow - up to that was the second single " Otis " , which premiered on Funkmaster Flex ' s Hot 97 radio show , and was later released to the iTunes Store eleven days later . The song ' s existence , along with several other tracks from the album , was confirmed during a listening session hosted by Jay - Z . The album was first released on the iTunes Store , five days prior to its being released in physical format , a strategy Jay - Z later said was used to block an internet leak . It debuted at No . 1 on the iTunes Store in 23 countries . It also broke Coldplay ' s record for most albums sold in one week on the online retailer , selling 290 , 000 copies on iTunes alone . It held that record until Lil Wayne ' s Tha Carter IV was released twenty - one days later , selling 10 , 000 copies more . It debuted on the U . S . Billboard 200 chart at No . 1 , selling 436 , 000 copies in its first week . The album received generally positive reviews . Jay - Z and West later gave a surprise performance of " Otis " at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards .	When did Eminem and you announce your joint concerts in Detroit and New York?	Eminem and I announced our joint concerts in June 2010.
On January 23 , 2010 , Jay - Z released a track , " Stranded ( Haiti Mon Amour ) " , with Rihanna , and U2 ' s Bono and The Edge , as well as performing it at the Hope For Haiti Now telethon . In June 2010 , Eminem and Jay - Z announced they would perform together in a pair of concerts in Detroit and New York . The event was dubbed The Home & Home Tour . The first two concerts rapidly sold out , prompting the scheduling of an additional show at each venue . Jay - Z was the supporting act for U2 on the Australian and New Zealand leg of their U2 360 ° Tour , beginning in Auckland , New Zealand , in November 2010 , followed by Melbourne , Sydney , Brisbane and Perth in December . Jay - Z also appeared on stage during U2 performances of " Sunday Bloody Sunday " , and in Auckland also on a five - track EP entitled Watch the Throne , although it was later revealed by West that the project had become a full - length LP . Recording sessions for the album took place at various recording locations and began in November 2010 . The first single released for the project was " H • A • M " . The track was co - produced by Lex Luger and West himself . The track ended up being on the deluxe edition of the album . The follow - up to that was the second single " Otis " , which premiered on Funkmaster Flex ' s Hot 97 radio show , and was later released to the iTunes Store eleven days later . The song ' s existence , along with several other tracks from the album , was confirmed during a listening session hosted by Jay - Z . The album was first released on the iTunes Store , five days prior to its being released in physical format , a strategy Jay - Z later said was used to block an internet leak . It debuted at No . 1 on the iTunes Store in 23 countries . It also broke Coldplay ' s record for most albums sold in one week on the online retailer , selling 290 , 000 copies on iTunes alone . It held that record until Lil Wayne ' s Tha Carter IV was released twenty - one days later , selling 10 , 000 copies more . It debuted on the U . S . Billboard 200 chart at No . 1 , selling 436 , 000 copies in its first week . The album received generally positive reviews . Jay - Z and West later gave a surprise performance of " Otis " at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards .	Who was the supporting act for U2 on their U2 360° Tour in Australia and New Zealand?	I was the supporting act for U2 on the Australian and New Zealand leg of their U2 360° Tour.
On January 23 , 2010 , Jay - Z released a track , " Stranded ( Haiti Mon Amour ) " , with Rihanna , and U2 ' s Bono and The Edge , as well as performing it at the Hope For Haiti Now telethon . In June 2010 , Eminem and Jay - Z announced they would perform together in a pair of concerts in Detroit and New York . The event was dubbed The Home & Home Tour . The first two concerts rapidly sold out , prompting the scheduling of an additional show at each venue . Jay - Z was the supporting act for U2 on the Australian and New Zealand leg of their U2 360 ° Tour , beginning in Auckland , New Zealand , in November 2010 , followed by Melbourne , Sydney , Brisbane and Perth in December . Jay - Z also appeared on stage during U2 performances of " Sunday Bloody Sunday " , and in Auckland also on a five - track EP entitled Watch the Throne , although it was later revealed by West that the project had become a full - length LP . Recording sessions for the album took place at various recording locations and began in November 2010 . The first single released for the project was " H • A • M " . The track was co - produced by Lex Luger and West himself . The track ended up being on the deluxe edition of the album . The follow - up to that was the second single " Otis " , which premiered on Funkmaster Flex ' s Hot 97 radio show , and was later released to the iTunes Store eleven days later . The song ' s existence , along with several other tracks from the album , was confirmed during a listening session hosted by Jay - Z . The album was first released on the iTunes Store , five days prior to its being released in physical format , a strategy Jay - Z later said was used to block an internet leak . It debuted at No . 1 on the iTunes Store in 23 countries . It also broke Coldplay ' s record for most albums sold in one week on the online retailer , selling 290 , 000 copies on iTunes alone . It held that record until Lil Wayne ' s Tha Carter IV was released twenty - one days later , selling 10 , 000 copies more . It debuted on the U . S . Billboard 200 chart at No . 1 , selling 436 , 000 copies in its first week . The album received generally positive reviews . Jay - Z and West later gave a surprise performance of " Otis " at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards .	What was the first single released for the album that you and West worked on?	The first single released for the album was "H • A • M".
On January 23 , 2010 , Jay - Z released a track , " Stranded ( Haiti Mon Amour ) " , with Rihanna , and U2 ' s Bono and The Edge , as well as performing it at the Hope For Haiti Now telethon . In June 2010 , Eminem and Jay - Z announced they would perform together in a pair of concerts in Detroit and New York . The event was dubbed The Home & Home Tour . The first two concerts rapidly sold out , prompting the scheduling of an additional show at each venue . Jay - Z was the supporting act for U2 on the Australian and New Zealand leg of their U2 360 ° Tour , beginning in Auckland , New Zealand , in November 2010 , followed by Melbourne , Sydney , Brisbane and Perth in December . Jay - Z also appeared on stage during U2 performances of " Sunday Bloody Sunday " , and in Auckland also on a five - track EP entitled Watch the Throne , although it was later revealed by West that the project had become a full - length LP . Recording sessions for the album took place at various recording locations and began in November 2010 . The first single released for the project was " H • A • M " . The track was co - produced by Lex Luger and West himself . The track ended up being on the deluxe edition of the album . The follow - up to that was the second single " Otis " , which premiered on Funkmaster Flex ' s Hot 97 radio show , and was later released to the iTunes Store eleven days later . The song ' s existence , along with several other tracks from the album , was confirmed during a listening session hosted by Jay - Z . The album was first released on the iTunes Store , five days prior to its being released in physical format , a strategy Jay - Z later said was used to block an internet leak . It debuted at No . 1 on the iTunes Store in 23 countries . It also broke Coldplay ' s record for most albums sold in one week on the online retailer , selling 290 , 000 copies on iTunes alone . It held that record until Lil Wayne ' s Tha Carter IV was released twenty - one days later , selling 10 , 000 copies more . It debuted on the U . S . Billboard 200 chart at No . 1 , selling 436 , 000 copies in its first week . The album received generally positive reviews . Jay - Z and West later gave a surprise performance of " Otis " at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards .	Where did you and West give a surprise performance of "Otis"?	We gave a surprise performance of "Otis" at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards.
Jay - Z collaborated with M . I . A on her single " XXXO " , which achieved a fair level of success and went on to become remixed by several producers worldwide . In May 2012 , Jay - Z and former Philadelphia mayor Michael A . Nutter announced Jay - Z as the curator and the headliner for the first annual " Budweiser Made in America " festival at Fairmount Park in Philadelphia on September 1 and 2 , 2012 . The performance was produced by Live Nation and assembled an eclectic lineup of " rock , hip hop , R & B , Latin music and dance " musicians . Jay - Z and Rihanna were the two main headlining acts for BBC Radio 1 ' s 2012 Hackney Weekend music festival on June 23 to 24 . Jay - Z opened his set with an appearance from Rihanna , they performed " Run this Town " . On September 6 , " Clique " was released , a single from the album " Cruel Summer " , by GOOD Music . Kanye West and Big Sean starred alongside Jay - Z on the track . Jay - Z took the subway to his sold - out show at The Barclays Center on October 6 , 2012 . On November 12 , 2012 , Coldplay announced that they will be playing with Jay - Z at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn on December 31 .	Who did you collaborate with on her single "XXXO"?	M.I.A.
Jay - Z collaborated with M . I . A on her single " XXXO " , which achieved a fair level of success and went on to become remixed by several producers worldwide . In May 2012 , Jay - Z and former Philadelphia mayor Michael A . Nutter announced Jay - Z as the curator and the headliner for the first annual " Budweiser Made in America " festival at Fairmount Park in Philadelphia on September 1 and 2 , 2012 . The performance was produced by Live Nation and assembled an eclectic lineup of " rock , hip hop , R & B , Latin music and dance " musicians . Jay - Z and Rihanna were the two main headlining acts for BBC Radio 1 ' s 2012 Hackney Weekend music festival on June 23 to 24 . Jay - Z opened his set with an appearance from Rihanna , they performed " Run this Town " . On September 6 , " Clique " was released , a single from the album " Cruel Summer " , by GOOD Music . Kanye West and Big Sean starred alongside Jay - Z on the track . Jay - Z took the subway to his sold - out show at The Barclays Center on October 6 , 2012 . On November 12 , 2012 , Coldplay announced that they will be playing with Jay - Z at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn on December 31 .	What was the name of the festival that you curated in Philadelphia on September 1 and 2, 2012?	Budweiser Made in America festival
Jay - Z collaborated with M . I . A on her single " XXXO " , which achieved a fair level of success and went on to become remixed by several producers worldwide . In May 2012 , Jay - Z and former Philadelphia mayor Michael A . Nutter announced Jay - Z as the curator and the headliner for the first annual " Budweiser Made in America " festival at Fairmount Park in Philadelphia on September 1 and 2 , 2012 . The performance was produced by Live Nation and assembled an eclectic lineup of " rock , hip hop , R & B , Latin music and dance " musicians . Jay - Z and Rihanna were the two main headlining acts for BBC Radio 1 ' s 2012 Hackney Weekend music festival on June 23 to 24 . Jay - Z opened his set with an appearance from Rihanna , they performed " Run this Town " . On September 6 , " Clique " was released , a single from the album " Cruel Summer " , by GOOD Music . Kanye West and Big Sean starred alongside Jay - Z on the track . Jay - Z took the subway to his sold - out show at The Barclays Center on October 6 , 2012 . On November 12 , 2012 , Coldplay announced that they will be playing with Jay - Z at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn on December 31 .	Who were the two main headlining acts for BBC Radio 1's 2012 Hackney Weekend music festival?	I and Rihanna
Jay - Z collaborated with M . I . A on her single " XXXO " , which achieved a fair level of success and went on to become remixed by several producers worldwide . In May 2012 , Jay - Z and former Philadelphia mayor Michael A . Nutter announced Jay - Z as the curator and the headliner for the first annual " Budweiser Made in America " festival at Fairmount Park in Philadelphia on September 1 and 2 , 2012 . The performance was produced by Live Nation and assembled an eclectic lineup of " rock , hip hop , R & B , Latin music and dance " musicians . Jay - Z and Rihanna were the two main headlining acts for BBC Radio 1 ' s 2012 Hackney Weekend music festival on June 23 to 24 . Jay - Z opened his set with an appearance from Rihanna , they performed " Run this Town " . On September 6 , " Clique " was released , a single from the album " Cruel Summer " , by GOOD Music . Kanye West and Big Sean starred alongside Jay - Z on the track . Jay - Z took the subway to his sold - out show at The Barclays Center on October 6 , 2012 . On November 12 , 2012 , Coldplay announced that they will be playing with Jay - Z at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn on December 31 .	Which song did you perform with Rihanna to open your set at the Hackney Weekend music festival?	"Run this Town"
Jay - Z collaborated with M . I . A on her single " XXXO " , which achieved a fair level of success and went on to become remixed by several producers worldwide . In May 2012 , Jay - Z and former Philadelphia mayor Michael A . Nutter announced Jay - Z as the curator and the headliner for the first annual " Budweiser Made in America " festival at Fairmount Park in Philadelphia on September 1 and 2 , 2012 . The performance was produced by Live Nation and assembled an eclectic lineup of " rock , hip hop , R & B , Latin music and dance " musicians . Jay - Z and Rihanna were the two main headlining acts for BBC Radio 1 ' s 2012 Hackney Weekend music festival on June 23 to 24 . Jay - Z opened his set with an appearance from Rihanna , they performed " Run this Town " . On September 6 , " Clique " was released , a single from the album " Cruel Summer " , by GOOD Music . Kanye West and Big Sean starred alongside Jay - Z on the track . Jay - Z took the subway to his sold - out show at The Barclays Center on October 6 , 2012 . On November 12 , 2012 , Coldplay announced that they will be playing with Jay - Z at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn on December 31 .	Who were the featured artists on your single "Clique"?	Kanye West and Big Sean
On September 23 , 2010 , Q - Tip confirmed working on Jay - Z ' s follow - up album to The Blueprint 3 , saying the album was to hit stores by spring 2011 . In May 2012 it was reported that Jay - Z would work on new music with Roc Nation producer Jahlil Beats . Beats told XXL magazine : " Me and Jay - Z been going back and forth . He picked a couple of my joints that he ' s working on . I don ' t even wanna say too much about Jay , but we definitely working on some stuff . I haven ' t even sent him a bunch of beats . I sent him my favorite stuff . He hit me right back like , ' Yo , I ' ma go in on this , ' or , ' I like this . ' " The album has been named one of the most anticipated albums of 2013 by Complex Magazine , MTV , and XXL . Production will come from Jahlil Beats , Kanye West , Rick Rubin , Swizz Beatz , Timbaland , and Pharrell Williams . Jay - Z also made an appearance on Justin Timberlake ' s comeback single " Suit & Tie " from his third studio album The 20 / 20 Experience , the song itself was produced by both Jay - Z and Timberlake ' s mutual friend , Timbaland . Timberlake and Jay - Z embarked on the co - headlining Legends of the Summer Stadium Tour . During the fifth game of the 2013 NBA Finals , Carter announced his twelfth studio album , Magna Carta Holy Grail , and was released on July 4 , 2013 . Not long after , Jay - Z confirmed that the hyphen in his stage name would be left out and officially stylized in all capital letters . Magna Carta Holy Grail debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 and sold 528 , 000 copies in its first week , which bypassed its predicted debut in the range of 350 , 000 to 400 , 000 .	When did Q-Tip confirm working on your follow-up album to The Blueprint 3?	On September 23, 2010.
On September 23 , 2010 , Q - Tip confirmed working on Jay - Z ' s follow - up album to The Blueprint 3 , saying the album was to hit stores by spring 2011 . In May 2012 it was reported that Jay - Z would work on new music with Roc Nation producer Jahlil Beats . Beats told XXL magazine : " Me and Jay - Z been going back and forth . He picked a couple of my joints that he ' s working on . I don ' t even wanna say too much about Jay , but we definitely working on some stuff . I haven ' t even sent him a bunch of beats . I sent him my favorite stuff . He hit me right back like , ' Yo , I ' ma go in on this , ' or , ' I like this . ' " The album has been named one of the most anticipated albums of 2013 by Complex Magazine , MTV , and XXL . Production will come from Jahlil Beats , Kanye West , Rick Rubin , Swizz Beatz , Timbaland , and Pharrell Williams . Jay - Z also made an appearance on Justin Timberlake ' s comeback single " Suit & Tie " from his third studio album The 20 / 20 Experience , the song itself was produced by both Jay - Z and Timberlake ' s mutual friend , Timbaland . Timberlake and Jay - Z embarked on the co - headlining Legends of the Summer Stadium Tour . During the fifth game of the 2013 NBA Finals , Carter announced his twelfth studio album , Magna Carta Holy Grail , and was released on July 4 , 2013 . Not long after , Jay - Z confirmed that the hyphen in his stage name would be left out and officially stylized in all capital letters . Magna Carta Holy Grail debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 and sold 528 , 000 copies in its first week , which bypassed its predicted debut in the range of 350 , 000 to 400 , 000 .	When was it reported that you would work on new music with Roc Nation producer Jahlil Beats?	In May 2012.
On September 23 , 2010 , Q - Tip confirmed working on Jay - Z ' s follow - up album to The Blueprint 3 , saying the album was to hit stores by spring 2011 . In May 2012 it was reported that Jay - Z would work on new music with Roc Nation producer Jahlil Beats . Beats told XXL magazine : " Me and Jay - Z been going back and forth . He picked a couple of my joints that he ' s working on . I don ' t even wanna say too much about Jay , but we definitely working on some stuff . I haven ' t even sent him a bunch of beats . I sent him my favorite stuff . He hit me right back like , ' Yo , I ' ma go in on this , ' or , ' I like this . ' " The album has been named one of the most anticipated albums of 2013 by Complex Magazine , MTV , and XXL . Production will come from Jahlil Beats , Kanye West , Rick Rubin , Swizz Beatz , Timbaland , and Pharrell Williams . Jay - Z also made an appearance on Justin Timberlake ' s comeback single " Suit & Tie " from his third studio album The 20 / 20 Experience , the song itself was produced by both Jay - Z and Timberlake ' s mutual friend , Timbaland . Timberlake and Jay - Z embarked on the co - headlining Legends of the Summer Stadium Tour . During the fifth game of the 2013 NBA Finals , Carter announced his twelfth studio album , Magna Carta Holy Grail , and was released on July 4 , 2013 . Not long after , Jay - Z confirmed that the hyphen in his stage name would be left out and officially stylized in all capital letters . Magna Carta Holy Grail debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 and sold 528 , 000 copies in its first week , which bypassed its predicted debut in the range of 350 , 000 to 400 , 000 .	Who confirmed working on some stuff with you?	Jahlil Beats.
On September 23 , 2010 , Q - Tip confirmed working on Jay - Z ' s follow - up album to The Blueprint 3 , saying the album was to hit stores by spring 2011 . In May 2012 it was reported that Jay - Z would work on new music with Roc Nation producer Jahlil Beats . Beats told XXL magazine : " Me and Jay - Z been going back and forth . He picked a couple of my joints that he ' s working on . I don ' t even wanna say too much about Jay , but we definitely working on some stuff . I haven ' t even sent him a bunch of beats . I sent him my favorite stuff . He hit me right back like , ' Yo , I ' ma go in on this , ' or , ' I like this . ' " The album has been named one of the most anticipated albums of 2013 by Complex Magazine , MTV , and XXL . Production will come from Jahlil Beats , Kanye West , Rick Rubin , Swizz Beatz , Timbaland , and Pharrell Williams . Jay - Z also made an appearance on Justin Timberlake ' s comeback single " Suit & Tie " from his third studio album The 20 / 20 Experience , the song itself was produced by both Jay - Z and Timberlake ' s mutual friend , Timbaland . Timberlake and Jay - Z embarked on the co - headlining Legends of the Summer Stadium Tour . During the fifth game of the 2013 NBA Finals , Carter announced his twelfth studio album , Magna Carta Holy Grail , and was released on July 4 , 2013 . Not long after , Jay - Z confirmed that the hyphen in his stage name would be left out and officially stylized in all capital letters . Magna Carta Holy Grail debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 and sold 528 , 000 copies in its first week , which bypassed its predicted debut in the range of 350 , 000 to 400 , 000 .	Which album of yours has been named one of the most anticipated albums of 2013?	My album Magna Carta Holy Grail.
On September 23 , 2010 , Q - Tip confirmed working on Jay - Z ' s follow - up album to The Blueprint 3 , saying the album was to hit stores by spring 2011 . In May 2012 it was reported that Jay - Z would work on new music with Roc Nation producer Jahlil Beats . Beats told XXL magazine : " Me and Jay - Z been going back and forth . He picked a couple of my joints that he ' s working on . I don ' t even wanna say too much about Jay , but we definitely working on some stuff . I haven ' t even sent him a bunch of beats . I sent him my favorite stuff . He hit me right back like , ' Yo , I ' ma go in on this , ' or , ' I like this . ' " The album has been named one of the most anticipated albums of 2013 by Complex Magazine , MTV , and XXL . Production will come from Jahlil Beats , Kanye West , Rick Rubin , Swizz Beatz , Timbaland , and Pharrell Williams . Jay - Z also made an appearance on Justin Timberlake ' s comeback single " Suit & Tie " from his third studio album The 20 / 20 Experience , the song itself was produced by both Jay - Z and Timberlake ' s mutual friend , Timbaland . Timberlake and Jay - Z embarked on the co - headlining Legends of the Summer Stadium Tour . During the fifth game of the 2013 NBA Finals , Carter announced his twelfth studio album , Magna Carta Holy Grail , and was released on July 4 , 2013 . Not long after , Jay - Z confirmed that the hyphen in his stage name would be left out and officially stylized in all capital letters . Magna Carta Holy Grail debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 and sold 528 , 000 copies in its first week , which bypassed its predicted debut in the range of 350 , 000 to 400 , 000 .	When was Magna Carta Holy Grail released?	It was released on July 4, 2013.
During his first retirement from music , [ failed verification ] Jay - Z also became involved in philanthropic activity . In 2003 , Jay - Z , together with his mother , founded the Shawn Carter Foundation , which has assisted eligible students facing socio - economic hardships through college . On August 9 , 2006 , he met with United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan at the organization ' s headquarters in New York City . The rapper pledged to use his upcoming world tour to raise awareness of and combat global water shortage . Already on the look - out for a way to , in his own words , " become helpful " , he had been made aware of this issue during a visit to Africa by Bono from the rock group U2 . The effort took place in partnership with the UN , as well as MTV , which produced a documentary entitled Diary of Jay - Z : Water for Life , first airing in November 2006 . Along with Sean " Diddy " Combs , Jay - Z pledged $ 1   million to the American Red Cross ' s relief effort after Hurricane Katrina . Jay - Z stated his support for Kanye West after the latter ' s outburst against President George W . Bush during a live Katrina charity telethon . He also addressed the issue of the Katrina disaster , and the government ' s response , in his one - verse song " Minority Report " .	What philanthropic activity did you become involved in during your first retirement from music?	I founded the Shawn Carter Foundation with my mother to assist eligible students facing socio-economic hardships through college.
During his first retirement from music , [ failed verification ] Jay - Z also became involved in philanthropic activity . In 2003 , Jay - Z , together with his mother , founded the Shawn Carter Foundation , which has assisted eligible students facing socio - economic hardships through college . On August 9 , 2006 , he met with United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan at the organization ' s headquarters in New York City . The rapper pledged to use his upcoming world tour to raise awareness of and combat global water shortage . Already on the look - out for a way to , in his own words , " become helpful " , he had been made aware of this issue during a visit to Africa by Bono from the rock group U2 . The effort took place in partnership with the UN , as well as MTV , which produced a documentary entitled Diary of Jay - Z : Water for Life , first airing in November 2006 . Along with Sean " Diddy " Combs , Jay - Z pledged $ 1   million to the American Red Cross ' s relief effort after Hurricane Katrina . Jay - Z stated his support for Kanye West after the latter ' s outburst against President George W . Bush during a live Katrina charity telethon . He also addressed the issue of the Katrina disaster , and the government ' s response , in his one - verse song " Minority Report " .	Who did you meet with at the United Nations headquarters in New York City?	I met with United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan at the organization's headquarters in New York City.
During his first retirement from music , [ failed verification ] Jay - Z also became involved in philanthropic activity . In 2003 , Jay - Z , together with his mother , founded the Shawn Carter Foundation , which has assisted eligible students facing socio - economic hardships through college . On August 9 , 2006 , he met with United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan at the organization ' s headquarters in New York City . The rapper pledged to use his upcoming world tour to raise awareness of and combat global water shortage . Already on the look - out for a way to , in his own words , " become helpful " , he had been made aware of this issue during a visit to Africa by Bono from the rock group U2 . The effort took place in partnership with the UN , as well as MTV , which produced a documentary entitled Diary of Jay - Z : Water for Life , first airing in November 2006 . Along with Sean " Diddy " Combs , Jay - Z pledged $ 1   million to the American Red Cross ' s relief effort after Hurricane Katrina . Jay - Z stated his support for Kanye West after the latter ' s outburst against President George W . Bush during a live Katrina charity telethon . He also addressed the issue of the Katrina disaster , and the government ' s response , in his one - verse song " Minority Report " .	What did you pledge to do during your world tour?	I pledged to raise awareness of and combat global water shortage during my world tour.
During his first retirement from music , [ failed verification ] Jay - Z also became involved in philanthropic activity . In 2003 , Jay - Z , together with his mother , founded the Shawn Carter Foundation , which has assisted eligible students facing socio - economic hardships through college . On August 9 , 2006 , he met with United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan at the organization ' s headquarters in New York City . The rapper pledged to use his upcoming world tour to raise awareness of and combat global water shortage . Already on the look - out for a way to , in his own words , " become helpful " , he had been made aware of this issue during a visit to Africa by Bono from the rock group U2 . The effort took place in partnership with the UN , as well as MTV , which produced a documentary entitled Diary of Jay - Z : Water for Life , first airing in November 2006 . Along with Sean " Diddy " Combs , Jay - Z pledged $ 1   million to the American Red Cross ' s relief effort after Hurricane Katrina . Jay - Z stated his support for Kanye West after the latter ' s outburst against President George W . Bush during a live Katrina charity telethon . He also addressed the issue of the Katrina disaster , and the government ' s response , in his one - verse song " Minority Report " .	Who did you pledge $1 million to for their relief effort after Hurricane Katrina?	I pledged $1 million to the American Red Cross's relief effort after Hurricane Katrina.
During his first retirement from music , [ failed verification ] Jay - Z also became involved in philanthropic activity . In 2003 , Jay - Z , together with his mother , founded the Shawn Carter Foundation , which has assisted eligible students facing socio - economic hardships through college . On August 9 , 2006 , he met with United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan at the organization ' s headquarters in New York City . The rapper pledged to use his upcoming world tour to raise awareness of and combat global water shortage . Already on the look - out for a way to , in his own words , " become helpful " , he had been made aware of this issue during a visit to Africa by Bono from the rock group U2 . The effort took place in partnership with the UN , as well as MTV , which produced a documentary entitled Diary of Jay - Z : Water for Life , first airing in November 2006 . Along with Sean " Diddy " Combs , Jay - Z pledged $ 1   million to the American Red Cross ' s relief effort after Hurricane Katrina . Jay - Z stated his support for Kanye West after the latter ' s outburst against President George W . Bush during a live Katrina charity telethon . He also addressed the issue of the Katrina disaster , and the government ' s response , in his one - verse song " Minority Report " .	Who did you express support for after their outburst against President George W. Bush during a live Katrina charity telethon?	I expressed support for Kanye West after his outburst against President George W. Bush during a live Katrina charity telethon.
