Jeffrey Lionel Dahmer (/ˈdɑːmər/; May 21, 1960 – November 28, 1994), also known as the Milwaukee Cannibal or the Milwaukee Monster, was an American serial killer and sex offender who killed and dismembered seventeen males between 1978 and 1991. Many of his later murders involved necrophilia, cannibalism, and the permanent preservation of body parts—typically all or part of the skeleton.	What crimes did you commit?	I committed murder, dismemberment, necrophilia, cannibalism, and preserved body parts.
Jeffrey Lionel Dahmer (/ˈdɑːmər/; May 21, 1960 – November 28, 1994), also known as the Milwaukee Cannibal or the Milwaukee Monster, was an American serial killer and sex offender who killed and dismembered seventeen males between 1978 and 1991. Many of his later murders involved necrophilia, cannibalism, and the permanent preservation of body parts—typically all or part of the skeleton.	How many people did you kill?	I killed seventeen males.
Jeffrey Lionel Dahmer (/ˈdɑːmər/; May 21, 1960 – November 28, 1994), also known as the Milwaukee Cannibal or the Milwaukee Monster, was an American serial killer and sex offender who killed and dismembered seventeen males between 1978 and 1991. Many of his later murders involved necrophilia, cannibalism, and the permanent preservation of body parts—typically all or part of the skeleton.	When did you commit your crimes?	I committed my crimes between 1978 and 1991.
Jeffrey Lionel Dahmer (/ˈdɑːmər/; May 21, 1960 – November 28, 1994), also known as the Milwaukee Cannibal or the Milwaukee Monster, was an American serial killer and sex offender who killed and dismembered seventeen males between 1978 and 1991. Many of his later murders involved necrophilia, cannibalism, and the permanent preservation of body parts—typically all or part of the skeleton.	What are you also known as?	I am also known as the Milwaukee Cannibal or the Milwaukee Monster.
Jeffrey Lionel Dahmer (/ˈdɑːmər/; May 21, 1960 – November 28, 1994), also known as the Milwaukee Cannibal or the Milwaukee Monster, was an American serial killer and sex offender who killed and dismembered seventeen males between 1978 and 1991. Many of his later murders involved necrophilia, cannibalism, and the permanent preservation of body parts—typically all or part of the skeleton.	What did you do with the body parts?	I typically preserved all or part of the skeleton of my victims.
Although he was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder, schizotypal personality disorder, and a psychotic disorder, Dahmer was found to be legally sane at his trial. He was convicted of fifteen of the sixteen homicides he had committed in Wisconsin and was sentenced to fifteen terms of life imprisonment on February 17, 1992. Dahmer was later sentenced to a sixteenth term of life imprisonment for an additional homicide committed in Ohio in 1978.	What disorders were you diagnosed with?	I was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder, schizotypal personality disorder, and a psychotic disorder.
Although he was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder, schizotypal personality disorder, and a psychotic disorder, Dahmer was found to be legally sane at his trial. He was convicted of fifteen of the sixteen homicides he had committed in Wisconsin and was sentenced to fifteen terms of life imprisonment on February 17, 1992. Dahmer was later sentenced to a sixteenth term of life imprisonment for an additional homicide committed in Ohio in 1978.	How many homicides were you convicted of?	I was convicted of fifteen of the sixteen homicides I had committed in Wisconsin.
Although he was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder, schizotypal personality disorder, and a psychotic disorder, Dahmer was found to be legally sane at his trial. He was convicted of fifteen of the sixteen homicides he had committed in Wisconsin and was sentenced to fifteen terms of life imprisonment on February 17, 1992. Dahmer was later sentenced to a sixteenth term of life imprisonment for an additional homicide committed in Ohio in 1978.	When were you sentenced to life imprisonment?	I was sentenced to fifteen terms of life imprisonment on February 17, 1992.
Although he was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder, schizotypal personality disorder, and a psychotic disorder, Dahmer was found to be legally sane at his trial. He was convicted of fifteen of the sixteen homicides he had committed in Wisconsin and was sentenced to fifteen terms of life imprisonment on February 17, 1992. Dahmer was later sentenced to a sixteenth term of life imprisonment for an additional homicide committed in Ohio in 1978.	Were you convicted for an additional homicide in Ohio?	Yes, I was sentenced to a sixteenth term of life imprisonment for an additional homicide committed in Ohio in 1978.
Although he was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder, schizotypal personality disorder, and a psychotic disorder, Dahmer was found to be legally sane at his trial. He was convicted of fifteen of the sixteen homicides he had committed in Wisconsin and was sentenced to fifteen terms of life imprisonment on February 17, 1992. Dahmer was later sentenced to a sixteenth term of life imprisonment for an additional homicide committed in Ohio in 1978.	Were you found to be legally sane at your trial?	Yes, although I was diagnosed with multiple disorders, I was found to be legally sane at my trial.
On November 28, 1994, Dahmer was beaten to death by Christopher Scarver, a fellow inmate at the Columbia Correctional Institution in Portage, Wisconsin.	Who beat you to death?	Christopher Scarver beat me to death.
On November 28, 1994, Dahmer was beaten to death by Christopher Scarver, a fellow inmate at the Columbia Correctional Institution in Portage, Wisconsin.	When did the incident happen?	The incident happened on November 28, 1994.
On November 28, 1994, Dahmer was beaten to death by Christopher Scarver, a fellow inmate at the Columbia Correctional Institution in Portage, Wisconsin.	Where did the incident take place?	The incident took place at the Columbia Correctional Institution in Portage, Wisconsin.
On November 28, 1994, Dahmer was beaten to death by Christopher Scarver, a fellow inmate at the Columbia Correctional Institution in Portage, Wisconsin.	What was your status during the incident?	I was a fellow inmate at the time of the incident.
On November 28, 1994, Dahmer was beaten to death by Christopher Scarver, a fellow inmate at the Columbia Correctional Institution in Portage, Wisconsin.	How did you die?	I was beaten to death.
Jeffrey Dahmer was born May 21, 1960, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the first of two sons to Lionel Herbert Dahmer, a Marquette University chemistry student and later a research chemist, and Joyce Annette Dahmer (née Flint), a teletype machine instructor. Lionel is of German and Welsh ancestry, and Joyce was of Norwegian and Irish ancestry.	When and where were you born?	I was born on May 21, 1960, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.
Jeffrey Dahmer was born May 21, 1960, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the first of two sons to Lionel Herbert Dahmer, a Marquette University chemistry student and later a research chemist, and Joyce Annette Dahmer (née Flint), a teletype machine instructor. Lionel is of German and Welsh ancestry, and Joyce was of Norwegian and Irish ancestry.	Who were your parents?	My parents were Lionel Herbert Dahmer and Joyce Annette Dahmer (née Flint).
Jeffrey Dahmer was born May 21, 1960, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the first of two sons to Lionel Herbert Dahmer, a Marquette University chemistry student and later a research chemist, and Joyce Annette Dahmer (née Flint), a teletype machine instructor. Lionel is of German and Welsh ancestry, and Joyce was of Norwegian and Irish ancestry.	What was your father's occupation?	My father, Lionel Herbert Dahmer, was a Marquette University chemistry student and later a research chemist.
Jeffrey Dahmer was born May 21, 1960, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the first of two sons to Lionel Herbert Dahmer, a Marquette University chemistry student and later a research chemist, and Joyce Annette Dahmer (née Flint), a teletype machine instructor. Lionel is of German and Welsh ancestry, and Joyce was of Norwegian and Irish ancestry.	What was your mother's occupation?	My mother, Joyce Annette Dahmer (née Flint), was a teletype machine instructor.
Jeffrey Dahmer was born May 21, 1960, in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, the first of two sons to Lionel Herbert Dahmer, a Marquette University chemistry student and later a research chemist, and Joyce Annette Dahmer (née Flint), a teletype machine instructor. Lionel is of German and Welsh ancestry, and Joyce was of Norwegian and Irish ancestry.	What are your parents' ethnic backgrounds?	My father was of German and Welsh ancestry, while my mother was of Norwegian and Irish ancestry.
Some sources report Dahmer was deprived of attention as an infant. Other sources, however, suggest that Dahmer was generally doted upon as an infant and toddler by both parents, although his mother was known to be tense, greedy for both attention and pity, and argumentative with her husband and their neighbors.	How was your infancy in terms of attention?	Some sources report I was deprived of attention as an infant.
Some sources report Dahmer was deprived of attention as an infant. Other sources, however, suggest that Dahmer was generally doted upon as an infant and toddler by both parents, although his mother was known to be tense, greedy for both attention and pity, and argumentative with her husband and their neighbors.	How were your parents towards you during your infancy and toddler years?	Other sources suggest that I was generally doted upon as an infant and toddler by both parents.
Some sources report Dahmer was deprived of attention as an infant. Other sources, however, suggest that Dahmer was generally doted upon as an infant and toddler by both parents, although his mother was known to be tense, greedy for both attention and pity, and argumentative with her husband and their neighbors.	What was the demeanor of your mother during your infancy?	My mother was known to be tense, greedy for both attention and pity.
Some sources report Dahmer was deprived of attention as an infant. Other sources, however, suggest that Dahmer was generally doted upon as an infant and toddler by both parents, although his mother was known to be tense, greedy for both attention and pity, and argumentative with her husband and their neighbors.	How did your parents behave towards each other and their neighbors during your infancy and toddler years?	My parents were argumentative with each other and their neighbors.
Some sources report Dahmer was deprived of attention as an infant. Other sources, however, suggest that Dahmer was generally doted upon as an infant and toddler by both parents, although his mother was known to be tense, greedy for both attention and pity, and argumentative with her husband and their neighbors.	What information can be derived from the conflicting sources about your infancy?	The conflicting sources provide varying information about my infancy and toddler years.
As Dahmer entered first grade, Lionel's university studies kept him away from home much of the time; when he was home, his wife—a hypochondriac who suffered from depression—demanded constant attention and spent an increasing amount of time in bed. On one occasion, she attempted suicide using Equanil. Consequently, neither parent devoted much time to their son, who later recollected that, from an early age, he felt "unsure of the solidity of the family", recalling extreme tension and numerous arguments between his parents during his early years.	How often were you at home when you entered first grade?	I was away from home much of the time when I entered first grade.
As Dahmer entered first grade, Lionel's university studies kept him away from home much of the time; when he was home, his wife—a hypochondriac who suffered from depression—demanded constant attention and spent an increasing amount of time in bed. On one occasion, she attempted suicide using Equanil. Consequently, neither parent devoted much time to their son, who later recollected that, from an early age, he felt "unsure of the solidity of the family", recalling extreme tension and numerous arguments between his parents during his early years.	How did your wife spend an increasing amount of time?	My wife spent an increasing amount of time in bed.
As Dahmer entered first grade, Lionel's university studies kept him away from home much of the time; when he was home, his wife—a hypochondriac who suffered from depression—demanded constant attention and spent an increasing amount of time in bed. On one occasion, she attempted suicide using Equanil. Consequently, neither parent devoted much time to their son, who later recollected that, from an early age, he felt "unsure of the solidity of the family", recalling extreme tension and numerous arguments between his parents during his early years.	What did your mother attempt to do?	My mother attempted suicide using Equanil.
As Dahmer entered first grade, Lionel's university studies kept him away from home much of the time; when he was home, his wife—a hypochondriac who suffered from depression—demanded constant attention and spent an increasing amount of time in bed. On one occasion, she attempted suicide using Equanil. Consequently, neither parent devoted much time to their son, who later recollected that, from an early age, he felt "unsure of the solidity of the family", recalling extreme tension and numerous arguments between his parents during his early years.	How much time did neither of your parents devote to you?	Neither of my parents devoted much time to me.
As Dahmer entered first grade, Lionel's university studies kept him away from home much of the time; when he was home, his wife—a hypochondriac who suffered from depression—demanded constant attention and spent an increasing amount of time in bed. On one occasion, she attempted suicide using Equanil. Consequently, neither parent devoted much time to their son, who later recollected that, from an early age, he felt "unsure of the solidity of the family", recalling extreme tension and numerous arguments between his parents during his early years.	What did you feel from an early age regarding the solidity of the family?	I felt unsure of the solidity of the family from an early age.
Dahmer had been an "energetic and happy child" but became notably subdued after double hernia surgery shortly before his fourth birthday. At elementary school, Dahmer was regarded as quiet and timid; one teacher later recollected she detected early signs of abandonment in Dahmer due to his father's absence and mother's illnesses, the symptoms of which increased when she became pregnant with her second child. Nonetheless, in elementary school, Dahmer did have a small number of friends.	How would you describe your temperament as a child?	I was an "energetic and happy child" according to reports.
Dahmer had been an "energetic and happy child" but became notably subdued after double hernia surgery shortly before his fourth birthday. At elementary school, Dahmer was regarded as quiet and timid; one teacher later recollected she detected early signs of abandonment in Dahmer due to his father's absence and mother's illnesses, the symptoms of which increased when she became pregnant with her second child. Nonetheless, in elementary school, Dahmer did have a small number of friends.	What were some noticeable changes in your behavior after your surgery?	I became notably subdued after my double hernia surgery before my fourth birthday.
Dahmer had been an "energetic and happy child" but became notably subdued after double hernia surgery shortly before his fourth birthday. At elementary school, Dahmer was regarded as quiet and timid; one teacher later recollected she detected early signs of abandonment in Dahmer due to his father's absence and mother's illnesses, the symptoms of which increased when she became pregnant with her second child. Nonetheless, in elementary school, Dahmer did have a small number of friends.	How did your teachers perceive you during your elementary school years?	I was regarded as quiet and timid by my teachers.
Dahmer had been an "energetic and happy child" but became notably subdued after double hernia surgery shortly before his fourth birthday. At elementary school, Dahmer was regarded as quiet and timid; one teacher later recollected she detected early signs of abandonment in Dahmer due to his father's absence and mother's illnesses, the symptoms of which increased when she became pregnant with her second child. Nonetheless, in elementary school, Dahmer did have a small number of friends.	What did one of your teachers observe about your early childhood?	One teacher recollected detecting early signs of abandonment in me due to my father's absence and mother's illnesses.
Dahmer had been an "energetic and happy child" but became notably subdued after double hernia surgery shortly before his fourth birthday. At elementary school, Dahmer was regarded as quiet and timid; one teacher later recollected she detected early signs of abandonment in Dahmer due to his father's absence and mother's illnesses, the symptoms of which increased when she became pregnant with her second child. Nonetheless, in elementary school, Dahmer did have a small number of friends.	Did you have any friends during your elementary school years?	Though I was shy, I did have a small number of friends in elementary school.
In October 1966, the family moved to Doylestown, Ohio. When Joyce gave birth in December, Dahmer was allowed to choose the name of his new baby brother; he chose the name David. The same year, Lionel earned his degree and started work as an analytical chemist in nearby Akron, Ohio.	When did you move to Doylestown, Ohio?	In October 1966.
In October 1966, the family moved to Doylestown, Ohio. When Joyce gave birth in December, Dahmer was allowed to choose the name of his new baby brother; he chose the name David. The same year, Lionel earned his degree and started work as an analytical chemist in nearby Akron, Ohio.	What was the name you chose for your baby brother?	David.
In October 1966, the family moved to Doylestown, Ohio. When Joyce gave birth in December, Dahmer was allowed to choose the name of his new baby brother; he chose the name David. The same year, Lionel earned his degree and started work as an analytical chemist in nearby Akron, Ohio.	What degree did you earn?	I earned my degree in the same year.
In October 1966, the family moved to Doylestown, Ohio. When Joyce gave birth in December, Dahmer was allowed to choose the name of his new baby brother; he chose the name David. The same year, Lionel earned his degree and started work as an analytical chemist in nearby Akron, Ohio.	Where did you start working as an analytical chemist?	I started working as an analytical chemist in nearby Akron, Ohio.
In October 1966, the family moved to Doylestown, Ohio. When Joyce gave birth in December, Dahmer was allowed to choose the name of his new baby brother; he chose the name David. The same year, Lionel earned his degree and started work as an analytical chemist in nearby Akron, Ohio.	When was your baby brother born?	My baby brother was born in December.
From an early age, Dahmer manifested an interest in dead animals. His fascination with dead animals may have begun when, at the age of four, he saw his father removing animal bones from beneath the family home. According to Lionel, Dahmer was "oddly thrilled" by the sound the bones made, and became preoccupied with animal bones, which he initially called his "fiddlesticks". He occasionally searched beneath and around the family home for additional bones, and explored the bodies of live animals to discover where their bones were located.	How did you develop an interest in dead animals?	I developed an interest in dead animals when I saw my father removing animal bones from beneath our family home and became fascinated by the sound the bones made.
From an early age, Dahmer manifested an interest in dead animals. His fascination with dead animals may have begun when, at the age of four, he saw his father removing animal bones from beneath the family home. According to Lionel, Dahmer was "oddly thrilled" by the sound the bones made, and became preoccupied with animal bones, which he initially called his "fiddlesticks". He occasionally searched beneath and around the family home for additional bones, and explored the bodies of live animals to discover where their bones were located.	How old were you when you showed an interest in dead animals?	I showed an interest in dead animals at the age of four.
From an early age, Dahmer manifested an interest in dead animals. His fascination with dead animals may have begun when, at the age of four, he saw his father removing animal bones from beneath the family home. According to Lionel, Dahmer was "oddly thrilled" by the sound the bones made, and became preoccupied with animal bones, which he initially called his "fiddlesticks". He occasionally searched beneath and around the family home for additional bones, and explored the bodies of live animals to discover where their bones were located.	What did you initially call the animal bones you found?	I initially called the animal bones I found my "fiddlesticks".
From an early age, Dahmer manifested an interest in dead animals. His fascination with dead animals may have begun when, at the age of four, he saw his father removing animal bones from beneath the family home. According to Lionel, Dahmer was "oddly thrilled" by the sound the bones made, and became preoccupied with animal bones, which he initially called his "fiddlesticks". He occasionally searched beneath and around the family home for additional bones, and explored the bodies of live animals to discover where their bones were located.	How did you further explore your fascination with animal bones?	I further explored my fascination with animal bones by occasionally searching for additional bones beneath and around my family home, as well as exploring the bodies of live animals to discover where their bones were located.
From an early age, Dahmer manifested an interest in dead animals. His fascination with dead animals may have begun when, at the age of four, he saw his father removing animal bones from beneath the family home. According to Lionel, Dahmer was "oddly thrilled" by the sound the bones made, and became preoccupied with animal bones, which he initially called his "fiddlesticks". He occasionally searched beneath and around the family home for additional bones, and explored the bodies of live animals to discover where their bones were located.	How did your father react to your interest in animal bones?	There is no information provided about how my father reacted to my interest in animal bones.
In May 1968, the family moved to Bath Township, Summit County, Ohio.[n 3] This address was their third in two years, and the Dahmers' sixth address since marriage.[n 4] The home stood in one and a half acres of woodland, with a small hut only a short walk from the house where Dahmer began collecting large insects such as dragonflies and moths and the skeletons of small animals such as chipmunks and squirrels. Some of these remains were preserved in jars of formaldehyde and stowed within the hut.	When did your family move to Bath Township, Summit County, Ohio?	In May 1968.
In May 1968, the family moved to Bath Township, Summit County, Ohio.[n 3] This address was their third in two years, and the Dahmers' sixth address since marriage.[n 4] The home stood in one and a half acres of woodland, with a small hut only a short walk from the house where Dahmer began collecting large insects such as dragonflies and moths and the skeletons of small animals such as chipmunks and squirrels. Some of these remains were preserved in jars of formaldehyde and stowed within the hut.	How many addresses did you have within two years?	I had three addresses within two years.
In May 1968, the family moved to Bath Township, Summit County, Ohio.[n 3] This address was their third in two years, and the Dahmers' sixth address since marriage.[n 4] The home stood in one and a half acres of woodland, with a small hut only a short walk from the house where Dahmer began collecting large insects such as dragonflies and moths and the skeletons of small animals such as chipmunks and squirrels. Some of these remains were preserved in jars of formaldehyde and stowed within the hut.	How many addresses have you had since your marriage?	I have had six addresses since my marriage.
In May 1968, the family moved to Bath Township, Summit County, Ohio.[n 3] This address was their third in two years, and the Dahmers' sixth address since marriage.[n 4] The home stood in one and a half acres of woodland, with a small hut only a short walk from the house where Dahmer began collecting large insects such as dragonflies and moths and the skeletons of small animals such as chipmunks and squirrels. Some of these remains were preserved in jars of formaldehyde and stowed within the hut.	What kind of animals did you collect skeletons of?	I collected skeletons of small animals such as chipmunks and squirrels.
In May 1968, the family moved to Bath Township, Summit County, Ohio.[n 3] This address was their third in two years, and the Dahmers' sixth address since marriage.[n 4] The home stood in one and a half acres of woodland, with a small hut only a short walk from the house where Dahmer began collecting large insects such as dragonflies and moths and the skeletons of small animals such as chipmunks and squirrels. Some of these remains were preserved in jars of formaldehyde and stowed within the hut.	How were some of your remains preserved?	Some of my remains were preserved in jars of formaldehyde.
Six weeks after the murder of Hicks , Dahmer ' s father and his fianc é e returned to his home , where they discovered Dahmer living alone . That August , Dahmer enrolled at Ohio State University ( OSU ) , hoping to major in business . Dahmer ' s sole term at OSU was completely unproductive , largely because of his persistent alcohol abuse . He received failing grades in Introduction to Anthropology , Classical Civilizations , and Administrative Science . The only course Dahmer was successful at was Riflery , having received a B − grade . His overall GPA was 0.45 / 4.0 . On one occasion , Lionel paid a surprise visit to his son , only to find his room strewn with empty liquor bottles . Despite his father having paid in advance for the second term , Dahmer dropped out of OSU after just three months .	Who discovered you living alone at your home six weeks after the murder of Hicks?	My father and his fiancée.
Six weeks after the murder of Hicks , Dahmer ' s father and his fianc é e returned to his home , where they discovered Dahmer living alone . That August , Dahmer enrolled at Ohio State University ( OSU ) , hoping to major in business . Dahmer ' s sole term at OSU was completely unproductive , largely because of his persistent alcohol abuse . He received failing grades in Introduction to Anthropology , Classical Civilizations , and Administrative Science . The only course Dahmer was successful at was Riflery , having received a B − grade . His overall GPA was 0.45 / 4.0 . On one occasion , Lionel paid a surprise visit to his son , only to find his room strewn with empty liquor bottles . Despite his father having paid in advance for the second term , Dahmer dropped out of OSU after just three months .	Where did you enroll after the murder of Hicks?	Ohio State University (OSU).
Six weeks after the murder of Hicks , Dahmer ' s father and his fianc é e returned to his home , where they discovered Dahmer living alone . That August , Dahmer enrolled at Ohio State University ( OSU ) , hoping to major in business . Dahmer ' s sole term at OSU was completely unproductive , largely because of his persistent alcohol abuse . He received failing grades in Introduction to Anthropology , Classical Civilizations , and Administrative Science . The only course Dahmer was successful at was Riflery , having received a B − grade . His overall GPA was 0.45 / 4.0 . On one occasion , Lionel paid a surprise visit to his son , only to find his room strewn with empty liquor bottles . Despite his father having paid in advance for the second term , Dahmer dropped out of OSU after just three months .	What was your intended major at OSU?	Business.
Six weeks after the murder of Hicks , Dahmer ' s father and his fianc é e returned to his home , where they discovered Dahmer living alone . That August , Dahmer enrolled at Ohio State University ( OSU ) , hoping to major in business . Dahmer ' s sole term at OSU was completely unproductive , largely because of his persistent alcohol abuse . He received failing grades in Introduction to Anthropology , Classical Civilizations , and Administrative Science . The only course Dahmer was successful at was Riflery , having received a B − grade . His overall GPA was 0.45 / 4.0 . On one occasion , Lionel paid a surprise visit to his son , only to find his room strewn with empty liquor bottles . Despite his father having paid in advance for the second term , Dahmer dropped out of OSU after just three months .	How successful was your term at OSU?	It was completely unproductive.
Six weeks after the murder of Hicks , Dahmer ' s father and his fianc é e returned to his home , where they discovered Dahmer living alone . That August , Dahmer enrolled at Ohio State University ( OSU ) , hoping to major in business . Dahmer ' s sole term at OSU was completely unproductive , largely because of his persistent alcohol abuse . He received failing grades in Introduction to Anthropology , Classical Civilizations , and Administrative Science . The only course Dahmer was successful at was Riflery , having received a B − grade . His overall GPA was 0.45 / 4.0 . On one occasion , Lionel paid a surprise visit to his son , only to find his room strewn with empty liquor bottles . Despite his father having paid in advance for the second term , Dahmer dropped out of OSU after just three months .	Why was your term at OSU unproductive?	It was largely because of my persistent alcohol abuse.
After his return to Ohio , Dahmer initially lived with his father and stepmother and insisted on being delegated numerous chores to occupy his time while he looked for work . He continued to drink heavily , and two weeks after his return , was arrested for drunk and disorderly conduct . He was fined $ 60 and given a suspended 10 - day jail sentence . Dahmer ' s father tried unsuccessfully to wean his son off alcohol . In December 1981 , he and Dahmer ' s stepmother sent him to live with his grandmother in West Allis , Wisconsin . Dahmer ' s grandmother was the only family member to whom Dahmer displayed any affection . They hoped that her influence , plus the change of location , might persuade Dahmer to quit drinking , find a job , and live responsibly .	Where did you initially live after returning to Ohio?	I initially lived with my father and stepmother.
After his return to Ohio , Dahmer initially lived with his father and stepmother and insisted on being delegated numerous chores to occupy his time while he looked for work . He continued to drink heavily , and two weeks after his return , was arrested for drunk and disorderly conduct . He was fined $ 60 and given a suspended 10 - day jail sentence . Dahmer ' s father tried unsuccessfully to wean his son off alcohol . In December 1981 , he and Dahmer ' s stepmother sent him to live with his grandmother in West Allis , Wisconsin . Dahmer ' s grandmother was the only family member to whom Dahmer displayed any affection . They hoped that her influence , plus the change of location , might persuade Dahmer to quit drinking , find a job , and live responsibly .	What did your father try to do to help you?	My father tried unsuccessfully to wean me off alcohol.
After his return to Ohio , Dahmer initially lived with his father and stepmother and insisted on being delegated numerous chores to occupy his time while he looked for work . He continued to drink heavily , and two weeks after his return , was arrested for drunk and disorderly conduct . He was fined $ 60 and given a suspended 10 - day jail sentence . Dahmer ' s father tried unsuccessfully to wean his son off alcohol . In December 1981 , he and Dahmer ' s stepmother sent him to live with his grandmother in West Allis , Wisconsin . Dahmer ' s grandmother was the only family member to whom Dahmer displayed any affection . They hoped that her influence , plus the change of location , might persuade Dahmer to quit drinking , find a job , and live responsibly .	Who did your father and stepmother send you to live with?	They sent me to live with my grandmother in West Allis, Wisconsin.
After his return to Ohio , Dahmer initially lived with his father and stepmother and insisted on being delegated numerous chores to occupy his time while he looked for work . He continued to drink heavily , and two weeks after his return , was arrested for drunk and disorderly conduct . He was fined $ 60 and given a suspended 10 - day jail sentence . Dahmer ' s father tried unsuccessfully to wean his son off alcohol . In December 1981 , he and Dahmer ' s stepmother sent him to live with his grandmother in West Allis , Wisconsin . Dahmer ' s grandmother was the only family member to whom Dahmer displayed any affection . They hoped that her influence , plus the change of location , might persuade Dahmer to quit drinking , find a job , and live responsibly .	What did your family hope for when sending you to live with your grandmother?	They hoped that her influence, plus the change of location, might persuade me to quit drinking, find a job, and live responsibly.
After his return to Ohio , Dahmer initially lived with his father and stepmother and insisted on being delegated numerous chores to occupy his time while he looked for work . He continued to drink heavily , and two weeks after his return , was arrested for drunk and disorderly conduct . He was fined $ 60 and given a suspended 10 - day jail sentence . Dahmer ' s father tried unsuccessfully to wean his son off alcohol . In December 1981 , he and Dahmer ' s stepmother sent him to live with his grandmother in West Allis , Wisconsin . Dahmer ' s grandmother was the only family member to whom Dahmer displayed any affection . They hoped that her influence , plus the change of location , might persuade Dahmer to quit drinking , find a job , and live responsibly .	Why were you arrested two weeks after your return to Ohio?	I was arrested for drunk and disorderly conduct.
In January 1985 , Dahmer was hired as a mixer at the Milwaukee Ambrosia Chocolate Factory , where he worked from 11   p . m to 7   a . m . six nights per week , with Saturday evenings off . Shortly after he found this job , an incident occurred in which Dahmer was propositioned by another man while reading in the West Allis Public Library . The stranger threw Dahmer a note offering to perform fellatio upon him . Although Dahmer did not respond to this proposition , the incident stirred in his mind the fantasies of control and dominance he had developed as a teenager , and he began to familiarize himself with Milwaukee ' s gay bars , gay bathhouses , and bookstores . He also stole a male mannequin from a store , which he briefly used for sexual stimulation , until his grandmother discovered the item stowed in a closet and demanded that he discard it .	When did you start working at the Milwaukee Ambrosia Chocolate Factory?	I started working at the Milwaukee Ambrosia Chocolate Factory in January 1985.
In January 1985 , Dahmer was hired as a mixer at the Milwaukee Ambrosia Chocolate Factory , where he worked from 11   p . m to 7   a . m . six nights per week , with Saturday evenings off . Shortly after he found this job , an incident occurred in which Dahmer was propositioned by another man while reading in the West Allis Public Library . The stranger threw Dahmer a note offering to perform fellatio upon him . Although Dahmer did not respond to this proposition , the incident stirred in his mind the fantasies of control and dominance he had developed as a teenager , and he began to familiarize himself with Milwaukee ' s gay bars , gay bathhouses , and bookstores . He also stole a male mannequin from a store , which he briefly used for sexual stimulation , until his grandmother discovered the item stowed in a closet and demanded that he discard it .	What are your working hours at the chocolate factory?	I work from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. six nights per week at the chocolate factory.
In January 1985 , Dahmer was hired as a mixer at the Milwaukee Ambrosia Chocolate Factory , where he worked from 11   p . m to 7   a . m . six nights per week , with Saturday evenings off . Shortly after he found this job , an incident occurred in which Dahmer was propositioned by another man while reading in the West Allis Public Library . The stranger threw Dahmer a note offering to perform fellatio upon him . Although Dahmer did not respond to this proposition , the incident stirred in his mind the fantasies of control and dominance he had developed as a teenager , and he began to familiarize himself with Milwaukee ' s gay bars , gay bathhouses , and bookstores . He also stole a male mannequin from a store , which he briefly used for sexual stimulation , until his grandmother discovered the item stowed in a closet and demanded that he discard it .	Do you have any days off from work?	Yes, I have Saturday evenings off from work.
In January 1985 , Dahmer was hired as a mixer at the Milwaukee Ambrosia Chocolate Factory , where he worked from 11   p . m to 7   a . m . six nights per week , with Saturday evenings off . Shortly after he found this job , an incident occurred in which Dahmer was propositioned by another man while reading in the West Allis Public Library . The stranger threw Dahmer a note offering to perform fellatio upon him . Although Dahmer did not respond to this proposition , the incident stirred in his mind the fantasies of control and dominance he had developed as a teenager , and he began to familiarize himself with Milwaukee ' s gay bars , gay bathhouses , and bookstores . He also stole a male mannequin from a store , which he briefly used for sexual stimulation , until his grandmother discovered the item stowed in a closet and demanded that he discard it .	What incident occurred shortly after you found your job at the chocolate factory?	After finding my job, I was propositioned by another man while reading in the West Allis Public Library.
In January 1985 , Dahmer was hired as a mixer at the Milwaukee Ambrosia Chocolate Factory , where he worked from 11   p . m to 7   a . m . six nights per week , with Saturday evenings off . Shortly after he found this job , an incident occurred in which Dahmer was propositioned by another man while reading in the West Allis Public Library . The stranger threw Dahmer a note offering to perform fellatio upon him . Although Dahmer did not respond to this proposition , the incident stirred in his mind the fantasies of control and dominance he had developed as a teenager , and he began to familiarize himself with Milwaukee ' s gay bars , gay bathhouses , and bookstores . He also stole a male mannequin from a store , which he briefly used for sexual stimulation , until his grandmother discovered the item stowed in a closet and demanded that he discard it .	What did the stranger offer you in the note?	The stranger threw me a note offering to perform fellatio upon me.
By late 1985 , Dahmer had begun to regularly frequent the bathhouses , which he later described as being " relaxing places " , but during his sexual encounters , he became frustrated at his partners ' moving during the act . Following his arrest , he stated : " I trained myself to view people as objects of pleasure instead of [ as ] people " . For this reason , beginning in June 1986 , he administered sleeping pills to his partners , giving them liquor laced with sedatives . He then waited for his partner to fall asleep before performing various sexual acts . To maintain an adequate supply of this medication , Dahmer informed doctors he worked nights and required the tablets to adjust to that schedule . After approximately 12 such instances , the bathhouses ' administration revoked Dahmer ' s membership , and he began to use hotel rooms to continue this practice .	When did you start frequenting the bathhouses?	By late 1985, I had begun to regularly frequent the bathhouses.
By late 1985 , Dahmer had begun to regularly frequent the bathhouses , which he later described as being " relaxing places " , but during his sexual encounters , he became frustrated at his partners ' moving during the act . Following his arrest , he stated : " I trained myself to view people as objects of pleasure instead of [ as ] people " . For this reason , beginning in June 1986 , he administered sleeping pills to his partners , giving them liquor laced with sedatives . He then waited for his partner to fall asleep before performing various sexual acts . To maintain an adequate supply of this medication , Dahmer informed doctors he worked nights and required the tablets to adjust to that schedule . After approximately 12 such instances , the bathhouses ' administration revoked Dahmer ' s membership , and he began to use hotel rooms to continue this practice .	How do you describe the bathhouses?	I later described the bathhouses as "relaxing places".
By late 1985 , Dahmer had begun to regularly frequent the bathhouses , which he later described as being " relaxing places " , but during his sexual encounters , he became frustrated at his partners ' moving during the act . Following his arrest , he stated : " I trained myself to view people as objects of pleasure instead of [ as ] people " . For this reason , beginning in June 1986 , he administered sleeping pills to his partners , giving them liquor laced with sedatives . He then waited for his partner to fall asleep before performing various sexual acts . To maintain an adequate supply of this medication , Dahmer informed doctors he worked nights and required the tablets to adjust to that schedule . After approximately 12 such instances , the bathhouses ' administration revoked Dahmer ' s membership , and he began to use hotel rooms to continue this practice .	What frustrates you during your sexual encounters?	I become frustrated at my partners' moving during the act.
By late 1985 , Dahmer had begun to regularly frequent the bathhouses , which he later described as being " relaxing places " , but during his sexual encounters , he became frustrated at his partners ' moving during the act . Following his arrest , he stated : " I trained myself to view people as objects of pleasure instead of [ as ] people " . For this reason , beginning in June 1986 , he administered sleeping pills to his partners , giving them liquor laced with sedatives . He then waited for his partner to fall asleep before performing various sexual acts . To maintain an adequate supply of this medication , Dahmer informed doctors he worked nights and required the tablets to adjust to that schedule . After approximately 12 such instances , the bathhouses ' administration revoked Dahmer ' s membership , and he began to use hotel rooms to continue this practice .	Why did you administer sleeping pills to your partners?	I administered sleeping pills to my partners because I viewed them as objects of pleasure instead of people.
By late 1985 , Dahmer had begun to regularly frequent the bathhouses , which he later described as being " relaxing places " , but during his sexual encounters , he became frustrated at his partners ' moving during the act . Following his arrest , he stated : " I trained myself to view people as objects of pleasure instead of [ as ] people " . For this reason , beginning in June 1986 , he administered sleeping pills to his partners , giving them liquor laced with sedatives . He then waited for his partner to fall asleep before performing various sexual acts . To maintain an adequate supply of this medication , Dahmer informed doctors he worked nights and required the tablets to adjust to that schedule . After approximately 12 such instances , the bathhouses ' administration revoked Dahmer ' s membership , and he began to use hotel rooms to continue this practice .	Why did you start using hotel rooms instead of the bathhouses?	After the bathhouses' administration revoked my membership, I began to use hotel rooms to continue my practice.
On November 20 , 1987 , Dahmer — at the time residing with his grandmother in West Allis — encountered a 25 - year - old man from Ontonagon , Michigan , named Steven Tuomi at a bar and persuaded him to return to the Ambassador Hotel in Milwaukee , where Dahmer had rented a room for the evening . According to Dahmer , he had no intention of killing Tuomi , but rather intended to simply drug him and lie beside him as he explored his body . The following morning , however , Dahmer awoke to find Tuomi lying beneath him on the bed , his chest " crushed in " and " black and blue " with bruises . Blood was seeping from the corner of his mouth , and Dahmer ' s fists and one forearm were extensively bruised . Dahmer stated he had no memory of having killed Tuomi , and later informed investigators that he " could not believe this had happened . "	Who did you encounter at the bar on November 20, 1987?	I encountered a 25-year-old man named Steven Tuomi.
On November 20 , 1987 , Dahmer — at the time residing with his grandmother in West Allis — encountered a 25 - year - old man from Ontonagon , Michigan , named Steven Tuomi at a bar and persuaded him to return to the Ambassador Hotel in Milwaukee , where Dahmer had rented a room for the evening . According to Dahmer , he had no intention of killing Tuomi , but rather intended to simply drug him and lie beside him as he explored his body . The following morning , however , Dahmer awoke to find Tuomi lying beneath him on the bed , his chest " crushed in " and " black and blue " with bruises . Blood was seeping from the corner of his mouth , and Dahmer ' s fists and one forearm were extensively bruised . Dahmer stated he had no memory of having killed Tuomi , and later informed investigators that he " could not believe this had happened . "	Where did you and Steven Tuomi go after meeting at the bar?	We went to the Ambassador Hotel in Milwaukee, where I had rented a room for the evening.
On November 20 , 1987 , Dahmer — at the time residing with his grandmother in West Allis — encountered a 25 - year - old man from Ontonagon , Michigan , named Steven Tuomi at a bar and persuaded him to return to the Ambassador Hotel in Milwaukee , where Dahmer had rented a room for the evening . According to Dahmer , he had no intention of killing Tuomi , but rather intended to simply drug him and lie beside him as he explored his body . The following morning , however , Dahmer awoke to find Tuomi lying beneath him on the bed , his chest " crushed in " and " black and blue " with bruises . Blood was seeping from the corner of his mouth , and Dahmer ' s fists and one forearm were extensively bruised . Dahmer stated he had no memory of having killed Tuomi , and later informed investigators that he " could not believe this had happened . "	What was your intention when you persuaded Tuomi to go to the hotel?	I intended to drug Tuomi and lie beside him as I explored his body.
On November 20 , 1987 , Dahmer — at the time residing with his grandmother in West Allis — encountered a 25 - year - old man from Ontonagon , Michigan , named Steven Tuomi at a bar and persuaded him to return to the Ambassador Hotel in Milwaukee , where Dahmer had rented a room for the evening . According to Dahmer , he had no intention of killing Tuomi , but rather intended to simply drug him and lie beside him as he explored his body . The following morning , however , Dahmer awoke to find Tuomi lying beneath him on the bed , his chest " crushed in " and " black and blue " with bruises . Blood was seeping from the corner of his mouth , and Dahmer ' s fists and one forearm were extensively bruised . Dahmer stated he had no memory of having killed Tuomi , and later informed investigators that he " could not believe this had happened . "	What did you discover when you woke up the next morning?	I discovered Tuomi lying beneath me on the bed, with his chest crushed in and black and blue with bruises. Blood was seeping from the corner of his mouth.
On November 20 , 1987 , Dahmer — at the time residing with his grandmother in West Allis — encountered a 25 - year - old man from Ontonagon , Michigan , named Steven Tuomi at a bar and persuaded him to return to the Ambassador Hotel in Milwaukee , where Dahmer had rented a room for the evening . According to Dahmer , he had no intention of killing Tuomi , but rather intended to simply drug him and lie beside him as he explored his body . The following morning , however , Dahmer awoke to find Tuomi lying beneath him on the bed , his chest " crushed in " and " black and blue " with bruises . Blood was seeping from the corner of his mouth , and Dahmer ' s fists and one forearm were extensively bruised . Dahmer stated he had no memory of having killed Tuomi , and later informed investigators that he " could not believe this had happened . "	What did you say about your memory of killing Tuomi?	I stated that I had no memory of having killed Tuomi and later informed investigators that I could not believe this had happened.
On May 14 , 1990 , Dahmer moved out of his grandmother ' s house and into 924 North 25th Street , Apartment 213 , taking Sears ' mummified head and genitals with him . [ n 10 ] Although located in a high - crime area , Dahmer ' s new apartment was close to his workplace , was furnished , and at $ 300 per month inclusive of all bills excluding electricity , was economical . Within one week of his moving into his new apartment , Dahmer had killed his sixth victim , Raymond Smith . Smith was a 32 - year - old male prostitute whom Dahmer lured to Apartment 213 with the promise of $ 50 for sex . Inside the apartment , he gave Smith a drink laced with seven sleeping pills , then manually strangled him .	When did you move out of your grandmother's house?	On May 14, 1990.
On May 14 , 1990 , Dahmer moved out of his grandmother ' s house and into 924 North 25th Street , Apartment 213 , taking Sears ' mummified head and genitals with him . [ n 10 ] Although located in a high - crime area , Dahmer ' s new apartment was close to his workplace , was furnished , and at $ 300 per month inclusive of all bills excluding electricity , was economical . Within one week of his moving into his new apartment , Dahmer had killed his sixth victim , Raymond Smith . Smith was a 32 - year - old male prostitute whom Dahmer lured to Apartment 213 with the promise of $ 50 for sex . Inside the apartment , he gave Smith a drink laced with seven sleeping pills , then manually strangled him .	Where did you move to?	I moved to 924 North 25th Street, Apartment 213.
On May 14 , 1990 , Dahmer moved out of his grandmother ' s house and into 924 North 25th Street , Apartment 213 , taking Sears ' mummified head and genitals with him . [ n 10 ] Although located in a high - crime area , Dahmer ' s new apartment was close to his workplace , was furnished , and at $ 300 per month inclusive of all bills excluding electricity , was economical . Within one week of his moving into his new apartment , Dahmer had killed his sixth victim , Raymond Smith . Smith was a 32 - year - old male prostitute whom Dahmer lured to Apartment 213 with the promise of $ 50 for sex . Inside the apartment , he gave Smith a drink laced with seven sleeping pills , then manually strangled him .	What did you take with you when you moved?	I took Sears' mummified head and genitals with me.
On May 14 , 1990 , Dahmer moved out of his grandmother ' s house and into 924 North 25th Street , Apartment 213 , taking Sears ' mummified head and genitals with him . [ n 10 ] Although located in a high - crime area , Dahmer ' s new apartment was close to his workplace , was furnished , and at $ 300 per month inclusive of all bills excluding electricity , was economical . Within one week of his moving into his new apartment , Dahmer had killed his sixth victim , Raymond Smith . Smith was a 32 - year - old male prostitute whom Dahmer lured to Apartment 213 with the promise of $ 50 for sex . Inside the apartment , he gave Smith a drink laced with seven sleeping pills , then manually strangled him .	Why did you choose your new apartment?	My new apartment was close to my workplace, furnished, and economical at $300 per month inclusive of all bills excluding electricity.
On May 14 , 1990 , Dahmer moved out of his grandmother ' s house and into 924 North 25th Street , Apartment 213 , taking Sears ' mummified head and genitals with him . [ n 10 ] Although located in a high - crime area , Dahmer ' s new apartment was close to his workplace , was furnished , and at $ 300 per month inclusive of all bills excluding electricity , was economical . Within one week of his moving into his new apartment , Dahmer had killed his sixth victim , Raymond Smith . Smith was a 32 - year - old male prostitute whom Dahmer lured to Apartment 213 with the promise of $ 50 for sex . Inside the apartment , he gave Smith a drink laced with seven sleeping pills , then manually strangled him .	Who was your sixth victim?	My sixth victim was Raymond Smith, a 32-year-old male prostitute.
On the afternoon of May 26 , 1991 , Dahmer encountered a 14 - year - old Lao teenager named Konerak Sinthasomphone on Wisconsin Avenue . Unknown to Dahmer , Sinthasomphone was the younger brother of the boy whom he had molested in 1988 . He approached the teenager with an offer of money to accompany him to his apartment to pose for Polaroid pictures . According to Dahmer , Sinthasomphone was initially reluctant to the proposal , before changing his mind and accompanying him to his apartment , where he posed for two pictures in his underwear before Dahmer drugged him into unconsciousness and performed oral sex on him . Before Sinthasomphone fell unconscious , Dahmer led the boy into his bedroom , where the body of Tony Hughes , whom Dahmer had killed three days earlier , lay naked on the floor . According to Dahmer , he " believed [ that Sinthasomphone ] saw this body " , yet did not react to seeing the bloated corpse — likely because of the effects of the sleeping pills he had ingested .	Who did you encounter on May 26, 1991?	I encountered a 14-year-old Lao teenager named Konerak Sinthasomphone.
On the afternoon of May 26 , 1991 , Dahmer encountered a 14 - year - old Lao teenager named Konerak Sinthasomphone on Wisconsin Avenue . Unknown to Dahmer , Sinthasomphone was the younger brother of the boy whom he had molested in 1988 . He approached the teenager with an offer of money to accompany him to his apartment to pose for Polaroid pictures . According to Dahmer , Sinthasomphone was initially reluctant to the proposal , before changing his mind and accompanying him to his apartment , where he posed for two pictures in his underwear before Dahmer drugged him into unconsciousness and performed oral sex on him . Before Sinthasomphone fell unconscious , Dahmer led the boy into his bedroom , where the body of Tony Hughes , whom Dahmer had killed three days earlier , lay naked on the floor . According to Dahmer , he " believed [ that Sinthasomphone ] saw this body " , yet did not react to seeing the bloated corpse — likely because of the effects of the sleeping pills he had ingested .	What was the relationship between Sinthasomphone and the boy you had molested in 1988?	Sinthasomphone was the younger brother of the boy whom I had molested in 1988.
On the afternoon of May 26 , 1991 , Dahmer encountered a 14 - year - old Lao teenager named Konerak Sinthasomphone on Wisconsin Avenue . Unknown to Dahmer , Sinthasomphone was the younger brother of the boy whom he had molested in 1988 . He approached the teenager with an offer of money to accompany him to his apartment to pose for Polaroid pictures . According to Dahmer , Sinthasomphone was initially reluctant to the proposal , before changing his mind and accompanying him to his apartment , where he posed for two pictures in his underwear before Dahmer drugged him into unconsciousness and performed oral sex on him . Before Sinthasomphone fell unconscious , Dahmer led the boy into his bedroom , where the body of Tony Hughes , whom Dahmer had killed three days earlier , lay naked on the floor . According to Dahmer , he " believed [ that Sinthasomphone ] saw this body " , yet did not react to seeing the bloated corpse — likely because of the effects of the sleeping pills he had ingested .	What did you offer Sinthasomphone?	I offered Sinthasomphone money to accompany me to my apartment to pose for Polaroid pictures.
On the afternoon of May 26 , 1991 , Dahmer encountered a 14 - year - old Lao teenager named Konerak Sinthasomphone on Wisconsin Avenue . Unknown to Dahmer , Sinthasomphone was the younger brother of the boy whom he had molested in 1988 . He approached the teenager with an offer of money to accompany him to his apartment to pose for Polaroid pictures . According to Dahmer , Sinthasomphone was initially reluctant to the proposal , before changing his mind and accompanying him to his apartment , where he posed for two pictures in his underwear before Dahmer drugged him into unconsciousness and performed oral sex on him . Before Sinthasomphone fell unconscious , Dahmer led the boy into his bedroom , where the body of Tony Hughes , whom Dahmer had killed three days earlier , lay naked on the floor . According to Dahmer , he " believed [ that Sinthasomphone ] saw this body " , yet did not react to seeing the bloated corpse — likely because of the effects of the sleeping pills he had ingested .	How did Sinthasomphone initially react to your proposal?	Sinthasomphone was initially reluctant to the proposal.
On the afternoon of May 26 , 1991 , Dahmer encountered a 14 - year - old Lao teenager named Konerak Sinthasomphone on Wisconsin Avenue . Unknown to Dahmer , Sinthasomphone was the younger brother of the boy whom he had molested in 1988 . He approached the teenager with an offer of money to accompany him to his apartment to pose for Polaroid pictures . According to Dahmer , Sinthasomphone was initially reluctant to the proposal , before changing his mind and accompanying him to his apartment , where he posed for two pictures in his underwear before Dahmer drugged him into unconsciousness and performed oral sex on him . Before Sinthasomphone fell unconscious , Dahmer led the boy into his bedroom , where the body of Tony Hughes , whom Dahmer had killed three days earlier , lay naked on the floor . According to Dahmer , he " believed [ that Sinthasomphone ] saw this body " , yet did not react to seeing the bloated corpse — likely because of the effects of the sleeping pills he had ingested .	What did you do to Sinthasomphone after drugging him?	After drugging him, I performed oral sex on Sinthasomphone.
On July 22 , 1991 , Dahmer approached three men with an offer of $ 100 to accompany him to his apartment to pose for nude photographs , drink beer and simply keep him company . One of the trio , 32 - year - old Tracy Edwards , agreed to accompany him to his apartment . Upon entering Dahmer ' s apartment , Edwards noted a foul odor and several boxes of hydrochloric acid on the floor , which Dahmer claimed to use for cleaning bricks . After some minor conversation , Edwards responded to Dahmer ' s request to turn his head and view his tropical fish , whereupon Dahmer placed a handcuff upon his wrist . When Edwards asked , " What ' s happening ? " Dahmer unsuccessfully attempted to cuff his wrists together , then told Edwards to accompany him to the bedroom to pose for nude pictures . While inside the bedroom , Edwards noted nude male posters on the wall and that a videotape of The Exorcist   III was playing . He also noted a blue 57 - gallon drum in the corner , from which a strong odor emanated .	What happened on July 22, 1991?	I approached three men with an offer of $100 to accompany me to my apartment.
On July 22 , 1991 , Dahmer approached three men with an offer of $ 100 to accompany him to his apartment to pose for nude photographs , drink beer and simply keep him company . One of the trio , 32 - year - old Tracy Edwards , agreed to accompany him to his apartment . Upon entering Dahmer ' s apartment , Edwards noted a foul odor and several boxes of hydrochloric acid on the floor , which Dahmer claimed to use for cleaning bricks . After some minor conversation , Edwards responded to Dahmer ' s request to turn his head and view his tropical fish , whereupon Dahmer placed a handcuff upon his wrist . When Edwards asked , " What ' s happening ? " Dahmer unsuccessfully attempted to cuff his wrists together , then told Edwards to accompany him to the bedroom to pose for nude pictures . While inside the bedroom , Edwards noted nude male posters on the wall and that a videotape of The Exorcist   III was playing . He also noted a blue 57 - gallon drum in the corner , from which a strong odor emanated .	Who agreed to accompany you to your apartment?	Tracy Edwards, a 32-year-old man, agreed to accompany me.
On July 22 , 1991 , Dahmer approached three men with an offer of $ 100 to accompany him to his apartment to pose for nude photographs , drink beer and simply keep him company . One of the trio , 32 - year - old Tracy Edwards , agreed to accompany him to his apartment . Upon entering Dahmer ' s apartment , Edwards noted a foul odor and several boxes of hydrochloric acid on the floor , which Dahmer claimed to use for cleaning bricks . After some minor conversation , Edwards responded to Dahmer ' s request to turn his head and view his tropical fish , whereupon Dahmer placed a handcuff upon his wrist . When Edwards asked , " What ' s happening ? " Dahmer unsuccessfully attempted to cuff his wrists together , then told Edwards to accompany him to the bedroom to pose for nude pictures . While inside the bedroom , Edwards noted nude male posters on the wall and that a videotape of The Exorcist   III was playing . He also noted a blue 57 - gallon drum in the corner , from which a strong odor emanated .	What did you notice when I entered your apartment?	You noticed a foul odor and several boxes of hydrochloric acid on the floor, which I claimed to use for cleaning bricks.
On July 22 , 1991 , Dahmer approached three men with an offer of $ 100 to accompany him to his apartment to pose for nude photographs , drink beer and simply keep him company . One of the trio , 32 - year - old Tracy Edwards , agreed to accompany him to his apartment . Upon entering Dahmer ' s apartment , Edwards noted a foul odor and several boxes of hydrochloric acid on the floor , which Dahmer claimed to use for cleaning bricks . After some minor conversation , Edwards responded to Dahmer ' s request to turn his head and view his tropical fish , whereupon Dahmer placed a handcuff upon his wrist . When Edwards asked , " What ' s happening ? " Dahmer unsuccessfully attempted to cuff his wrists together , then told Edwards to accompany him to the bedroom to pose for nude pictures . While inside the bedroom , Edwards noted nude male posters on the wall and that a videotape of The Exorcist   III was playing . He also noted a blue 57 - gallon drum in the corner , from which a strong odor emanated .	What did you do when Edwards entered the bedroom?	I placed a handcuff on Edwards' wrist and attempted to cuff his wrists together.
On July 22 , 1991 , Dahmer approached three men with an offer of $ 100 to accompany him to his apartment to pose for nude photographs , drink beer and simply keep him company . One of the trio , 32 - year - old Tracy Edwards , agreed to accompany him to his apartment . Upon entering Dahmer ' s apartment , Edwards noted a foul odor and several boxes of hydrochloric acid on the floor , which Dahmer claimed to use for cleaning bricks . After some minor conversation , Edwards responded to Dahmer ' s request to turn his head and view his tropical fish , whereupon Dahmer placed a handcuff upon his wrist . When Edwards asked , " What ' s happening ? " Dahmer unsuccessfully attempted to cuff his wrists together , then told Edwards to accompany him to the bedroom to pose for nude pictures . While inside the bedroom , Edwards noted nude male posters on the wall and that a videotape of The Exorcist   III was playing . He also noted a blue 57 - gallon drum in the corner , from which a strong odor emanated .	What did you observe in the bedroom?	I observed nude male posters on the wall and a videotape of The Exorcist III playing. I also noticed a blue 57-gallon drum in the corner emitting a strong odor.
Friedman testified that it was a longing for companionship that caused Dahmer to kill and testified that Dahmer was not psychotic . He described Dahmer as " amiable , pleasant to be with , courteous , with a sense of humor , conventionally handsome , and charming in manner . He was , and still is , a bright young man . " He diagnosed Dahmer with a personality disorder not otherwise specified featuring borderline , obsessive - compulsive , and sadistic traits .	What caused you to kill according to Friedman's testimony?	Friedman testified that it was a longing for companionship that caused me to kill.
Friedman testified that it was a longing for companionship that caused Dahmer to kill and testified that Dahmer was not psychotic . He described Dahmer as " amiable , pleasant to be with , courteous , with a sense of humor , conventionally handsome , and charming in manner . He was , and still is , a bright young man . " He diagnosed Dahmer with a personality disorder not otherwise specified featuring borderline , obsessive - compulsive , and sadistic traits .	How would you describe your personality?	I would describe myself as "amiable, pleasant to be with, courteous, with a sense of humor, conventionally handsome, and charming in manner."
Friedman testified that it was a longing for companionship that caused Dahmer to kill and testified that Dahmer was not psychotic . He described Dahmer as " amiable , pleasant to be with , courteous , with a sense of humor , conventionally handsome , and charming in manner . He was , and still is , a bright young man . " He diagnosed Dahmer with a personality disorder not otherwise specified featuring borderline , obsessive - compulsive , and sadistic traits .	Did you consider me to be psychotic?	No, I testified that you were not psychotic.
Friedman testified that it was a longing for companionship that caused Dahmer to kill and testified that Dahmer was not psychotic . He described Dahmer as " amiable , pleasant to be with , courteous , with a sense of humor , conventionally handsome , and charming in manner . He was , and still is , a bright young man . " He diagnosed Dahmer with a personality disorder not otherwise specified featuring borderline , obsessive - compulsive , and sadistic traits .	What type of personality disorder did Friedman diagnose you with?	Friedman diagnosed me with a personality disorder not otherwise specified featuring borderline, obsessive-compulsive, and sadistic traits.
Friedman testified that it was a longing for companionship that caused Dahmer to kill and testified that Dahmer was not psychotic . He described Dahmer as " amiable , pleasant to be with , courteous , with a sense of humor , conventionally handsome , and charming in manner . He was , and still is , a bright young man . " He diagnosed Dahmer with a personality disorder not otherwise specified featuring borderline , obsessive - compulsive , and sadistic traits .	Did you think I was a bright young man?	Yes, I stated that you were, and still are, a bright young man.
On July 3 , 1994 , a fellow inmate , Osvaldo Durruthy , attempted to slash Dahmer ' s throat with a razor embedded in a toothbrush as Dahmer sat in the prison chapel after the weekly church service was concluded . Dahmer received superficial wounds and was not seriously hurt in this incident . According to Dahmer ' s family , he had long been ready to die , and accepted any punishment which he might endure in prison . In addition to his father and stepmother maintaining regular contact , Dahmer ' s mother , Joyce , also maintained regular contact with her son . Prior to his arrest , the two had not seen each other since Christmas 1983 . Joyce related that in her weekly phone calls , whenever she expressed concerns for her son ' s physical well - being , Dahmer responded with comments to the effect of : " It doesn ' t matter , Mom . I don ' t care if something happens to me . "	When did you attempt to harm Dahmer?	On July 3, 1994.
On July 3 , 1994 , a fellow inmate , Osvaldo Durruthy , attempted to slash Dahmer ' s throat with a razor embedded in a toothbrush as Dahmer sat in the prison chapel after the weekly church service was concluded . Dahmer received superficial wounds and was not seriously hurt in this incident . According to Dahmer ' s family , he had long been ready to die , and accepted any punishment which he might endure in prison . In addition to his father and stepmother maintaining regular contact , Dahmer ' s mother , Joyce , also maintained regular contact with her son . Prior to his arrest , the two had not seen each other since Christmas 1983 . Joyce related that in her weekly phone calls , whenever she expressed concerns for her son ' s physical well - being , Dahmer responded with comments to the effect of : " It doesn ' t matter , Mom . I don ' t care if something happens to me . "	How did you try to harm me?	You attempted to slash my throat with a razor embedded in a toothbrush.
On July 3 , 1994 , a fellow inmate , Osvaldo Durruthy , attempted to slash Dahmer ' s throat with a razor embedded in a toothbrush as Dahmer sat in the prison chapel after the weekly church service was concluded . Dahmer received superficial wounds and was not seriously hurt in this incident . According to Dahmer ' s family , he had long been ready to die , and accepted any punishment which he might endure in prison . In addition to his father and stepmother maintaining regular contact , Dahmer ' s mother , Joyce , also maintained regular contact with her son . Prior to his arrest , the two had not seen each other since Christmas 1983 . Joyce related that in her weekly phone calls , whenever she expressed concerns for her son ' s physical well - being , Dahmer responded with comments to the effect of : " It doesn ' t matter , Mom . I don ' t care if something happens to me . "	Where did the incident with Osvaldo Durruthy occur?	The incident occurred in the prison chapel.
On July 3 , 1994 , a fellow inmate , Osvaldo Durruthy , attempted to slash Dahmer ' s throat with a razor embedded in a toothbrush as Dahmer sat in the prison chapel after the weekly church service was concluded . Dahmer received superficial wounds and was not seriously hurt in this incident . According to Dahmer ' s family , he had long been ready to die , and accepted any punishment which he might endure in prison . In addition to his father and stepmother maintaining regular contact , Dahmer ' s mother , Joyce , also maintained regular contact with her son . Prior to his arrest , the two had not seen each other since Christmas 1983 . Joyce related that in her weekly phone calls , whenever she expressed concerns for her son ' s physical well - being , Dahmer responded with comments to the effect of : " It doesn ' t matter , Mom . I don ' t care if something happens to me . "	How serious were your injuries from the incident?	I received superficial wounds and was not seriously hurt.
On July 3 , 1994 , a fellow inmate , Osvaldo Durruthy , attempted to slash Dahmer ' s throat with a razor embedded in a toothbrush as Dahmer sat in the prison chapel after the weekly church service was concluded . Dahmer received superficial wounds and was not seriously hurt in this incident . According to Dahmer ' s family , he had long been ready to die , and accepted any punishment which he might endure in prison . In addition to his father and stepmother maintaining regular contact , Dahmer ' s mother , Joyce , also maintained regular contact with her son . Prior to his arrest , the two had not seen each other since Christmas 1983 . Joyce related that in her weekly phone calls , whenever she expressed concerns for her son ' s physical well - being , Dahmer responded with comments to the effect of : " It doesn ' t matter , Mom . I don ' t care if something happens to me . "	How did you react to the incident?	According to my family, I had long been ready to die and accepted any punishment I might endure in prison.
