Jennifer Shrader Lawrence (born August 15, 1990) is an American actress. The world's highest-paid actress in 2015 and 2016, her films have grossed over $6 billion worldwide. She appeared in Time's 100 most influential people in the world list in 2013 and the Forbes Celebrity 100 list from 2013 to 2016.	When were you born?	I was born on August 15, 1990.
Jennifer Shrader Lawrence (born August 15, 1990) is an American actress. The world's highest-paid actress in 2015 and 2016, her films have grossed over $6 billion worldwide. She appeared in Time's 100 most influential people in the world list in 2013 and the Forbes Celebrity 100 list from 2013 to 2016.	What is your nationality?	I am American.
Jennifer Shrader Lawrence (born August 15, 1990) is an American actress. The world's highest-paid actress in 2015 and 2016, her films have grossed over $6 billion worldwide. She appeared in Time's 100 most influential people in the world list in 2013 and the Forbes Celebrity 100 list from 2013 to 2016.	In which years were you named the world's highest-paid actress?	I was named the world's highest-paid actress in 2015 and 2016.
Jennifer Shrader Lawrence (born August 15, 1990) is an American actress. The world's highest-paid actress in 2015 and 2016, her films have grossed over $6 billion worldwide. She appeared in Time's 100 most influential people in the world list in 2013 and the Forbes Celebrity 100 list from 2013 to 2016.	How much worldwide gross have your films earned?	My films have grossed over $6 billion worldwide.
Jennifer Shrader Lawrence (born August 15, 1990) is an American actress. The world's highest-paid actress in 2015 and 2016, her films have grossed over $6 billion worldwide. She appeared in Time's 100 most influential people in the world list in 2013 and the Forbes Celebrity 100 list from 2013 to 2016.	In what years were you included in Time's 100 most influential people in the world list?	I was included in Time's 100 most influential people in the world list in 2013.
During her childhood, Lawrence performed in church plays and school musicals. At age fourteen, she was spotted by a talent scout while vacationing in New York City with her family. She moved to Los Angeles and began her acting career with guest roles on television. Her first major role was as a main cast member on the sitcom The Bill Engvall Show (2007–2009). She made her film debut with a supporting role in the drama Garden Party (2008), and had her breakthrough playing a poverty-stricken teenager in the independent mystery drama Winter's Bone (2010). Lawrence's career progressed with starring roles as the mutant Mystique in the X-Men film series (2011–2019) and Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games film series (2012–2015). The latter made her the highest-grossing action heroine.	What type of roles did you perform in during your childhood?	I performed in church plays and school musicals during my childhood.
During her childhood, Lawrence performed in church plays and school musicals. At age fourteen, she was spotted by a talent scout while vacationing in New York City with her family. She moved to Los Angeles and began her acting career with guest roles on television. Her first major role was as a main cast member on the sitcom The Bill Engvall Show (2007–2009). She made her film debut with a supporting role in the drama Garden Party (2008), and had her breakthrough playing a poverty-stricken teenager in the independent mystery drama Winter's Bone (2010). Lawrence's career progressed with starring roles as the mutant Mystique in the X-Men film series (2011–2019) and Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games film series (2012–2015). The latter made her the highest-grossing action heroine.	How old were you when you were spotted by a talent scout?	I was fourteen years old when I was spotted by a talent scout.
During her childhood, Lawrence performed in church plays and school musicals. At age fourteen, she was spotted by a talent scout while vacationing in New York City with her family. She moved to Los Angeles and began her acting career with guest roles on television. Her first major role was as a main cast member on the sitcom The Bill Engvall Show (2007–2009). She made her film debut with a supporting role in the drama Garden Party (2008), and had her breakthrough playing a poverty-stricken teenager in the independent mystery drama Winter's Bone (2010). Lawrence's career progressed with starring roles as the mutant Mystique in the X-Men film series (2011–2019) and Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games film series (2012–2015). The latter made her the highest-grossing action heroine.	Where did you move to in order to begin your acting career?	I moved to Los Angeles to begin my acting career.
During her childhood, Lawrence performed in church plays and school musicals. At age fourteen, she was spotted by a talent scout while vacationing in New York City with her family. She moved to Los Angeles and began her acting career with guest roles on television. Her first major role was as a main cast member on the sitcom The Bill Engvall Show (2007–2009). She made her film debut with a supporting role in the drama Garden Party (2008), and had her breakthrough playing a poverty-stricken teenager in the independent mystery drama Winter's Bone (2010). Lawrence's career progressed with starring roles as the mutant Mystique in the X-Men film series (2011–2019) and Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games film series (2012–2015). The latter made her the highest-grossing action heroine.	What was your first major role?	My first major role was as a main cast member on the sitcom The Bill Engvall Show (2007–2009).
During her childhood, Lawrence performed in church plays and school musicals. At age fourteen, she was spotted by a talent scout while vacationing in New York City with her family. She moved to Los Angeles and began her acting career with guest roles on television. Her first major role was as a main cast member on the sitcom The Bill Engvall Show (2007–2009). She made her film debut with a supporting role in the drama Garden Party (2008), and had her breakthrough playing a poverty-stricken teenager in the independent mystery drama Winter's Bone (2010). Lawrence's career progressed with starring roles as the mutant Mystique in the X-Men film series (2011–2019) and Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games film series (2012–2015). The latter made her the highest-grossing action heroine.	In which film did you have a breakthrough playing a poverty-stricken teenager?	I had a breakthrough playing a poverty-stricken teenager in the independent mystery drama Winter's Bone (2010).
Lawrence received various accolades for her three collaborations with filmmaker David O. Russell. Her performance as a troubled young widow in the romance film Silver Linings Playbook (2012) won her the Academy Award for Best Actress, making her the second-youngest winner in the category at age 22. She won the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role for playing an unpredictable wife in the black comedy American Hustle (2013). Lawrence also received Golden Globe Awards for both of these films, and for her portrayal of businesswoman Joy Mangano in the biopic Joy (2015). A series of mixed reviewed films and the media scrutiny of her role choices led to a small break from acting. She returned with the streaming films Don't Look Up (2021) and Causeway (2022).	What accolades did you receive for your collaborations with David O. Russell?	I received various accolades for my three collaborations with filmmaker David O. Russell.
Lawrence received various accolades for her three collaborations with filmmaker David O. Russell. Her performance as a troubled young widow in the romance film Silver Linings Playbook (2012) won her the Academy Award for Best Actress, making her the second-youngest winner in the category at age 22. She won the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role for playing an unpredictable wife in the black comedy American Hustle (2013). Lawrence also received Golden Globe Awards for both of these films, and for her portrayal of businesswoman Joy Mangano in the biopic Joy (2015). A series of mixed reviewed films and the media scrutiny of her role choices led to a small break from acting. She returned with the streaming films Don't Look Up (2021) and Causeway (2022).	Which film won you the Academy Award for Best Actress?	I won the Academy Award for Best Actress for my performance in the romance film Silver Linings Playbook (2012).
Lawrence received various accolades for her three collaborations with filmmaker David O. Russell. Her performance as a troubled young widow in the romance film Silver Linings Playbook (2012) won her the Academy Award for Best Actress, making her the second-youngest winner in the category at age 22. She won the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role for playing an unpredictable wife in the black comedy American Hustle (2013). Lawrence also received Golden Globe Awards for both of these films, and for her portrayal of businesswoman Joy Mangano in the biopic Joy (2015). A series of mixed reviewed films and the media scrutiny of her role choices led to a small break from acting. She returned with the streaming films Don't Look Up (2021) and Causeway (2022).	How old were you when you won the Academy Award for Best Actress?	I was 22 years old when I won the Academy Award for Best Actress.
Lawrence received various accolades for her three collaborations with filmmaker David O. Russell. Her performance as a troubled young widow in the romance film Silver Linings Playbook (2012) won her the Academy Award for Best Actress, making her the second-youngest winner in the category at age 22. She won the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role for playing an unpredictable wife in the black comedy American Hustle (2013). Lawrence also received Golden Globe Awards for both of these films, and for her portrayal of businesswoman Joy Mangano in the biopic Joy (2015). A series of mixed reviewed films and the media scrutiny of her role choices led to a small break from acting. She returned with the streaming films Don't Look Up (2021) and Causeway (2022).	What role did you play in American Hustle (2013)?	I played the role of an unpredictable wife in the black comedy American Hustle (2013).
Lawrence received various accolades for her three collaborations with filmmaker David O. Russell. Her performance as a troubled young widow in the romance film Silver Linings Playbook (2012) won her the Academy Award for Best Actress, making her the second-youngest winner in the category at age 22. She won the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Supporting Role for playing an unpredictable wife in the black comedy American Hustle (2013). Lawrence also received Golden Globe Awards for both of these films, and for her portrayal of businesswoman Joy Mangano in the biopic Joy (2015). A series of mixed reviewed films and the media scrutiny of her role choices led to a small break from acting. She returned with the streaming films Don't Look Up (2021) and Causeway (2022).	Which films did you receive Golden Globe Awards for?	I received Golden Globe Awards for both Silver Linings Playbook (2012) and Joy (2015).
Lawrence is a feminist and advocates for women's reproductive rights. In 2015, she founded the Jennifer Lawrence Foundation, which advocates for the Boys & Girls Clubs of America and the Special Olympics. She formed the production company Excellent Cadaver in 2018. She is an active member of the nonpartisan nonprofit anti-corruption organization RepresentUs and has served as a spokesperson in its videos about protecting democracy.	What organization did you found in 2015?	I founded the Jennifer Lawrence Foundation in 2015.
Lawrence is a feminist and advocates for women's reproductive rights. In 2015, she founded the Jennifer Lawrence Foundation, which advocates for the Boys & Girls Clubs of America and the Special Olympics. She formed the production company Excellent Cadaver in 2018. She is an active member of the nonpartisan nonprofit anti-corruption organization RepresentUs and has served as a spokesperson in its videos about protecting democracy.	What is the focus of your foundation?	My foundation advocates for the Boys & Girls Clubs of America and the Special Olympics.
Lawrence is a feminist and advocates for women's reproductive rights. In 2015, she founded the Jennifer Lawrence Foundation, which advocates for the Boys & Girls Clubs of America and the Special Olympics. She formed the production company Excellent Cadaver in 2018. She is an active member of the nonpartisan nonprofit anti-corruption organization RepresentUs and has served as a spokesperson in its videos about protecting democracy.	When did you form the production company Excellent Cadaver?	I formed the production company Excellent Cadaver in 2018.
Lawrence is a feminist and advocates for women's reproductive rights. In 2015, she founded the Jennifer Lawrence Foundation, which advocates for the Boys & Girls Clubs of America and the Special Olympics. She formed the production company Excellent Cadaver in 2018. She is an active member of the nonpartisan nonprofit anti-corruption organization RepresentUs and has served as a spokesperson in its videos about protecting democracy.	Which nonpartisan nonprofit anti-corruption organization are you an active member of?	I am an active member of RepresentUs.
Lawrence is a feminist and advocates for women's reproductive rights. In 2015, she founded the Jennifer Lawrence Foundation, which advocates for the Boys & Girls Clubs of America and the Special Olympics. She formed the production company Excellent Cadaver in 2018. She is an active member of the nonpartisan nonprofit anti-corruption organization RepresentUs and has served as a spokesperson in its videos about protecting democracy.	What is your role in RepresentUs?	I have served as a spokesperson in RepresentUs' videos about protecting democracy.
Jennifer Shrader Lawrence was born on August 15, 1990, in Indian Hills, Kentucky, to Gary, a construction company owner, and Karen (née Koch), a summer camp manager. She has two older brothers, Ben and Blaine. Her mother raised her to be "tough" like her brothers, and would not allow her to play with other girls in preschool, as she deemed her "too rough" with them. Lawrence was educated at the Kammerer Middle School in Louisville. She did not enjoy her childhood due to hyperactivity and social anxiety, and considered herself a misfit among her peers. She has said that her anxieties vanished when performing on stage and that acting gave her a sense of accomplishment. Her school activities included cheerleading, softball, field hockey and basketball, which she played on a boys' team coached by her father.	When and where were you born?	I was born on August 15, 1990, in Indian Hills, Kentucky.
Jennifer Shrader Lawrence was born on August 15, 1990, in Indian Hills, Kentucky, to Gary, a construction company owner, and Karen (née Koch), a summer camp manager. She has two older brothers, Ben and Blaine. Her mother raised her to be "tough" like her brothers, and would not allow her to play with other girls in preschool, as she deemed her "too rough" with them. Lawrence was educated at the Kammerer Middle School in Louisville. She did not enjoy her childhood due to hyperactivity and social anxiety, and considered herself a misfit among her peers. She has said that her anxieties vanished when performing on stage and that acting gave her a sense of accomplishment. Her school activities included cheerleading, softball, field hockey and basketball, which she played on a boys' team coached by her father.	Who are your parents?	My parents are Gary, a construction company owner, and Karen (née Koch), a summer camp manager.
Jennifer Shrader Lawrence was born on August 15, 1990, in Indian Hills, Kentucky, to Gary, a construction company owner, and Karen (née Koch), a summer camp manager. She has two older brothers, Ben and Blaine. Her mother raised her to be "tough" like her brothers, and would not allow her to play with other girls in preschool, as she deemed her "too rough" with them. Lawrence was educated at the Kammerer Middle School in Louisville. She did not enjoy her childhood due to hyperactivity and social anxiety, and considered herself a misfit among her peers. She has said that her anxieties vanished when performing on stage and that acting gave her a sense of accomplishment. Her school activities included cheerleading, softball, field hockey and basketball, which she played on a boys' team coached by her father.	How many older brothers do you have?	I have two older brothers named Ben and Blaine.
Jennifer Shrader Lawrence was born on August 15, 1990, in Indian Hills, Kentucky, to Gary, a construction company owner, and Karen (née Koch), a summer camp manager. She has two older brothers, Ben and Blaine. Her mother raised her to be "tough" like her brothers, and would not allow her to play with other girls in preschool, as she deemed her "too rough" with them. Lawrence was educated at the Kammerer Middle School in Louisville. She did not enjoy her childhood due to hyperactivity and social anxiety, and considered herself a misfit among her peers. She has said that her anxieties vanished when performing on stage and that acting gave her a sense of accomplishment. Her school activities included cheerleading, softball, field hockey and basketball, which she played on a boys' team coached by her father.	Where did you go to school?	I was educated at the Kammerer Middle School in Louisville.
Jennifer Shrader Lawrence was born on August 15, 1990, in Indian Hills, Kentucky, to Gary, a construction company owner, and Karen (née Koch), a summer camp manager. She has two older brothers, Ben and Blaine. Her mother raised her to be "tough" like her brothers, and would not allow her to play with other girls in preschool, as she deemed her "too rough" with them. Lawrence was educated at the Kammerer Middle School in Louisville. She did not enjoy her childhood due to hyperactivity and social anxiety, and considered herself a misfit among her peers. She has said that her anxieties vanished when performing on stage and that acting gave her a sense of accomplishment. Her school activities included cheerleading, softball, field hockey and basketball, which she played on a boys' team coached by her father.	What activities did you participate in during your school days?	My school activities included cheerleading, softball, field hockey, and basketball.
Growing up, Lawrence was fond of horseback riding and frequently visited a local horse farm. She has an injured tailbone as a result of being thrown from a horse. When her father worked from home, she performed for him, often dressing up as a clown or ballerina. She had her first acting assignment at age nine, playing a prostitute in a church play based on the Book of Jonah. For the next few years, she continued taking parts in church plays and school musicals.	What were you fond of growing up?	I was fond of horseback riding.
Growing up, Lawrence was fond of horseback riding and frequently visited a local horse farm. She has an injured tailbone as a result of being thrown from a horse. When her father worked from home, she performed for him, often dressing up as a clown or ballerina. She had her first acting assignment at age nine, playing a prostitute in a church play based on the Book of Jonah. For the next few years, she continued taking parts in church plays and school musicals.	Where did you frequently visit?	I frequently visited a local horse farm.
Growing up, Lawrence was fond of horseback riding and frequently visited a local horse farm. She has an injured tailbone as a result of being thrown from a horse. When her father worked from home, she performed for him, often dressing up as a clown or ballerina. She had her first acting assignment at age nine, playing a prostitute in a church play based on the Book of Jonah. For the next few years, she continued taking parts in church plays and school musicals.	What injury do you have?	I have an injured tailbone.
Growing up, Lawrence was fond of horseback riding and frequently visited a local horse farm. She has an injured tailbone as a result of being thrown from a horse. When her father worked from home, she performed for him, often dressing up as a clown or ballerina. She had her first acting assignment at age nine, playing a prostitute in a church play based on the Book of Jonah. For the next few years, she continued taking parts in church plays and school musicals.	What did you often do when your father worked from home?	When my father worked from home, I often performed for him.
Growing up, Lawrence was fond of horseback riding and frequently visited a local horse farm. She has an injured tailbone as a result of being thrown from a horse. When her father worked from home, she performed for him, often dressing up as a clown or ballerina. She had her first acting assignment at age nine, playing a prostitute in a church play based on the Book of Jonah. For the next few years, she continued taking parts in church plays and school musicals.	What kind of roles did you have in your first acting assignment?	In my first acting assignment, I played a prostitute in a church play based on the Book of Jonah.
Lawrence was 14 and on a family vacation in New York City when she was spotted on the street by a talent scout, who arranged for her to audition for talent agents. Her mother was not keen on her pursuing an acting career, but she briefly moved her family to New York to let Lawrence read for roles. After her first cold reading, the agents said that hers was the best they had heard from someone so young; however, her mother convinced her that they were lying. Lawrence said her early experiences were difficult because she felt lonely and friendless. She signed with CESD Talent Agency, which convinced her parents to let her audition for roles in Los Angeles. While her mother encouraged her to go into modeling, she insisted on pursuing acting, which she considered a "natural fit" for her abilities, and turned down several modeling offers. She dropped out of school at 14 without receiving a General Educational Development (GED) or diploma. Lawrence has described herself as "self-educated" and said that her career was her priority. Between her acting jobs in the city, she made regular visits to Louisville, where she was an assistant nurse at her mother's camp.	How old were you when you were discovered by a talent scout?	I was 14 when I was discovered by a talent scout.
Lawrence was 14 and on a family vacation in New York City when she was spotted on the street by a talent scout, who arranged for her to audition for talent agents. Her mother was not keen on her pursuing an acting career, but she briefly moved her family to New York to let Lawrence read for roles. After her first cold reading, the agents said that hers was the best they had heard from someone so young; however, her mother convinced her that they were lying. Lawrence said her early experiences were difficult because she felt lonely and friendless. She signed with CESD Talent Agency, which convinced her parents to let her audition for roles in Los Angeles. While her mother encouraged her to go into modeling, she insisted on pursuing acting, which she considered a "natural fit" for her abilities, and turned down several modeling offers. She dropped out of school at 14 without receiving a General Educational Development (GED) or diploma. Lawrence has described herself as "self-educated" and said that her career was her priority. Between her acting jobs in the city, she made regular visits to Louisville, where she was an assistant nurse at her mother's camp.	Where did you move temporarily to pursue acting?	I moved my family to New York temporarily to let me read for roles.
Lawrence was 14 and on a family vacation in New York City when she was spotted on the street by a talent scout, who arranged for her to audition for talent agents. Her mother was not keen on her pursuing an acting career, but she briefly moved her family to New York to let Lawrence read for roles. After her first cold reading, the agents said that hers was the best they had heard from someone so young; however, her mother convinced her that they were lying. Lawrence said her early experiences were difficult because she felt lonely and friendless. She signed with CESD Talent Agency, which convinced her parents to let her audition for roles in Los Angeles. While her mother encouraged her to go into modeling, she insisted on pursuing acting, which she considered a "natural fit" for her abilities, and turned down several modeling offers. She dropped out of school at 14 without receiving a General Educational Development (GED) or diploma. Lawrence has described herself as "self-educated" and said that her career was her priority. Between her acting jobs in the city, she made regular visits to Louisville, where she was an assistant nurse at her mother's camp.	What did the agents say about your first cold reading?	The agents said that my first cold reading was the best they had heard from someone so young.
Lawrence was 14 and on a family vacation in New York City when she was spotted on the street by a talent scout, who arranged for her to audition for talent agents. Her mother was not keen on her pursuing an acting career, but she briefly moved her family to New York to let Lawrence read for roles. After her first cold reading, the agents said that hers was the best they had heard from someone so young; however, her mother convinced her that they were lying. Lawrence said her early experiences were difficult because she felt lonely and friendless. She signed with CESD Talent Agency, which convinced her parents to let her audition for roles in Los Angeles. While her mother encouraged her to go into modeling, she insisted on pursuing acting, which she considered a "natural fit" for her abilities, and turned down several modeling offers. She dropped out of school at 14 without receiving a General Educational Development (GED) or diploma. Lawrence has described herself as "self-educated" and said that her career was her priority. Between her acting jobs in the city, she made regular visits to Louisville, where she was an assistant nurse at her mother's camp.	What did your mother initially want you to pursue?	My mother initially wanted me to pursue a modeling career.
Lawrence was 14 and on a family vacation in New York City when she was spotted on the street by a talent scout, who arranged for her to audition for talent agents. Her mother was not keen on her pursuing an acting career, but she briefly moved her family to New York to let Lawrence read for roles. After her first cold reading, the agents said that hers was the best they had heard from someone so young; however, her mother convinced her that they were lying. Lawrence said her early experiences were difficult because she felt lonely and friendless. She signed with CESD Talent Agency, which convinced her parents to let her audition for roles in Los Angeles. While her mother encouraged her to go into modeling, she insisted on pursuing acting, which she considered a "natural fit" for her abilities, and turned down several modeling offers. She dropped out of school at 14 without receiving a General Educational Development (GED) or diploma. Lawrence has described herself as "self-educated" and said that her career was her priority. Between her acting jobs in the city, she made regular visits to Louisville, where she was an assistant nurse at her mother's camp.	Did you receive any formal education after dropping out of school?	No, I dropped out of school at 14 without receiving a GED or diploma.
Lawrence began her acting career with a minor role in the TV pilot Company Town (2006), which was never sold. She followed it with guest roles in several television shows, including Monk (2006) and Medium (2007). She received her first part as a series regular on the TBS sitcom The Bill Engvall Show, in which she played Lauren, the rebellious teenage daughter of a family living in suburban Louisville, Colorado. The series premiered in 2007 and ran for three seasons. Tom Shales of The Washington Post considered her a scene stealer in her part, and David Hinckley of the New York Daily News wrote that she was successful in "deliver[ing] the perpetual exasperation of teenage girls". In 2009 Lawrence won a Young Artist Award for Outstanding Young Performer in a TV Series for the role.	What was your first minor role in your acting career?	My first minor role in my acting career was in the TV pilot Company Town (2006), which was never sold.
Lawrence began her acting career with a minor role in the TV pilot Company Town (2006), which was never sold. She followed it with guest roles in several television shows, including Monk (2006) and Medium (2007). She received her first part as a series regular on the TBS sitcom The Bill Engvall Show, in which she played Lauren, the rebellious teenage daughter of a family living in suburban Louisville, Colorado. The series premiered in 2007 and ran for three seasons. Tom Shales of The Washington Post considered her a scene stealer in her part, and David Hinckley of the New York Daily News wrote that she was successful in "deliver[ing] the perpetual exasperation of teenage girls". In 2009 Lawrence won a Young Artist Award for Outstanding Young Performer in a TV Series for the role.	In which television shows did you have guest roles?	I had guest roles in several television shows, including Monk (2006) and Medium (2007).
Lawrence began her acting career with a minor role in the TV pilot Company Town (2006), which was never sold. She followed it with guest roles in several television shows, including Monk (2006) and Medium (2007). She received her first part as a series regular on the TBS sitcom The Bill Engvall Show, in which she played Lauren, the rebellious teenage daughter of a family living in suburban Louisville, Colorado. The series premiered in 2007 and ran for three seasons. Tom Shales of The Washington Post considered her a scene stealer in her part, and David Hinckley of the New York Daily News wrote that she was successful in "deliver[ing] the perpetual exasperation of teenage girls". In 2009 Lawrence won a Young Artist Award for Outstanding Young Performer in a TV Series for the role.	What was your first part as a series regular?	My first part as a series regular was in the TBS sitcom The Bill Engvall Show.
Lawrence began her acting career with a minor role in the TV pilot Company Town (2006), which was never sold. She followed it with guest roles in several television shows, including Monk (2006) and Medium (2007). She received her first part as a series regular on the TBS sitcom The Bill Engvall Show, in which she played Lauren, the rebellious teenage daughter of a family living in suburban Louisville, Colorado. The series premiered in 2007 and ran for three seasons. Tom Shales of The Washington Post considered her a scene stealer in her part, and David Hinckley of the New York Daily News wrote that she was successful in "deliver[ing] the perpetual exasperation of teenage girls". In 2009 Lawrence won a Young Artist Award for Outstanding Young Performer in a TV Series for the role.	What character did you play in The Bill Engvall Show?	I played the character of Lauren, the rebellious teenage daughter of a family living in suburban Louisville, Colorado.
Lawrence began her acting career with a minor role in the TV pilot Company Town (2006), which was never sold. She followed it with guest roles in several television shows, including Monk (2006) and Medium (2007). She received her first part as a series regular on the TBS sitcom The Bill Engvall Show, in which she played Lauren, the rebellious teenage daughter of a family living in suburban Louisville, Colorado. The series premiered in 2007 and ran for three seasons. Tom Shales of The Washington Post considered her a scene stealer in her part, and David Hinckley of the New York Daily News wrote that she was successful in "deliver[ing] the perpetual exasperation of teenage girls". In 2009 Lawrence won a Young Artist Award for Outstanding Young Performer in a TV Series for the role.	What award did you win in 2009?	I won a Young Artist Award for Outstanding Young Performer in a TV Series for my role in 2009.
Lawrence made her film debut in the 2008 drama film Garden Party, in which she played a troubled teenager named Tiff. She then appeared in director Guillermo Arriaga's feature film debut The Burning Plain (2008), a drama narrated in a hyperlink format. She was cast as the teenage daughter of Kim Basinger's character, who discovers her mother's extramarital affair. She shared the role with Charlize Theron, who played the older version of her character. Mark Feeney of The Boston Globe described her role as "a thankless task", but Derek Elley of Variety praised her as the production's prime asset. Her performance earned her the Marcello Mastroianni Award for Best Emerging Actress at the 2008 Venice Film Festival. The same year, she appeared in the music video for the song "The Mess I Made" by Parachute. In 2008, she starred in Lori Petty's drama The Poker House as the oldest of three sisters living with a drug-abusing mother. Stephen Farber of The Hollywood Reporter opined that Lawrence "has a touching poise on camera that conveys the resilience of children". She won an Outstanding Performance Award at the Los Angeles Film Festival for her performance in the film.	In which film did you make your debut and what was your character's name?	I made my debut in the 2008 drama film Garden Party and my character's name was Tiff.
Lawrence made her film debut in the 2008 drama film Garden Party, in which she played a troubled teenager named Tiff. She then appeared in director Guillermo Arriaga's feature film debut The Burning Plain (2008), a drama narrated in a hyperlink format. She was cast as the teenage daughter of Kim Basinger's character, who discovers her mother's extramarital affair. She shared the role with Charlize Theron, who played the older version of her character. Mark Feeney of The Boston Globe described her role as "a thankless task", but Derek Elley of Variety praised her as the production's prime asset. Her performance earned her the Marcello Mastroianni Award for Best Emerging Actress at the 2008 Venice Film Festival. The same year, she appeared in the music video for the song "The Mess I Made" by Parachute. In 2008, she starred in Lori Petty's drama The Poker House as the oldest of three sisters living with a drug-abusing mother. Stephen Farber of The Hollywood Reporter opined that Lawrence "has a touching poise on camera that conveys the resilience of children". She won an Outstanding Performance Award at the Los Angeles Film Festival for her performance in the film.	What was the name of the drama film in which you appeared as the teenage daughter of Kim Basinger's character?	The drama film was called The Burning Plain.
Lawrence made her film debut in the 2008 drama film Garden Party, in which she played a troubled teenager named Tiff. She then appeared in director Guillermo Arriaga's feature film debut The Burning Plain (2008), a drama narrated in a hyperlink format. She was cast as the teenage daughter of Kim Basinger's character, who discovers her mother's extramarital affair. She shared the role with Charlize Theron, who played the older version of her character. Mark Feeney of The Boston Globe described her role as "a thankless task", but Derek Elley of Variety praised her as the production's prime asset. Her performance earned her the Marcello Mastroianni Award for Best Emerging Actress at the 2008 Venice Film Festival. The same year, she appeared in the music video for the song "The Mess I Made" by Parachute. In 2008, she starred in Lori Petty's drama The Poker House as the oldest of three sisters living with a drug-abusing mother. Stephen Farber of The Hollywood Reporter opined that Lawrence "has a touching poise on camera that conveys the resilience of children". She won an Outstanding Performance Award at the Los Angeles Film Festival for her performance in the film.	Who shared the role of your character in The Burning Plain?	Charlize Theron shared the role of my character in The Burning Plain.
Lawrence made her film debut in the 2008 drama film Garden Party, in which she played a troubled teenager named Tiff. She then appeared in director Guillermo Arriaga's feature film debut The Burning Plain (2008), a drama narrated in a hyperlink format. She was cast as the teenage daughter of Kim Basinger's character, who discovers her mother's extramarital affair. She shared the role with Charlize Theron, who played the older version of her character. Mark Feeney of The Boston Globe described her role as "a thankless task", but Derek Elley of Variety praised her as the production's prime asset. Her performance earned her the Marcello Mastroianni Award for Best Emerging Actress at the 2008 Venice Film Festival. The same year, she appeared in the music video for the song "The Mess I Made" by Parachute. In 2008, she starred in Lori Petty's drama The Poker House as the oldest of three sisters living with a drug-abusing mother. Stephen Farber of The Hollywood Reporter opined that Lawrence "has a touching poise on camera that conveys the resilience of children". She won an Outstanding Performance Award at the Los Angeles Film Festival for her performance in the film.	What award did you win for your performance in The Burning Plain?	I won the Marcello Mastroianni Award for Best Emerging Actress at the 2008 Venice Film Festival.
Lawrence made her film debut in the 2008 drama film Garden Party, in which she played a troubled teenager named Tiff. She then appeared in director Guillermo Arriaga's feature film debut The Burning Plain (2008), a drama narrated in a hyperlink format. She was cast as the teenage daughter of Kim Basinger's character, who discovers her mother's extramarital affair. She shared the role with Charlize Theron, who played the older version of her character. Mark Feeney of The Boston Globe described her role as "a thankless task", but Derek Elley of Variety praised her as the production's prime asset. Her performance earned her the Marcello Mastroianni Award for Best Emerging Actress at the 2008 Venice Film Festival. The same year, she appeared in the music video for the song "The Mess I Made" by Parachute. In 2008, she starred in Lori Petty's drama The Poker House as the oldest of three sisters living with a drug-abusing mother. Stephen Farber of The Hollywood Reporter opined that Lawrence "has a touching poise on camera that conveys the resilience of children". She won an Outstanding Performance Award at the Los Angeles Film Festival for her performance in the film.	In which film did you star as the oldest of three sisters living with a drug-abusing mother?	I starred in Lori Petty's drama The Poker House as the oldest of three sisters living with a drug-abusing mother.
Lawrence's breakthrough role came in Debra Granik's independent drama Winter's Bone (2010), based on the novel of the same name by Daniel Woodrell. The film featured her as 17-year-old Ree Dolly, a poverty-stricken teenage girl in the Ozark Mountains who cares for her mentally ill mother and younger siblings while searching for her missing father. She traveled to the Ozarks a week before filming began to live with the family on whom the story was based, and in preparation for the role, she learned to fight, skin squirrels, and chop wood. David Denby of The New Yorker asserted that the film "would be unimaginable with anyone less charismatic", and Peter Travers of Rolling Stone wrote that "her performance is more than acting; it's a gathering storm. Lawrence's eyes are a roadmap to what's tearing Ree apart." The production won the Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival. The actress was awarded the National Board of Review Award for Breakthrough Performance, and received her first nominations for the Golden Globe Award, SAG Award and Academy Award for Best Actress, becoming the second-youngest Best Actress Oscar nominee at the time.	What was your breakthrough role?	My breakthrough role was in the independent drama Winter's Bone.
Lawrence's breakthrough role came in Debra Granik's independent drama Winter's Bone (2010), based on the novel of the same name by Daniel Woodrell. The film featured her as 17-year-old Ree Dolly, a poverty-stricken teenage girl in the Ozark Mountains who cares for her mentally ill mother and younger siblings while searching for her missing father. She traveled to the Ozarks a week before filming began to live with the family on whom the story was based, and in preparation for the role, she learned to fight, skin squirrels, and chop wood. David Denby of The New Yorker asserted that the film "would be unimaginable with anyone less charismatic", and Peter Travers of Rolling Stone wrote that "her performance is more than acting; it's a gathering storm. Lawrence's eyes are a roadmap to what's tearing Ree apart." The production won the Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival. The actress was awarded the National Board of Review Award for Breakthrough Performance, and received her first nominations for the Golden Globe Award, SAG Award and Academy Award for Best Actress, becoming the second-youngest Best Actress Oscar nominee at the time.	Who directed Winter's Bone?	Winter's Bone was directed by Debra Granik.
Lawrence's breakthrough role came in Debra Granik's independent drama Winter's Bone (2010), based on the novel of the same name by Daniel Woodrell. The film featured her as 17-year-old Ree Dolly, a poverty-stricken teenage girl in the Ozark Mountains who cares for her mentally ill mother and younger siblings while searching for her missing father. She traveled to the Ozarks a week before filming began to live with the family on whom the story was based, and in preparation for the role, she learned to fight, skin squirrels, and chop wood. David Denby of The New Yorker asserted that the film "would be unimaginable with anyone less charismatic", and Peter Travers of Rolling Stone wrote that "her performance is more than acting; it's a gathering storm. Lawrence's eyes are a roadmap to what's tearing Ree apart." The production won the Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival. The actress was awarded the National Board of Review Award for Breakthrough Performance, and received her first nominations for the Golden Globe Award, SAG Award and Academy Award for Best Actress, becoming the second-youngest Best Actress Oscar nominee at the time.	What is the film Winter's Bone based on?	Winter's Bone is based on the novel of the same name by Daniel Woodrell.
Lawrence's breakthrough role came in Debra Granik's independent drama Winter's Bone (2010), based on the novel of the same name by Daniel Woodrell. The film featured her as 17-year-old Ree Dolly, a poverty-stricken teenage girl in the Ozark Mountains who cares for her mentally ill mother and younger siblings while searching for her missing father. She traveled to the Ozarks a week before filming began to live with the family on whom the story was based, and in preparation for the role, she learned to fight, skin squirrels, and chop wood. David Denby of The New Yorker asserted that the film "would be unimaginable with anyone less charismatic", and Peter Travers of Rolling Stone wrote that "her performance is more than acting; it's a gathering storm. Lawrence's eyes are a roadmap to what's tearing Ree apart." The production won the Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival. The actress was awarded the National Board of Review Award for Breakthrough Performance, and received her first nominations for the Golden Globe Award, SAG Award and Academy Award for Best Actress, becoming the second-youngest Best Actress Oscar nominee at the time.	What is your character's name in Winter's Bone?	My character's name in Winter's Bone is Ree Dolly.
Lawrence's breakthrough role came in Debra Granik's independent drama Winter's Bone (2010), based on the novel of the same name by Daniel Woodrell. The film featured her as 17-year-old Ree Dolly, a poverty-stricken teenage girl in the Ozark Mountains who cares for her mentally ill mother and younger siblings while searching for her missing father. She traveled to the Ozarks a week before filming began to live with the family on whom the story was based, and in preparation for the role, she learned to fight, skin squirrels, and chop wood. David Denby of The New Yorker asserted that the film "would be unimaginable with anyone less charismatic", and Peter Travers of Rolling Stone wrote that "her performance is more than acting; it's a gathering storm. Lawrence's eyes are a roadmap to what's tearing Ree apart." The production won the Grand Jury Prize at the Sundance Film Festival. The actress was awarded the National Board of Review Award for Breakthrough Performance, and received her first nominations for the Golden Globe Award, SAG Award and Academy Award for Best Actress, becoming the second-youngest Best Actress Oscar nominee at the time.	What did you do to prepare for the role in Winter's Bone?	I learned to fight, skin squirrels, and chop wood to prepare for the role in Winter's Bone.
After her dramatic role in Winter ' s Bone , Lawrence looked for something less serious , and found it with her first high - profile release — Matthew Vaughn ' s superhero film X - Men : First Class ( 2011 ) — a prequel to the X - Men film series . She portrayed the shapeshifting mutant Mystique , a role played by Rebecca Romijn in the earlier films . Vaughn cast Lawrence , as he thought that she would be able to portray the weakness and strength involved in the character ' s transformation . For the part , Lawrence lost weight and practiced yoga . For Mystique ' s blue form , she had to undergo eight hours of makeup , where latex pieces and body paint were applied to her otherwise nude body , as Romijn had done on the other films . This process required Lawrence to report to set at 2   a . m . She was intimidated in the role as she admired Romijn . Writing for USA Today , Claudia Puig considered the film to be a " classy re - boot " of the film series , and believed that her " high - spirited performance " empowered the film . With worldwide earnings of $ 350 million , X - Men : First Class became Lawrence ' s highest - grossing film at that point .	What was your role in the film X-Men: First Class?	I portrayed the shapeshifting mutant Mystique.
After her dramatic role in Winter ' s Bone , Lawrence looked for something less serious , and found it with her first high - profile release — Matthew Vaughn ' s superhero film X - Men : First Class ( 2011 ) — a prequel to the X - Men film series . She portrayed the shapeshifting mutant Mystique , a role played by Rebecca Romijn in the earlier films . Vaughn cast Lawrence , as he thought that she would be able to portray the weakness and strength involved in the character ' s transformation . For the part , Lawrence lost weight and practiced yoga . For Mystique ' s blue form , she had to undergo eight hours of makeup , where latex pieces and body paint were applied to her otherwise nude body , as Romijn had done on the other films . This process required Lawrence to report to set at 2   a . m . She was intimidated in the role as she admired Romijn . Writing for USA Today , Claudia Puig considered the film to be a " classy re - boot " of the film series , and believed that her " high - spirited performance " empowered the film . With worldwide earnings of $ 350 million , X - Men : First Class became Lawrence ' s highest - grossing film at that point .	Who played the role of Mystique in the earlier X-Men films?	Rebecca Romijn played the role of Mystique in the earlier X-Men films.
After her dramatic role in Winter ' s Bone , Lawrence looked for something less serious , and found it with her first high - profile release — Matthew Vaughn ' s superhero film X - Men : First Class ( 2011 ) — a prequel to the X - Men film series . She portrayed the shapeshifting mutant Mystique , a role played by Rebecca Romijn in the earlier films . Vaughn cast Lawrence , as he thought that she would be able to portray the weakness and strength involved in the character ' s transformation . For the part , Lawrence lost weight and practiced yoga . For Mystique ' s blue form , she had to undergo eight hours of makeup , where latex pieces and body paint were applied to her otherwise nude body , as Romijn had done on the other films . This process required Lawrence to report to set at 2   a . m . She was intimidated in the role as she admired Romijn . Writing for USA Today , Claudia Puig considered the film to be a " classy re - boot " of the film series , and believed that her " high - spirited performance " empowered the film . With worldwide earnings of $ 350 million , X - Men : First Class became Lawrence ' s highest - grossing film at that point .	Why did Matthew Vaughn cast you for the role of Mystique?	Matthew Vaughn believed that I would be able to portray the weakness and strength involved in the character's transformation.
After her dramatic role in Winter ' s Bone , Lawrence looked for something less serious , and found it with her first high - profile release — Matthew Vaughn ' s superhero film X - Men : First Class ( 2011 ) — a prequel to the X - Men film series . She portrayed the shapeshifting mutant Mystique , a role played by Rebecca Romijn in the earlier films . Vaughn cast Lawrence , as he thought that she would be able to portray the weakness and strength involved in the character ' s transformation . For the part , Lawrence lost weight and practiced yoga . For Mystique ' s blue form , she had to undergo eight hours of makeup , where latex pieces and body paint were applied to her otherwise nude body , as Romijn had done on the other films . This process required Lawrence to report to set at 2   a . m . She was intimidated in the role as she admired Romijn . Writing for USA Today , Claudia Puig considered the film to be a " classy re - boot " of the film series , and believed that her " high - spirited performance " empowered the film . With worldwide earnings of $ 350 million , X - Men : First Class became Lawrence ' s highest - grossing film at that point .	What did you have to do in order to transform into Mystique?	I had to undergo eight hours of makeup, where latex pieces and body paint were applied to my otherwise nude body.
After her dramatic role in Winter ' s Bone , Lawrence looked for something less serious , and found it with her first high - profile release — Matthew Vaughn ' s superhero film X - Men : First Class ( 2011 ) — a prequel to the X - Men film series . She portrayed the shapeshifting mutant Mystique , a role played by Rebecca Romijn in the earlier films . Vaughn cast Lawrence , as he thought that she would be able to portray the weakness and strength involved in the character ' s transformation . For the part , Lawrence lost weight and practiced yoga . For Mystique ' s blue form , she had to undergo eight hours of makeup , where latex pieces and body paint were applied to her otherwise nude body , as Romijn had done on the other films . This process required Lawrence to report to set at 2   a . m . She was intimidated in the role as she admired Romijn . Writing for USA Today , Claudia Puig considered the film to be a " classy re - boot " of the film series , and believed that her " high - spirited performance " empowered the film . With worldwide earnings of $ 350 million , X - Men : First Class became Lawrence ' s highest - grossing film at that point .	How much did X-Men: First Class earn worldwide?	X-Men: First Class earned $350 million worldwide.
In 2012 , Lawrence starred as Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games , an adaptation of the first book in author Suzanne Collins ' Hunger Games trilogy . Set in a post - apocalyptic future , the series tells the story of the teenage heroine Everdeen as she joins rebel forces against a totalitarian government after winning a brutal televised annual event . Despite being an admirer of the books , Lawrence was initially hesitant to accept the part , because of the grand scale of the film . She agreed to the project after her mother convinced her to take the part . She practiced archery , rock and tree climbing , and hand - to - hand combat techniques , and other physically demanding activities for the role . While training for the part , she injured herself running into a wall . The Hunger Games garnered positive reviews , with Lawrence ' s portrayal of Everdeen being particularly praised ; Roger Ebert described the film as " an effective entertainment , " and found Lawrence to be " strong and convincing in the central role . " Similarly , Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter called her an " ideal screen actress " , believing that she had embodied the Everdeen of the novel , and added that she " anchors [ the film ] with impressive gravity and presence " . With worldwide revenues of over $ 690 million , The Hunger Games became a top - grossing film featuring a female lead , making Lawrence the highest - grossing action heroine of all time . The film ' s success established her as a global star .	Who did you portray in The Hunger Games?	I portrayed Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games.
In 2012 , Lawrence starred as Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games , an adaptation of the first book in author Suzanne Collins ' Hunger Games trilogy . Set in a post - apocalyptic future , the series tells the story of the teenage heroine Everdeen as she joins rebel forces against a totalitarian government after winning a brutal televised annual event . Despite being an admirer of the books , Lawrence was initially hesitant to accept the part , because of the grand scale of the film . She agreed to the project after her mother convinced her to take the part . She practiced archery , rock and tree climbing , and hand - to - hand combat techniques , and other physically demanding activities for the role . While training for the part , she injured herself running into a wall . The Hunger Games garnered positive reviews , with Lawrence ' s portrayal of Everdeen being particularly praised ; Roger Ebert described the film as " an effective entertainment , " and found Lawrence to be " strong and convincing in the central role . " Similarly , Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter called her an " ideal screen actress " , believing that she had embodied the Everdeen of the novel , and added that she " anchors [ the film ] with impressive gravity and presence " . With worldwide revenues of over $ 690 million , The Hunger Games became a top - grossing film featuring a female lead , making Lawrence the highest - grossing action heroine of all time . The film ' s success established her as a global star .	What genre is The Hunger Games?	The Hunger Games is set in a post-apocalyptic future and tells the story of a teenage heroine joining rebel forces against a totalitarian government.
In 2012 , Lawrence starred as Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games , an adaptation of the first book in author Suzanne Collins ' Hunger Games trilogy . Set in a post - apocalyptic future , the series tells the story of the teenage heroine Everdeen as she joins rebel forces against a totalitarian government after winning a brutal televised annual event . Despite being an admirer of the books , Lawrence was initially hesitant to accept the part , because of the grand scale of the film . She agreed to the project after her mother convinced her to take the part . She practiced archery , rock and tree climbing , and hand - to - hand combat techniques , and other physically demanding activities for the role . While training for the part , she injured herself running into a wall . The Hunger Games garnered positive reviews , with Lawrence ' s portrayal of Everdeen being particularly praised ; Roger Ebert described the film as " an effective entertainment , " and found Lawrence to be " strong and convincing in the central role . " Similarly , Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter called her an " ideal screen actress " , believing that she had embodied the Everdeen of the novel , and added that she " anchors [ the film ] with impressive gravity and presence " . With worldwide revenues of over $ 690 million , The Hunger Games became a top - grossing film featuring a female lead , making Lawrence the highest - grossing action heroine of all time . The film ' s success established her as a global star .	Why were you hesitant to accept the role in The Hunger Games at first?	I was initially hesitant to accept the part because of the grand scale of the film.
In 2012 , Lawrence starred as Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games , an adaptation of the first book in author Suzanne Collins ' Hunger Games trilogy . Set in a post - apocalyptic future , the series tells the story of the teenage heroine Everdeen as she joins rebel forces against a totalitarian government after winning a brutal televised annual event . Despite being an admirer of the books , Lawrence was initially hesitant to accept the part , because of the grand scale of the film . She agreed to the project after her mother convinced her to take the part . She practiced archery , rock and tree climbing , and hand - to - hand combat techniques , and other physically demanding activities for the role . While training for the part , she injured herself running into a wall . The Hunger Games garnered positive reviews , with Lawrence ' s portrayal of Everdeen being particularly praised ; Roger Ebert described the film as " an effective entertainment , " and found Lawrence to be " strong and convincing in the central role . " Similarly , Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter called her an " ideal screen actress " , believing that she had embodied the Everdeen of the novel , and added that she " anchors [ the film ] with impressive gravity and presence " . With worldwide revenues of over $ 690 million , The Hunger Games became a top - grossing film featuring a female lead , making Lawrence the highest - grossing action heroine of all time . The film ' s success established her as a global star .	How did you injure yourself while training for the role?	I injured myself running into a wall while training for the role.
In 2012 , Lawrence starred as Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games , an adaptation of the first book in author Suzanne Collins ' Hunger Games trilogy . Set in a post - apocalyptic future , the series tells the story of the teenage heroine Everdeen as she joins rebel forces against a totalitarian government after winning a brutal televised annual event . Despite being an admirer of the books , Lawrence was initially hesitant to accept the part , because of the grand scale of the film . She agreed to the project after her mother convinced her to take the part . She practiced archery , rock and tree climbing , and hand - to - hand combat techniques , and other physically demanding activities for the role . While training for the part , she injured herself running into a wall . The Hunger Games garnered positive reviews , with Lawrence ' s portrayal of Everdeen being particularly praised ; Roger Ebert described the film as " an effective entertainment , " and found Lawrence to be " strong and convincing in the central role . " Similarly , Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter called her an " ideal screen actress " , believing that she had embodied the Everdeen of the novel , and added that she " anchors [ the film ] with impressive gravity and presence " . With worldwide revenues of over $ 690 million , The Hunger Games became a top - grossing film featuring a female lead , making Lawrence the highest - grossing action heroine of all time . The film ' s success established her as a global star .	What was your portrayal of Everdeen in The Hunger Games praised for?	My portrayal of Everdeen in The Hunger Games was particularly praised for being strong and convincing in the central role.
Later in 2012 , Lawrence played Tiffany Maxwell , a troubled young widow , in David O . Russell ' s romantic comedy - drama Silver Linings Playbook . The film is an adaptation of Matthew Quick ' s novel of the same name , and follows her character as she finds companionship with Pat Solitano Jr . ( played by Bradley Cooper ) , a man with bipolar disorder . Lawrence was drawn to her character ' s complex personality , explaining , " She was just kind of this mysterious enigma to me because she didn ' t really fit any basic kind of character profile . Somebody who is very forceful and bullheaded is normally very insecure , but she isn ' t . " While Russell initially found her too young for the part , she convinced him to cast her via a Skype audition . She found herself challenged by Russell ' s spontaneity as a director , and described working on the project as the " best experience of [ her ] life " . Richard Corliss of Time magazine wrote : " Just 21 when the movie was shot , Lawrence is that rare young actress who plays , who is , grown - up . Sullen and sultry , she lends a mature intelligence to any role . " Peter Travers opined that Lawrence " is some kind of miracle . She ' s rude , dirty , funny , foulmouthed , sloppy , sexy , vibrant , and vulnerable , sometimes all in the same scene , even in the same breath . " She won the Golden Globe , SAG Award and the Academy Award for Best Actress , becoming — at age 22 — the second - youngest Best Actress Oscar winner . Her final film of the year was alongside Max Thieriot and Elisabeth Shue in Mark Tonderai ' s critically panned thriller House at the End of the Street .	Who did you play in the film Silver Linings Playbook?	I played Tiffany Maxwell in Silver Linings Playbook.
Later in 2012 , Lawrence played Tiffany Maxwell , a troubled young widow , in David O . Russell ' s romantic comedy - drama Silver Linings Playbook . The film is an adaptation of Matthew Quick ' s novel of the same name , and follows her character as she finds companionship with Pat Solitano Jr . ( played by Bradley Cooper ) , a man with bipolar disorder . Lawrence was drawn to her character ' s complex personality , explaining , " She was just kind of this mysterious enigma to me because she didn ' t really fit any basic kind of character profile . Somebody who is very forceful and bullheaded is normally very insecure , but she isn ' t . " While Russell initially found her too young for the part , she convinced him to cast her via a Skype audition . She found herself challenged by Russell ' s spontaneity as a director , and described working on the project as the " best experience of [ her ] life " . Richard Corliss of Time magazine wrote : " Just 21 when the movie was shot , Lawrence is that rare young actress who plays , who is , grown - up . Sullen and sultry , she lends a mature intelligence to any role . " Peter Travers opined that Lawrence " is some kind of miracle . She ' s rude , dirty , funny , foulmouthed , sloppy , sexy , vibrant , and vulnerable , sometimes all in the same scene , even in the same breath . " She won the Golden Globe , SAG Award and the Academy Award for Best Actress , becoming — at age 22 — the second - youngest Best Actress Oscar winner . Her final film of the year was alongside Max Thieriot and Elisabeth Shue in Mark Tonderai ' s critically panned thriller House at the End of the Street .	What is Silver Linings Playbook about?	Silver Linings Playbook is a romantic comedy-drama based on Matthew Quick's novel, following a troubled young widow who finds companionship with a man with bipolar disorder.
Later in 2012 , Lawrence played Tiffany Maxwell , a troubled young widow , in David O . Russell ' s romantic comedy - drama Silver Linings Playbook . The film is an adaptation of Matthew Quick ' s novel of the same name , and follows her character as she finds companionship with Pat Solitano Jr . ( played by Bradley Cooper ) , a man with bipolar disorder . Lawrence was drawn to her character ' s complex personality , explaining , " She was just kind of this mysterious enigma to me because she didn ' t really fit any basic kind of character profile . Somebody who is very forceful and bullheaded is normally very insecure , but she isn ' t . " While Russell initially found her too young for the part , she convinced him to cast her via a Skype audition . She found herself challenged by Russell ' s spontaneity as a director , and described working on the project as the " best experience of [ her ] life " . Richard Corliss of Time magazine wrote : " Just 21 when the movie was shot , Lawrence is that rare young actress who plays , who is , grown - up . Sullen and sultry , she lends a mature intelligence to any role . " Peter Travers opined that Lawrence " is some kind of miracle . She ' s rude , dirty , funny , foulmouthed , sloppy , sexy , vibrant , and vulnerable , sometimes all in the same scene , even in the same breath . " She won the Golden Globe , SAG Award and the Academy Award for Best Actress , becoming — at age 22 — the second - youngest Best Actress Oscar winner . Her final film of the year was alongside Max Thieriot and Elisabeth Shue in Mark Tonderai ' s critically panned thriller House at the End of the Street .	How did you convince the director to cast you in Silver Linings Playbook?	I convinced the director to cast me in Silver Linings Playbook through a Skype audition.
Later in 2012 , Lawrence played Tiffany Maxwell , a troubled young widow , in David O . Russell ' s romantic comedy - drama Silver Linings Playbook . The film is an adaptation of Matthew Quick ' s novel of the same name , and follows her character as she finds companionship with Pat Solitano Jr . ( played by Bradley Cooper ) , a man with bipolar disorder . Lawrence was drawn to her character ' s complex personality , explaining , " She was just kind of this mysterious enigma to me because she didn ' t really fit any basic kind of character profile . Somebody who is very forceful and bullheaded is normally very insecure , but she isn ' t . " While Russell initially found her too young for the part , she convinced him to cast her via a Skype audition . She found herself challenged by Russell ' s spontaneity as a director , and described working on the project as the " best experience of [ her ] life " . Richard Corliss of Time magazine wrote : " Just 21 when the movie was shot , Lawrence is that rare young actress who plays , who is , grown - up . Sullen and sultry , she lends a mature intelligence to any role . " Peter Travers opined that Lawrence " is some kind of miracle . She ' s rude , dirty , funny , foulmouthed , sloppy , sexy , vibrant , and vulnerable , sometimes all in the same scene , even in the same breath . " She won the Golden Globe , SAG Award and the Academy Award for Best Actress , becoming — at age 22 — the second - youngest Best Actress Oscar winner . Her final film of the year was alongside Max Thieriot and Elisabeth Shue in Mark Tonderai ' s critically panned thriller House at the End of the Street .	How did you describe working on Silver Linings Playbook?	I described working on Silver Linings Playbook as the "best experience of my life".
Later in 2012 , Lawrence played Tiffany Maxwell , a troubled young widow , in David O . Russell ' s romantic comedy - drama Silver Linings Playbook . The film is an adaptation of Matthew Quick ' s novel of the same name , and follows her character as she finds companionship with Pat Solitano Jr . ( played by Bradley Cooper ) , a man with bipolar disorder . Lawrence was drawn to her character ' s complex personality , explaining , " She was just kind of this mysterious enigma to me because she didn ' t really fit any basic kind of character profile . Somebody who is very forceful and bullheaded is normally very insecure , but she isn ' t . " While Russell initially found her too young for the part , she convinced him to cast her via a Skype audition . She found herself challenged by Russell ' s spontaneity as a director , and described working on the project as the " best experience of [ her ] life " . Richard Corliss of Time magazine wrote : " Just 21 when the movie was shot , Lawrence is that rare young actress who plays , who is , grown - up . Sullen and sultry , she lends a mature intelligence to any role . " Peter Travers opined that Lawrence " is some kind of miracle . She ' s rude , dirty , funny , foulmouthed , sloppy , sexy , vibrant , and vulnerable , sometimes all in the same scene , even in the same breath . " She won the Golden Globe , SAG Award and the Academy Award for Best Actress , becoming — at age 22 — the second - youngest Best Actress Oscar winner . Her final film of the year was alongside Max Thieriot and Elisabeth Shue in Mark Tonderai ' s critically panned thriller House at the End of the Street .	What awards did you win for your role in Silver Linings Playbook?	I won the Golden Globe, SAG Award, and the Academy Award for Best Actress for my role in Silver Linings Playbook.
In January 2013 , Lawrence hosted an episode of the NBC late - night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live . The Devil You Know , a small - scale production that she had filmed for in 2005 , was her first release of 2013 . She then reprised the role of Everdeen in The Hunger Games : Catching Fire , the second installment in the Hunger Games series . While performing the film ' s underwater stunts , Lawrence suffered from an ear infection that resulted in a brief loss of hearing . Writing for The Village Voice , Stephanie Zacharek believed that the actress ' portrayal of Everdeen made her an ideal role model , stating that " there ' s no sanctimony or pretense of false modesty in the way Lawrence plays her . " With box office earnings of $ 865 million , Catching Fire remains her highest - grossing film .	What show did you host in January 2013?	I hosted an episode of the NBC late-night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live.
In January 2013 , Lawrence hosted an episode of the NBC late - night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live . The Devil You Know , a small - scale production that she had filmed for in 2005 , was her first release of 2013 . She then reprised the role of Everdeen in The Hunger Games : Catching Fire , the second installment in the Hunger Games series . While performing the film ' s underwater stunts , Lawrence suffered from an ear infection that resulted in a brief loss of hearing . Writing for The Village Voice , Stephanie Zacharek believed that the actress ' portrayal of Everdeen made her an ideal role model , stating that " there ' s no sanctimony or pretense of false modesty in the way Lawrence plays her . " With box office earnings of $ 865 million , Catching Fire remains her highest - grossing film .	Which film did you film in 2005 and release in 2013?	The Devil You Know was a small-scale production that I filmed in 2005 and was my first release in 2013.
In January 2013 , Lawrence hosted an episode of the NBC late - night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live . The Devil You Know , a small - scale production that she had filmed for in 2005 , was her first release of 2013 . She then reprised the role of Everdeen in The Hunger Games : Catching Fire , the second installment in the Hunger Games series . While performing the film ' s underwater stunts , Lawrence suffered from an ear infection that resulted in a brief loss of hearing . Writing for The Village Voice , Stephanie Zacharek believed that the actress ' portrayal of Everdeen made her an ideal role model , stating that " there ' s no sanctimony or pretense of false modesty in the way Lawrence plays her . " With box office earnings of $ 865 million , Catching Fire remains her highest - grossing film .	In which film did you reprise the role of Everdeen?	I reprised the role of Everdeen in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, the second installment in the Hunger Games series.
In January 2013 , Lawrence hosted an episode of the NBC late - night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live . The Devil You Know , a small - scale production that she had filmed for in 2005 , was her first release of 2013 . She then reprised the role of Everdeen in The Hunger Games : Catching Fire , the second installment in the Hunger Games series . While performing the film ' s underwater stunts , Lawrence suffered from an ear infection that resulted in a brief loss of hearing . Writing for The Village Voice , Stephanie Zacharek believed that the actress ' portrayal of Everdeen made her an ideal role model , stating that " there ' s no sanctimony or pretense of false modesty in the way Lawrence plays her . " With box office earnings of $ 865 million , Catching Fire remains her highest - grossing film .	What health issue did you face while performing underwater stunts for a film?	I suffered from an ear infection that resulted in a brief loss of hearing while performing underwater stunts for a film.
In January 2013 , Lawrence hosted an episode of the NBC late - night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live . The Devil You Know , a small - scale production that she had filmed for in 2005 , was her first release of 2013 . She then reprised the role of Everdeen in The Hunger Games : Catching Fire , the second installment in the Hunger Games series . While performing the film ' s underwater stunts , Lawrence suffered from an ear infection that resulted in a brief loss of hearing . Writing for The Village Voice , Stephanie Zacharek believed that the actress ' portrayal of Everdeen made her an ideal role model , stating that " there ' s no sanctimony or pretense of false modesty in the way Lawrence plays her . " With box office earnings of $ 865 million , Catching Fire remains her highest - grossing film .	How much did your film Catching Fire earn at the box office?	Catching Fire earned $865 million at the box office, making it my highest-grossing film.
In the same year , Lawrence took on a supporting role in David O . Russell ' s ensemble black comedy crime American Hustle as Rosalyn Rosenfeld , the neurotic wife of con man Irving Rosenfeld ( played by Christian Bale ) . Inspired by the FBI ' s Abscam sting operation , the film is set against the backdrop of political corruption in 1970s New Jersey . She did little research for the role , and based her performance on knowledge of the era from films and television shows she had watched . Geoffrey Macnab of The Independent found Lawrence to be " brilliant " , " funny and acerbic " in her part , and highlighted an improvised scene in which she aggressively kisses her husband ' s mistress ( played by Amy Adams ) on the lips . For her performance , she won the Golden Globe and BAFTA Award for Best Supporting Actress , and received her third Screen Actors Guild Award and Academy Award nominations , her first in the supporting category . This made her the youngest actor to accrue three Oscar nominations .	What role did you play in American Hustle?	I played the role of Rosalyn Rosenfeld, the neurotic wife of con man Irving Rosenfeld.
In the same year , Lawrence took on a supporting role in David O . Russell ' s ensemble black comedy crime American Hustle as Rosalyn Rosenfeld , the neurotic wife of con man Irving Rosenfeld ( played by Christian Bale ) . Inspired by the FBI ' s Abscam sting operation , the film is set against the backdrop of political corruption in 1970s New Jersey . She did little research for the role , and based her performance on knowledge of the era from films and television shows she had watched . Geoffrey Macnab of The Independent found Lawrence to be " brilliant " , " funny and acerbic " in her part , and highlighted an improvised scene in which she aggressively kisses her husband ' s mistress ( played by Amy Adams ) on the lips . For her performance , she won the Golden Globe and BAFTA Award for Best Supporting Actress , and received her third Screen Actors Guild Award and Academy Award nominations , her first in the supporting category . This made her the youngest actor to accrue three Oscar nominations .	Who directed American Hustle?	American Hustle was directed by David O. Russell.
In the same year , Lawrence took on a supporting role in David O . Russell ' s ensemble black comedy crime American Hustle as Rosalyn Rosenfeld , the neurotic wife of con man Irving Rosenfeld ( played by Christian Bale ) . Inspired by the FBI ' s Abscam sting operation , the film is set against the backdrop of political corruption in 1970s New Jersey . She did little research for the role , and based her performance on knowledge of the era from films and television shows she had watched . Geoffrey Macnab of The Independent found Lawrence to be " brilliant " , " funny and acerbic " in her part , and highlighted an improvised scene in which she aggressively kisses her husband ' s mistress ( played by Amy Adams ) on the lips . For her performance , she won the Golden Globe and BAFTA Award for Best Supporting Actress , and received her third Screen Actors Guild Award and Academy Award nominations , her first in the supporting category . This made her the youngest actor to accrue three Oscar nominations .	What was the inspiration behind the film American Hustle?	The film was inspired by the FBI's Abscam sting operation.
In the same year , Lawrence took on a supporting role in David O . Russell ' s ensemble black comedy crime American Hustle as Rosalyn Rosenfeld , the neurotic wife of con man Irving Rosenfeld ( played by Christian Bale ) . Inspired by the FBI ' s Abscam sting operation , the film is set against the backdrop of political corruption in 1970s New Jersey . She did little research for the role , and based her performance on knowledge of the era from films and television shows she had watched . Geoffrey Macnab of The Independent found Lawrence to be " brilliant " , " funny and acerbic " in her part , and highlighted an improvised scene in which she aggressively kisses her husband ' s mistress ( played by Amy Adams ) on the lips . For her performance , she won the Golden Globe and BAFTA Award for Best Supporting Actress , and received her third Screen Actors Guild Award and Academy Award nominations , her first in the supporting category . This made her the youngest actor to accrue three Oscar nominations .	What awards did you win for your performance in American Hustle?	I won the Golden Globe and BAFTA Award for Best Supporting Actress.
In the same year , Lawrence took on a supporting role in David O . Russell ' s ensemble black comedy crime American Hustle as Rosalyn Rosenfeld , the neurotic wife of con man Irving Rosenfeld ( played by Christian Bale ) . Inspired by the FBI ' s Abscam sting operation , the film is set against the backdrop of political corruption in 1970s New Jersey . She did little research for the role , and based her performance on knowledge of the era from films and television shows she had watched . Geoffrey Macnab of The Independent found Lawrence to be " brilliant " , " funny and acerbic " in her part , and highlighted an improvised scene in which she aggressively kisses her husband ' s mistress ( played by Amy Adams ) on the lips . For her performance , she won the Golden Globe and BAFTA Award for Best Supporting Actress , and received her third Screen Actors Guild Award and Academy Award nominations , her first in the supporting category . This made her the youngest actor to accrue three Oscar nominations .	What records did you break with your Oscar nominations for American Hustle?	I became the youngest actor to accrue three Oscar nominations.
Lawrence ' s next two releases were the final installments of The Hunger Games film series , Mockingjay – Part 1 ( 2014 ) and Part 2 ( 2015 ) . For the soundtrack of the former film , she recorded the song " The Hanging Tree " , which charted on multiple international singles charts . In a review of the final installment in the series , Manohla Dargis of The New York Times drew similarities between Everdeen ' s journey as a rebel leader and Lawrence ' s rise to stardom , stating that the actress " now inhabits the role as effortlessly as breathing , partly because , like all great stars , she seems to be playing a version of her ' real ' self . " Both films grossed over $ 650 million worldwide .	What were your next two releases?	The final installments of The Hunger Games film series, Mockingjay – Part 1 (2014) and Part 2 (2015).
Lawrence ' s next two releases were the final installments of The Hunger Games film series , Mockingjay – Part 1 ( 2014 ) and Part 2 ( 2015 ) . For the soundtrack of the former film , she recorded the song " The Hanging Tree " , which charted on multiple international singles charts . In a review of the final installment in the series , Manohla Dargis of The New York Times drew similarities between Everdeen ' s journey as a rebel leader and Lawrence ' s rise to stardom , stating that the actress " now inhabits the role as effortlessly as breathing , partly because , like all great stars , she seems to be playing a version of her ' real ' self . " Both films grossed over $ 650 million worldwide .	What song did you record for the soundtrack of the former film?	I recorded the song "The Hanging Tree" for the soundtrack.
Lawrence ' s next two releases were the final installments of The Hunger Games film series , Mockingjay – Part 1 ( 2014 ) and Part 2 ( 2015 ) . For the soundtrack of the former film , she recorded the song " The Hanging Tree " , which charted on multiple international singles charts . In a review of the final installment in the series , Manohla Dargis of The New York Times drew similarities between Everdeen ' s journey as a rebel leader and Lawrence ' s rise to stardom , stating that the actress " now inhabits the role as effortlessly as breathing , partly because , like all great stars , she seems to be playing a version of her ' real ' self . " Both films grossed over $ 650 million worldwide .	Did "The Hanging Tree" chart on any international singles charts?	Yes, "The Hanging Tree" charted on multiple international singles charts.
Lawrence ' s next two releases were the final installments of The Hunger Games film series , Mockingjay – Part 1 ( 2014 ) and Part 2 ( 2015 ) . For the soundtrack of the former film , she recorded the song " The Hanging Tree " , which charted on multiple international singles charts . In a review of the final installment in the series , Manohla Dargis of The New York Times drew similarities between Everdeen ' s journey as a rebel leader and Lawrence ' s rise to stardom , stating that the actress " now inhabits the role as effortlessly as breathing , partly because , like all great stars , she seems to be playing a version of her ' real ' self . " Both films grossed over $ 650 million worldwide .	What did you draw similarities between?	I drew similarities between Everdeen's journey as a rebel leader and my rise to stardom.
Lawrence ' s next two releases were the final installments of The Hunger Games film series , Mockingjay – Part 1 ( 2014 ) and Part 2 ( 2015 ) . For the soundtrack of the former film , she recorded the song " The Hanging Tree " , which charted on multiple international singles charts . In a review of the final installment in the series , Manohla Dargis of The New York Times drew similarities between Everdeen ' s journey as a rebel leader and Lawrence ' s rise to stardom , stating that the actress " now inhabits the role as effortlessly as breathing , partly because , like all great stars , she seems to be playing a version of her ' real ' self . " Both films grossed over $ 650 million worldwide .	How much did both films gross worldwide?	Both films grossed over $650 million worldwide.
Lawrence worked with David O . Russell for the third time on the biopic Joy ( 2015 ) , in which she played the eponymous character , a troubled single mother who becomes a successful businesswoman after inventing the Miracle Mop . During production in Boston , the press reported on a disagreement between Lawrence and Russell that resulted in a " screaming match " . She said their friendship made it easier for them to disagree , because people fight when they really love each other . The film was not as well - received as their previous collaborations , but Lawrence ' s performance was unanimously praised ; critic Richard Roeper found it to be her best work since Winter ' s Bone , terming it " a wonderfully layered performance that carries the film through its rough spots and sometime dubious detours . " She won her third Golden Globe for it , and was nominated for another Academy Award for Best Actress , becoming the youngest actor in history to accrue four Oscar nominations .	Who did you work with on the biopic Joy?	I worked with David O. Russell on the biopic Joy.
Lawrence worked with David O . Russell for the third time on the biopic Joy ( 2015 ) , in which she played the eponymous character , a troubled single mother who becomes a successful businesswoman after inventing the Miracle Mop . During production in Boston , the press reported on a disagreement between Lawrence and Russell that resulted in a " screaming match " . She said their friendship made it easier for them to disagree , because people fight when they really love each other . The film was not as well - received as their previous collaborations , but Lawrence ' s performance was unanimously praised ; critic Richard Roeper found it to be her best work since Winter ' s Bone , terming it " a wonderfully layered performance that carries the film through its rough spots and sometime dubious detours . " She won her third Golden Globe for it , and was nominated for another Academy Award for Best Actress , becoming the youngest actor in history to accrue four Oscar nominations .	What is the plot of the biopic Joy?	The biopic Joy is about a troubled single mother who becomes a successful businesswoman after inventing the Miracle Mop.
Lawrence worked with David O . Russell for the third time on the biopic Joy ( 2015 ) , in which she played the eponymous character , a troubled single mother who becomes a successful businesswoman after inventing the Miracle Mop . During production in Boston , the press reported on a disagreement between Lawrence and Russell that resulted in a " screaming match " . She said their friendship made it easier for them to disagree , because people fight when they really love each other . The film was not as well - received as their previous collaborations , but Lawrence ' s performance was unanimously praised ; critic Richard Roeper found it to be her best work since Winter ' s Bone , terming it " a wonderfully layered performance that carries the film through its rough spots and sometime dubious detours . " She won her third Golden Globe for it , and was nominated for another Academy Award for Best Actress , becoming the youngest actor in history to accrue four Oscar nominations .	Where was the film Joy produced?	The film Joy was produced in Boston.
Lawrence worked with David O . Russell for the third time on the biopic Joy ( 2015 ) , in which she played the eponymous character , a troubled single mother who becomes a successful businesswoman after inventing the Miracle Mop . During production in Boston , the press reported on a disagreement between Lawrence and Russell that resulted in a " screaming match " . She said their friendship made it easier for them to disagree , because people fight when they really love each other . The film was not as well - received as their previous collaborations , but Lawrence ' s performance was unanimously praised ; critic Richard Roeper found it to be her best work since Winter ' s Bone , terming it " a wonderfully layered performance that carries the film through its rough spots and sometime dubious detours . " She won her third Golden Globe for it , and was nominated for another Academy Award for Best Actress , becoming the youngest actor in history to accrue four Oscar nominations .	How was your performance in the film Joy received?	My performance in the film Joy was unanimously praised.
Lawrence worked with David O . Russell for the third time on the biopic Joy ( 2015 ) , in which she played the eponymous character , a troubled single mother who becomes a successful businesswoman after inventing the Miracle Mop . During production in Boston , the press reported on a disagreement between Lawrence and Russell that resulted in a " screaming match " . She said their friendship made it easier for them to disagree , because people fight when they really love each other . The film was not as well - received as their previous collaborations , but Lawrence ' s performance was unanimously praised ; critic Richard Roeper found it to be her best work since Winter ' s Bone , terming it " a wonderfully layered performance that carries the film through its rough spots and sometime dubious detours . " She won her third Golden Globe for it , and was nominated for another Academy Award for Best Actress , becoming the youngest actor in history to accrue four Oscar nominations .	What awards did you win and get nominated for for your role in Joy?	I won my third Golden Globe for my role in Joy and was nominated for another Academy Award for Best Actress.
The following year , she starred as Dominika Egorova , a Russian spy who makes contact with a mysterious CIA agent ( played by Joel Edgerton ) , in Francis Lawrence ' s espionage thriller Red Sparrow , based on Jason Matthews ' novel of the same name . In preparation for the part , she learned to speak in a Russian accent and trained in ballet for four months . Having been the victim of a nude photo hack , the actress found herself challenged by the sexuality in her role but said that performing the nude scenes made her feel empowered . Eric Kohn of IndieWire disliked the film ' s denouement , but praised the performances of Lawrence and Charlotte Rampling , remarking that " the considerable talent on display is [ the film ' s ] constant saving grace . " In 2019 , Lawrence made her fourth and final appearance as Mystique , in the superhero film Dark Phoenix , which emerged as a critical and box - office failure .	Who did you star as in Red Sparrow?	I starred as Dominika Egorova, a Russian spy.
The following year , she starred as Dominika Egorova , a Russian spy who makes contact with a mysterious CIA agent ( played by Joel Edgerton ) , in Francis Lawrence ' s espionage thriller Red Sparrow , based on Jason Matthews ' novel of the same name . In preparation for the part , she learned to speak in a Russian accent and trained in ballet for four months . Having been the victim of a nude photo hack , the actress found herself challenged by the sexuality in her role but said that performing the nude scenes made her feel empowered . Eric Kohn of IndieWire disliked the film ' s denouement , but praised the performances of Lawrence and Charlotte Rampling , remarking that " the considerable talent on display is [ the film ' s ] constant saving grace . " In 2019 , Lawrence made her fourth and final appearance as Mystique , in the superhero film Dark Phoenix , which emerged as a critical and box - office failure .	Who played the mysterious CIA agent in Red Sparrow?	Joel Edgerton played the mysterious CIA agent.
The following year , she starred as Dominika Egorova , a Russian spy who makes contact with a mysterious CIA agent ( played by Joel Edgerton ) , in Francis Lawrence ' s espionage thriller Red Sparrow , based on Jason Matthews ' novel of the same name . In preparation for the part , she learned to speak in a Russian accent and trained in ballet for four months . Having been the victim of a nude photo hack , the actress found herself challenged by the sexuality in her role but said that performing the nude scenes made her feel empowered . Eric Kohn of IndieWire disliked the film ' s denouement , but praised the performances of Lawrence and Charlotte Rampling , remarking that " the considerable talent on display is [ the film ' s ] constant saving grace . " In 2019 , Lawrence made her fourth and final appearance as Mystique , in the superhero film Dark Phoenix , which emerged as a critical and box - office failure .	What novel was Red Sparrow based on?	Red Sparrow was based on Jason Matthews' novel of the same name.
The following year , she starred as Dominika Egorova , a Russian spy who makes contact with a mysterious CIA agent ( played by Joel Edgerton ) , in Francis Lawrence ' s espionage thriller Red Sparrow , based on Jason Matthews ' novel of the same name . In preparation for the part , she learned to speak in a Russian accent and trained in ballet for four months . Having been the victim of a nude photo hack , the actress found herself challenged by the sexuality in her role but said that performing the nude scenes made her feel empowered . Eric Kohn of IndieWire disliked the film ' s denouement , but praised the performances of Lawrence and Charlotte Rampling , remarking that " the considerable talent on display is [ the film ' s ] constant saving grace . " In 2019 , Lawrence made her fourth and final appearance as Mystique , in the superhero film Dark Phoenix , which emerged as a critical and box - office failure .	What did you do to prepare for your role in Red Sparrow?	I learned to speak in a Russian accent and trained in ballet for four months.
The following year , she starred as Dominika Egorova , a Russian spy who makes contact with a mysterious CIA agent ( played by Joel Edgerton ) , in Francis Lawrence ' s espionage thriller Red Sparrow , based on Jason Matthews ' novel of the same name . In preparation for the part , she learned to speak in a Russian accent and trained in ballet for four months . Having been the victim of a nude photo hack , the actress found herself challenged by the sexuality in her role but said that performing the nude scenes made her feel empowered . Eric Kohn of IndieWire disliked the film ' s denouement , but praised the performances of Lawrence and Charlotte Rampling , remarking that " the considerable talent on display is [ the film ' s ] constant saving grace . " In 2019 , Lawrence made her fourth and final appearance as Mystique , in the superhero film Dark Phoenix , which emerged as a critical and box - office failure .	What did you praise in your review of Red Sparrow?	I praised the performances of Jennifer Lawrence and Charlotte Rampling.
Following roles in a series of mixed reviewed films , Lawrence took a small break from acting . She felt unsatisfied with her films , wanted to avoid media scrutiny , and focused on domestic activities during this period . Wanting to work with director Adam McKay since she was 19 , Lawrence returned in 2021 in his film Don ' t Look Up for Netflix for a reported fee of $ 25 million . A " slapstick apocalypse " , the film had her and costar Leonardo DiCaprio play two astronomers attempting to warn humanity about an extinction - level asteroid . For the role , Lawrence received a red dye job and an undercut ; in an interview with Vogue , she said that she extensively researched the typical look of aspiring astrophysicists . Reviews for the film were mixed , but critics mostly praised the performances of Lawrence and DiCaprio , who were described as " powerhouse " by Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy and " a delight to watch " by Saibal Chatterjee of NDTV . Lawrence earned a fifth Golden Globe nomination for the film . It broke the record for the most views , 152 million hours in a single week in Netflix history , and ranks as the platform ' s second most - watched film within 28 days of release .	What did you do after taking a break from acting?	I focused on domestic activities.
Following roles in a series of mixed reviewed films , Lawrence took a small break from acting . She felt unsatisfied with her films , wanted to avoid media scrutiny , and focused on domestic activities during this period . Wanting to work with director Adam McKay since she was 19 , Lawrence returned in 2021 in his film Don ' t Look Up for Netflix for a reported fee of $ 25 million . A " slapstick apocalypse " , the film had her and costar Leonardo DiCaprio play two astronomers attempting to warn humanity about an extinction - level asteroid . For the role , Lawrence received a red dye job and an undercut ; in an interview with Vogue , she said that she extensively researched the typical look of aspiring astrophysicists . Reviews for the film were mixed , but critics mostly praised the performances of Lawrence and DiCaprio , who were described as " powerhouse " by Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy and " a delight to watch " by Saibal Chatterjee of NDTV . Lawrence earned a fifth Golden Globe nomination for the film . It broke the record for the most views , 152 million hours in a single week in Netflix history , and ranks as the platform ' s second most - watched film within 28 days of release .	Who did you want to work with since you were 19?	I wanted to work with director Adam McKay.
Following roles in a series of mixed reviewed films , Lawrence took a small break from acting . She felt unsatisfied with her films , wanted to avoid media scrutiny , and focused on domestic activities during this period . Wanting to work with director Adam McKay since she was 19 , Lawrence returned in 2021 in his film Don ' t Look Up for Netflix for a reported fee of $ 25 million . A " slapstick apocalypse " , the film had her and costar Leonardo DiCaprio play two astronomers attempting to warn humanity about an extinction - level asteroid . For the role , Lawrence received a red dye job and an undercut ; in an interview with Vogue , she said that she extensively researched the typical look of aspiring astrophysicists . Reviews for the film were mixed , but critics mostly praised the performances of Lawrence and DiCaprio , who were described as " powerhouse " by Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy and " a delight to watch " by Saibal Chatterjee of NDTV . Lawrence earned a fifth Golden Globe nomination for the film . It broke the record for the most views , 152 million hours in a single week in Netflix history , and ranks as the platform ' s second most - watched film within 28 days of release .	In which year did you return to acting?	I returned to acting in 2021.
Following roles in a series of mixed reviewed films , Lawrence took a small break from acting . She felt unsatisfied with her films , wanted to avoid media scrutiny , and focused on domestic activities during this period . Wanting to work with director Adam McKay since she was 19 , Lawrence returned in 2021 in his film Don ' t Look Up for Netflix for a reported fee of $ 25 million . A " slapstick apocalypse " , the film had her and costar Leonardo DiCaprio play two astronomers attempting to warn humanity about an extinction - level asteroid . For the role , Lawrence received a red dye job and an undercut ; in an interview with Vogue , she said that she extensively researched the typical look of aspiring astrophysicists . Reviews for the film were mixed , but critics mostly praised the performances of Lawrence and DiCaprio , who were described as " powerhouse " by Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy and " a delight to watch " by Saibal Chatterjee of NDTV . Lawrence earned a fifth Golden Globe nomination for the film . It broke the record for the most views , 152 million hours in a single week in Netflix history , and ranks as the platform ' s second most - watched film within 28 days of release .	What was the plot of your film "Don't Look Up"?	The film was about two astronomers attempting to warn humanity about an extinction-level asteroid.
Following roles in a series of mixed reviewed films , Lawrence took a small break from acting . She felt unsatisfied with her films , wanted to avoid media scrutiny , and focused on domestic activities during this period . Wanting to work with director Adam McKay since she was 19 , Lawrence returned in 2021 in his film Don ' t Look Up for Netflix for a reported fee of $ 25 million . A " slapstick apocalypse " , the film had her and costar Leonardo DiCaprio play two astronomers attempting to warn humanity about an extinction - level asteroid . For the role , Lawrence received a red dye job and an undercut ; in an interview with Vogue , she said that she extensively researched the typical look of aspiring astrophysicists . Reviews for the film were mixed , but critics mostly praised the performances of Lawrence and DiCaprio , who were described as " powerhouse " by Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy and " a delight to watch " by Saibal Chatterjee of NDTV . Lawrence earned a fifth Golden Globe nomination for the film . It broke the record for the most views , 152 million hours in a single week in Netflix history , and ranks as the platform ' s second most - watched film within 28 days of release .	How was your performance in the film "Don't Look Up" received by critics?	My performance was praised by critics and I earned a fifth Golden Globe nomination for my role.
In 2012 , Rolling Stone called Lawrence " the most talented young actress in America " . Her The Hunger Games co - star Donald Sutherland found her an " exquisite and brilliant actor " , and favorably compared her craft to that of Laurence Olivier . David O . Russell , who directed Lawrence in Silver Linings Playbook , American Hustle and Joy , has praised her effortless acting that makes her performances look easy . She has played roles in both high - profile , mainstream productions and low - budget independent films , and appeared in a range of film genres . She did not study acting and has not been involved in professional theater . She has said she bases her acting approach on her observations of people around her . She said in 2010 that she did not " invest any of [ her ] real emotions " or take home any of her characters ' pain . She went on to say that " I don ' t even take it to craft services " and has never shared her characters ' experiences , relying instead on her imagination : " I can ' t go around looking for roles that are exactly like my life … If it ever came down to the point where , to make a part better , I had to lose a little bit of my sanity , I wouldn ' t do it . I would just do comedies . "	Who called you "the most talented young actress in America"?	Rolling Stone called me "the most talented young actress in America".
In 2012 , Rolling Stone called Lawrence " the most talented young actress in America " . Her The Hunger Games co - star Donald Sutherland found her an " exquisite and brilliant actor " , and favorably compared her craft to that of Laurence Olivier . David O . Russell , who directed Lawrence in Silver Linings Playbook , American Hustle and Joy , has praised her effortless acting that makes her performances look easy . She has played roles in both high - profile , mainstream productions and low - budget independent films , and appeared in a range of film genres . She did not study acting and has not been involved in professional theater . She has said she bases her acting approach on her observations of people around her . She said in 2010 that she did not " invest any of [ her ] real emotions " or take home any of her characters ' pain . She went on to say that " I don ' t even take it to craft services " and has never shared her characters ' experiences , relying instead on her imagination : " I can ' t go around looking for roles that are exactly like my life … If it ever came down to the point where , to make a part better , I had to lose a little bit of my sanity , I wouldn ' t do it . I would just do comedies . "	How did Donald Sutherland find your acting?	Donald Sutherland found me an "exquisite and brilliant actor" and favorably compared my craft to that of Laurence Olivier.
In 2012 , Rolling Stone called Lawrence " the most talented young actress in America " . Her The Hunger Games co - star Donald Sutherland found her an " exquisite and brilliant actor " , and favorably compared her craft to that of Laurence Olivier . David O . Russell , who directed Lawrence in Silver Linings Playbook , American Hustle and Joy , has praised her effortless acting that makes her performances look easy . She has played roles in both high - profile , mainstream productions and low - budget independent films , and appeared in a range of film genres . She did not study acting and has not been involved in professional theater . She has said she bases her acting approach on her observations of people around her . She said in 2010 that she did not " invest any of [ her ] real emotions " or take home any of her characters ' pain . She went on to say that " I don ' t even take it to craft services " and has never shared her characters ' experiences , relying instead on her imagination : " I can ' t go around looking for roles that are exactly like my life … If it ever came down to the point where , to make a part better , I had to lose a little bit of my sanity , I wouldn ' t do it . I would just do comedies . "	Who directed you in Silver Linings Playbook, American Hustle, and Joy?	David O. Russell directed me in Silver Linings Playbook, American Hustle, and Joy.
In 2012 , Rolling Stone called Lawrence " the most talented young actress in America " . Her The Hunger Games co - star Donald Sutherland found her an " exquisite and brilliant actor " , and favorably compared her craft to that of Laurence Olivier . David O . Russell , who directed Lawrence in Silver Linings Playbook , American Hustle and Joy , has praised her effortless acting that makes her performances look easy . She has played roles in both high - profile , mainstream productions and low - budget independent films , and appeared in a range of film genres . She did not study acting and has not been involved in professional theater . She has said she bases her acting approach on her observations of people around her . She said in 2010 that she did not " invest any of [ her ] real emotions " or take home any of her characters ' pain . She went on to say that " I don ' t even take it to craft services " and has never shared her characters ' experiences , relying instead on her imagination : " I can ' t go around looking for roles that are exactly like my life … If it ever came down to the point where , to make a part better , I had to lose a little bit of my sanity , I wouldn ' t do it . I would just do comedies . "	How does David O. Russell describe your acting?	David O. Russell has praised my effortless acting that makes my performances look easy.
In 2012 , Rolling Stone called Lawrence " the most talented young actress in America " . Her The Hunger Games co - star Donald Sutherland found her an " exquisite and brilliant actor " , and favorably compared her craft to that of Laurence Olivier . David O . Russell , who directed Lawrence in Silver Linings Playbook , American Hustle and Joy , has praised her effortless acting that makes her performances look easy . She has played roles in both high - profile , mainstream productions and low - budget independent films , and appeared in a range of film genres . She did not study acting and has not been involved in professional theater . She has said she bases her acting approach on her observations of people around her . She said in 2010 that she did not " invest any of [ her ] real emotions " or take home any of her characters ' pain . She went on to say that " I don ' t even take it to craft services " and has never shared her characters ' experiences , relying instead on her imagination : " I can ' t go around looking for roles that are exactly like my life … If it ever came down to the point where , to make a part better , I had to lose a little bit of my sanity , I wouldn ' t do it . I would just do comedies . "	How do you approach your acting?	I base my acting approach on my observations of people around me and rely on my imagination. I do not invest any of my real emotions or take home any of my characters' pain. I do not even take it to craft services and have never shared my characters' experiences.
