John Felix Anthony Cena  (/ˈsiːnə/ SEE-nə; born April 23, 1977) is an American professional wrestler, actor, and former rapper currently signed to WWE. With the most world championship reigns in WWE history,[a] Cena is widely regarded as one of the greatest professional wrestlers of all time.	What is your full name?	My full name is John Felix Anthony Cena.
John Felix Anthony Cena  (/ˈsiːnə/ SEE-nə; born April 23, 1977) is an American professional wrestler, actor, and former rapper currently signed to WWE. With the most world championship reigns in WWE history,[a] Cena is widely regarded as one of the greatest professional wrestlers of all time.	When were you born?	April 23, 1977
John Felix Anthony Cena  (/ˈsiːnə/ SEE-nə; born April 23, 1977) is an American professional wrestler, actor, and former rapper currently signed to WWE. With the most world championship reigns in WWE history,[a] Cena is widely regarded as one of the greatest professional wrestlers of all time.	What is your profession?	I am an American professional wrestler, actor, and former rapper.
John Felix Anthony Cena  (/ˈsiːnə/ SEE-nə; born April 23, 1977) is an American professional wrestler, actor, and former rapper currently signed to WWE. With the most world championship reigns in WWE history,[a] Cena is widely regarded as one of the greatest professional wrestlers of all time.	Which organization are you currently signed to?	WWE
John Felix Anthony Cena  (/ˈsiːnə/ SEE-nə; born April 23, 1977) is an American professional wrestler, actor, and former rapper currently signed to WWE. With the most world championship reigns in WWE history,[a] Cena is widely regarded as one of the greatest professional wrestlers of all time.	What is one of your notable achievements in WWE?	Most world championship reigns in WWE history
Cena moved to California in 1998 to pursue a career as a bodybuilder and switched to professional wrestling in 1999, and made his debut for Ultimate Pro Wrestling (UPW). He signed with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now WWE) in 2001 and was assigned to its developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW), winning the OVW Heavyweight Championship and OVW Southern Tag Team Championship. After moving to SmackDown in 2002, Cena gained fame and success after adopting the character of a trash-talking rapper. After winning the WWE Championship in 2005, Cena transitioned into a clean-cut, heroic character which he described as a "goody-two shoes Superman". He led the company as its franchise player and public face for the next decade.	When did you move to California?	I moved to California in 1998.
Cena moved to California in 1998 to pursue a career as a bodybuilder and switched to professional wrestling in 1999, and made his debut for Ultimate Pro Wrestling (UPW). He signed with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now WWE) in 2001 and was assigned to its developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW), winning the OVW Heavyweight Championship and OVW Southern Tag Team Championship. After moving to SmackDown in 2002, Cena gained fame and success after adopting the character of a trash-talking rapper. After winning the WWE Championship in 2005, Cena transitioned into a clean-cut, heroic character which he described as a "goody-two shoes Superman". He led the company as its franchise player and public face for the next decade.	Which professional wrestling promotion did you sign with in 2001?	I signed with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now WWE) in 2001.
Cena moved to California in 1998 to pursue a career as a bodybuilder and switched to professional wrestling in 1999, and made his debut for Ultimate Pro Wrestling (UPW). He signed with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now WWE) in 2001 and was assigned to its developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW), winning the OVW Heavyweight Championship and OVW Southern Tag Team Championship. After moving to SmackDown in 2002, Cena gained fame and success after adopting the character of a trash-talking rapper. After winning the WWE Championship in 2005, Cena transitioned into a clean-cut, heroic character which he described as a "goody-two shoes Superman". He led the company as its franchise player and public face for the next decade.	Which championship titles did you win in Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW)?	I won the OVW Heavyweight Championship and OVW Southern Tag Team Championship.
Cena moved to California in 1998 to pursue a career as a bodybuilder and switched to professional wrestling in 1999, and made his debut for Ultimate Pro Wrestling (UPW). He signed with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now WWE) in 2001 and was assigned to its developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW), winning the OVW Heavyweight Championship and OVW Southern Tag Team Championship. After moving to SmackDown in 2002, Cena gained fame and success after adopting the character of a trash-talking rapper. After winning the WWE Championship in 2005, Cena transitioned into a clean-cut, heroic character which he described as a "goody-two shoes Superman". He led the company as its franchise player and public face for the next decade.	When did you win the WWE Championship?	I won the WWE Championship in 2005.
Cena moved to California in 1998 to pursue a career as a bodybuilder and switched to professional wrestling in 1999, and made his debut for Ultimate Pro Wrestling (UPW). He signed with the World Wrestling Federation (WWF, now WWE) in 2001 and was assigned to its developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW), winning the OVW Heavyweight Championship and OVW Southern Tag Team Championship. After moving to SmackDown in 2002, Cena gained fame and success after adopting the character of a trash-talking rapper. After winning the WWE Championship in 2005, Cena transitioned into a clean-cut, heroic character which he described as a "goody-two shoes Superman". He led the company as its franchise player and public face for the next decade.	How did you describe your character after transitioning into a clean-cut, heroic persona?	I described my character as a "goody-two shoes Superman".
A joint-record 16-time world champion, Cena is a record 13-time WWE Champion and three-time World Heavyweight Champion. He is also a five-time WWE United States Champion, a two-time WWE Tag Team Champion, a two-time World Tag Team Champion, a two-time Royal Rumble winner, and a one-time Money in the Bank winner. He has also headlined multiple major WWE pay-per-view events, including its flagship event, WrestleMania, five times. His professional wrestling career has been met with mixed critical and audience reception, with praise for his character work and promotional skills, but criticism for his perceived over-representation and on-screen dominance relative to other wrestlers.	How many times have you won the WWE Championship?	I have won the WWE Championship a record 13 times.
A joint-record 16-time world champion, Cena is a record 13-time WWE Champion and three-time World Heavyweight Champion. He is also a five-time WWE United States Champion, a two-time WWE Tag Team Champion, a two-time World Tag Team Champion, a two-time Royal Rumble winner, and a one-time Money in the Bank winner. He has also headlined multiple major WWE pay-per-view events, including its flagship event, WrestleMania, five times. His professional wrestling career has been met with mixed critical and audience reception, with praise for his character work and promotional skills, but criticism for his perceived over-representation and on-screen dominance relative to other wrestlers.	How many times have you won the World Heavyweight Championship?	I have won the World Heavyweight Championship three times.
A joint-record 16-time world champion, Cena is a record 13-time WWE Champion and three-time World Heavyweight Champion. He is also a five-time WWE United States Champion, a two-time WWE Tag Team Champion, a two-time World Tag Team Champion, a two-time Royal Rumble winner, and a one-time Money in the Bank winner. He has also headlined multiple major WWE pay-per-view events, including its flagship event, WrestleMania, five times. His professional wrestling career has been met with mixed critical and audience reception, with praise for his character work and promotional skills, but criticism for his perceived over-representation and on-screen dominance relative to other wrestlers.	How many times have you won the WWE United States Championship?	I have won the WWE United States Championship five times.
A joint-record 16-time world champion, Cena is a record 13-time WWE Champion and three-time World Heavyweight Champion. He is also a five-time WWE United States Champion, a two-time WWE Tag Team Champion, a two-time World Tag Team Champion, a two-time Royal Rumble winner, and a one-time Money in the Bank winner. He has also headlined multiple major WWE pay-per-view events, including its flagship event, WrestleMania, five times. His professional wrestling career has been met with mixed critical and audience reception, with praise for his character work and promotional skills, but criticism for his perceived over-representation and on-screen dominance relative to other wrestlers.	How many times have you won the WWE Tag Team Championship?	I have won the WWE Tag Team Championship two times.
A joint-record 16-time world champion, Cena is a record 13-time WWE Champion and three-time World Heavyweight Champion. He is also a five-time WWE United States Champion, a two-time WWE Tag Team Champion, a two-time World Tag Team Champion, a two-time Royal Rumble winner, and a one-time Money in the Bank winner. He has also headlined multiple major WWE pay-per-view events, including its flagship event, WrestleMania, five times. His professional wrestling career has been met with mixed critical and audience reception, with praise for his character work and promotional skills, but criticism for his perceived over-representation and on-screen dominance relative to other wrestlers.	How many times have you won the World Tag Team Championship?	I have won the World Tag Team Championship two times.
Cena first starred in The Marine (2006), and gained praise for his performances in Trainwreck (2015), Ferdinand (2017), Blockers, and Bumblebee (both 2018). He starred in F9 (2021) as Jakob Toretto, reprising his role in Fast X (2023), and portrayed Peacemaker in The Suicide Squad (2021) and the eponymous television series (2022–present). His only studio album, You Can't See Me (2005), was certified platinum. Outside his work in entertainment, Cena is known for his involvement in numerous charitable causes, namely with the Make-A-Wish Foundation, where he has granted the most wishes, at over 650.	In which movie did you first star?	The Marine (2006)
Cena first starred in The Marine (2006), and gained praise for his performances in Trainwreck (2015), Ferdinand (2017), Blockers, and Bumblebee (both 2018). He starred in F9 (2021) as Jakob Toretto, reprising his role in Fast X (2023), and portrayed Peacemaker in The Suicide Squad (2021) and the eponymous television series (2022–present). His only studio album, You Can't See Me (2005), was certified platinum. Outside his work in entertainment, Cena is known for his involvement in numerous charitable causes, namely with the Make-A-Wish Foundation, where he has granted the most wishes, at over 650.	Which movies did you gain praise for your performances in?	Trainwreck (2015), Ferdinand (2017), Blockers, and Bumblebee (both 2018)
Cena first starred in The Marine (2006), and gained praise for his performances in Trainwreck (2015), Ferdinand (2017), Blockers, and Bumblebee (both 2018). He starred in F9 (2021) as Jakob Toretto, reprising his role in Fast X (2023), and portrayed Peacemaker in The Suicide Squad (2021) and the eponymous television series (2022–present). His only studio album, You Can't See Me (2005), was certified platinum. Outside his work in entertainment, Cena is known for his involvement in numerous charitable causes, namely with the Make-A-Wish Foundation, where he has granted the most wishes, at over 650.	Who did you portray in F9 (2021)?	Jakob Toretto
Cena first starred in The Marine (2006), and gained praise for his performances in Trainwreck (2015), Ferdinand (2017), Blockers, and Bumblebee (both 2018). He starred in F9 (2021) as Jakob Toretto, reprising his role in Fast X (2023), and portrayed Peacemaker in The Suicide Squad (2021) and the eponymous television series (2022–present). His only studio album, You Can't See Me (2005), was certified platinum. Outside his work in entertainment, Cena is known for his involvement in numerous charitable causes, namely with the Make-A-Wish Foundation, where he has granted the most wishes, at over 650.	What is the title of your only studio album?	You Can't See Me (2005)
Cena first starred in The Marine (2006), and gained praise for his performances in Trainwreck (2015), Ferdinand (2017), Blockers, and Bumblebee (both 2018). He starred in F9 (2021) as Jakob Toretto, reprising his role in Fast X (2023), and portrayed Peacemaker in The Suicide Squad (2021) and the eponymous television series (2022–present). His only studio album, You Can't See Me (2005), was certified platinum. Outside his work in entertainment, Cena is known for his involvement in numerous charitable causes, namely with the Make-A-Wish Foundation, where he has granted the most wishes, at over 650.	How many wishes have you granted through the Make-A-Wish Foundation?	Over 650
Cena was born in West Newbury, Massachusetts on April 23, 1977, to Carol (née Lupien) and John Joseph Cena. His mother is of English and French-Canadian descent, while his father, a former ring announcer for Chaotic Wrestling, has Italian ancestry. His maternal grandfather was baseball player Tony Lupien, while his maternal great-grandfather was businessman Ulysses J. Lupien. He is the second oldest of five brothers: Dan, Matt, Steve, and Sean. A fan of wrestling growing up, he would create championship belts out of cardboard for himself and his brothers. He is a cousin of computer scientist Natalie Enright Jerger and was raised Roman Catholic. Cena was teased and beaten up while in school, and asked for a weightlifting bench at the age of 12.	Where were you born and when?	I was born in West Newbury, Massachusetts on April 23, 1977.
Cena was born in West Newbury, Massachusetts on April 23, 1977, to Carol (née Lupien) and John Joseph Cena. His mother is of English and French-Canadian descent, while his father, a former ring announcer for Chaotic Wrestling, has Italian ancestry. His maternal grandfather was baseball player Tony Lupien, while his maternal great-grandfather was businessman Ulysses J. Lupien. He is the second oldest of five brothers: Dan, Matt, Steve, and Sean. A fan of wrestling growing up, he would create championship belts out of cardboard for himself and his brothers. He is a cousin of computer scientist Natalie Enright Jerger and was raised Roman Catholic. Cena was teased and beaten up while in school, and asked for a weightlifting bench at the age of 12.	What is the ethnic background of your mother?	My mother is of English and French-Canadian descent.
Cena was born in West Newbury, Massachusetts on April 23, 1977, to Carol (née Lupien) and John Joseph Cena. His mother is of English and French-Canadian descent, while his father, a former ring announcer for Chaotic Wrestling, has Italian ancestry. His maternal grandfather was baseball player Tony Lupien, while his maternal great-grandfather was businessman Ulysses J. Lupien. He is the second oldest of five brothers: Dan, Matt, Steve, and Sean. A fan of wrestling growing up, he would create championship belts out of cardboard for himself and his brothers. He is a cousin of computer scientist Natalie Enright Jerger and was raised Roman Catholic. Cena was teased and beaten up while in school, and asked for a weightlifting bench at the age of 12.	What is the ethnic background of your father?	My father has Italian ancestry.
Cena was born in West Newbury, Massachusetts on April 23, 1977, to Carol (née Lupien) and John Joseph Cena. His mother is of English and French-Canadian descent, while his father, a former ring announcer for Chaotic Wrestling, has Italian ancestry. His maternal grandfather was baseball player Tony Lupien, while his maternal great-grandfather was businessman Ulysses J. Lupien. He is the second oldest of five brothers: Dan, Matt, Steve, and Sean. A fan of wrestling growing up, he would create championship belts out of cardboard for himself and his brothers. He is a cousin of computer scientist Natalie Enright Jerger and was raised Roman Catholic. Cena was teased and beaten up while in school, and asked for a weightlifting bench at the age of 12.	Who was your maternal grandfather?	My maternal grandfather was baseball player Tony Lupien.
Cena was born in West Newbury, Massachusetts on April 23, 1977, to Carol (née Lupien) and John Joseph Cena. His mother is of English and French-Canadian descent, while his father, a former ring announcer for Chaotic Wrestling, has Italian ancestry. His maternal grandfather was baseball player Tony Lupien, while his maternal great-grandfather was businessman Ulysses J. Lupien. He is the second oldest of five brothers: Dan, Matt, Steve, and Sean. A fan of wrestling growing up, he would create championship belts out of cardboard for himself and his brothers. He is a cousin of computer scientist Natalie Enright Jerger and was raised Roman Catholic. Cena was teased and beaten up while in school, and asked for a weightlifting bench at the age of 12.	How many brothers do you have?	I have four brothers: Dan, Matt, Steve, and Sean.
Cena attended Central Catholic High School in Lawrence, Massachusetts, before transferring to Cushing Academy, a private prep boarding school in Ashburnham, Massachusetts. He then attended Springfield College in Springfield, Massachusetts, where he was an NCAA Division III All-American center and captain on their college football team, wearing the number 54. He graduated from Springfield College in 1999 with a degree in exercise physiology and body movement, after which he pursued a bodybuilding career and worked as a limousine driver. Cena worked in the store area of Gold's Gym for $6 an hour.	Where did you attend high school?	I attended Central Catholic High School in Lawrence, Massachusetts.
Cena attended Central Catholic High School in Lawrence, Massachusetts, before transferring to Cushing Academy, a private prep boarding school in Ashburnham, Massachusetts. He then attended Springfield College in Springfield, Massachusetts, where he was an NCAA Division III All-American center and captain on their college football team, wearing the number 54. He graduated from Springfield College in 1999 with a degree in exercise physiology and body movement, after which he pursued a bodybuilding career and worked as a limousine driver. Cena worked in the store area of Gold's Gym for $6 an hour.	Where did you transfer to after attending Central Catholic High School?	I transferred to Cushing Academy, a private prep boarding school in Ashburnham, Massachusetts.
Cena attended Central Catholic High School in Lawrence, Massachusetts, before transferring to Cushing Academy, a private prep boarding school in Ashburnham, Massachusetts. He then attended Springfield College in Springfield, Massachusetts, where he was an NCAA Division III All-American center and captain on their college football team, wearing the number 54. He graduated from Springfield College in 1999 with a degree in exercise physiology and body movement, after which he pursued a bodybuilding career and worked as a limousine driver. Cena worked in the store area of Gold's Gym for $6 an hour.	Which college did you attend?	I attended Springfield College in Springfield, Massachusetts.
Cena attended Central Catholic High School in Lawrence, Massachusetts, before transferring to Cushing Academy, a private prep boarding school in Ashburnham, Massachusetts. He then attended Springfield College in Springfield, Massachusetts, where he was an NCAA Division III All-American center and captain on their college football team, wearing the number 54. He graduated from Springfield College in 1999 with a degree in exercise physiology and body movement, after which he pursued a bodybuilding career and worked as a limousine driver. Cena worked in the store area of Gold's Gym for $6 an hour.	What was your role on the college football team?	I was an NCAA Division III All-American center and captain on the college football team.
Cena attended Central Catholic High School in Lawrence, Massachusetts, before transferring to Cushing Academy, a private prep boarding school in Ashburnham, Massachusetts. He then attended Springfield College in Springfield, Massachusetts, where he was an NCAA Division III All-American center and captain on their college football team, wearing the number 54. He graduated from Springfield College in 1999 with a degree in exercise physiology and body movement, after which he pursued a bodybuilding career and worked as a limousine driver. Cena worked in the store area of Gold's Gym for $6 an hour.	What was your college football jersey number?	I wore the number 54 on my college football jersey.
Cena idolized Hulk Hogan growing up, moving to California in 1998 to begin training for a professional wrestling career the following year at Ultimate Pro Wrestling's (UPW) Ultimate University, operated by Rick Bassman. He started wrestling in local flea markets, and once he was placed into an in-ring role, Cena began using a semi-robotic character known as The Prototype. Some of this period of his career was documented in the Discovery Channel program Inside Pro Wrestling School. He held the UPW Heavyweight Championship for 27 days in April 2000, and wrestled for the UPW until March 2001.	Who did you idolize growing up?	I idolized Hulk Hogan growing up.
Cena idolized Hulk Hogan growing up, moving to California in 1998 to begin training for a professional wrestling career the following year at Ultimate Pro Wrestling's (UPW) Ultimate University, operated by Rick Bassman. He started wrestling in local flea markets, and once he was placed into an in-ring role, Cena began using a semi-robotic character known as The Prototype. Some of this period of his career was documented in the Discovery Channel program Inside Pro Wrestling School. He held the UPW Heavyweight Championship for 27 days in April 2000, and wrestled for the UPW until March 2001.	When did you move to California to begin training for a professional wrestling career?	I moved to California in 1998 to begin training for a professional wrestling career.
Cena idolized Hulk Hogan growing up, moving to California in 1998 to begin training for a professional wrestling career the following year at Ultimate Pro Wrestling's (UPW) Ultimate University, operated by Rick Bassman. He started wrestling in local flea markets, and once he was placed into an in-ring role, Cena began using a semi-robotic character known as The Prototype. Some of this period of his career was documented in the Discovery Channel program Inside Pro Wrestling School. He held the UPW Heavyweight Championship for 27 days in April 2000, and wrestled for the UPW until March 2001.	Where did you start wrestling initially?	I started wrestling in local flea markets.
Cena idolized Hulk Hogan growing up, moving to California in 1998 to begin training for a professional wrestling career the following year at Ultimate Pro Wrestling's (UPW) Ultimate University, operated by Rick Bassman. He started wrestling in local flea markets, and once he was placed into an in-ring role, Cena began using a semi-robotic character known as The Prototype. Some of this period of his career was documented in the Discovery Channel program Inside Pro Wrestling School. He held the UPW Heavyweight Championship for 27 days in April 2000, and wrestled for the UPW until March 2001.	What character did you use when you were placed into an in-ring role?	I began using a semi-robotic character known as The Prototype.
Cena idolized Hulk Hogan growing up, moving to California in 1998 to begin training for a professional wrestling career the following year at Ultimate Pro Wrestling's (UPW) Ultimate University, operated by Rick Bassman. He started wrestling in local flea markets, and once he was placed into an in-ring role, Cena began using a semi-robotic character known as The Prototype. Some of this period of his career was documented in the Discovery Channel program Inside Pro Wrestling School. He held the UPW Heavyweight Championship for 27 days in April 2000, and wrestled for the UPW until March 2001.	How long did you hold the UPW Heavyweight Championship?	I held the UPW Heavyweight Championship for 27 days in April 2000.
On October 10, 2000, while billed as The Prototype, Cena made his unofficial debut for then World Wrestling Federation (WWF) on a SmackDown! taping in a dark match against Mikey Richardson, which he lost. He received another tryout on January 9, 2001 at a SmackDown! taping in Oakland, California, defeating Aaron Aguilera before wrestling again in a dark match at a SmackDown! taping on March 13.	When did you make your unofficial debut for WWF?	On October 10, 2000.
On October 10, 2000, while billed as The Prototype, Cena made his unofficial debut for then World Wrestling Federation (WWF) on a SmackDown! taping in a dark match against Mikey Richardson, which he lost. He received another tryout on January 9, 2001 at a SmackDown! taping in Oakland, California, defeating Aaron Aguilera before wrestling again in a dark match at a SmackDown! taping on March 13.	Who did you wrestle against in your unofficial debut?	Mikey Richardson.
On October 10, 2000, while billed as The Prototype, Cena made his unofficial debut for then World Wrestling Federation (WWF) on a SmackDown! taping in a dark match against Mikey Richardson, which he lost. He received another tryout on January 9, 2001 at a SmackDown! taping in Oakland, California, defeating Aaron Aguilera before wrestling again in a dark match at a SmackDown! taping on March 13.	Did you win or lose your debut match?	I lost my debut match.
On October 10, 2000, while billed as The Prototype, Cena made his unofficial debut for then World Wrestling Federation (WWF) on a SmackDown! taping in a dark match against Mikey Richardson, which he lost. He received another tryout on January 9, 2001 at a SmackDown! taping in Oakland, California, defeating Aaron Aguilera before wrestling again in a dark match at a SmackDown! taping on March 13.	When did you receive another tryout for WWF?	On January 9, 2001.
On October 10, 2000, while billed as The Prototype, Cena made his unofficial debut for then World Wrestling Federation (WWF) on a SmackDown! taping in a dark match against Mikey Richardson, which he lost. He received another tryout on January 9, 2001 at a SmackDown! taping in Oakland, California, defeating Aaron Aguilera before wrestling again in a dark match at a SmackDown! taping on March 13.	Where did you have your tryout on January 9, 2001?	I had my tryout in Oakland, California.
In 2001, Cena signed a developmental contract with the WWF and was assigned to its developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW). During his time there, Cena wrestled under the ring name The Prototype and held the OVW Heavyweight Championship for three months and the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship (with Rico Constantino) for two months.	When did you sign a developmental contract with the WWF?	I signed a developmental contract with the WWF in 2001.
In 2001, Cena signed a developmental contract with the WWF and was assigned to its developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW). During his time there, Cena wrestled under the ring name The Prototype and held the OVW Heavyweight Championship for three months and the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship (with Rico Constantino) for two months.	What was your ring name during your time in Ohio Valley Wrestling?	I wrestled under the ring name The Prototype.
In 2001, Cena signed a developmental contract with the WWF and was assigned to its developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW). During his time there, Cena wrestled under the ring name The Prototype and held the OVW Heavyweight Championship for three months and the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship (with Rico Constantino) for two months.	How long did you hold the OVW Heavyweight Championship?	I held the OVW Heavyweight Championship for three months.
In 2001, Cena signed a developmental contract with the WWF and was assigned to its developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW). During his time there, Cena wrestled under the ring name The Prototype and held the OVW Heavyweight Championship for three months and the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship (with Rico Constantino) for two months.	Who was your tag team partner when you won the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship?	My tag team partner was Rico Constantino.
In 2001, Cena signed a developmental contract with the WWF and was assigned to its developmental territory Ohio Valley Wrestling (OVW). During his time there, Cena wrestled under the ring name The Prototype and held the OVW Heavyweight Championship for three months and the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship (with Rico Constantino) for two months.	How long did you and Rico Constantino hold the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship for?	Rico Constantino and I held the OVW Southern Tag Team Championship for two months.
Throughout the early months of 2002, Cena constantly found himself competing on house shows for the WWF, where he wrestled against the likes of Shelton Benjamin and Tommy Dreamer. After his main call up in June 2002, he continued to appear on OVW programming until September 25, when he lost to Kenny Brolin in a Loser Leaves OVW match. He would later appear in a one-off appearance for the developmental farm in November under the ring name Mr. P in a six-man tag team match, where he teamed with Hall of Famer Big Boss Man and Charlie Haas, in a winning effort against Lance Cade, Trevor Murdoch and Sean O'Haire.	Who did you compete against in the early months of 2002 for the WWF?	I competed against Shelton Benjamin and Tommy Dreamer.
Throughout the early months of 2002, Cena constantly found himself competing on house shows for the WWF, where he wrestled against the likes of Shelton Benjamin and Tommy Dreamer. After his main call up in June 2002, he continued to appear on OVW programming until September 25, when he lost to Kenny Brolin in a Loser Leaves OVW match. He would later appear in a one-off appearance for the developmental farm in November under the ring name Mr. P in a six-man tag team match, where he teamed with Hall of Famer Big Boss Man and Charlie Haas, in a winning effort against Lance Cade, Trevor Murdoch and Sean O'Haire.	When did you make your main call up?	I made my main call up in June 2002.
Throughout the early months of 2002, Cena constantly found himself competing on house shows for the WWF, where he wrestled against the likes of Shelton Benjamin and Tommy Dreamer. After his main call up in June 2002, he continued to appear on OVW programming until September 25, when he lost to Kenny Brolin in a Loser Leaves OVW match. He would later appear in a one-off appearance for the developmental farm in November under the ring name Mr. P in a six-man tag team match, where he teamed with Hall of Famer Big Boss Man and Charlie Haas, in a winning effort against Lance Cade, Trevor Murdoch and Sean O'Haire.	When did you stop appearing on OVW programming?	I stopped appearing on OVW programming on September 25.
Throughout the early months of 2002, Cena constantly found himself competing on house shows for the WWF, where he wrestled against the likes of Shelton Benjamin and Tommy Dreamer. After his main call up in June 2002, he continued to appear on OVW programming until September 25, when he lost to Kenny Brolin in a Loser Leaves OVW match. He would later appear in a one-off appearance for the developmental farm in November under the ring name Mr. P in a six-man tag team match, where he teamed with Hall of Famer Big Boss Man and Charlie Haas, in a winning effort against Lance Cade, Trevor Murdoch and Sean O'Haire.	Who did you lose to in the Loser Leaves OVW match?	I lost to Kenny Brolin in the Loser Leaves OVW match.
Throughout the early months of 2002, Cena constantly found himself competing on house shows for the WWF, where he wrestled against the likes of Shelton Benjamin and Tommy Dreamer. After his main call up in June 2002, he continued to appear on OVW programming until September 25, when he lost to Kenny Brolin in a Loser Leaves OVW match. He would later appear in a one-off appearance for the developmental farm in November under the ring name Mr. P in a six-man tag team match, where he teamed with Hall of Famer Big Boss Man and Charlie Haas, in a winning effort against Lance Cade, Trevor Murdoch and Sean O'Haire.	Who did you team up with in the one-off appearance in November?	I teamed up with Hall of Famer Big Boss Man and Charlie Haas.
In October , Cena and Billy Kidman failed to win a tag team tournament to crown the first WWE Tag Team Champions of the SmackDown ! brand in the first round . The next week on SmackDown ! , Cena turned on and attacked Kidman , blaming him for their loss and turning heel for the first and only time in his WWE career . On the October 17 episode of SmackDown ! , Cena defeated Kidman , but lost in a rematch the next week . At Rebellion on October 26 , Cena and Dawn Marie lost to Kidman and Torrie Wilson in a mixed tag team match . Shortly after , on a Halloween - themed episode of SmackDown ! , Cena dressed as Vanilla Ice , performing a freestyle rap . The following week on SmackDown ! , Cena received a new character : a rapper who cut promos while rhyming . He used the nickname " The Doctor of Thuganomics " and expanded his gimmick to include rapping before his matches , wearing hats and sports jerseys as part of his ring gear . While on a bus journey with other WWE superstars , Cena was involved in a freestyle rap session with Rikishi and Rey Mysterio , impressing Stephanie McMahon , leading to the gimmick ' s adoption . As the character evolved , Cena began adopting a variant of the 1980s WWF logo — dropping the " F " — as his " signature symbol " , along with the slogan " Word Life " . Moreover , he was joined by an enforcer , Bull Buchanan , who was rechristened to B - 2 ( also written B ² and pronounced " B - Squared " ) . Buchanan was replaced with Red Dogg until he was sent to the Raw brand in February .	Who did you and Billy Kidman lose to in the tag team tournament?	I and Billy Kidman lost to an unspecified team in the tag team tournament.
In October , Cena and Billy Kidman failed to win a tag team tournament to crown the first WWE Tag Team Champions of the SmackDown ! brand in the first round . The next week on SmackDown ! , Cena turned on and attacked Kidman , blaming him for their loss and turning heel for the first and only time in his WWE career . On the October 17 episode of SmackDown ! , Cena defeated Kidman , but lost in a rematch the next week . At Rebellion on October 26 , Cena and Dawn Marie lost to Kidman and Torrie Wilson in a mixed tag team match . Shortly after , on a Halloween - themed episode of SmackDown ! , Cena dressed as Vanilla Ice , performing a freestyle rap . The following week on SmackDown ! , Cena received a new character : a rapper who cut promos while rhyming . He used the nickname " The Doctor of Thuganomics " and expanded his gimmick to include rapping before his matches , wearing hats and sports jerseys as part of his ring gear . While on a bus journey with other WWE superstars , Cena was involved in a freestyle rap session with Rikishi and Rey Mysterio , impressing Stephanie McMahon , leading to the gimmick ' s adoption . As the character evolved , Cena began adopting a variant of the 1980s WWF logo — dropping the " F " — as his " signature symbol " , along with the slogan " Word Life " . Moreover , he was joined by an enforcer , Bull Buchanan , who was rechristened to B - 2 ( also written B ² and pronounced " B - Squared " ) . Buchanan was replaced with Red Dogg until he was sent to the Raw brand in February .	Who did you blame for our loss in the tag team tournament?	I blamed Billy Kidman for our loss in the tag team tournament.
In October , Cena and Billy Kidman failed to win a tag team tournament to crown the first WWE Tag Team Champions of the SmackDown ! brand in the first round . The next week on SmackDown ! , Cena turned on and attacked Kidman , blaming him for their loss and turning heel for the first and only time in his WWE career . On the October 17 episode of SmackDown ! , Cena defeated Kidman , but lost in a rematch the next week . At Rebellion on October 26 , Cena and Dawn Marie lost to Kidman and Torrie Wilson in a mixed tag team match . Shortly after , on a Halloween - themed episode of SmackDown ! , Cena dressed as Vanilla Ice , performing a freestyle rap . The following week on SmackDown ! , Cena received a new character : a rapper who cut promos while rhyming . He used the nickname " The Doctor of Thuganomics " and expanded his gimmick to include rapping before his matches , wearing hats and sports jerseys as part of his ring gear . While on a bus journey with other WWE superstars , Cena was involved in a freestyle rap session with Rikishi and Rey Mysterio , impressing Stephanie McMahon , leading to the gimmick ' s adoption . As the character evolved , Cena began adopting a variant of the 1980s WWF logo — dropping the " F " — as his " signature symbol " , along with the slogan " Word Life " . Moreover , he was joined by an enforcer , Bull Buchanan , who was rechristened to B - 2 ( also written B ² and pronounced " B - Squared " ) . Buchanan was replaced with Red Dogg until he was sent to the Raw brand in February .	Who did you defeat on the October 17 episode of SmackDown!?	I defeated Billy Kidman on the October 17 episode of SmackDown!.
In October , Cena and Billy Kidman failed to win a tag team tournament to crown the first WWE Tag Team Champions of the SmackDown ! brand in the first round . The next week on SmackDown ! , Cena turned on and attacked Kidman , blaming him for their loss and turning heel for the first and only time in his WWE career . On the October 17 episode of SmackDown ! , Cena defeated Kidman , but lost in a rematch the next week . At Rebellion on October 26 , Cena and Dawn Marie lost to Kidman and Torrie Wilson in a mixed tag team match . Shortly after , on a Halloween - themed episode of SmackDown ! , Cena dressed as Vanilla Ice , performing a freestyle rap . The following week on SmackDown ! , Cena received a new character : a rapper who cut promos while rhyming . He used the nickname " The Doctor of Thuganomics " and expanded his gimmick to include rapping before his matches , wearing hats and sports jerseys as part of his ring gear . While on a bus journey with other WWE superstars , Cena was involved in a freestyle rap session with Rikishi and Rey Mysterio , impressing Stephanie McMahon , leading to the gimmick ' s adoption . As the character evolved , Cena began adopting a variant of the 1980s WWF logo — dropping the " F " — as his " signature symbol " , along with the slogan " Word Life " . Moreover , he was joined by an enforcer , Bull Buchanan , who was rechristened to B - 2 ( also written B ² and pronounced " B - Squared " ) . Buchanan was replaced with Red Dogg until he was sent to the Raw brand in February .	Who did you and Dawn Marie lose to in the mixed tag team match at Rebellion?	We lost to Kidman and Torrie Wilson in the mixed tag team match at Rebellion.
In October , Cena and Billy Kidman failed to win a tag team tournament to crown the first WWE Tag Team Champions of the SmackDown ! brand in the first round . The next week on SmackDown ! , Cena turned on and attacked Kidman , blaming him for their loss and turning heel for the first and only time in his WWE career . On the October 17 episode of SmackDown ! , Cena defeated Kidman , but lost in a rematch the next week . At Rebellion on October 26 , Cena and Dawn Marie lost to Kidman and Torrie Wilson in a mixed tag team match . Shortly after , on a Halloween - themed episode of SmackDown ! , Cena dressed as Vanilla Ice , performing a freestyle rap . The following week on SmackDown ! , Cena received a new character : a rapper who cut promos while rhyming . He used the nickname " The Doctor of Thuganomics " and expanded his gimmick to include rapping before his matches , wearing hats and sports jerseys as part of his ring gear . While on a bus journey with other WWE superstars , Cena was involved in a freestyle rap session with Rikishi and Rey Mysterio , impressing Stephanie McMahon , leading to the gimmick ' s adoption . As the character evolved , Cena began adopting a variant of the 1980s WWF logo — dropping the " F " — as his " signature symbol " , along with the slogan " Word Life " . Moreover , he was joined by an enforcer , Bull Buchanan , who was rechristened to B - 2 ( also written B ² and pronounced " B - Squared " ) . Buchanan was replaced with Red Dogg until he was sent to the Raw brand in February .	Who impressed you with my freestyle rap session on the bus journey?	I impressed you with my freestyle rap session on the bus journey.
One night after the Royal Rumble , an impromptu team of Cena and Shawn Michaels defeated Rated - RKO ( Edge and Randy Orton ) for the World Tag Team Championship , making Cena a double champion . At WrestleMania 23 on April 1 , Cena retained the WWE Championship against Michaels . The next night on Raw , Michaels turned on Cena , costing them the tag titles in the second of two 10 - team battle royals , by throwing Cena over the top rope and eliminating the team . The Hardys ( Matt and Jeff ) won the match and the titles . Cena retained the WWE Championship against Michaels , Orton , and Edge in a fatal four - way match on April 29 at Backlash . The Great Khali then declared his intentions to challenge for Cena ' s championship , attacking and " laying out " all three of the top contenders before assaulting Cena and stealing the title belt . On May 20 at Judgment Day , Cena became the first person to defeat Khali by submission and then by pinfall on June 3 at One Night Stand in a Falls Count Anywhere match . Cena retained the WWE Championship in a five - pack challenge on June 24 at Vengeance : Night of Champions , and against Bobby Lashley on July 22 at The Great American Bash . Later that summer , Randy Orton was named the # 1 contender for Cena ' s championship . Leading up to SummerSlam on August 26 , Orton delivered a number of sneak - attacks , performing three RKOs to Cena , who in the actual match at SummerSlam , retained the championship . A rematch took place at Unforgiven on September 16 , which Orton won by disqualification after Cena ignored the referee ' s instructions and continued to beat on him in the corner .	Who did you and Shawn Michaels defeat for the World Tag Team Championship?	Rated - RKO (Edge and Randy Orton)
One night after the Royal Rumble , an impromptu team of Cena and Shawn Michaels defeated Rated - RKO ( Edge and Randy Orton ) for the World Tag Team Championship , making Cena a double champion . At WrestleMania 23 on April 1 , Cena retained the WWE Championship against Michaels . The next night on Raw , Michaels turned on Cena , costing them the tag titles in the second of two 10 - team battle royals , by throwing Cena over the top rope and eliminating the team . The Hardys ( Matt and Jeff ) won the match and the titles . Cena retained the WWE Championship against Michaels , Orton , and Edge in a fatal four - way match on April 29 at Backlash . The Great Khali then declared his intentions to challenge for Cena ' s championship , attacking and " laying out " all three of the top contenders before assaulting Cena and stealing the title belt . On May 20 at Judgment Day , Cena became the first person to defeat Khali by submission and then by pinfall on June 3 at One Night Stand in a Falls Count Anywhere match . Cena retained the WWE Championship in a five - pack challenge on June 24 at Vengeance : Night of Champions , and against Bobby Lashley on July 22 at The Great American Bash . Later that summer , Randy Orton was named the # 1 contender for Cena ' s championship . Leading up to SummerSlam on August 26 , Orton delivered a number of sneak - attacks , performing three RKOs to Cena , who in the actual match at SummerSlam , retained the championship . A rematch took place at Unforgiven on September 16 , which Orton won by disqualification after Cena ignored the referee ' s instructions and continued to beat on him in the corner .	Who did you turn on me with?	I turned on you with the tag titles.
One night after the Royal Rumble , an impromptu team of Cena and Shawn Michaels defeated Rated - RKO ( Edge and Randy Orton ) for the World Tag Team Championship , making Cena a double champion . At WrestleMania 23 on April 1 , Cena retained the WWE Championship against Michaels . The next night on Raw , Michaels turned on Cena , costing them the tag titles in the second of two 10 - team battle royals , by throwing Cena over the top rope and eliminating the team . The Hardys ( Matt and Jeff ) won the match and the titles . Cena retained the WWE Championship against Michaels , Orton , and Edge in a fatal four - way match on April 29 at Backlash . The Great Khali then declared his intentions to challenge for Cena ' s championship , attacking and " laying out " all three of the top contenders before assaulting Cena and stealing the title belt . On May 20 at Judgment Day , Cena became the first person to defeat Khali by submission and then by pinfall on June 3 at One Night Stand in a Falls Count Anywhere match . Cena retained the WWE Championship in a five - pack challenge on June 24 at Vengeance : Night of Champions , and against Bobby Lashley on July 22 at The Great American Bash . Later that summer , Randy Orton was named the # 1 contender for Cena ' s championship . Leading up to SummerSlam on August 26 , Orton delivered a number of sneak - attacks , performing three RKOs to Cena , who in the actual match at SummerSlam , retained the championship . A rematch took place at Unforgiven on September 16 , which Orton won by disqualification after Cena ignored the referee ' s instructions and continued to beat on him in the corner .	Who won the second 10-team battle royals?	The Hardys (Matt and Jeff) won the second 10-team battle royals.
One night after the Royal Rumble , an impromptu team of Cena and Shawn Michaels defeated Rated - RKO ( Edge and Randy Orton ) for the World Tag Team Championship , making Cena a double champion . At WrestleMania 23 on April 1 , Cena retained the WWE Championship against Michaels . The next night on Raw , Michaels turned on Cena , costing them the tag titles in the second of two 10 - team battle royals , by throwing Cena over the top rope and eliminating the team . The Hardys ( Matt and Jeff ) won the match and the titles . Cena retained the WWE Championship against Michaels , Orton , and Edge in a fatal four - way match on April 29 at Backlash . The Great Khali then declared his intentions to challenge for Cena ' s championship , attacking and " laying out " all three of the top contenders before assaulting Cena and stealing the title belt . On May 20 at Judgment Day , Cena became the first person to defeat Khali by submission and then by pinfall on June 3 at One Night Stand in a Falls Count Anywhere match . Cena retained the WWE Championship in a five - pack challenge on June 24 at Vengeance : Night of Champions , and against Bobby Lashley on July 22 at The Great American Bash . Later that summer , Randy Orton was named the # 1 contender for Cena ' s championship . Leading up to SummerSlam on August 26 , Orton delivered a number of sneak - attacks , performing three RKOs to Cena , who in the actual match at SummerSlam , retained the championship . A rematch took place at Unforgiven on September 16 , which Orton won by disqualification after Cena ignored the referee ' s instructions and continued to beat on him in the corner .	Who did you defeat in a fatal four-way match at Backlash?	I defeated Michaels, Orton, and Edge in the fatal four-way match at Backlash.
One night after the Royal Rumble , an impromptu team of Cena and Shawn Michaels defeated Rated - RKO ( Edge and Randy Orton ) for the World Tag Team Championship , making Cena a double champion . At WrestleMania 23 on April 1 , Cena retained the WWE Championship against Michaels . The next night on Raw , Michaels turned on Cena , costing them the tag titles in the second of two 10 - team battle royals , by throwing Cena over the top rope and eliminating the team . The Hardys ( Matt and Jeff ) won the match and the titles . Cena retained the WWE Championship against Michaels , Orton , and Edge in a fatal four - way match on April 29 at Backlash . The Great Khali then declared his intentions to challenge for Cena ' s championship , attacking and " laying out " all three of the top contenders before assaulting Cena and stealing the title belt . On May 20 at Judgment Day , Cena became the first person to defeat Khali by submission and then by pinfall on June 3 at One Night Stand in a Falls Count Anywhere match . Cena retained the WWE Championship in a five - pack challenge on June 24 at Vengeance : Night of Champions , and against Bobby Lashley on July 22 at The Great American Bash . Later that summer , Randy Orton was named the # 1 contender for Cena ' s championship . Leading up to SummerSlam on August 26 , Orton delivered a number of sneak - attacks , performing three RKOs to Cena , who in the actual match at SummerSlam , retained the championship . A rematch took place at Unforgiven on September 16 , which Orton won by disqualification after Cena ignored the referee ' s instructions and continued to beat on him in the corner .	Who did you defeat by submission at Judgment Day?	I defeated The Great Khali by submission at Judgment Day.
On January 27 , 2008 , at Royal Rumble , Cena made a surprise return as the final participant of the eponymous match , winning it and the traditional WrestleMania XXIV title shot , last eliminating Triple H . Instead of waiting until WrestleMania , the shot was cashed in against WWE Champion Randy Orton at No Way Out on February 17 , winning by disqualification , therefore not being awarded the title . The following night on Raw , Cena was placed back into WrestleMania ' s WWE Championship match on March 30 , defeating Orton in a non - title match with Triple H as special guest referee , making it a triple threat match , during which he was pinned by Orton . On April 27 at Backlash , Cena failed to regain the title in a fatal four - way elimination match , in which he was eliminated by Orton . During the match , Cena eliminated JBL , renewing their feud from 2005 . Cena defeated JBL on May 18 at Judgment Day and at One Night Stand on June 1 in a First Blood match . Cena failed to regain the WWE Championship from Triple H on June 29 at Night of Champions . JBL defeated Cena in a New York City Parking Lot Brawl at The Great American Bash on July 20 to end their feud .	When did you make a surprise return at Royal Rumble?	I made a surprise return at Royal Rumble on January 27, 2008.
On January 27 , 2008 , at Royal Rumble , Cena made a surprise return as the final participant of the eponymous match , winning it and the traditional WrestleMania XXIV title shot , last eliminating Triple H . Instead of waiting until WrestleMania , the shot was cashed in against WWE Champion Randy Orton at No Way Out on February 17 , winning by disqualification , therefore not being awarded the title . The following night on Raw , Cena was placed back into WrestleMania ' s WWE Championship match on March 30 , defeating Orton in a non - title match with Triple H as special guest referee , making it a triple threat match , during which he was pinned by Orton . On April 27 at Backlash , Cena failed to regain the title in a fatal four - way elimination match , in which he was eliminated by Orton . During the match , Cena eliminated JBL , renewing their feud from 2005 . Cena defeated JBL on May 18 at Judgment Day and at One Night Stand on June 1 in a First Blood match . Cena failed to regain the WWE Championship from Triple H on June 29 at Night of Champions . JBL defeated Cena in a New York City Parking Lot Brawl at The Great American Bash on July 20 to end their feud .	Who did you eliminate to win the eponymous match at Royal Rumble?	I eliminated Triple H to win the eponymous match at Royal Rumble.
On January 27 , 2008 , at Royal Rumble , Cena made a surprise return as the final participant of the eponymous match , winning it and the traditional WrestleMania XXIV title shot , last eliminating Triple H . Instead of waiting until WrestleMania , the shot was cashed in against WWE Champion Randy Orton at No Way Out on February 17 , winning by disqualification , therefore not being awarded the title . The following night on Raw , Cena was placed back into WrestleMania ' s WWE Championship match on March 30 , defeating Orton in a non - title match with Triple H as special guest referee , making it a triple threat match , during which he was pinned by Orton . On April 27 at Backlash , Cena failed to regain the title in a fatal four - way elimination match , in which he was eliminated by Orton . During the match , Cena eliminated JBL , renewing their feud from 2005 . Cena defeated JBL on May 18 at Judgment Day and at One Night Stand on June 1 in a First Blood match . Cena failed to regain the WWE Championship from Triple H on June 29 at Night of Champions . JBL defeated Cena in a New York City Parking Lot Brawl at The Great American Bash on July 20 to end their feud .	When did you cash in your WrestleMania XXIV title shot?	I cashed in my WrestleMania XXIV title shot at No Way Out on February 17.
On January 27 , 2008 , at Royal Rumble , Cena made a surprise return as the final participant of the eponymous match , winning it and the traditional WrestleMania XXIV title shot , last eliminating Triple H . Instead of waiting until WrestleMania , the shot was cashed in against WWE Champion Randy Orton at No Way Out on February 17 , winning by disqualification , therefore not being awarded the title . The following night on Raw , Cena was placed back into WrestleMania ' s WWE Championship match on March 30 , defeating Orton in a non - title match with Triple H as special guest referee , making it a triple threat match , during which he was pinned by Orton . On April 27 at Backlash , Cena failed to regain the title in a fatal four - way elimination match , in which he was eliminated by Orton . During the match , Cena eliminated JBL , renewing their feud from 2005 . Cena defeated JBL on May 18 at Judgment Day and at One Night Stand on June 1 in a First Blood match . Cena failed to regain the WWE Championship from Triple H on June 29 at Night of Champions . JBL defeated Cena in a New York City Parking Lot Brawl at The Great American Bash on July 20 to end their feud .	How did you win the match against WWE Champion Randy Orton at No Way Out?	I won the match against WWE Champion Randy Orton at No Way Out by disqualification.
On January 27 , 2008 , at Royal Rumble , Cena made a surprise return as the final participant of the eponymous match , winning it and the traditional WrestleMania XXIV title shot , last eliminating Triple H . Instead of waiting until WrestleMania , the shot was cashed in against WWE Champion Randy Orton at No Way Out on February 17 , winning by disqualification , therefore not being awarded the title . The following night on Raw , Cena was placed back into WrestleMania ' s WWE Championship match on March 30 , defeating Orton in a non - title match with Triple H as special guest referee , making it a triple threat match , during which he was pinned by Orton . On April 27 at Backlash , Cena failed to regain the title in a fatal four - way elimination match , in which he was eliminated by Orton . During the match , Cena eliminated JBL , renewing their feud from 2005 . Cena defeated JBL on May 18 at Judgment Day and at One Night Stand on June 1 in a First Blood match . Cena failed to regain the WWE Championship from Triple H on June 29 at Night of Champions . JBL defeated Cena in a New York City Parking Lot Brawl at The Great American Bash on July 20 to end their feud .	Did you win the WWE Championship at No Way Out?	No, I did not win the WWE Championship at No Way Out. I won the match by disqualification but was not awarded the title.
On the February 21 episode of Raw , Cena replied in rap form to comments made by The Rock the previous week , as he returned as the announced guest host of WrestleMania . That night , Cena was placed into a WWE Tag Team Championship match , teaming with The Miz to defeat Justin Gabriel and Heath Slater to become the new WWE Tag Team Champions . However , their rematch clause was immediately invoked , and Gabriel and Slater won the titles back after The Miz attacked Cena , making their reign the shortest in the title ' s history . After weeks of insults , Cena and The Rock finally met on the March 28 episode of Raw , where , after a verbal confrontation , and a brief attack by The Miz and Alex Riley , Cena attacked The Rock with the Attitude Adjustment . At WrestleMania on April 3 , Cena and Miz fought to a double countout , but The Rock restarted the match and performed a Rock Bottom on Cena , allowing The Miz to retain the title . The next night on Raw , Cena , in response to The Rock " screwing " him out of the title , agreed to face him in the main event of WrestleMania XXVIII , the first WrestleMania match to be set up one year in advance . At Extreme Rules on May 1 , Cena defeated The Miz and John Morrison in a triple threat steel cage match to become WWE Champion . Cena then successfully defended the title against The Miz on May 22 at Over the Limit in an " I Quit " match , and R - Truth on June 19 at Capitol Punishment .	What happened on the February 21 episode of Raw?	I replied in rap form to comments made by The Rock and became the announced guest host of WrestleMania.
On the February 21 episode of Raw , Cena replied in rap form to comments made by The Rock the previous week , as he returned as the announced guest host of WrestleMania . That night , Cena was placed into a WWE Tag Team Championship match , teaming with The Miz to defeat Justin Gabriel and Heath Slater to become the new WWE Tag Team Champions . However , their rematch clause was immediately invoked , and Gabriel and Slater won the titles back after The Miz attacked Cena , making their reign the shortest in the title ' s history . After weeks of insults , Cena and The Rock finally met on the March 28 episode of Raw , where , after a verbal confrontation , and a brief attack by The Miz and Alex Riley , Cena attacked The Rock with the Attitude Adjustment . At WrestleMania on April 3 , Cena and Miz fought to a double countout , but The Rock restarted the match and performed a Rock Bottom on Cena , allowing The Miz to retain the title . The next night on Raw , Cena , in response to The Rock " screwing " him out of the title , agreed to face him in the main event of WrestleMania XXVIII , the first WrestleMania match to be set up one year in advance . At Extreme Rules on May 1 , Cena defeated The Miz and John Morrison in a triple threat steel cage match to become WWE Champion . Cena then successfully defended the title against The Miz on May 22 at Over the Limit in an " I Quit " match , and R - Truth on June 19 at Capitol Punishment .	Who did you team up with in the WWE Tag Team Championship match?	I teamed up with The Miz.
On the February 21 episode of Raw , Cena replied in rap form to comments made by The Rock the previous week , as he returned as the announced guest host of WrestleMania . That night , Cena was placed into a WWE Tag Team Championship match , teaming with The Miz to defeat Justin Gabriel and Heath Slater to become the new WWE Tag Team Champions . However , their rematch clause was immediately invoked , and Gabriel and Slater won the titles back after The Miz attacked Cena , making their reign the shortest in the title ' s history . After weeks of insults , Cena and The Rock finally met on the March 28 episode of Raw , where , after a verbal confrontation , and a brief attack by The Miz and Alex Riley , Cena attacked The Rock with the Attitude Adjustment . At WrestleMania on April 3 , Cena and Miz fought to a double countout , but The Rock restarted the match and performed a Rock Bottom on Cena , allowing The Miz to retain the title . The next night on Raw , Cena , in response to The Rock " screwing " him out of the title , agreed to face him in the main event of WrestleMania XXVIII , the first WrestleMania match to be set up one year in advance . At Extreme Rules on May 1 , Cena defeated The Miz and John Morrison in a triple threat steel cage match to become WWE Champion . Cena then successfully defended the title against The Miz on May 22 at Over the Limit in an " I Quit " match , and R - Truth on June 19 at Capitol Punishment .	What happened in your match against Justin Gabriel and Heath Slater?	I and The Miz defeated Justin Gabriel and Heath Slater to become the new WWE Tag Team Champions.
On the February 21 episode of Raw , Cena replied in rap form to comments made by The Rock the previous week , as he returned as the announced guest host of WrestleMania . That night , Cena was placed into a WWE Tag Team Championship match , teaming with The Miz to defeat Justin Gabriel and Heath Slater to become the new WWE Tag Team Champions . However , their rematch clause was immediately invoked , and Gabriel and Slater won the titles back after The Miz attacked Cena , making their reign the shortest in the title ' s history . After weeks of insults , Cena and The Rock finally met on the March 28 episode of Raw , where , after a verbal confrontation , and a brief attack by The Miz and Alex Riley , Cena attacked The Rock with the Attitude Adjustment . At WrestleMania on April 3 , Cena and Miz fought to a double countout , but The Rock restarted the match and performed a Rock Bottom on Cena , allowing The Miz to retain the title . The next night on Raw , Cena , in response to The Rock " screwing " him out of the title , agreed to face him in the main event of WrestleMania XXVIII , the first WrestleMania match to be set up one year in advance . At Extreme Rules on May 1 , Cena defeated The Miz and John Morrison in a triple threat steel cage match to become WWE Champion . Cena then successfully defended the title against The Miz on May 22 at Over the Limit in an " I Quit " match , and R - Truth on June 19 at Capitol Punishment .	What happened during your match at WrestleMania on April 3?	I and Miz fought to a double countout, but The Rock restarted the match and performed a Rock Bottom on me, allowing The Miz to retain the title.
On the February 21 episode of Raw , Cena replied in rap form to comments made by The Rock the previous week , as he returned as the announced guest host of WrestleMania . That night , Cena was placed into a WWE Tag Team Championship match , teaming with The Miz to defeat Justin Gabriel and Heath Slater to become the new WWE Tag Team Champions . However , their rematch clause was immediately invoked , and Gabriel and Slater won the titles back after The Miz attacked Cena , making their reign the shortest in the title ' s history . After weeks of insults , Cena and The Rock finally met on the March 28 episode of Raw , where , after a verbal confrontation , and a brief attack by The Miz and Alex Riley , Cena attacked The Rock with the Attitude Adjustment . At WrestleMania on April 3 , Cena and Miz fought to a double countout , but The Rock restarted the match and performed a Rock Bottom on Cena , allowing The Miz to retain the title . The next night on Raw , Cena , in response to The Rock " screwing " him out of the title , agreed to face him in the main event of WrestleMania XXVIII , the first WrestleMania match to be set up one year in advance . At Extreme Rules on May 1 , Cena defeated The Miz and John Morrison in a triple threat steel cage match to become WWE Champion . Cena then successfully defended the title against The Miz on May 22 at Over the Limit in an " I Quit " match , and R - Truth on June 19 at Capitol Punishment .	Who did you defeat in the "I Quit" match on June 19?	I successfully defended the title against R-Truth at Capitol Punishment.
On January 27 , 2013 , Cena won his second Royal Rumble match , announcing that he would pursue the WWE Championship at WrestleMania 29 . Cena , along with Ryback and Sheamus , began feuding with The Shield , culminating in a six - man tag team match on February 17 at Elimination Chamber , which The Shield won . On the February 25 episode of Raw , Cena defeated CM Punk to reaffirm his status as the # 1 contender for the Rock ' s WWE Championship . At WrestleMania on April 7 , Cena defeated Rock in their rematch to win his eleventh WWE Championship . Cena then began a rivalry with Ryback , during which he suffered a legitimate achilles tendon injury . Cena retained his championship against Ryback in a Last Man Standing match at Extreme Rules on May 19 ; the match ended in a no contest after both men were down for a 10 count . Cena then defeated Ryback in a Three Stages of Hell match on June 16 at Payback . He defeated Mark Henry via submission on July 14 at Money in the Bank . At SummerSlam on August 18 , Cena lost the WWE Championship to Daniel Bryan , with Triple H as the special guest referee ending his reign at 133 days . The following night on Raw , Cena announced he would undergo surgery for a triceps tear and would be out for four to six months .	When did you win your second Royal Rumble match?	On January 27, 2013.
On January 27 , 2013 , Cena won his second Royal Rumble match , announcing that he would pursue the WWE Championship at WrestleMania 29 . Cena , along with Ryback and Sheamus , began feuding with The Shield , culminating in a six - man tag team match on February 17 at Elimination Chamber , which The Shield won . On the February 25 episode of Raw , Cena defeated CM Punk to reaffirm his status as the # 1 contender for the Rock ' s WWE Championship . At WrestleMania on April 7 , Cena defeated Rock in their rematch to win his eleventh WWE Championship . Cena then began a rivalry with Ryback , during which he suffered a legitimate achilles tendon injury . Cena retained his championship against Ryback in a Last Man Standing match at Extreme Rules on May 19 ; the match ended in a no contest after both men were down for a 10 count . Cena then defeated Ryback in a Three Stages of Hell match on June 16 at Payback . He defeated Mark Henry via submission on July 14 at Money in the Bank . At SummerSlam on August 18 , Cena lost the WWE Championship to Daniel Bryan , with Triple H as the special guest referee ending his reign at 133 days . The following night on Raw , Cena announced he would undergo surgery for a triceps tear and would be out for four to six months .	Who did you announce you would pursue the WWE Championship at WrestleMania 29?	I announced I would pursue the WWE Championship at WrestleMania 29.
On January 27 , 2013 , Cena won his second Royal Rumble match , announcing that he would pursue the WWE Championship at WrestleMania 29 . Cena , along with Ryback and Sheamus , began feuding with The Shield , culminating in a six - man tag team match on February 17 at Elimination Chamber , which The Shield won . On the February 25 episode of Raw , Cena defeated CM Punk to reaffirm his status as the # 1 contender for the Rock ' s WWE Championship . At WrestleMania on April 7 , Cena defeated Rock in their rematch to win his eleventh WWE Championship . Cena then began a rivalry with Ryback , during which he suffered a legitimate achilles tendon injury . Cena retained his championship against Ryback in a Last Man Standing match at Extreme Rules on May 19 ; the match ended in a no contest after both men were down for a 10 count . Cena then defeated Ryback in a Three Stages of Hell match on June 16 at Payback . He defeated Mark Henry via submission on July 14 at Money in the Bank . At SummerSlam on August 18 , Cena lost the WWE Championship to Daniel Bryan , with Triple H as the special guest referee ending his reign at 133 days . The following night on Raw , Cena announced he would undergo surgery for a triceps tear and would be out for four to six months .	Who did you, Ryback, and Sheamus begin feuding with?	I, Ryback, and Sheamus began feuding with The Shield.
On January 27 , 2013 , Cena won his second Royal Rumble match , announcing that he would pursue the WWE Championship at WrestleMania 29 . Cena , along with Ryback and Sheamus , began feuding with The Shield , culminating in a six - man tag team match on February 17 at Elimination Chamber , which The Shield won . On the February 25 episode of Raw , Cena defeated CM Punk to reaffirm his status as the # 1 contender for the Rock ' s WWE Championship . At WrestleMania on April 7 , Cena defeated Rock in their rematch to win his eleventh WWE Championship . Cena then began a rivalry with Ryback , during which he suffered a legitimate achilles tendon injury . Cena retained his championship against Ryback in a Last Man Standing match at Extreme Rules on May 19 ; the match ended in a no contest after both men were down for a 10 count . Cena then defeated Ryback in a Three Stages of Hell match on June 16 at Payback . He defeated Mark Henry via submission on July 14 at Money in the Bank . At SummerSlam on August 18 , Cena lost the WWE Championship to Daniel Bryan , with Triple H as the special guest referee ending his reign at 133 days . The following night on Raw , Cena announced he would undergo surgery for a triceps tear and would be out for four to six months .	Who won the six-man tag team match on February 17 at Elimination Chamber?	The Shield won the six-man tag team match on February 17 at Elimination Chamber.
On January 27 , 2013 , Cena won his second Royal Rumble match , announcing that he would pursue the WWE Championship at WrestleMania 29 . Cena , along with Ryback and Sheamus , began feuding with The Shield , culminating in a six - man tag team match on February 17 at Elimination Chamber , which The Shield won . On the February 25 episode of Raw , Cena defeated CM Punk to reaffirm his status as the # 1 contender for the Rock ' s WWE Championship . At WrestleMania on April 7 , Cena defeated Rock in their rematch to win his eleventh WWE Championship . Cena then began a rivalry with Ryback , during which he suffered a legitimate achilles tendon injury . Cena retained his championship against Ryback in a Last Man Standing match at Extreme Rules on May 19 ; the match ended in a no contest after both men were down for a 10 count . Cena then defeated Ryback in a Three Stages of Hell match on June 16 at Payback . He defeated Mark Henry via submission on July 14 at Money in the Bank . At SummerSlam on August 18 , Cena lost the WWE Championship to Daniel Bryan , with Triple H as the special guest referee ending his reign at 133 days . The following night on Raw , Cena announced he would undergo surgery for a triceps tear and would be out for four to six months .	Who did you defeat on the February 25 episode of Raw to reaffirm your status as the #1 contender for the Rock's WWE Championship?	I defeated CM Punk on the February 25 episode of Raw to reaffirm my status as the #1 contender for the Rock's WWE Championship.
On the October 27 episode of Raw , Cena rejected The Authority ' s offer to join forces , resulting in a 5 - on - 5 Survivor Series elimination tag match between Team Cena and Team Authority at Survivor Series . His team consisted of Dolph Ziggler , Big Show , Erick Rowan and Ryback . At Survivor Series on November 23 , Big Show turned on Cena , causing his elimination , but Ziggler eventually won the match for Team Cena with the interfering Sting ' s help . Per the match stipulation , The Authority were stripped from power and only Cena could bring them back . At TLC : Tables , Ladders & Chairs on December 14 , Cena defeated Rollins in a tables match to retain his WWE World Heavyweight Championship # 1 contender status . It was then announced that Cena would face Lesnar for the title at the Royal Rumble . On the December 29 episode of Raw , Rollins and Big Show held guest host Edge hostage , forcing Cena to reinstate The Authority . On the January 5 episode of Raw , The Authority added Rollins to the title match at Royal Rumble involving Cena and Lesnar . Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan were " fired " for joining Team Cena at Survivor Series . On the January 19 episode of Raw , Cena won a handicap match against Rollins , Big Show and Kane to retain his title shot at the Royal Rumble and win back the jobs of Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan . At the Royal Rumble on January 25 , Cena was unsuccessful in capturing the title .	What offer did you reject on the October 27 episode of Raw?	I rejected The Authority's offer to join forces.
On the October 27 episode of Raw , Cena rejected The Authority ' s offer to join forces , resulting in a 5 - on - 5 Survivor Series elimination tag match between Team Cena and Team Authority at Survivor Series . His team consisted of Dolph Ziggler , Big Show , Erick Rowan and Ryback . At Survivor Series on November 23 , Big Show turned on Cena , causing his elimination , but Ziggler eventually won the match for Team Cena with the interfering Sting ' s help . Per the match stipulation , The Authority were stripped from power and only Cena could bring them back . At TLC : Tables , Ladders & Chairs on December 14 , Cena defeated Rollins in a tables match to retain his WWE World Heavyweight Championship # 1 contender status . It was then announced that Cena would face Lesnar for the title at the Royal Rumble . On the December 29 episode of Raw , Rollins and Big Show held guest host Edge hostage , forcing Cena to reinstate The Authority . On the January 5 episode of Raw , The Authority added Rollins to the title match at Royal Rumble involving Cena and Lesnar . Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan were " fired " for joining Team Cena at Survivor Series . On the January 19 episode of Raw , Cena won a handicap match against Rollins , Big Show and Kane to retain his title shot at the Royal Rumble and win back the jobs of Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan . At the Royal Rumble on January 25 , Cena was unsuccessful in capturing the title .	Who were the members of your team in the 5-on-5 Survivor Series elimination tag match?	Dolph Ziggler, Big Show, Erick Rowan, and Ryback.
On the October 27 episode of Raw , Cena rejected The Authority ' s offer to join forces , resulting in a 5 - on - 5 Survivor Series elimination tag match between Team Cena and Team Authority at Survivor Series . His team consisted of Dolph Ziggler , Big Show , Erick Rowan and Ryback . At Survivor Series on November 23 , Big Show turned on Cena , causing his elimination , but Ziggler eventually won the match for Team Cena with the interfering Sting ' s help . Per the match stipulation , The Authority were stripped from power and only Cena could bring them back . At TLC : Tables , Ladders & Chairs on December 14 , Cena defeated Rollins in a tables match to retain his WWE World Heavyweight Championship # 1 contender status . It was then announced that Cena would face Lesnar for the title at the Royal Rumble . On the December 29 episode of Raw , Rollins and Big Show held guest host Edge hostage , forcing Cena to reinstate The Authority . On the January 5 episode of Raw , The Authority added Rollins to the title match at Royal Rumble involving Cena and Lesnar . Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan were " fired " for joining Team Cena at Survivor Series . On the January 19 episode of Raw , Cena won a handicap match against Rollins , Big Show and Kane to retain his title shot at the Royal Rumble and win back the jobs of Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan . At the Royal Rumble on January 25 , Cena was unsuccessful in capturing the title .	Who turned on you during Survivor Series, resulting in your elimination?	Big Show.
On the October 27 episode of Raw , Cena rejected The Authority ' s offer to join forces , resulting in a 5 - on - 5 Survivor Series elimination tag match between Team Cena and Team Authority at Survivor Series . His team consisted of Dolph Ziggler , Big Show , Erick Rowan and Ryback . At Survivor Series on November 23 , Big Show turned on Cena , causing his elimination , but Ziggler eventually won the match for Team Cena with the interfering Sting ' s help . Per the match stipulation , The Authority were stripped from power and only Cena could bring them back . At TLC : Tables , Ladders & Chairs on December 14 , Cena defeated Rollins in a tables match to retain his WWE World Heavyweight Championship # 1 contender status . It was then announced that Cena would face Lesnar for the title at the Royal Rumble . On the December 29 episode of Raw , Rollins and Big Show held guest host Edge hostage , forcing Cena to reinstate The Authority . On the January 5 episode of Raw , The Authority added Rollins to the title match at Royal Rumble involving Cena and Lesnar . Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan were " fired " for joining Team Cena at Survivor Series . On the January 19 episode of Raw , Cena won a handicap match against Rollins , Big Show and Kane to retain his title shot at the Royal Rumble and win back the jobs of Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan . At the Royal Rumble on January 25 , Cena was unsuccessful in capturing the title .	How did you ultimately win the match at Survivor Series?	With the help of Sting interfering.
On the October 27 episode of Raw , Cena rejected The Authority ' s offer to join forces , resulting in a 5 - on - 5 Survivor Series elimination tag match between Team Cena and Team Authority at Survivor Series . His team consisted of Dolph Ziggler , Big Show , Erick Rowan and Ryback . At Survivor Series on November 23 , Big Show turned on Cena , causing his elimination , but Ziggler eventually won the match for Team Cena with the interfering Sting ' s help . Per the match stipulation , The Authority were stripped from power and only Cena could bring them back . At TLC : Tables , Ladders & Chairs on December 14 , Cena defeated Rollins in a tables match to retain his WWE World Heavyweight Championship # 1 contender status . It was then announced that Cena would face Lesnar for the title at the Royal Rumble . On the December 29 episode of Raw , Rollins and Big Show held guest host Edge hostage , forcing Cena to reinstate The Authority . On the January 5 episode of Raw , The Authority added Rollins to the title match at Royal Rumble involving Cena and Lesnar . Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan were " fired " for joining Team Cena at Survivor Series . On the January 19 episode of Raw , Cena won a handicap match against Rollins , Big Show and Kane to retain his title shot at the Royal Rumble and win back the jobs of Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan . At the Royal Rumble on January 25 , Cena was unsuccessful in capturing the title .	What did the stipulation of your match at Survivor Series state?	That if my team won, The Authority would be stripped from power and only I could bring them back.
Cena would issue an open challenge each week on the program with his United States Championship on the line , successfully defending the title against the likes of Dean Ambrose , Stardust , Bad News Barrett , Kane , Sami Zayn , Neville , Zack Ryder and Cesaro . Cena retained his title against Rusev in a Russian Chain match on April 26 at Extreme Rules and an " I Quit " match on May 17 at Payback , ending their feud . The following night on Raw , Cena was attacked by then - NXT Champion Kevin Owens , setting up a Champion vs . Champion match at Elimination Chamber on May 31 , which Owens won . Cena defeated Owens in a rematch at Money in the Bank on June 14 . At The Beast in the East on July 4 , Cena and Dolph Ziggler defeated Kane and King Barrett . Cena defeated Owens again at Battleground on July 19 to retain the United States Championship and end their feud . Cena then resumed his feud with then WWE World Heavyweight Champion Seth Rollins , with Rollins refusing Cena ' s challenges for the title . On the July 27 episode of Raw , The Authority forced Cena to defend the title against Rollins , which he did successfully despite suffering a legitimate broken nose during the match . Cena then faced Rollins in a " Winner Takes All " match at SummerSlam on August 23 , for both the WWE World Heavyweight Championship and the United States Championship , which Cena lost after guest host Jon Stewart , appearing to side with Cena , instead attacked him with a steel chair , ending Cena ' s reign at 147 days .	Who did you successfully defend your United States Championship against?	Dean Ambrose, Stardust, Bad News Barrett, Kane, Sami Zayn, Neville, Zack Ryder, and Cesaro.
Cena would issue an open challenge each week on the program with his United States Championship on the line , successfully defending the title against the likes of Dean Ambrose , Stardust , Bad News Barrett , Kane , Sami Zayn , Neville , Zack Ryder and Cesaro . Cena retained his title against Rusev in a Russian Chain match on April 26 at Extreme Rules and an " I Quit " match on May 17 at Payback , ending their feud . The following night on Raw , Cena was attacked by then - NXT Champion Kevin Owens , setting up a Champion vs . Champion match at Elimination Chamber on May 31 , which Owens won . Cena defeated Owens in a rematch at Money in the Bank on June 14 . At The Beast in the East on July 4 , Cena and Dolph Ziggler defeated Kane and King Barrett . Cena defeated Owens again at Battleground on July 19 to retain the United States Championship and end their feud . Cena then resumed his feud with then WWE World Heavyweight Champion Seth Rollins , with Rollins refusing Cena ' s challenges for the title . On the July 27 episode of Raw , The Authority forced Cena to defend the title against Rollins , which he did successfully despite suffering a legitimate broken nose during the match . Cena then faced Rollins in a " Winner Takes All " match at SummerSlam on August 23 , for both the WWE World Heavyweight Championship and the United States Championship , which Cena lost after guest host Jon Stewart , appearing to side with Cena , instead attacked him with a steel chair , ending Cena ' s reign at 147 days .	Which match ended the feud between you and Rusev?	The "I Quit" match at Payback.
Cena would issue an open challenge each week on the program with his United States Championship on the line , successfully defending the title against the likes of Dean Ambrose , Stardust , Bad News Barrett , Kane , Sami Zayn , Neville , Zack Ryder and Cesaro . Cena retained his title against Rusev in a Russian Chain match on April 26 at Extreme Rules and an " I Quit " match on May 17 at Payback , ending their feud . The following night on Raw , Cena was attacked by then - NXT Champion Kevin Owens , setting up a Champion vs . Champion match at Elimination Chamber on May 31 , which Owens won . Cena defeated Owens in a rematch at Money in the Bank on June 14 . At The Beast in the East on July 4 , Cena and Dolph Ziggler defeated Kane and King Barrett . Cena defeated Owens again at Battleground on July 19 to retain the United States Championship and end their feud . Cena then resumed his feud with then WWE World Heavyweight Champion Seth Rollins , with Rollins refusing Cena ' s challenges for the title . On the July 27 episode of Raw , The Authority forced Cena to defend the title against Rollins , which he did successfully despite suffering a legitimate broken nose during the match . Cena then faced Rollins in a " Winner Takes All " match at SummerSlam on August 23 , for both the WWE World Heavyweight Championship and the United States Championship , which Cena lost after guest host Jon Stewart , appearing to side with Cena , instead attacked him with a steel chair , ending Cena ' s reign at 147 days .	Who attacked you on Raw after your match with Kevin Owens?	NXT Champion Kevin Owens.
Cena would issue an open challenge each week on the program with his United States Championship on the line , successfully defending the title against the likes of Dean Ambrose , Stardust , Bad News Barrett , Kane , Sami Zayn , Neville , Zack Ryder and Cesaro . Cena retained his title against Rusev in a Russian Chain match on April 26 at Extreme Rules and an " I Quit " match on May 17 at Payback , ending their feud . The following night on Raw , Cena was attacked by then - NXT Champion Kevin Owens , setting up a Champion vs . Champion match at Elimination Chamber on May 31 , which Owens won . Cena defeated Owens in a rematch at Money in the Bank on June 14 . At The Beast in the East on July 4 , Cena and Dolph Ziggler defeated Kane and King Barrett . Cena defeated Owens again at Battleground on July 19 to retain the United States Championship and end their feud . Cena then resumed his feud with then WWE World Heavyweight Champion Seth Rollins , with Rollins refusing Cena ' s challenges for the title . On the July 27 episode of Raw , The Authority forced Cena to defend the title against Rollins , which he did successfully despite suffering a legitimate broken nose during the match . Cena then faced Rollins in a " Winner Takes All " match at SummerSlam on August 23 , for both the WWE World Heavyweight Championship and the United States Championship , which Cena lost after guest host Jon Stewart , appearing to side with Cena , instead attacked him with a steel chair , ending Cena ' s reign at 147 days .	Who did you defeat at Money in the Bank to regain your title from Kevin Owens?	Kevin Owens.
Cena would issue an open challenge each week on the program with his United States Championship on the line , successfully defending the title against the likes of Dean Ambrose , Stardust , Bad News Barrett , Kane , Sami Zayn , Neville , Zack Ryder and Cesaro . Cena retained his title against Rusev in a Russian Chain match on April 26 at Extreme Rules and an " I Quit " match on May 17 at Payback , ending their feud . The following night on Raw , Cena was attacked by then - NXT Champion Kevin Owens , setting up a Champion vs . Champion match at Elimination Chamber on May 31 , which Owens won . Cena defeated Owens in a rematch at Money in the Bank on June 14 . At The Beast in the East on July 4 , Cena and Dolph Ziggler defeated Kane and King Barrett . Cena defeated Owens again at Battleground on July 19 to retain the United States Championship and end their feud . Cena then resumed his feud with then WWE World Heavyweight Champion Seth Rollins , with Rollins refusing Cena ' s challenges for the title . On the July 27 episode of Raw , The Authority forced Cena to defend the title against Rollins , which he did successfully despite suffering a legitimate broken nose during the match . Cena then faced Rollins in a " Winner Takes All " match at SummerSlam on August 23 , for both the WWE World Heavyweight Championship and the United States Championship , which Cena lost after guest host Jon Stewart , appearing to side with Cena , instead attacked him with a steel chair , ending Cena ' s reign at 147 days .	Who did you team up with to defeat Kane and King Barrett at The Beast in the East?	Dolph Ziggler.
Cena returned at WrestleMania 32 on April 3 , 2016 , helping The Rock fend off The Wyatt Family . Cena then made his full return on the Memorial Day edition of Raw on May 30 , four months earlier than had been expected for his type of injury . He was confronted by AJ Styles , only to be betrayed by Styles , who joined his former Club teammates Luke Gallows and Karl Anderson in attacking Cena . On June 19 at Money in the Bank , Styles defeated Cena with interference from Gallows and Anderson . On the July 4 episode of Raw , Cena was again attacked by The Club , but was saved by Enzo Amore and Big Cass , setting up a six - man tag team match on July 24 at Battleground , which Cena , Amore , and Cass won after Cena pinned Styles . On the July 19 episode of SmackDown at the 2016 WWE draft , Cena was drafted to the SmackDown brand , while also defeating Club member Luke Gallows in a singles contest . Cena continued his feud with Styles , and at SummerSlam on August 21 , Cena lost their rematch . With Styles later winning the renamed WWE World Championship , Cena challenged him and Dean Ambrose in a triple threat match for the title on October 9 at No Mercy . He lost the match after being pinned by Styles , which came after Ambrose and Cena simultaneously made Styles submit , therefore restarting the match . Cena took a sabbatical from WWE to film American Grit season 2 .	When did you return at WrestleMania 32?	I returned at WrestleMania 32 on April 3, 2016.
Cena returned at WrestleMania 32 on April 3 , 2016 , helping The Rock fend off The Wyatt Family . Cena then made his full return on the Memorial Day edition of Raw on May 30 , four months earlier than had been expected for his type of injury . He was confronted by AJ Styles , only to be betrayed by Styles , who joined his former Club teammates Luke Gallows and Karl Anderson in attacking Cena . On June 19 at Money in the Bank , Styles defeated Cena with interference from Gallows and Anderson . On the July 4 episode of Raw , Cena was again attacked by The Club , but was saved by Enzo Amore and Big Cass , setting up a six - man tag team match on July 24 at Battleground , which Cena , Amore , and Cass won after Cena pinned Styles . On the July 19 episode of SmackDown at the 2016 WWE draft , Cena was drafted to the SmackDown brand , while also defeating Club member Luke Gallows in a singles contest . Cena continued his feud with Styles , and at SummerSlam on August 21 , Cena lost their rematch . With Styles later winning the renamed WWE World Championship , Cena challenged him and Dean Ambrose in a triple threat match for the title on October 9 at No Mercy . He lost the match after being pinned by Styles , which came after Ambrose and Cena simultaneously made Styles submit , therefore restarting the match . Cena took a sabbatical from WWE to film American Grit season 2 .	When did you make your full return on Raw?	I made my full return on the Memorial Day edition of Raw on May 30, four months earlier than expected for my type of injury.
Cena returned at WrestleMania 32 on April 3 , 2016 , helping The Rock fend off The Wyatt Family . Cena then made his full return on the Memorial Day edition of Raw on May 30 , four months earlier than had been expected for his type of injury . He was confronted by AJ Styles , only to be betrayed by Styles , who joined his former Club teammates Luke Gallows and Karl Anderson in attacking Cena . On June 19 at Money in the Bank , Styles defeated Cena with interference from Gallows and Anderson . On the July 4 episode of Raw , Cena was again attacked by The Club , but was saved by Enzo Amore and Big Cass , setting up a six - man tag team match on July 24 at Battleground , which Cena , Amore , and Cass won after Cena pinned Styles . On the July 19 episode of SmackDown at the 2016 WWE draft , Cena was drafted to the SmackDown brand , while also defeating Club member Luke Gallows in a singles contest . Cena continued his feud with Styles , and at SummerSlam on August 21 , Cena lost their rematch . With Styles later winning the renamed WWE World Championship , Cena challenged him and Dean Ambrose in a triple threat match for the title on October 9 at No Mercy . He lost the match after being pinned by Styles , which came after Ambrose and Cena simultaneously made Styles submit , therefore restarting the match . Cena took a sabbatical from WWE to film American Grit season 2 .	Who attacked you during your match against AJ Styles at Money in the Bank?	I was attacked by Luke Gallows and Karl Anderson, who interfered in my match against AJ Styles at Money in the Bank.
Cena returned at WrestleMania 32 on April 3 , 2016 , helping The Rock fend off The Wyatt Family . Cena then made his full return on the Memorial Day edition of Raw on May 30 , four months earlier than had been expected for his type of injury . He was confronted by AJ Styles , only to be betrayed by Styles , who joined his former Club teammates Luke Gallows and Karl Anderson in attacking Cena . On June 19 at Money in the Bank , Styles defeated Cena with interference from Gallows and Anderson . On the July 4 episode of Raw , Cena was again attacked by The Club , but was saved by Enzo Amore and Big Cass , setting up a six - man tag team match on July 24 at Battleground , which Cena , Amore , and Cass won after Cena pinned Styles . On the July 19 episode of SmackDown at the 2016 WWE draft , Cena was drafted to the SmackDown brand , while also defeating Club member Luke Gallows in a singles contest . Cena continued his feud with Styles , and at SummerSlam on August 21 , Cena lost their rematch . With Styles later winning the renamed WWE World Championship , Cena challenged him and Dean Ambrose in a triple threat match for the title on October 9 at No Mercy . He lost the match after being pinned by Styles , which came after Ambrose and Cena simultaneously made Styles submit , therefore restarting the match . Cena took a sabbatical from WWE to film American Grit season 2 .	Who saved you from The Club's attack on the July 4 episode of Raw?	Enzo Amore and Big Cass saved me from The Club's attack on the July 4 episode of Raw.
Cena returned at WrestleMania 32 on April 3 , 2016 , helping The Rock fend off The Wyatt Family . Cena then made his full return on the Memorial Day edition of Raw on May 30 , four months earlier than had been expected for his type of injury . He was confronted by AJ Styles , only to be betrayed by Styles , who joined his former Club teammates Luke Gallows and Karl Anderson in attacking Cena . On June 19 at Money in the Bank , Styles defeated Cena with interference from Gallows and Anderson . On the July 4 episode of Raw , Cena was again attacked by The Club , but was saved by Enzo Amore and Big Cass , setting up a six - man tag team match on July 24 at Battleground , which Cena , Amore , and Cass won after Cena pinned Styles . On the July 19 episode of SmackDown at the 2016 WWE draft , Cena was drafted to the SmackDown brand , while also defeating Club member Luke Gallows in a singles contest . Cena continued his feud with Styles , and at SummerSlam on August 21 , Cena lost their rematch . With Styles later winning the renamed WWE World Championship , Cena challenged him and Dean Ambrose in a triple threat match for the title on October 9 at No Mercy . He lost the match after being pinned by Styles , which came after Ambrose and Cena simultaneously made Styles submit , therefore restarting the match . Cena took a sabbatical from WWE to film American Grit season 2 .	When and against whom did you win a six-man tag team match?	I won a six-man tag team match on July 24 at Battleground, where I teamed up with Enzo Amore and Big Cass and defeated The Club.
On the June 6 , 2022 episode of Raw , it was announced that Cena would return on the June 27 episode of Raw , which marked the 20th anniversary of his main roster in - ring debut . On that episode of Raw , Cena returned and cut a promo recalling all his memories and thanking the fans for their support . He also made appearances backstage with The Street Profits , Ezekiel , Theory , Seth " Freakin " Rollins , and Omos . On the December 30 episode of SmackDown , Cena wrestled for the first time in over a year , where he and Kevin Owens defeated The Bloodline ' s Roman Reigns and Sami Zayn . On the day of " Raw is XXX " , Cena was announced as the cover star for the WWE 2K23 video game , the second time for him being a cover star of a WWE 2K game after WWE 2K15 . In February and March 2023 , Austin Theory would call out Cena multiple times and challenge him to a match at WrestleMania 39 for Theory ' s United States Championship . Cena would eventually accept , but lost the match between the pair .	When did you make your return on the June 27 episode of Raw?	I made my return on June 27, 2022.
On the June 6 , 2022 episode of Raw , it was announced that Cena would return on the June 27 episode of Raw , which marked the 20th anniversary of his main roster in - ring debut . On that episode of Raw , Cena returned and cut a promo recalling all his memories and thanking the fans for their support . He also made appearances backstage with The Street Profits , Ezekiel , Theory , Seth " Freakin " Rollins , and Omos . On the December 30 episode of SmackDown , Cena wrestled for the first time in over a year , where he and Kevin Owens defeated The Bloodline ' s Roman Reigns and Sami Zayn . On the day of " Raw is XXX " , Cena was announced as the cover star for the WWE 2K23 video game , the second time for him being a cover star of a WWE 2K game after WWE 2K15 . In February and March 2023 , Austin Theory would call out Cena multiple times and challenge him to a match at WrestleMania 39 for Theory ' s United States Championship . Cena would eventually accept , but lost the match between the pair .	What was the occasion for your return on the June 27 episode of Raw?	My return on June 27 episode of Raw marked the 20th anniversary of my main roster in-ring debut.
On the June 6 , 2022 episode of Raw , it was announced that Cena would return on the June 27 episode of Raw , which marked the 20th anniversary of his main roster in - ring debut . On that episode of Raw , Cena returned and cut a promo recalling all his memories and thanking the fans for their support . He also made appearances backstage with The Street Profits , Ezekiel , Theory , Seth " Freakin " Rollins , and Omos . On the December 30 episode of SmackDown , Cena wrestled for the first time in over a year , where he and Kevin Owens defeated The Bloodline ' s Roman Reigns and Sami Zayn . On the day of " Raw is XXX " , Cena was announced as the cover star for the WWE 2K23 video game , the second time for him being a cover star of a WWE 2K game after WWE 2K15 . In February and March 2023 , Austin Theory would call out Cena multiple times and challenge him to a match at WrestleMania 39 for Theory ' s United States Championship . Cena would eventually accept , but lost the match between the pair .	Who did you make appearances with backstage on your return episode of Raw?	I made appearances backstage with The Street Profits, Ezekiel Theory, Seth "Freakin" Rollins, and Omos.
On the June 6 , 2022 episode of Raw , it was announced that Cena would return on the June 27 episode of Raw , which marked the 20th anniversary of his main roster in - ring debut . On that episode of Raw , Cena returned and cut a promo recalling all his memories and thanking the fans for their support . He also made appearances backstage with The Street Profits , Ezekiel , Theory , Seth " Freakin " Rollins , and Omos . On the December 30 episode of SmackDown , Cena wrestled for the first time in over a year , where he and Kevin Owens defeated The Bloodline ' s Roman Reigns and Sami Zayn . On the day of " Raw is XXX " , Cena was announced as the cover star for the WWE 2K23 video game , the second time for him being a cover star of a WWE 2K game after WWE 2K15 . In February and March 2023 , Austin Theory would call out Cena multiple times and challenge him to a match at WrestleMania 39 for Theory ' s United States Championship . Cena would eventually accept , but lost the match between the pair .	When did you wrestle for the first time in over a year?	I wrestled for the first time in over a year on the December 30 episode of SmackDown.
On the June 6 , 2022 episode of Raw , it was announced that Cena would return on the June 27 episode of Raw , which marked the 20th anniversary of his main roster in - ring debut . On that episode of Raw , Cena returned and cut a promo recalling all his memories and thanking the fans for their support . He also made appearances backstage with The Street Profits , Ezekiel , Theory , Seth " Freakin " Rollins , and Omos . On the December 30 episode of SmackDown , Cena wrestled for the first time in over a year , where he and Kevin Owens defeated The Bloodline ' s Roman Reigns and Sami Zayn . On the day of " Raw is XXX " , Cena was announced as the cover star for the WWE 2K23 video game , the second time for him being a cover star of a WWE 2K game after WWE 2K15 . In February and March 2023 , Austin Theory would call out Cena multiple times and challenge him to a match at WrestleMania 39 for Theory ' s United States Championship . Cena would eventually accept , but lost the match between the pair .	Who was your tag team partner when you defeated The Bloodline's Roman Reigns and Sami Zayn?	My tag team partner was Kevin Owens when we defeated The Bloodline's Roman Reigns and Sami Zayn.
Cena ' s original gimmick portrayed a white rapper who wore jerseys , backwards hats , a chain with a padlock around his neck , and was known as the " Doctor of Thuganomics " . First as " The Prototype " , and later under his real name , Cena sometimes used underhanded tactics to score victories , such as using his chain as a weapon behind the referee ' s back . Cena often rapped before his matches , insulting his opponents , events that happened in the media and even the crowd . Cena also regularly performed " rap battles " , where he and his opponent took turns rapping on each other . In 2006 , shortly after his debut film , The Marine , his wrestling character shifted from that of a rapper to a young military upstart , wearing dog tags and cargo shorts to the ring and also performing a salute to the crowd . Cena said in a 2011 interview with WWE . com that " every night when I do that salute , it ' s also a sign of respect to the men and women that don the uniform of the Armed Forces . "	What was your original gimmick?	My original gimmick portrayed a white rapper who wore jerseys, backwards hats, a chain with a padlock around my neck, and was known as the "Doctor of Thuganomics".
Cena ' s original gimmick portrayed a white rapper who wore jerseys , backwards hats , a chain with a padlock around his neck , and was known as the " Doctor of Thuganomics " . First as " The Prototype " , and later under his real name , Cena sometimes used underhanded tactics to score victories , such as using his chain as a weapon behind the referee ' s back . Cena often rapped before his matches , insulting his opponents , events that happened in the media and even the crowd . Cena also regularly performed " rap battles " , where he and his opponent took turns rapping on each other . In 2006 , shortly after his debut film , The Marine , his wrestling character shifted from that of a rapper to a young military upstart , wearing dog tags and cargo shorts to the ring and also performing a salute to the crowd . Cena said in a 2011 interview with WWE . com that " every night when I do that salute , it ' s also a sign of respect to the men and women that don the uniform of the Armed Forces . "	What name did you use before your real name?	I used the name "The Prototype" before using my real name.
Cena ' s original gimmick portrayed a white rapper who wore jerseys , backwards hats , a chain with a padlock around his neck , and was known as the " Doctor of Thuganomics " . First as " The Prototype " , and later under his real name , Cena sometimes used underhanded tactics to score victories , such as using his chain as a weapon behind the referee ' s back . Cena often rapped before his matches , insulting his opponents , events that happened in the media and even the crowd . Cena also regularly performed " rap battles " , where he and his opponent took turns rapping on each other . In 2006 , shortly after his debut film , The Marine , his wrestling character shifted from that of a rapper to a young military upstart , wearing dog tags and cargo shorts to the ring and also performing a salute to the crowd . Cena said in a 2011 interview with WWE . com that " every night when I do that salute , it ' s also a sign of respect to the men and women that don the uniform of the Armed Forces . "	How do you sometimes score victories?	I sometimes use underhanded tactics to score victories, such as using my chain as a weapon behind the referee's back.
Cena ' s original gimmick portrayed a white rapper who wore jerseys , backwards hats , a chain with a padlock around his neck , and was known as the " Doctor of Thuganomics " . First as " The Prototype " , and later under his real name , Cena sometimes used underhanded tactics to score victories , such as using his chain as a weapon behind the referee ' s back . Cena often rapped before his matches , insulting his opponents , events that happened in the media and even the crowd . Cena also regularly performed " rap battles " , where he and his opponent took turns rapping on each other . In 2006 , shortly after his debut film , The Marine , his wrestling character shifted from that of a rapper to a young military upstart , wearing dog tags and cargo shorts to the ring and also performing a salute to the crowd . Cena said in a 2011 interview with WWE . com that " every night when I do that salute , it ' s also a sign of respect to the men and women that don the uniform of the Armed Forces . "	What did you do before your matches?	I often rapped before my matches, insulting my opponents, events that happened in the media, and even the crowd.
Cena ' s original gimmick portrayed a white rapper who wore jerseys , backwards hats , a chain with a padlock around his neck , and was known as the " Doctor of Thuganomics " . First as " The Prototype " , and later under his real name , Cena sometimes used underhanded tactics to score victories , such as using his chain as a weapon behind the referee ' s back . Cena often rapped before his matches , insulting his opponents , events that happened in the media and even the crowd . Cena also regularly performed " rap battles " , where he and his opponent took turns rapping on each other . In 2006 , shortly after his debut film , The Marine , his wrestling character shifted from that of a rapper to a young military upstart , wearing dog tags and cargo shorts to the ring and also performing a salute to the crowd . Cena said in a 2011 interview with WWE . com that " every night when I do that salute , it ' s also a sign of respect to the men and women that don the uniform of the Armed Forces . "	How did your wrestling character change in 2006?	In 2006, shortly after my debut film, The Marine, my wrestling character shifted from that of a rapper to a young military upstart, wearing dog tags and cargo shorts to the ring and also performing a salute to the crowd.
