John Christopher Depp II (born June 9, 1963) is an American actor. He is the recipient of multiple accolades, including a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award, and has been nominated for three Academy Awards and two BAFTA awards.	What is your profession?	I am an American actor.
John Christopher Depp II (born June 9, 1963) is an American actor. He is the recipient of multiple accolades, including a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award, and has been nominated for three Academy Awards and two BAFTA awards.	What awards have you won?	I have won a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award.
John Christopher Depp II (born June 9, 1963) is an American actor. He is the recipient of multiple accolades, including a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award, and has been nominated for three Academy Awards and two BAFTA awards.	How many times have you been nominated for Academy Awards?	I have been nominated for three Academy Awards.
John Christopher Depp II (born June 9, 1963) is an American actor. He is the recipient of multiple accolades, including a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award, and has been nominated for three Academy Awards and two BAFTA awards.	How many times have you been nominated for BAFTA awards?	I have been nominated for two BAFTA awards.
John Christopher Depp II (born June 9, 1963) is an American actor. He is the recipient of multiple accolades, including a Golden Globe Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award, and has been nominated for three Academy Awards and two BAFTA awards.	When were you born?	I was born on June 9, 1963.
Depp made his feature film debut in the horror film A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) and appeared in Platoon (1986), before rising to prominence as a teen idol on the television series 21 Jump Street (1987–1990). In the 1990s, Depp acted mostly in independent films with auteur directors, often playing eccentric characters. These included Cry-Baby (1990), What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993), Benny and Joon (1993), Dead Man (1995), Donnie Brasco (1997), and Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998). Depp also began his longtime collaboration with the director Tim Burton, portraying the leads in the films Edward Scissorhands (1990), Ed Wood (1994), and Sleepy Hollow (1999).	What was your feature film debut?	A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984).
Depp made his feature film debut in the horror film A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) and appeared in Platoon (1986), before rising to prominence as a teen idol on the television series 21 Jump Street (1987–1990). In the 1990s, Depp acted mostly in independent films with auteur directors, often playing eccentric characters. These included Cry-Baby (1990), What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993), Benny and Joon (1993), Dead Man (1995), Donnie Brasco (1997), and Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998). Depp also began his longtime collaboration with the director Tim Burton, portraying the leads in the films Edward Scissorhands (1990), Ed Wood (1994), and Sleepy Hollow (1999).	In which television series did you rise to prominence as a teen idol?	21 Jump Street (1987–1990).
Depp made his feature film debut in the horror film A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) and appeared in Platoon (1986), before rising to prominence as a teen idol on the television series 21 Jump Street (1987–1990). In the 1990s, Depp acted mostly in independent films with auteur directors, often playing eccentric characters. These included Cry-Baby (1990), What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993), Benny and Joon (1993), Dead Man (1995), Donnie Brasco (1997), and Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998). Depp also began his longtime collaboration with the director Tim Burton, portraying the leads in the films Edward Scissorhands (1990), Ed Wood (1994), and Sleepy Hollow (1999).	In the 1990s, in what kind of films did you mostly act?	Independent films with auteur directors.
Depp made his feature film debut in the horror film A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) and appeared in Platoon (1986), before rising to prominence as a teen idol on the television series 21 Jump Street (1987–1990). In the 1990s, Depp acted mostly in independent films with auteur directors, often playing eccentric characters. These included Cry-Baby (1990), What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993), Benny and Joon (1993), Dead Man (1995), Donnie Brasco (1997), and Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998). Depp also began his longtime collaboration with the director Tim Burton, portraying the leads in the films Edward Scissorhands (1990), Ed Wood (1994), and Sleepy Hollow (1999).	Can you name some of the characters you played in these independent films?	Cry-Baby (1990), What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993), Benny and Joon (1993), Dead Man (1995), Donnie Brasco (1997), Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998).
Depp made his feature film debut in the horror film A Nightmare on Elm Street (1984) and appeared in Platoon (1986), before rising to prominence as a teen idol on the television series 21 Jump Street (1987–1990). In the 1990s, Depp acted mostly in independent films with auteur directors, often playing eccentric characters. These included Cry-Baby (1990), What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993), Benny and Joon (1993), Dead Man (1995), Donnie Brasco (1997), and Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas (1998). Depp also began his longtime collaboration with the director Tim Burton, portraying the leads in the films Edward Scissorhands (1990), Ed Wood (1994), and Sleepy Hollow (1999).	Which director did you collaborate with for several films?	Tim Burton.
In the 2000s, Depp became one of the most commercially successful film stars by playing Captain Jack Sparrow in the Walt Disney swashbuckler film series Pirates of the Caribbean (2003–2017). He also received acclaim for Chocolat (2000), Finding Neverland (2004) and Public Enemies (2009), and continued his commercially successful collaboration with Burton with the films Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005), Corpse Bride (2005), Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007), and Alice in Wonderland (2010).	What film series did you become commercially successful with in the 2000s?	I became commercially successful with the film series Pirates of the Caribbean.
In the 2000s, Depp became one of the most commercially successful film stars by playing Captain Jack Sparrow in the Walt Disney swashbuckler film series Pirates of the Caribbean (2003–2017). He also received acclaim for Chocolat (2000), Finding Neverland (2004) and Public Enemies (2009), and continued his commercially successful collaboration with Burton with the films Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005), Corpse Bride (2005), Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007), and Alice in Wonderland (2010).	What are some films that you received acclaim for in the 2000s?	I received acclaim for Chocolat, Finding Neverland, and Public Enemies.
In the 2000s, Depp became one of the most commercially successful film stars by playing Captain Jack Sparrow in the Walt Disney swashbuckler film series Pirates of the Caribbean (2003–2017). He also received acclaim for Chocolat (2000), Finding Neverland (2004) and Public Enemies (2009), and continued his commercially successful collaboration with Burton with the films Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005), Corpse Bride (2005), Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007), and Alice in Wonderland (2010).	Who did you collaborate with for multiple commercially successful films in the 2000s?	I collaborated with Burton for multiple commercially successful films.
In the 2000s, Depp became one of the most commercially successful film stars by playing Captain Jack Sparrow in the Walt Disney swashbuckler film series Pirates of the Caribbean (2003–2017). He also received acclaim for Chocolat (2000), Finding Neverland (2004) and Public Enemies (2009), and continued his commercially successful collaboration with Burton with the films Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005), Corpse Bride (2005), Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007), and Alice in Wonderland (2010).	What are some of the films in which you and Burton collaborated in the 2000s?	I and Burton collaborated in the films Charlie and the Chocolate Factory, Corpse Bride, Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street, and Alice in Wonderland.
In the 2000s, Depp became one of the most commercially successful film stars by playing Captain Jack Sparrow in the Walt Disney swashbuckler film series Pirates of the Caribbean (2003–2017). He also received acclaim for Chocolat (2000), Finding Neverland (2004) and Public Enemies (2009), and continued his commercially successful collaboration with Burton with the films Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (2005), Corpse Bride (2005), Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (2007), and Alice in Wonderland (2010).	Name a commercially successful film in which you played Captain Jack Sparrow.	I played Captain Jack Sparrow in the film series Pirates of the Caribbean.
In 2012, Depp was one of the world's biggest film stars, and was listed by the Guinness World Records as the world's highest-paid actor, with earnings of US$75 million in a year. During the 2010s, Depp began producing films through his company Infinitum Nihil. He also received acclaim for Black Mass (2015) and formed the rock supergroup Hollywood Vampires with Alice Cooper and Joe Perry, before starring as Gellert Grindelwald in the Wizarding World films Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (2016) and Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald (2018).	When were you listed as the world's highest-paid actor?	In 2012.
In 2012, Depp was one of the world's biggest film stars, and was listed by the Guinness World Records as the world's highest-paid actor, with earnings of US$75 million in a year. During the 2010s, Depp began producing films through his company Infinitum Nihil. He also received acclaim for Black Mass (2015) and formed the rock supergroup Hollywood Vampires with Alice Cooper and Joe Perry, before starring as Gellert Grindelwald in the Wizarding World films Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (2016) and Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald (2018).	How much did you earn in a year according to the Guinness World Records?	I earned US$75 million in a year.
In 2012, Depp was one of the world's biggest film stars, and was listed by the Guinness World Records as the world's highest-paid actor, with earnings of US$75 million in a year. During the 2010s, Depp began producing films through his company Infinitum Nihil. He also received acclaim for Black Mass (2015) and formed the rock supergroup Hollywood Vampires with Alice Cooper and Joe Perry, before starring as Gellert Grindelwald in the Wizarding World films Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (2016) and Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald (2018).	What did you begin producing through your company Infinitum Nihil during the 2010s?	I began producing films through my company Infinitum Nihil.
In 2012, Depp was one of the world's biggest film stars, and was listed by the Guinness World Records as the world's highest-paid actor, with earnings of US$75 million in a year. During the 2010s, Depp began producing films through his company Infinitum Nihil. He also received acclaim for Black Mass (2015) and formed the rock supergroup Hollywood Vampires with Alice Cooper and Joe Perry, before starring as Gellert Grindelwald in the Wizarding World films Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (2016) and Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald (2018).	For which film did you receive acclaim in 2015?	I received acclaim for Black Mass in 2015.
In 2012, Depp was one of the world's biggest film stars, and was listed by the Guinness World Records as the world's highest-paid actor, with earnings of US$75 million in a year. During the 2010s, Depp began producing films through his company Infinitum Nihil. He also received acclaim for Black Mass (2015) and formed the rock supergroup Hollywood Vampires with Alice Cooper and Joe Perry, before starring as Gellert Grindelwald in the Wizarding World films Fantastic Beasts and Where to Find Them (2016) and Fantastic Beasts: The Crimes of Grindelwald (2018).	Which rock supergroup did you form with Alice Cooper and Joe Perry?	I formed the rock supergroup Hollywood Vampires with Alice Cooper and Joe Perry.
Between 1998 and 2012, Depp was in a relationship with the French singer Vanessa Paradis, with whom he had two children, including the actress Lily-Rose Depp. From 2015 to 2017, Depp was married to the actress Amber Heard. Their divorce drew media attention, as both alleged abuse against each other and both engaged in highly publicized defamation cases.	Who were you in a relationship with between 1998 and 2012?	I was in a relationship with the French singer Vanessa Paradis.
Between 1998 and 2012, Depp was in a relationship with the French singer Vanessa Paradis, with whom he had two children, including the actress Lily-Rose Depp. From 2015 to 2017, Depp was married to the actress Amber Heard. Their divorce drew media attention, as both alleged abuse against each other and both engaged in highly publicized defamation cases.	How many children do you have with Vanessa Paradis?	I have two children with Vanessa Paradis.
Between 1998 and 2012, Depp was in a relationship with the French singer Vanessa Paradis, with whom he had two children, including the actress Lily-Rose Depp. From 2015 to 2017, Depp was married to the actress Amber Heard. Their divorce drew media attention, as both alleged abuse against each other and both engaged in highly publicized defamation cases.	Who is the actress that is your daughter?	Lily-Rose Depp is the actress who is my daughter.
Between 1998 and 2012, Depp was in a relationship with the French singer Vanessa Paradis, with whom he had two children, including the actress Lily-Rose Depp. From 2015 to 2017, Depp was married to the actress Amber Heard. Their divorce drew media attention, as both alleged abuse against each other and both engaged in highly publicized defamation cases.	Who were you married to from 2015 to 2017?	I was married to the actress Amber Heard from 2015 to 2017.
Between 1998 and 2012, Depp was in a relationship with the French singer Vanessa Paradis, with whom he had two children, including the actress Lily-Rose Depp. From 2015 to 2017, Depp was married to the actress Amber Heard. Their divorce drew media attention, as both alleged abuse against each other and both engaged in highly publicized defamation cases.	What drew media attention during your divorce from Amber Heard?	My divorce drew media attention as both alleged abuse against each other and both engaged in highly publicized defamation cases.
John Christopher Depp II was born on June 9, 1963, in Owensboro, Kentucky, the youngest of four children of waitress Betty Sue Depp (née Wells; later Palmer) and civil engineer John Christopher Depp. Depp's family moved frequently during his childhood, eventually settling in Miramar, Florida, in 1970. His parents divorced in 1978 when he was 15, and his mother later married Robert Palmer, whom Depp has called "an inspiration".	When and where were you born?	I was born on June 9, 1963, in Owensboro, Kentucky.
John Christopher Depp II was born on June 9, 1963, in Owensboro, Kentucky, the youngest of four children of waitress Betty Sue Depp (née Wells; later Palmer) and civil engineer John Christopher Depp. Depp's family moved frequently during his childhood, eventually settling in Miramar, Florida, in 1970. His parents divorced in 1978 when he was 15, and his mother later married Robert Palmer, whom Depp has called "an inspiration".	How many siblings do you have?	I am the youngest of four children.
John Christopher Depp II was born on June 9, 1963, in Owensboro, Kentucky, the youngest of four children of waitress Betty Sue Depp (née Wells; later Palmer) and civil engineer John Christopher Depp. Depp's family moved frequently during his childhood, eventually settling in Miramar, Florida, in 1970. His parents divorced in 1978 when he was 15, and his mother later married Robert Palmer, whom Depp has called "an inspiration".	Where did your family settle in 1970?	My family settled in Miramar, Florida, in 1970.
John Christopher Depp II was born on June 9, 1963, in Owensboro, Kentucky, the youngest of four children of waitress Betty Sue Depp (née Wells; later Palmer) and civil engineer John Christopher Depp. Depp's family moved frequently during his childhood, eventually settling in Miramar, Florida, in 1970. His parents divorced in 1978 when he was 15, and his mother later married Robert Palmer, whom Depp has called "an inspiration".	When did your parents divorce?	My parents divorced in 1978 when I was 15 years old.
John Christopher Depp II was born on June 9, 1963, in Owensboro, Kentucky, the youngest of four children of waitress Betty Sue Depp (née Wells; later Palmer) and civil engineer John Christopher Depp. Depp's family moved frequently during his childhood, eventually settling in Miramar, Florida, in 1970. His parents divorced in 1978 when he was 15, and his mother later married Robert Palmer, whom Depp has called "an inspiration".	Who did your mother later marry?	My mother later married Robert Palmer, whom I have called "an inspiration".
Depp's mother gave him a guitar when he was 12, and he began playing in various bands. He dropped out of Miramar High School at 16 in 1979 to become a rock musician. He attempted to go back to school two weeks later, but the principal told him to follow his dream of being a musician. In 1980, Depp began playing in a band called The Kids. After modest local success in Florida, the band moved to Los Angeles in pursuit of a record deal, changing its name to Six Gun Method. In addition to the band, Depp worked a variety of odd jobs, such as in telemarketing. In December 1983, Depp married makeup artist Lori Anne Allison, the sister of his band's bassist and singer. The Kids split up before signing a record deal in 1984, and Depp began collaborating with the band Rock City Angels. He co-wrote their song "Mary", which appeared on their debut Geffen Records album Young Man's Blues. Depp and Allison divorced in 1985.	When did your mother give you a guitar?	My mother gave me a guitar when I was 12.
Depp's mother gave him a guitar when he was 12, and he began playing in various bands. He dropped out of Miramar High School at 16 in 1979 to become a rock musician. He attempted to go back to school two weeks later, but the principal told him to follow his dream of being a musician. In 1980, Depp began playing in a band called The Kids. After modest local success in Florida, the band moved to Los Angeles in pursuit of a record deal, changing its name to Six Gun Method. In addition to the band, Depp worked a variety of odd jobs, such as in telemarketing. In December 1983, Depp married makeup artist Lori Anne Allison, the sister of his band's bassist and singer. The Kids split up before signing a record deal in 1984, and Depp began collaborating with the band Rock City Angels. He co-wrote their song "Mary", which appeared on their debut Geffen Records album Young Man's Blues. Depp and Allison divorced in 1985.	When did you drop out of Miramar High School?	I dropped out of Miramar High School at 16 in 1979.
Depp's mother gave him a guitar when he was 12, and he began playing in various bands. He dropped out of Miramar High School at 16 in 1979 to become a rock musician. He attempted to go back to school two weeks later, but the principal told him to follow his dream of being a musician. In 1980, Depp began playing in a band called The Kids. After modest local success in Florida, the band moved to Los Angeles in pursuit of a record deal, changing its name to Six Gun Method. In addition to the band, Depp worked a variety of odd jobs, such as in telemarketing. In December 1983, Depp married makeup artist Lori Anne Allison, the sister of his band's bassist and singer. The Kids split up before signing a record deal in 1984, and Depp began collaborating with the band Rock City Angels. He co-wrote their song "Mary", which appeared on their debut Geffen Records album Young Man's Blues. Depp and Allison divorced in 1985.	Did you try to go back to school after dropping out?	Yes, I attempted to go back to school two weeks later.
Depp's mother gave him a guitar when he was 12, and he began playing in various bands. He dropped out of Miramar High School at 16 in 1979 to become a rock musician. He attempted to go back to school two weeks later, but the principal told him to follow his dream of being a musician. In 1980, Depp began playing in a band called The Kids. After modest local success in Florida, the band moved to Los Angeles in pursuit of a record deal, changing its name to Six Gun Method. In addition to the band, Depp worked a variety of odd jobs, such as in telemarketing. In December 1983, Depp married makeup artist Lori Anne Allison, the sister of his band's bassist and singer. The Kids split up before signing a record deal in 1984, and Depp began collaborating with the band Rock City Angels. He co-wrote their song "Mary", which appeared on their debut Geffen Records album Young Man's Blues. Depp and Allison divorced in 1985.	What was your band called when you moved to Los Angeles?	My band was called Six Gun Method when I moved to Los Angeles.
Depp's mother gave him a guitar when he was 12, and he began playing in various bands. He dropped out of Miramar High School at 16 in 1979 to become a rock musician. He attempted to go back to school two weeks later, but the principal told him to follow his dream of being a musician. In 1980, Depp began playing in a band called The Kids. After modest local success in Florida, the band moved to Los Angeles in pursuit of a record deal, changing its name to Six Gun Method. In addition to the band, Depp worked a variety of odd jobs, such as in telemarketing. In December 1983, Depp married makeup artist Lori Anne Allison, the sister of his band's bassist and singer. The Kids split up before signing a record deal in 1984, and Depp began collaborating with the band Rock City Angels. He co-wrote their song "Mary", which appeared on their debut Geffen Records album Young Man's Blues. Depp and Allison divorced in 1985.	When did you marry makeup artist Lori Anne Allison?	I married makeup artist Lori Anne Allison in December 1983.
Depp is of primarily English descent, with some French, German, and Irish ancestry. His surname comes from a French Huguenot immigrant, Pierre Dieppe, who settled in Virginia around 1700. In interviews in 2002 and 2011, Depp claimed to have Native American ancestry, saying: "I guess I have some Native American somewhere down the line. My great-grandmother was quite a bit of Native American. She grew up Cherokee or maybe Creek Indian. Makes sense in terms of coming from Kentucky, which is rife with Cherokee and Creek Indian". Depp's claims came under scrutiny when Indian Country Today wrote that Depp had never inquired about his heritage or been recognized as a member of the Cherokee Nation. This led to criticism of Depp by the Native American community, as Depp has no documented Native ancestry, and Native community leaders consider him "a non-Indian" and a pretendian. Depp's choice to portray Tonto, a Native American character, in The Lone Ranger was criticized, along with his choice to name his rock band "Tonto's Giant Nuts". During the promotion for The Lone Ranger, Depp was formally adopted as an honorary son by LaDonna Harris, a member of the Comanche Nation, making him an honorary member of her family but not a member of any tribe. Depp's Comanche name given at the adoption was "Mah Woo May", which means shape shifter. Critical response to his claims from the Native community increased after this, including satirical portrayals of Depp by Native comedians. An ad featuring Depp and Native American imagery, by Dior for the fragrance "Sauvage", was pulled in 2019 after being accused of cultural appropriation and racism.	What is your ancestral background?	I am primarily of English descent, with some French, German, and Irish ancestry.
Depp is of primarily English descent, with some French, German, and Irish ancestry. His surname comes from a French Huguenot immigrant, Pierre Dieppe, who settled in Virginia around 1700. In interviews in 2002 and 2011, Depp claimed to have Native American ancestry, saying: "I guess I have some Native American somewhere down the line. My great-grandmother was quite a bit of Native American. She grew up Cherokee or maybe Creek Indian. Makes sense in terms of coming from Kentucky, which is rife with Cherokee and Creek Indian". Depp's claims came under scrutiny when Indian Country Today wrote that Depp had never inquired about his heritage or been recognized as a member of the Cherokee Nation. This led to criticism of Depp by the Native American community, as Depp has no documented Native ancestry, and Native community leaders consider him "a non-Indian" and a pretendian. Depp's choice to portray Tonto, a Native American character, in The Lone Ranger was criticized, along with his choice to name his rock band "Tonto's Giant Nuts". During the promotion for The Lone Ranger, Depp was formally adopted as an honorary son by LaDonna Harris, a member of the Comanche Nation, making him an honorary member of her family but not a member of any tribe. Depp's Comanche name given at the adoption was "Mah Woo May", which means shape shifter. Critical response to his claims from the Native community increased after this, including satirical portrayals of Depp by Native comedians. An ad featuring Depp and Native American imagery, by Dior for the fragrance "Sauvage", was pulled in 2019 after being accused of cultural appropriation and racism.	Why did you claim to have Native American ancestry?	I claimed to have Native American ancestry because my great-grandmother was believed to be Cherokee or Creek Indian.
Depp is of primarily English descent, with some French, German, and Irish ancestry. His surname comes from a French Huguenot immigrant, Pierre Dieppe, who settled in Virginia around 1700. In interviews in 2002 and 2011, Depp claimed to have Native American ancestry, saying: "I guess I have some Native American somewhere down the line. My great-grandmother was quite a bit of Native American. She grew up Cherokee or maybe Creek Indian. Makes sense in terms of coming from Kentucky, which is rife with Cherokee and Creek Indian". Depp's claims came under scrutiny when Indian Country Today wrote that Depp had never inquired about his heritage or been recognized as a member of the Cherokee Nation. This led to criticism of Depp by the Native American community, as Depp has no documented Native ancestry, and Native community leaders consider him "a non-Indian" and a pretendian. Depp's choice to portray Tonto, a Native American character, in The Lone Ranger was criticized, along with his choice to name his rock band "Tonto's Giant Nuts". During the promotion for The Lone Ranger, Depp was formally adopted as an honorary son by LaDonna Harris, a member of the Comanche Nation, making him an honorary member of her family but not a member of any tribe. Depp's Comanche name given at the adoption was "Mah Woo May", which means shape shifter. Critical response to his claims from the Native community increased after this, including satirical portrayals of Depp by Native comedians. An ad featuring Depp and Native American imagery, by Dior for the fragrance "Sauvage", was pulled in 2019 after being accused of cultural appropriation and racism.	What scrutiny did your claims about your Native American heritage face?	My claims faced scrutiny from the Native American community, particularly when it was revealed that I had never inquired about my heritage or been recognized as a member of the Cherokee Nation.
Depp is of primarily English descent, with some French, German, and Irish ancestry. His surname comes from a French Huguenot immigrant, Pierre Dieppe, who settled in Virginia around 1700. In interviews in 2002 and 2011, Depp claimed to have Native American ancestry, saying: "I guess I have some Native American somewhere down the line. My great-grandmother was quite a bit of Native American. She grew up Cherokee or maybe Creek Indian. Makes sense in terms of coming from Kentucky, which is rife with Cherokee and Creek Indian". Depp's claims came under scrutiny when Indian Country Today wrote that Depp had never inquired about his heritage or been recognized as a member of the Cherokee Nation. This led to criticism of Depp by the Native American community, as Depp has no documented Native ancestry, and Native community leaders consider him "a non-Indian" and a pretendian. Depp's choice to portray Tonto, a Native American character, in The Lone Ranger was criticized, along with his choice to name his rock band "Tonto's Giant Nuts". During the promotion for The Lone Ranger, Depp was formally adopted as an honorary son by LaDonna Harris, a member of the Comanche Nation, making him an honorary member of her family but not a member of any tribe. Depp's Comanche name given at the adoption was "Mah Woo May", which means shape shifter. Critical response to his claims from the Native community increased after this, including satirical portrayals of Depp by Native comedians. An ad featuring Depp and Native American imagery, by Dior for the fragrance "Sauvage", was pulled in 2019 after being accused of cultural appropriation and racism.	How were you criticized by the Native American community regarding your portrayal of Tonto in The Lone Ranger?	I was criticized by the Native American community for my choice to portray a Native American character and for naming my rock band "Tonto's Giant Nuts."
Depp is of primarily English descent, with some French, German, and Irish ancestry. His surname comes from a French Huguenot immigrant, Pierre Dieppe, who settled in Virginia around 1700. In interviews in 2002 and 2011, Depp claimed to have Native American ancestry, saying: "I guess I have some Native American somewhere down the line. My great-grandmother was quite a bit of Native American. She grew up Cherokee or maybe Creek Indian. Makes sense in terms of coming from Kentucky, which is rife with Cherokee and Creek Indian". Depp's claims came under scrutiny when Indian Country Today wrote that Depp had never inquired about his heritage or been recognized as a member of the Cherokee Nation. This led to criticism of Depp by the Native American community, as Depp has no documented Native ancestry, and Native community leaders consider him "a non-Indian" and a pretendian. Depp's choice to portray Tonto, a Native American character, in The Lone Ranger was criticized, along with his choice to name his rock band "Tonto's Giant Nuts". During the promotion for The Lone Ranger, Depp was formally adopted as an honorary son by LaDonna Harris, a member of the Comanche Nation, making him an honorary member of her family but not a member of any tribe. Depp's Comanche name given at the adoption was "Mah Woo May", which means shape shifter. Critical response to his claims from the Native community increased after this, including satirical portrayals of Depp by Native comedians. An ad featuring Depp and Native American imagery, by Dior for the fragrance "Sauvage", was pulled in 2019 after being accused of cultural appropriation and racism.	What honorary title did you receive from LaDonna Harris?	I was formally adopted as an honorary son by LaDonna Harris, a member of the Comanche Nation, and was given the Comanche name "Mah Woo May," which means shape shifter.
Depp moved to Los Angeles with his band when he was 20. After the band split up, Depp's then-wife Lori Ann Allison introduced him to actor Nicolas Cage. After they became drinking buddies, Cage advised him to pursue acting. Depp had been interested in acting since reading a biography of James Dean and watching Rebel Without a Cause. Cage helped Depp get an audition with Wes Craven for A Nightmare on Elm Street; Depp, who had no acting experience, said he "ended up acting by accident". Thanks in part to his catching the eye of Craven's daughter, Depp landed the role of the main character's boyfriend, one of Freddy Krueger's victims.	When did you move to Los Angeles?	I moved to Los Angeles when I was 20.
Depp moved to Los Angeles with his band when he was 20. After the band split up, Depp's then-wife Lori Ann Allison introduced him to actor Nicolas Cage. After they became drinking buddies, Cage advised him to pursue acting. Depp had been interested in acting since reading a biography of James Dean and watching Rebel Without a Cause. Cage helped Depp get an audition with Wes Craven for A Nightmare on Elm Street; Depp, who had no acting experience, said he "ended up acting by accident". Thanks in part to his catching the eye of Craven's daughter, Depp landed the role of the main character's boyfriend, one of Freddy Krueger's victims.	Who introduced you to actor Nicolas Cage?	My then-wife Lori Ann Allison introduced me to actor Nicolas Cage.
Depp moved to Los Angeles with his band when he was 20. After the band split up, Depp's then-wife Lori Ann Allison introduced him to actor Nicolas Cage. After they became drinking buddies, Cage advised him to pursue acting. Depp had been interested in acting since reading a biography of James Dean and watching Rebel Without a Cause. Cage helped Depp get an audition with Wes Craven for A Nightmare on Elm Street; Depp, who had no acting experience, said he "ended up acting by accident". Thanks in part to his catching the eye of Craven's daughter, Depp landed the role of the main character's boyfriend, one of Freddy Krueger's victims.	How did you become interested in acting?	I became interested in acting after reading a biography of James Dean and watching Rebel Without a Cause.
Depp moved to Los Angeles with his band when he was 20. After the band split up, Depp's then-wife Lori Ann Allison introduced him to actor Nicolas Cage. After they became drinking buddies, Cage advised him to pursue acting. Depp had been interested in acting since reading a biography of James Dean and watching Rebel Without a Cause. Cage helped Depp get an audition with Wes Craven for A Nightmare on Elm Street; Depp, who had no acting experience, said he "ended up acting by accident". Thanks in part to his catching the eye of Craven's daughter, Depp landed the role of the main character's boyfriend, one of Freddy Krueger's victims.	How did you help me in pursuing acting?	You advised me to pursue acting and helped me get an audition with Wes Craven for A Nightmare on Elm Street.
Depp moved to Los Angeles with his band when he was 20. After the band split up, Depp's then-wife Lori Ann Allison introduced him to actor Nicolas Cage. After they became drinking buddies, Cage advised him to pursue acting. Depp had been interested in acting since reading a biography of James Dean and watching Rebel Without a Cause. Cage helped Depp get an audition with Wes Craven for A Nightmare on Elm Street; Depp, who had no acting experience, said he "ended up acting by accident". Thanks in part to his catching the eye of Craven's daughter, Depp landed the role of the main character's boyfriend, one of Freddy Krueger's victims.	How did you get the role in A Nightmare on Elm Street?	I, who had no acting experience, landed the role of the main character's boyfriend, one of Freddy Krueger's victims, thanks in part to catching the eye of Wes Craven's daughter.
Though Depp said he "didn't have any desire to be an actor", he continued to be cast in films, making enough to cover some bills that his musical career left unpaid. After a starring role in the 1985 comedy Private Resort, Depp was cast in the lead role of the 1986 skating drama Thrashin' by the film's director, but its producer overrode the decision. Instead, Depp appeared in a minor supporting role as a Vietnamese-speaking private in Oliver Stone's 1986 Vietnam War drama Platoon. He became a teen idol during the late 1980s, when he starred as an undercover police officer in a high school operation in the Fox television series 21 Jump Street, which premiered in 1987. He accepted this role to work with actor Frederic Forrest, who inspired him. Despite his success, Depp felt that the series "forced [him] into the role of product".	What was the reason behind your decision to continue acting despite not having any desire for it?	I continued to be cast in films to cover some bills that my musical career left unpaid.
Though Depp said he "didn't have any desire to be an actor", he continued to be cast in films, making enough to cover some bills that his musical career left unpaid. After a starring role in the 1985 comedy Private Resort, Depp was cast in the lead role of the 1986 skating drama Thrashin' by the film's director, but its producer overrode the decision. Instead, Depp appeared in a minor supporting role as a Vietnamese-speaking private in Oliver Stone's 1986 Vietnam War drama Platoon. He became a teen idol during the late 1980s, when he starred as an undercover police officer in a high school operation in the Fox television series 21 Jump Street, which premiered in 1987. He accepted this role to work with actor Frederic Forrest, who inspired him. Despite his success, Depp felt that the series "forced [him] into the role of product".	Why did you only appear in a minor supporting role in the film "Platoon"?	The decision for me to have a minor supporting role in "Platoon" was overridden by the film's producer.
Though Depp said he "didn't have any desire to be an actor", he continued to be cast in films, making enough to cover some bills that his musical career left unpaid. After a starring role in the 1985 comedy Private Resort, Depp was cast in the lead role of the 1986 skating drama Thrashin' by the film's director, but its producer overrode the decision. Instead, Depp appeared in a minor supporting role as a Vietnamese-speaking private in Oliver Stone's 1986 Vietnam War drama Platoon. He became a teen idol during the late 1980s, when he starred as an undercover police officer in a high school operation in the Fox television series 21 Jump Street, which premiered in 1987. He accepted this role to work with actor Frederic Forrest, who inspired him. Despite his success, Depp felt that the series "forced [him] into the role of product".	In which television series did you become a teen idol during the late 1980s?	I became a teen idol in the Fox television series "21 Jump Street", which premiered in 1987.
Though Depp said he "didn't have any desire to be an actor", he continued to be cast in films, making enough to cover some bills that his musical career left unpaid. After a starring role in the 1985 comedy Private Resort, Depp was cast in the lead role of the 1986 skating drama Thrashin' by the film's director, but its producer overrode the decision. Instead, Depp appeared in a minor supporting role as a Vietnamese-speaking private in Oliver Stone's 1986 Vietnam War drama Platoon. He became a teen idol during the late 1980s, when he starred as an undercover police officer in a high school operation in the Fox television series 21 Jump Street, which premiered in 1987. He accepted this role to work with actor Frederic Forrest, who inspired him. Despite his success, Depp felt that the series "forced [him] into the role of product".	Who inspired you to accept the role in "21 Jump Street"?	I accepted the role to work with actor Frederic Forrest, who inspired me.
Though Depp said he "didn't have any desire to be an actor", he continued to be cast in films, making enough to cover some bills that his musical career left unpaid. After a starring role in the 1985 comedy Private Resort, Depp was cast in the lead role of the 1986 skating drama Thrashin' by the film's director, but its producer overrode the decision. Instead, Depp appeared in a minor supporting role as a Vietnamese-speaking private in Oliver Stone's 1986 Vietnam War drama Platoon. He became a teen idol during the late 1980s, when he starred as an undercover police officer in a high school operation in the Fox television series 21 Jump Street, which premiered in 1987. He accepted this role to work with actor Frederic Forrest, who inspired him. Despite his success, Depp felt that the series "forced [him] into the role of product".	How did you feel about your success in "21 Jump Street"?	Despite my success, I felt that the series "forced me into the role of product".
Disillusioned by his experiences as a teen idol in 21 Jump Street , Depp began taking roles he found more interesting , rather than those he thought would succeed at the box office . His first film release in 1990 was John Waters ' s Cry - Baby , a musical comedy set in the 1950s . Although not a box - office success upon its release , over the years it has gained cult classic status . Also in 1990 , Depp played the title character in Tim Burton ' s romantic fantasy film Edward Scissorhands opposite Dianne Wiest and Winona Ryder . The film was a commercial and critical success with a domestic gross of $ 53 million . In preparation for the role , Depp watched many Charlie Chaplin films to study how to create sympathy without dialogue . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised Depp ' s performance , writing that he " artfully expresses the fierce longing in gentle Edward ; it ' s a terrific performance " , while Rita Kempley of The Washington Post wrote that he " brings the eloquence of the silent era to this part of few words , saying it all through bright black eyes and the tremulous care with which he holds his horror - movie hands " . Depp earned his first Golden Globe nomination for the film . Owing to this role , a species of extinct arthropod with prominent claws was named after Depp as Kootenichela deppi ( chela is Latin for claws or scissors ) .	What was your first film release in 1990?	My first film in 1990 was John Waters's Cry-Baby.
Disillusioned by his experiences as a teen idol in 21 Jump Street , Depp began taking roles he found more interesting , rather than those he thought would succeed at the box office . His first film release in 1990 was John Waters ' s Cry - Baby , a musical comedy set in the 1950s . Although not a box - office success upon its release , over the years it has gained cult classic status . Also in 1990 , Depp played the title character in Tim Burton ' s romantic fantasy film Edward Scissorhands opposite Dianne Wiest and Winona Ryder . The film was a commercial and critical success with a domestic gross of $ 53 million . In preparation for the role , Depp watched many Charlie Chaplin films to study how to create sympathy without dialogue . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised Depp ' s performance , writing that he " artfully expresses the fierce longing in gentle Edward ; it ' s a terrific performance " , while Rita Kempley of The Washington Post wrote that he " brings the eloquence of the silent era to this part of few words , saying it all through bright black eyes and the tremulous care with which he holds his horror - movie hands " . Depp earned his first Golden Globe nomination for the film . Owing to this role , a species of extinct arthropod with prominent claws was named after Depp as Kootenichela deppi ( chela is Latin for claws or scissors ) .	Who directed the film Edward Scissorhands?	Tim Burton.
Disillusioned by his experiences as a teen idol in 21 Jump Street , Depp began taking roles he found more interesting , rather than those he thought would succeed at the box office . His first film release in 1990 was John Waters ' s Cry - Baby , a musical comedy set in the 1950s . Although not a box - office success upon its release , over the years it has gained cult classic status . Also in 1990 , Depp played the title character in Tim Burton ' s romantic fantasy film Edward Scissorhands opposite Dianne Wiest and Winona Ryder . The film was a commercial and critical success with a domestic gross of $ 53 million . In preparation for the role , Depp watched many Charlie Chaplin films to study how to create sympathy without dialogue . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised Depp ' s performance , writing that he " artfully expresses the fierce longing in gentle Edward ; it ' s a terrific performance " , while Rita Kempley of The Washington Post wrote that he " brings the eloquence of the silent era to this part of few words , saying it all through bright black eyes and the tremulous care with which he holds his horror - movie hands " . Depp earned his first Golden Globe nomination for the film . Owing to this role , a species of extinct arthropod with prominent claws was named after Depp as Kootenichela deppi ( chela is Latin for claws or scissors ) .	Who were your co-stars in Edward Scissorhands?	Dianne Wiest and Winona Ryder.
Disillusioned by his experiences as a teen idol in 21 Jump Street , Depp began taking roles he found more interesting , rather than those he thought would succeed at the box office . His first film release in 1990 was John Waters ' s Cry - Baby , a musical comedy set in the 1950s . Although not a box - office success upon its release , over the years it has gained cult classic status . Also in 1990 , Depp played the title character in Tim Burton ' s romantic fantasy film Edward Scissorhands opposite Dianne Wiest and Winona Ryder . The film was a commercial and critical success with a domestic gross of $ 53 million . In preparation for the role , Depp watched many Charlie Chaplin films to study how to create sympathy without dialogue . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised Depp ' s performance , writing that he " artfully expresses the fierce longing in gentle Edward ; it ' s a terrific performance " , while Rita Kempley of The Washington Post wrote that he " brings the eloquence of the silent era to this part of few words , saying it all through bright black eyes and the tremulous care with which he holds his horror - movie hands " . Depp earned his first Golden Globe nomination for the film . Owing to this role , a species of extinct arthropod with prominent claws was named after Depp as Kootenichela deppi ( chela is Latin for claws or scissors ) .	How did you prepare for your role in Edward Scissorhands?	I watched many Charlie Chaplin films to study how to create sympathy without dialogue.
Disillusioned by his experiences as a teen idol in 21 Jump Street , Depp began taking roles he found more interesting , rather than those he thought would succeed at the box office . His first film release in 1990 was John Waters ' s Cry - Baby , a musical comedy set in the 1950s . Although not a box - office success upon its release , over the years it has gained cult classic status . Also in 1990 , Depp played the title character in Tim Burton ' s romantic fantasy film Edward Scissorhands opposite Dianne Wiest and Winona Ryder . The film was a commercial and critical success with a domestic gross of $ 53 million . In preparation for the role , Depp watched many Charlie Chaplin films to study how to create sympathy without dialogue . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised Depp ' s performance , writing that he " artfully expresses the fierce longing in gentle Edward ; it ' s a terrific performance " , while Rita Kempley of The Washington Post wrote that he " brings the eloquence of the silent era to this part of few words , saying it all through bright black eyes and the tremulous care with which he holds his horror - movie hands " . Depp earned his first Golden Globe nomination for the film . Owing to this role , a species of extinct arthropod with prominent claws was named after Depp as Kootenichela deppi ( chela is Latin for claws or scissors ) .	What honor did you receive for your performance in Edward Scissorhands?	I earned my first Golden Globe nomination for the film.
In 1997 , Depp and Al Pacino starred in the crime drama Donnie Brasco , directed by Mike Newell . Depp played Joseph D . Pistone , an undercover FBI agent who assumes the name Donnie Brasco to infiltrate the Mafia in New York City . To prepare , Depp spent time with Pistone , on whose memoirs the film was based . Donnie Brasco was a commercial and critical success , and is considered one of Depp ' s finest performances . Also in 1997 , Depp debuted as a director and screenwriter with The Brave . He starred in it as a poor Native American man who accepts a proposal from a wealthy man , played by Marlon Brando , to appear in a snuff film in exchange for money for his family . It premiered at the 1997 Cannes Film Festival to generally negative reviews . Variety called it " a turgid and unbelievable neo - western " , and Time Out wrote that " besides the implausibilities , the direction has two fatal flaws : it ' s both tediously slow and hugely narcissistic as the camera focuses repeatedly on Depp ' s bandana ' d head and rippling torso " . Due to the reviews , Depp did not release The Brave in the U . S .	Who directed the crime drama Donnie Brasco?	The crime drama Donnie Brasco was directed by Mike Newell.
In 1997 , Depp and Al Pacino starred in the crime drama Donnie Brasco , directed by Mike Newell . Depp played Joseph D . Pistone , an undercover FBI agent who assumes the name Donnie Brasco to infiltrate the Mafia in New York City . To prepare , Depp spent time with Pistone , on whose memoirs the film was based . Donnie Brasco was a commercial and critical success , and is considered one of Depp ' s finest performances . Also in 1997 , Depp debuted as a director and screenwriter with The Brave . He starred in it as a poor Native American man who accepts a proposal from a wealthy man , played by Marlon Brando , to appear in a snuff film in exchange for money for his family . It premiered at the 1997 Cannes Film Festival to generally negative reviews . Variety called it " a turgid and unbelievable neo - western " , and Time Out wrote that " besides the implausibilities , the direction has two fatal flaws : it ' s both tediously slow and hugely narcissistic as the camera focuses repeatedly on Depp ' s bandana ' d head and rippling torso " . Due to the reviews , Depp did not release The Brave in the U . S .	Who did you play in Donnie Brasco?	I played the character Joseph D. Pistone, an undercover FBI agent.
In 1997 , Depp and Al Pacino starred in the crime drama Donnie Brasco , directed by Mike Newell . Depp played Joseph D . Pistone , an undercover FBI agent who assumes the name Donnie Brasco to infiltrate the Mafia in New York City . To prepare , Depp spent time with Pistone , on whose memoirs the film was based . Donnie Brasco was a commercial and critical success , and is considered one of Depp ' s finest performances . Also in 1997 , Depp debuted as a director and screenwriter with The Brave . He starred in it as a poor Native American man who accepts a proposal from a wealthy man , played by Marlon Brando , to appear in a snuff film in exchange for money for his family . It premiered at the 1997 Cannes Film Festival to generally negative reviews . Variety called it " a turgid and unbelievable neo - western " , and Time Out wrote that " besides the implausibilities , the direction has two fatal flaws : it ' s both tediously slow and hugely narcissistic as the camera focuses repeatedly on Depp ' s bandana ' d head and rippling torso " . Due to the reviews , Depp did not release The Brave in the U . S .	What is Donnie Brasco considered to be for your career?	Donnie Brasco is considered one of my finest performances.
In 1997 , Depp and Al Pacino starred in the crime drama Donnie Brasco , directed by Mike Newell . Depp played Joseph D . Pistone , an undercover FBI agent who assumes the name Donnie Brasco to infiltrate the Mafia in New York City . To prepare , Depp spent time with Pistone , on whose memoirs the film was based . Donnie Brasco was a commercial and critical success , and is considered one of Depp ' s finest performances . Also in 1997 , Depp debuted as a director and screenwriter with The Brave . He starred in it as a poor Native American man who accepts a proposal from a wealthy man , played by Marlon Brando , to appear in a snuff film in exchange for money for his family . It premiered at the 1997 Cannes Film Festival to generally negative reviews . Variety called it " a turgid and unbelievable neo - western " , and Time Out wrote that " besides the implausibilities , the direction has two fatal flaws : it ' s both tediously slow and hugely narcissistic as the camera focuses repeatedly on Depp ' s bandana ' d head and rippling torso " . Due to the reviews , Depp did not release The Brave in the U . S .	What negative comments does Variety make about The Brave?	Variety calls The Brave "a turgid and unbelievable neo-western".
In 1997 , Depp and Al Pacino starred in the crime drama Donnie Brasco , directed by Mike Newell . Depp played Joseph D . Pistone , an undercover FBI agent who assumes the name Donnie Brasco to infiltrate the Mafia in New York City . To prepare , Depp spent time with Pistone , on whose memoirs the film was based . Donnie Brasco was a commercial and critical success , and is considered one of Depp ' s finest performances . Also in 1997 , Depp debuted as a director and screenwriter with The Brave . He starred in it as a poor Native American man who accepts a proposal from a wealthy man , played by Marlon Brando , to appear in a snuff film in exchange for money for his family . It premiered at the 1997 Cannes Film Festival to generally negative reviews . Variety called it " a turgid and unbelievable neo - western " , and Time Out wrote that " besides the implausibilities , the direction has two fatal flaws : it ' s both tediously slow and hugely narcissistic as the camera focuses repeatedly on Depp ' s bandana ' d head and rippling torso " . Due to the reviews , Depp did not release The Brave in the U . S .	Why did you not release The Brave in the U.S.?	I did not release The Brave in the U.S. due to the negative reviews.
Depp appeared in three films in 1999 . The first was the sci - fi thriller The Astronaut ' s Wife , co - starring Charlize Theron , which was not a commercial or critical success . The second , Roman Polanski ' s The Ninth Gate , starred Depp as a seller of old books who becomes entangled in a mystery . It was moderately more successful with audiences but received mixed reviews . The third was Burton ' s adaptation of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , where Depp played Ichabod Crane opposite Christina Ricci and Christopher Walken . For his performance , Depp took inspiration from Angela Lansbury , Roddy McDowall and Basil Rathbone , saying he " always thought of Ichabod as a very delicate , fragile person who was maybe a little too in touch with his feminine side , like a frightened little girl " . Sleepy Hollow was a commercial and critical success .	How many films did you appear in 1999?	I appeared in three films in 1999.
Depp appeared in three films in 1999 . The first was the sci - fi thriller The Astronaut ' s Wife , co - starring Charlize Theron , which was not a commercial or critical success . The second , Roman Polanski ' s The Ninth Gate , starred Depp as a seller of old books who becomes entangled in a mystery . It was moderately more successful with audiences but received mixed reviews . The third was Burton ' s adaptation of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , where Depp played Ichabod Crane opposite Christina Ricci and Christopher Walken . For his performance , Depp took inspiration from Angela Lansbury , Roddy McDowall and Basil Rathbone , saying he " always thought of Ichabod as a very delicate , fragile person who was maybe a little too in touch with his feminine side , like a frightened little girl " . Sleepy Hollow was a commercial and critical success .	Who co-starred with you in the sci-fi thriller The Astronaut's Wife?	Charlize Theron co-starred with me in The Astronaut's Wife.
Depp appeared in three films in 1999 . The first was the sci - fi thriller The Astronaut ' s Wife , co - starring Charlize Theron , which was not a commercial or critical success . The second , Roman Polanski ' s The Ninth Gate , starred Depp as a seller of old books who becomes entangled in a mystery . It was moderately more successful with audiences but received mixed reviews . The third was Burton ' s adaptation of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , where Depp played Ichabod Crane opposite Christina Ricci and Christopher Walken . For his performance , Depp took inspiration from Angela Lansbury , Roddy McDowall and Basil Rathbone , saying he " always thought of Ichabod as a very delicate , fragile person who was maybe a little too in touch with his feminine side , like a frightened little girl " . Sleepy Hollow was a commercial and critical success .	How was The Astronaut's Wife received by audiences and critics?	The Astronaut's Wife was not a commercial or critical success.
Depp appeared in three films in 1999 . The first was the sci - fi thriller The Astronaut ' s Wife , co - starring Charlize Theron , which was not a commercial or critical success . The second , Roman Polanski ' s The Ninth Gate , starred Depp as a seller of old books who becomes entangled in a mystery . It was moderately more successful with audiences but received mixed reviews . The third was Burton ' s adaptation of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , where Depp played Ichabod Crane opposite Christina Ricci and Christopher Walken . For his performance , Depp took inspiration from Angela Lansbury , Roddy McDowall and Basil Rathbone , saying he " always thought of Ichabod as a very delicate , fragile person who was maybe a little too in touch with his feminine side , like a frightened little girl " . Sleepy Hollow was a commercial and critical success .	Who directed the film The Ninth Gate?	Roman Polanski directed The Ninth Gate.
Depp appeared in three films in 1999 . The first was the sci - fi thriller The Astronaut ' s Wife , co - starring Charlize Theron , which was not a commercial or critical success . The second , Roman Polanski ' s The Ninth Gate , starred Depp as a seller of old books who becomes entangled in a mystery . It was moderately more successful with audiences but received mixed reviews . The third was Burton ' s adaptation of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , where Depp played Ichabod Crane opposite Christina Ricci and Christopher Walken . For his performance , Depp took inspiration from Angela Lansbury , Roddy McDowall and Basil Rathbone , saying he " always thought of Ichabod as a very delicate , fragile person who was maybe a little too in touch with his feminine side , like a frightened little girl " . Sleepy Hollow was a commercial and critical success .	What was your character's profession in The Ninth Gate?	My character was a seller of old books in The Ninth Gate.
Depp appeared in three films in 1999 . The first was the sci - fi thriller The Astronaut ' s Wife , co - starring Charlize Theron , which was not a commercial or critical success . The second , Roman Polanski ' s The Ninth Gate , starred Depp as a seller of old books who becomes entangled in a mystery . It was moderately more successful with audiences but received mixed reviews . The third was Burton ' s adaptation of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , where Depp played Ichabod Crane opposite Christina Ricci and Christopher Walken . For his performance , Depp took inspiration from Angela Lansbury , Roddy McDowall and Basil Rathbone , saying he " always thought of Ichabod as a very delicate , fragile person who was maybe a little too in touch with his feminine side , like a frightened little girl " . Sleepy Hollow was a commercial and critical success .	How was The Ninth Gate received by audiences and critics?	The Ninth Gate was moderately more successful with audiences but received mixed reviews.
Depp appeared in three films in 1999 . The first was the sci - fi thriller The Astronaut ' s Wife , co - starring Charlize Theron , which was not a commercial or critical success . The second , Roman Polanski ' s The Ninth Gate , starred Depp as a seller of old books who becomes entangled in a mystery . It was moderately more successful with audiences but received mixed reviews . The third was Burton ' s adaptation of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , where Depp played Ichabod Crane opposite Christina Ricci and Christopher Walken . For his performance , Depp took inspiration from Angela Lansbury , Roddy McDowall and Basil Rathbone , saying he " always thought of Ichabod as a very delicate , fragile person who was maybe a little too in touch with his feminine side , like a frightened little girl " . Sleepy Hollow was a commercial and critical success .	Who did you play in Burton's adaptation of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow?	I played Ichabod Crane in The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.
Depp appeared in three films in 1999 . The first was the sci - fi thriller The Astronaut ' s Wife , co - starring Charlize Theron , which was not a commercial or critical success . The second , Roman Polanski ' s The Ninth Gate , starred Depp as a seller of old books who becomes entangled in a mystery . It was moderately more successful with audiences but received mixed reviews . The third was Burton ' s adaptation of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , where Depp played Ichabod Crane opposite Christina Ricci and Christopher Walken . For his performance , Depp took inspiration from Angela Lansbury , Roddy McDowall and Basil Rathbone , saying he " always thought of Ichabod as a very delicate , fragile person who was maybe a little too in touch with his feminine side , like a frightened little girl " . Sleepy Hollow was a commercial and critical success .	Who were your inspirations for your performance in The Legend of Sleepy Hollow?	I took inspiration from Angela Lansbury, Roddy McDowall, and Basil Rathbone.
Depp appeared in three films in 1999 . The first was the sci - fi thriller The Astronaut ' s Wife , co - starring Charlize Theron , which was not a commercial or critical success . The second , Roman Polanski ' s The Ninth Gate , starred Depp as a seller of old books who becomes entangled in a mystery . It was moderately more successful with audiences but received mixed reviews . The third was Burton ' s adaptation of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , where Depp played Ichabod Crane opposite Christina Ricci and Christopher Walken . For his performance , Depp took inspiration from Angela Lansbury , Roddy McDowall and Basil Rathbone , saying he " always thought of Ichabod as a very delicate , fragile person who was maybe a little too in touch with his feminine side , like a frightened little girl " . Sleepy Hollow was a commercial and critical success .	How do you describe your character Ichabod Crane in The Legend of Sleepy Hollow?	I described Ichabod Crane as a very delicate, fragile person who was maybe a little too in touch with his feminine side, like a frightened little girl.
Depp appeared in three films in 1999 . The first was the sci - fi thriller The Astronaut ' s Wife , co - starring Charlize Theron , which was not a commercial or critical success . The second , Roman Polanski ' s The Ninth Gate , starred Depp as a seller of old books who becomes entangled in a mystery . It was moderately more successful with audiences but received mixed reviews . The third was Burton ' s adaptation of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , where Depp played Ichabod Crane opposite Christina Ricci and Christopher Walken . For his performance , Depp took inspiration from Angela Lansbury , Roddy McDowall and Basil Rathbone , saying he " always thought of Ichabod as a very delicate , fragile person who was maybe a little too in touch with his feminine side , like a frightened little girl " . Sleepy Hollow was a commercial and critical success .	How was Sleepy Hollow received by audiences and critics?	Sleepy Hollow was a commercial and critical success.
Depp next starred as an author with writer ' s block in the thriller Secret Window ( 2004 ) , based on a short story by Stephen King . It was a moderate commercial success but received mixed reviews . Released around the same time , the British - Australian independent film The Libertine ( 2004 ) saw Depp portray the seventeenth - century poet and rake , the Earl of Rochester . It had only limited release , and received mainly negative reviews . Depp ' s third film of 2004 , Finding Neverland , was more positively received by the critics , and earned him his second Academy Award nomination as well as Golden Globe , BAFTA , and SAG nominations for his performance as Scottish author J . M . Barrie . Depp also made a brief cameo appearance in the French film Happily Ever After ( 2004 ) , and founded his own film production company , Infinitum Nihil , under Warner Bros . Pictures .	What did you star as in the thriller Secret Window?	I starred as an author with writer's block.
Depp next starred as an author with writer ' s block in the thriller Secret Window ( 2004 ) , based on a short story by Stephen King . It was a moderate commercial success but received mixed reviews . Released around the same time , the British - Australian independent film The Libertine ( 2004 ) saw Depp portray the seventeenth - century poet and rake , the Earl of Rochester . It had only limited release , and received mainly negative reviews . Depp ' s third film of 2004 , Finding Neverland , was more positively received by the critics , and earned him his second Academy Award nomination as well as Golden Globe , BAFTA , and SAG nominations for his performance as Scottish author J . M . Barrie . Depp also made a brief cameo appearance in the French film Happily Ever After ( 2004 ) , and founded his own film production company , Infinitum Nihil , under Warner Bros . Pictures .	Who wrote the short story that Secret Window was based on?	Secret Window was based on a short story by Stephen King.
Depp next starred as an author with writer ' s block in the thriller Secret Window ( 2004 ) , based on a short story by Stephen King . It was a moderate commercial success but received mixed reviews . Released around the same time , the British - Australian independent film The Libertine ( 2004 ) saw Depp portray the seventeenth - century poet and rake , the Earl of Rochester . It had only limited release , and received mainly negative reviews . Depp ' s third film of 2004 , Finding Neverland , was more positively received by the critics , and earned him his second Academy Award nomination as well as Golden Globe , BAFTA , and SAG nominations for his performance as Scottish author J . M . Barrie . Depp also made a brief cameo appearance in the French film Happily Ever After ( 2004 ) , and founded his own film production company , Infinitum Nihil , under Warner Bros . Pictures .	How was the reception of Secret Window?	Secret Window received mixed reviews but was a moderate commercial success.
Depp next starred as an author with writer ' s block in the thriller Secret Window ( 2004 ) , based on a short story by Stephen King . It was a moderate commercial success but received mixed reviews . Released around the same time , the British - Australian independent film The Libertine ( 2004 ) saw Depp portray the seventeenth - century poet and rake , the Earl of Rochester . It had only limited release , and received mainly negative reviews . Depp ' s third film of 2004 , Finding Neverland , was more positively received by the critics , and earned him his second Academy Award nomination as well as Golden Globe , BAFTA , and SAG nominations for his performance as Scottish author J . M . Barrie . Depp also made a brief cameo appearance in the French film Happily Ever After ( 2004 ) , and founded his own film production company , Infinitum Nihil , under Warner Bros . Pictures .	Who did you portray in the film The Libertine?	I portrayed the Earl of Rochester, a seventeenth-century poet and rake.
Depp next starred as an author with writer ' s block in the thriller Secret Window ( 2004 ) , based on a short story by Stephen King . It was a moderate commercial success but received mixed reviews . Released around the same time , the British - Australian independent film The Libertine ( 2004 ) saw Depp portray the seventeenth - century poet and rake , the Earl of Rochester . It had only limited release , and received mainly negative reviews . Depp ' s third film of 2004 , Finding Neverland , was more positively received by the critics , and earned him his second Academy Award nomination as well as Golden Globe , BAFTA , and SAG nominations for his performance as Scottish author J . M . Barrie . Depp also made a brief cameo appearance in the French film Happily Ever After ( 2004 ) , and founded his own film production company , Infinitum Nihil , under Warner Bros . Pictures .	How was the reception of The Libertine?	The Libertine received mainly negative reviews and had only limited release.
Depp ' s first 2011 film release was the animated film Rango , in which he voiced the title character , a lizard . It was a major critical and commercial success . His second film of the year , the fourth installment in the Pirates series , On Stranger Tides , was again a box office hit , becoming the third - highest - grossing film of 2011 . Later in 2011 , Depp released the first two projects co - produced by his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was a film adaptation of the novel The Rum Diary by Hunter S . Thompson and starred Depp . It failed to bring back its production costs and received mixed reviews . The company ' s second undertaking , Martin Scorsese ' s Hugo ( 2011 ) , garnered major critical acclaim and several awards nominations , but similarly did not perform well in the box office . In 2011 , Depp also made a brief cameo in the Adam Sandler film Jack and Jill .	What was your first film release in 2011?	My first film release in 2011 was the animated film Rango.
Depp ' s first 2011 film release was the animated film Rango , in which he voiced the title character , a lizard . It was a major critical and commercial success . His second film of the year , the fourth installment in the Pirates series , On Stranger Tides , was again a box office hit , becoming the third - highest - grossing film of 2011 . Later in 2011 , Depp released the first two projects co - produced by his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was a film adaptation of the novel The Rum Diary by Hunter S . Thompson and starred Depp . It failed to bring back its production costs and received mixed reviews . The company ' s second undertaking , Martin Scorsese ' s Hugo ( 2011 ) , garnered major critical acclaim and several awards nominations , but similarly did not perform well in the box office . In 2011 , Depp also made a brief cameo in the Adam Sandler film Jack and Jill .	What character did you voice in the film Rango?	I voiced the title character, a lizard, in the film Rango.
Depp ' s first 2011 film release was the animated film Rango , in which he voiced the title character , a lizard . It was a major critical and commercial success . His second film of the year , the fourth installment in the Pirates series , On Stranger Tides , was again a box office hit , becoming the third - highest - grossing film of 2011 . Later in 2011 , Depp released the first two projects co - produced by his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was a film adaptation of the novel The Rum Diary by Hunter S . Thompson and starred Depp . It failed to bring back its production costs and received mixed reviews . The company ' s second undertaking , Martin Scorsese ' s Hugo ( 2011 ) , garnered major critical acclaim and several awards nominations , but similarly did not perform well in the box office . In 2011 , Depp also made a brief cameo in the Adam Sandler film Jack and Jill .	Was the film Rango a critical and commercial success?	Yes, the film Rango was a major critical and commercial success.
Depp ' s first 2011 film release was the animated film Rango , in which he voiced the title character , a lizard . It was a major critical and commercial success . His second film of the year , the fourth installment in the Pirates series , On Stranger Tides , was again a box office hit , becoming the third - highest - grossing film of 2011 . Later in 2011 , Depp released the first two projects co - produced by his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was a film adaptation of the novel The Rum Diary by Hunter S . Thompson and starred Depp . It failed to bring back its production costs and received mixed reviews . The company ' s second undertaking , Martin Scorsese ' s Hugo ( 2011 ) , garnered major critical acclaim and several awards nominations , but similarly did not perform well in the box office . In 2011 , Depp also made a brief cameo in the Adam Sandler film Jack and Jill .	What was your second film release in 2011?	My second film release in 2011 was the fourth installment in the Pirates series, On Stranger Tides.
Depp ' s first 2011 film release was the animated film Rango , in which he voiced the title character , a lizard . It was a major critical and commercial success . His second film of the year , the fourth installment in the Pirates series , On Stranger Tides , was again a box office hit , becoming the third - highest - grossing film of 2011 . Later in 2011 , Depp released the first two projects co - produced by his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was a film adaptation of the novel The Rum Diary by Hunter S . Thompson and starred Depp . It failed to bring back its production costs and received mixed reviews . The company ' s second undertaking , Martin Scorsese ' s Hugo ( 2011 ) , garnered major critical acclaim and several awards nominations , but similarly did not perform well in the box office . In 2011 , Depp also made a brief cameo in the Adam Sandler film Jack and Jill .	How well did your film On Stranger Tides perform at the box office?	My film On Stranger Tides was a box office hit and became the third-highest-grossing film of 2011.
In 2015 , Depp appeared in two films produced by Infinitum Nihil . The first was comedy - thriller Mortdecai , in which he acted opposite Gwyneth Paltrow . The film was a critical and commercial failure and brought both stars Golden Raspberry nominations . The second film , Black Mass ( 2015 ) , in which he played Boston crime boss Whitey Bulger , was better received . Critics from The Hollywood Reporter and Variety called it one of Depp ' s best performances to date , and the role earned Depp his third nomination for the Best Actor SAG award . However , the film failed to bring back its production costs . Depp also made a cameo appearance in the critically panned London Fields , starring his then - wife Amber Heard , which was to be released in 2015 , but its general release was delayed by litigation until 2018 . In addition to his work in films in 2015 , French luxury fashion house Dior signed Depp as the face of their men ' s fragrance , Sauvage , and he was inducted as a Disney Legend .	In which films did you appear in 2015?	I appeared in Mortdecai and Black Mass in 2015.
In 2015 , Depp appeared in two films produced by Infinitum Nihil . The first was comedy - thriller Mortdecai , in which he acted opposite Gwyneth Paltrow . The film was a critical and commercial failure and brought both stars Golden Raspberry nominations . The second film , Black Mass ( 2015 ) , in which he played Boston crime boss Whitey Bulger , was better received . Critics from The Hollywood Reporter and Variety called it one of Depp ' s best performances to date , and the role earned Depp his third nomination for the Best Actor SAG award . However , the film failed to bring back its production costs . Depp also made a cameo appearance in the critically panned London Fields , starring his then - wife Amber Heard , which was to be released in 2015 , but its general release was delayed by litigation until 2018 . In addition to his work in films in 2015 , French luxury fashion house Dior signed Depp as the face of their men ' s fragrance , Sauvage , and he was inducted as a Disney Legend .	Who did you act opposite in the film Mortdecai?	I acted opposite Gwyneth Paltrow in the film Mortdecai.
In 2015 , Depp appeared in two films produced by Infinitum Nihil . The first was comedy - thriller Mortdecai , in which he acted opposite Gwyneth Paltrow . The film was a critical and commercial failure and brought both stars Golden Raspberry nominations . The second film , Black Mass ( 2015 ) , in which he played Boston crime boss Whitey Bulger , was better received . Critics from The Hollywood Reporter and Variety called it one of Depp ' s best performances to date , and the role earned Depp his third nomination for the Best Actor SAG award . However , the film failed to bring back its production costs . Depp also made a cameo appearance in the critically panned London Fields , starring his then - wife Amber Heard , which was to be released in 2015 , but its general release was delayed by litigation until 2018 . In addition to his work in films in 2015 , French luxury fashion house Dior signed Depp as the face of their men ' s fragrance , Sauvage , and he was inducted as a Disney Legend .	Did your film Mortdecai receive positive reviews?	No, my film Mortdecai was a critical and commercial failure.
In 2015 , Depp appeared in two films produced by Infinitum Nihil . The first was comedy - thriller Mortdecai , in which he acted opposite Gwyneth Paltrow . The film was a critical and commercial failure and brought both stars Golden Raspberry nominations . The second film , Black Mass ( 2015 ) , in which he played Boston crime boss Whitey Bulger , was better received . Critics from The Hollywood Reporter and Variety called it one of Depp ' s best performances to date , and the role earned Depp his third nomination for the Best Actor SAG award . However , the film failed to bring back its production costs . Depp also made a cameo appearance in the critically panned London Fields , starring his then - wife Amber Heard , which was to be released in 2015 , but its general release was delayed by litigation until 2018 . In addition to his work in films in 2015 , French luxury fashion house Dior signed Depp as the face of their men ' s fragrance , Sauvage , and he was inducted as a Disney Legend .	Which film did you play Boston crime boss Whitey Bulger?	I played Boston crime boss Whitey Bulger in the film Black Mass.
In 2015 , Depp appeared in two films produced by Infinitum Nihil . The first was comedy - thriller Mortdecai , in which he acted opposite Gwyneth Paltrow . The film was a critical and commercial failure and brought both stars Golden Raspberry nominations . The second film , Black Mass ( 2015 ) , in which he played Boston crime boss Whitey Bulger , was better received . Critics from The Hollywood Reporter and Variety called it one of Depp ' s best performances to date , and the role earned Depp his third nomination for the Best Actor SAG award . However , the film failed to bring back its production costs . Depp also made a cameo appearance in the critically panned London Fields , starring his then - wife Amber Heard , which was to be released in 2015 , but its general release was delayed by litigation until 2018 . In addition to his work in films in 2015 , French luxury fashion house Dior signed Depp as the face of their men ' s fragrance , Sauvage , and he was inducted as a Disney Legend .	What nomination did you receive for your role in Black Mass?	I received my third nomination for the Best Actor SAG award for my role in Black Mass.
In 2018 , Depp voiced the title character Sherlock Gnomes in the animated movie Gnomeo & Juliet : Sherlock Gnomes . Although moderately commercially successful , it was critically panned and earned Depp two Golden Raspberry nominations , one for his acting and another for his " fast - fading film career " . Depp then starred in two independent films , both produced by him and his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was City of Lies , in which he starred as Russell Poole , an LAPD detective who attempts to solve the murders of rappers Tupac Shakur and The Notorious B . I . G . It was set for release in September 2018 , but was pulled from the release schedule after a crew member sued Depp for assault . The second film was the comedy - drama Richard Says Goodbye , in which Depp played a professor with terminal cancer . It premiered at the Zurich Film Festival in October 2018 . Depp ' s last film release of 2018 was Fantastic Beasts : The Crimes of Grindelwald , in which he reprised his role as Grindelwald . Depp ' s casting received criticism from fans of the series due to the domestic violence allegations against him .	What animated movie did you voice the title character in 2018?	I voiced the title character Sherlock Gnomes in the animated movie Gnomeo & Juliet: Sherlock Gnomes.
In 2018 , Depp voiced the title character Sherlock Gnomes in the animated movie Gnomeo & Juliet : Sherlock Gnomes . Although moderately commercially successful , it was critically panned and earned Depp two Golden Raspberry nominations , one for his acting and another for his " fast - fading film career " . Depp then starred in two independent films , both produced by him and his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was City of Lies , in which he starred as Russell Poole , an LAPD detective who attempts to solve the murders of rappers Tupac Shakur and The Notorious B . I . G . It was set for release in September 2018 , but was pulled from the release schedule after a crew member sued Depp for assault . The second film was the comedy - drama Richard Says Goodbye , in which Depp played a professor with terminal cancer . It premiered at the Zurich Film Festival in October 2018 . Depp ' s last film release of 2018 was Fantastic Beasts : The Crimes of Grindelwald , in which he reprised his role as Grindelwald . Depp ' s casting received criticism from fans of the series due to the domestic violence allegations against him .	How was the movie Gnomeo & Juliet: Sherlock Gnomes received by critics?	The movie Gnomeo & Juliet: Sherlock Gnomes was critically panned.
In 2018 , Depp voiced the title character Sherlock Gnomes in the animated movie Gnomeo & Juliet : Sherlock Gnomes . Although moderately commercially successful , it was critically panned and earned Depp two Golden Raspberry nominations , one for his acting and another for his " fast - fading film career " . Depp then starred in two independent films , both produced by him and his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was City of Lies , in which he starred as Russell Poole , an LAPD detective who attempts to solve the murders of rappers Tupac Shakur and The Notorious B . I . G . It was set for release in September 2018 , but was pulled from the release schedule after a crew member sued Depp for assault . The second film was the comedy - drama Richard Says Goodbye , in which Depp played a professor with terminal cancer . It premiered at the Zurich Film Festival in October 2018 . Depp ' s last film release of 2018 was Fantastic Beasts : The Crimes of Grindelwald , in which he reprised his role as Grindelwald . Depp ' s casting received criticism from fans of the series due to the domestic violence allegations against him .	What were the Golden Raspberry nominations that you received for the movie Gnomeo & Juliet: Sherlock Gnomes?	I received two Golden Raspberry nominations, one for my acting and another for my "fast-fading film career."
In 2018 , Depp voiced the title character Sherlock Gnomes in the animated movie Gnomeo & Juliet : Sherlock Gnomes . Although moderately commercially successful , it was critically panned and earned Depp two Golden Raspberry nominations , one for his acting and another for his " fast - fading film career " . Depp then starred in two independent films , both produced by him and his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was City of Lies , in which he starred as Russell Poole , an LAPD detective who attempts to solve the murders of rappers Tupac Shakur and The Notorious B . I . G . It was set for release in September 2018 , but was pulled from the release schedule after a crew member sued Depp for assault . The second film was the comedy - drama Richard Says Goodbye , in which Depp played a professor with terminal cancer . It premiered at the Zurich Film Festival in October 2018 . Depp ' s last film release of 2018 was Fantastic Beasts : The Crimes of Grindelwald , in which he reprised his role as Grindelwald . Depp ' s casting received criticism from fans of the series due to the domestic violence allegations against him .	What film did you star in as Russell Poole, an LAPD detective, in 2018?	I starred in the film City of Lies as Russell Poole, an LAPD detective.
In 2018 , Depp voiced the title character Sherlock Gnomes in the animated movie Gnomeo & Juliet : Sherlock Gnomes . Although moderately commercially successful , it was critically panned and earned Depp two Golden Raspberry nominations , one for his acting and another for his " fast - fading film career " . Depp then starred in two independent films , both produced by him and his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was City of Lies , in which he starred as Russell Poole , an LAPD detective who attempts to solve the murders of rappers Tupac Shakur and The Notorious B . I . G . It was set for release in September 2018 , but was pulled from the release schedule after a crew member sued Depp for assault . The second film was the comedy - drama Richard Says Goodbye , in which Depp played a professor with terminal cancer . It premiered at the Zurich Film Festival in October 2018 . Depp ' s last film release of 2018 was Fantastic Beasts : The Crimes of Grindelwald , in which he reprised his role as Grindelwald . Depp ' s casting received criticism from fans of the series due to the domestic violence allegations against him .	Why was the release of the film City of Lies delayed?	The release of the film City of Lies was delayed because a crew member sued me for assault.
Depp also experienced other career setbacks around this time , as Disney confirmed that they would not be casting him in new Pirates installments and he was reported to no longer be attached to Universal ' s Dark Universe franchise . Depp ' s next films were the independent dramas Waiting for the Barbarians ( 2019 ) , based on a novel by J . M . Coetzee , and Minamata ( 2020 ) , in which he portrayed photographer W . Eugene Smith and which premiered at the 2020 Berlin International Film Festival . In November 2020 , Depp resigned from his role as Grindelwald in the Fantastic Beasts franchise at the request of its production company , Warner Bros . , after he lost his UK libel case against The Sun , which had accused him of being a domestic abuser . He was replaced by Mads Mikkelsen . Soon after , The Hollywood Reporter called Depp " persona non - grata " in the film industry .	Who confirmed that they would not be casting you in new Pirates installments?	I confirmed that they would not be casting me in new Pirates installments.
Depp also experienced other career setbacks around this time , as Disney confirmed that they would not be casting him in new Pirates installments and he was reported to no longer be attached to Universal ' s Dark Universe franchise . Depp ' s next films were the independent dramas Waiting for the Barbarians ( 2019 ) , based on a novel by J . M . Coetzee , and Minamata ( 2020 ) , in which he portrayed photographer W . Eugene Smith and which premiered at the 2020 Berlin International Film Festival . In November 2020 , Depp resigned from his role as Grindelwald in the Fantastic Beasts franchise at the request of its production company , Warner Bros . , after he lost his UK libel case against The Sun , which had accused him of being a domestic abuser . He was replaced by Mads Mikkelsen . Soon after , The Hollywood Reporter called Depp " persona non - grata " in the film industry .	Which independent dramas did you star in next?	I starred in the independent dramas Waiting for the Barbarians (2019) and Minamata (2020).
Depp also experienced other career setbacks around this time , as Disney confirmed that they would not be casting him in new Pirates installments and he was reported to no longer be attached to Universal ' s Dark Universe franchise . Depp ' s next films were the independent dramas Waiting for the Barbarians ( 2019 ) , based on a novel by J . M . Coetzee , and Minamata ( 2020 ) , in which he portrayed photographer W . Eugene Smith and which premiered at the 2020 Berlin International Film Festival . In November 2020 , Depp resigned from his role as Grindelwald in the Fantastic Beasts franchise at the request of its production company , Warner Bros . , after he lost his UK libel case against The Sun , which had accused him of being a domestic abuser . He was replaced by Mads Mikkelsen . Soon after , The Hollywood Reporter called Depp " persona non - grata " in the film industry .	What is the name of the novel on which "Waiting for the Barbarians" is based?	"Waiting for the Barbarians" is based on a novel by J.M. Coetzee.
Depp also experienced other career setbacks around this time , as Disney confirmed that they would not be casting him in new Pirates installments and he was reported to no longer be attached to Universal ' s Dark Universe franchise . Depp ' s next films were the independent dramas Waiting for the Barbarians ( 2019 ) , based on a novel by J . M . Coetzee , and Minamata ( 2020 ) , in which he portrayed photographer W . Eugene Smith and which premiered at the 2020 Berlin International Film Festival . In November 2020 , Depp resigned from his role as Grindelwald in the Fantastic Beasts franchise at the request of its production company , Warner Bros . , after he lost his UK libel case against The Sun , which had accused him of being a domestic abuser . He was replaced by Mads Mikkelsen . Soon after , The Hollywood Reporter called Depp " persona non - grata " in the film industry .	Who did you portray in the film "Minamata"?	I portrayed photographer W. Eugene Smith in the film "Minamata".
Depp also experienced other career setbacks around this time , as Disney confirmed that they would not be casting him in new Pirates installments and he was reported to no longer be attached to Universal ' s Dark Universe franchise . Depp ' s next films were the independent dramas Waiting for the Barbarians ( 2019 ) , based on a novel by J . M . Coetzee , and Minamata ( 2020 ) , in which he portrayed photographer W . Eugene Smith and which premiered at the 2020 Berlin International Film Festival . In November 2020 , Depp resigned from his role as Grindelwald in the Fantastic Beasts franchise at the request of its production company , Warner Bros . , after he lost his UK libel case against The Sun , which had accused him of being a domestic abuser . He was replaced by Mads Mikkelsen . Soon after , The Hollywood Reporter called Depp " persona non - grata " in the film industry .	Who replaced you as Grindelwald in the Fantastic Beasts franchise?	Mads Mikkelsen replaced me as Grindelwald in the Fantastic Beasts franchise.
In March 2021 , City of Lies , which was originally scheduled for 2018 , was released in theaters and streaming services . The same month , an online petition to bring Depp back to the Pirates franchise , begun four months earlier , reached its goal of 500 , 000 signatures . His Pirates co - star Kevin McNally also expressed support for Depp returning to the role . In July 2021 , Andrew Levitas , the director of Minamata ( 2020 ) , accused MGM   of trying to bury the film due to Depp ' s involvement , with Depp claiming he is being boycotted by the Hollywood industry and calling his changed reputation an " absurdity of media mathematics " . Minamata was released in the UK and Ireland in August 2021 , and in North America in December 2021 . The film received positive reviews , with multiple publications praising Depp ' s performance as his best in years . Depp also continues as the face of Dior ' s men ' s fragrance , Sauvage .	When was City of Lies originally scheduled for release?	City of Lies was originally scheduled for release in 2018.
In March 2021 , City of Lies , which was originally scheduled for 2018 , was released in theaters and streaming services . The same month , an online petition to bring Depp back to the Pirates franchise , begun four months earlier , reached its goal of 500 , 000 signatures . His Pirates co - star Kevin McNally also expressed support for Depp returning to the role . In July 2021 , Andrew Levitas , the director of Minamata ( 2020 ) , accused MGM   of trying to bury the film due to Depp ' s involvement , with Depp claiming he is being boycotted by the Hollywood industry and calling his changed reputation an " absurdity of media mathematics " . Minamata was released in the UK and Ireland in August 2021 , and in North America in December 2021 . The film received positive reviews , with multiple publications praising Depp ' s performance as his best in years . Depp also continues as the face of Dior ' s men ' s fragrance , Sauvage .	When was City of Lies released in theaters and streaming services?	City of Lies was released in theaters and streaming services in March 2021.
In March 2021 , City of Lies , which was originally scheduled for 2018 , was released in theaters and streaming services . The same month , an online petition to bring Depp back to the Pirates franchise , begun four months earlier , reached its goal of 500 , 000 signatures . His Pirates co - star Kevin McNally also expressed support for Depp returning to the role . In July 2021 , Andrew Levitas , the director of Minamata ( 2020 ) , accused MGM   of trying to bury the film due to Depp ' s involvement , with Depp claiming he is being boycotted by the Hollywood industry and calling his changed reputation an " absurdity of media mathematics " . Minamata was released in the UK and Ireland in August 2021 , and in North America in December 2021 . The film received positive reviews , with multiple publications praising Depp ' s performance as his best in years . Depp also continues as the face of Dior ' s men ' s fragrance , Sauvage .	When did the online petition to bring you back to the Pirates franchise reach its goal of 500,000 signatures?	The online petition to bring me back to the Pirates franchise reached its goal of 500,000 signatures in March 2021.
In March 2021 , City of Lies , which was originally scheduled for 2018 , was released in theaters and streaming services . The same month , an online petition to bring Depp back to the Pirates franchise , begun four months earlier , reached its goal of 500 , 000 signatures . His Pirates co - star Kevin McNally also expressed support for Depp returning to the role . In July 2021 , Andrew Levitas , the director of Minamata ( 2020 ) , accused MGM   of trying to bury the film due to Depp ' s involvement , with Depp claiming he is being boycotted by the Hollywood industry and calling his changed reputation an " absurdity of media mathematics " . Minamata was released in the UK and Ireland in August 2021 , and in North America in December 2021 . The film received positive reviews , with multiple publications praising Depp ' s performance as his best in years . Depp also continues as the face of Dior ' s men ' s fragrance , Sauvage .	Who expressed support for you returning to the Pirates franchise?	My Pirates co-star Kevin McNally expressed support for me returning to the role.
In March 2021 , City of Lies , which was originally scheduled for 2018 , was released in theaters and streaming services . The same month , an online petition to bring Depp back to the Pirates franchise , begun four months earlier , reached its goal of 500 , 000 signatures . His Pirates co - star Kevin McNally also expressed support for Depp returning to the role . In July 2021 , Andrew Levitas , the director of Minamata ( 2020 ) , accused MGM   of trying to bury the film due to Depp ' s involvement , with Depp claiming he is being boycotted by the Hollywood industry and calling his changed reputation an " absurdity of media mathematics " . Minamata was released in the UK and Ireland in August 2021 , and in North America in December 2021 . The film received positive reviews , with multiple publications praising Depp ' s performance as his best in years . Depp also continues as the face of Dior ' s men ' s fragrance , Sauvage .	When was Minamata released in the UK and Ireland?	Minamata was released in the UK and Ireland in August 2021.
According to film scholar Murray Pomerance , Depp ' s collaboration with Disney " can be seen to purport and herald a new era for Johnny Depp , one in which he is , finally , as though long - promised and long - expected , the proud proprietor of a much - accepted career ; not only a star but a middle - class hero " . In 2003 , the same year as the first film in the Pirates series was released , Depp was named " World ' s Sexiest Man " by People ; he would receive the title again in 2009 . During the decade and into the 2010s , Depp was one of the biggest and most popular film stars in the world and was named by public vote as " Favorite Male Movie Star " at the People ' s Choice Awards every year for 2005 through 2012 . In 2012 , Depp became the highest - paid actor in the American film industry , earning as high as $ 75 million per film , and as of 2020 , is the tenth highest - grossing actor worldwide , with his films having grossed over US $ 3.7 billion at the United States box office and over US $ 10 billion worldwide . Although a mainstream favorite with the audiences , critics ' views on Depp changed in the 2000s , becoming more negative as he was seen to conform more to the Hollywood ideal . Regardless , Depp continued to eschew more traditional leading - man roles until towards the end of the 2000s , when he starred as John Dillinger in Public Enemies ( 2009 ) .	According to film scholar Murray Pomerance, what does your collaboration with Disney signify?	My collaboration with Disney can be seen to purport and herald a new era for me, where I am finally recognized as a middle-class hero and the proud proprietor of a much-accepted career.
According to film scholar Murray Pomerance , Depp ' s collaboration with Disney " can be seen to purport and herald a new era for Johnny Depp , one in which he is , finally , as though long - promised and long - expected , the proud proprietor of a much - accepted career ; not only a star but a middle - class hero " . In 2003 , the same year as the first film in the Pirates series was released , Depp was named " World ' s Sexiest Man " by People ; he would receive the title again in 2009 . During the decade and into the 2010s , Depp was one of the biggest and most popular film stars in the world and was named by public vote as " Favorite Male Movie Star " at the People ' s Choice Awards every year for 2005 through 2012 . In 2012 , Depp became the highest - paid actor in the American film industry , earning as high as $ 75 million per film , and as of 2020 , is the tenth highest - grossing actor worldwide , with his films having grossed over US $ 3.7 billion at the United States box office and over US $ 10 billion worldwide . Although a mainstream favorite with the audiences , critics ' views on Depp changed in the 2000s , becoming more negative as he was seen to conform more to the Hollywood ideal . Regardless , Depp continued to eschew more traditional leading - man roles until towards the end of the 2000s , when he starred as John Dillinger in Public Enemies ( 2009 ) .	In which years were you named "World's Sexiest Man" by People?	I was named "World's Sexiest Man" by People in 2003 and also in 2009.
According to film scholar Murray Pomerance , Depp ' s collaboration with Disney " can be seen to purport and herald a new era for Johnny Depp , one in which he is , finally , as though long - promised and long - expected , the proud proprietor of a much - accepted career ; not only a star but a middle - class hero " . In 2003 , the same year as the first film in the Pirates series was released , Depp was named " World ' s Sexiest Man " by People ; he would receive the title again in 2009 . During the decade and into the 2010s , Depp was one of the biggest and most popular film stars in the world and was named by public vote as " Favorite Male Movie Star " at the People ' s Choice Awards every year for 2005 through 2012 . In 2012 , Depp became the highest - paid actor in the American film industry , earning as high as $ 75 million per film , and as of 2020 , is the tenth highest - grossing actor worldwide , with his films having grossed over US $ 3.7 billion at the United States box office and over US $ 10 billion worldwide . Although a mainstream favorite with the audiences , critics ' views on Depp changed in the 2000s , becoming more negative as he was seen to conform more to the Hollywood ideal . Regardless , Depp continued to eschew more traditional leading - man roles until towards the end of the 2000s , when he starred as John Dillinger in Public Enemies ( 2009 ) .	How many times was I named "Favorite Male Movie Star" at the People's Choice Awards?	I was named "Favorite Male Movie Star" at the People's Choice Awards every year from 2005 to 2012.
According to film scholar Murray Pomerance , Depp ' s collaboration with Disney " can be seen to purport and herald a new era for Johnny Depp , one in which he is , finally , as though long - promised and long - expected , the proud proprietor of a much - accepted career ; not only a star but a middle - class hero " . In 2003 , the same year as the first film in the Pirates series was released , Depp was named " World ' s Sexiest Man " by People ; he would receive the title again in 2009 . During the decade and into the 2010s , Depp was one of the biggest and most popular film stars in the world and was named by public vote as " Favorite Male Movie Star " at the People ' s Choice Awards every year for 2005 through 2012 . In 2012 , Depp became the highest - paid actor in the American film industry , earning as high as $ 75 million per film , and as of 2020 , is the tenth highest - grossing actor worldwide , with his films having grossed over US $ 3.7 billion at the United States box office and over US $ 10 billion worldwide . Although a mainstream favorite with the audiences , critics ' views on Depp changed in the 2000s , becoming more negative as he was seen to conform more to the Hollywood ideal . Regardless , Depp continued to eschew more traditional leading - man roles until towards the end of the 2000s , when he starred as John Dillinger in Public Enemies ( 2009 ) .	When did you become the highest-paid actor in the American film industry?	I became the highest-paid actor in the American film industry in 2012.
According to film scholar Murray Pomerance , Depp ' s collaboration with Disney " can be seen to purport and herald a new era for Johnny Depp , one in which he is , finally , as though long - promised and long - expected , the proud proprietor of a much - accepted career ; not only a star but a middle - class hero " . In 2003 , the same year as the first film in the Pirates series was released , Depp was named " World ' s Sexiest Man " by People ; he would receive the title again in 2009 . During the decade and into the 2010s , Depp was one of the biggest and most popular film stars in the world and was named by public vote as " Favorite Male Movie Star " at the People ' s Choice Awards every year for 2005 through 2012 . In 2012 , Depp became the highest - paid actor in the American film industry , earning as high as $ 75 million per film , and as of 2020 , is the tenth highest - grossing actor worldwide , with his films having grossed over US $ 3.7 billion at the United States box office and over US $ 10 billion worldwide . Although a mainstream favorite with the audiences , critics ' views on Depp changed in the 2000s , becoming more negative as he was seen to conform more to the Hollywood ideal . Regardless , Depp continued to eschew more traditional leading - man roles until towards the end of the 2000s , when he starred as John Dillinger in Public Enemies ( 2009 ) .	How much did you earn per film when you became the highest-paid actor in the American film industry?	When I became the highest-paid actor in the American film industry, I earned as high as $75 million per film.
