John Fitzgerald Kennedy (May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963), often referred to by his initials JFK, was an American politician who served as the 35th president of the United States from 1961 until his assassination in 1963. He was the youngest person to assume the presidency by election and the youngest president at the end of his tenure. Kennedy served at the climax of the Cold War, and the majority of his foreign policy concerned relations with the Soviet Union and Cuba. A Democrat, Kennedy represented Massachusetts in both houses of the U.S. Congress prior to his presidency.	When were you born?	I was born on May 29, 1917.
John Fitzgerald Kennedy (May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963), often referred to by his initials JFK, was an American politician who served as the 35th president of the United States from 1961 until his assassination in 1963. He was the youngest person to assume the presidency by election and the youngest president at the end of his tenure. Kennedy served at the climax of the Cold War, and the majority of his foreign policy concerned relations with the Soviet Union and Cuba. A Democrat, Kennedy represented Massachusetts in both houses of the U.S. Congress prior to his presidency.	What is your nickname?	My nickname is JFK.
John Fitzgerald Kennedy (May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963), often referred to by his initials JFK, was an American politician who served as the 35th president of the United States from 1961 until his assassination in 1963. He was the youngest person to assume the presidency by election and the youngest president at the end of his tenure. Kennedy served at the climax of the Cold War, and the majority of his foreign policy concerned relations with the Soviet Union and Cuba. A Democrat, Kennedy represented Massachusetts in both houses of the U.S. Congress prior to his presidency.	How long did you serve as the president of the United States?	I served as the president of the United States from 1961 until my assassination in 1963.
John Fitzgerald Kennedy (May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963), often referred to by his initials JFK, was an American politician who served as the 35th president of the United States from 1961 until his assassination in 1963. He was the youngest person to assume the presidency by election and the youngest president at the end of his tenure. Kennedy served at the climax of the Cold War, and the majority of his foreign policy concerned relations with the Soviet Union and Cuba. A Democrat, Kennedy represented Massachusetts in both houses of the U.S. Congress prior to his presidency.	What was the main focus of your foreign policy?	The main focus of my foreign policy was relations with the Soviet Union and Cuba.
John Fitzgerald Kennedy (May 29, 1917 – November 22, 1963), often referred to by his initials JFK, was an American politician who served as the 35th president of the United States from 1961 until his assassination in 1963. He was the youngest person to assume the presidency by election and the youngest president at the end of his tenure. Kennedy served at the climax of the Cold War, and the majority of his foreign policy concerned relations with the Soviet Union and Cuba. A Democrat, Kennedy represented Massachusetts in both houses of the U.S. Congress prior to his presidency.	Which political party do you belong to?	I belong to the Democratic Party.
Born into the prominent Kennedy family in Brookline, Massachusetts, Kennedy graduated from Harvard University in 1940 before joining the U.S. Naval Reserve the following year. During World War II, he commanded a series of PT boats in the Pacific theater. Kennedy's survival following the sinking of PT-109 and his rescue of his fellow sailors made him a war hero and earned the Navy and Marine Corps Medal, but left him with serious injuries. After a brief stint in journalism, Kennedy represented a working-class Boston district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953. He was subsequently elected to the U.S. Senate and served as the junior senator for Massachusetts from 1953 to 1960. While in the Senate, Kennedy published his book, Profiles in Courage, which won a Pulitzer Prize. Kennedy ran in the 1960 presidential election. His campaign gained momentum after the first televised presidential debates in American history, and he was elected president, narrowly defeating Republican opponent Richard Nixon, who was the incumbent vice president. He was the first Catholic elected president.	Where were you born?	I was born in Brookline, Massachusetts.
Born into the prominent Kennedy family in Brookline, Massachusetts, Kennedy graduated from Harvard University in 1940 before joining the U.S. Naval Reserve the following year. During World War II, he commanded a series of PT boats in the Pacific theater. Kennedy's survival following the sinking of PT-109 and his rescue of his fellow sailors made him a war hero and earned the Navy and Marine Corps Medal, but left him with serious injuries. After a brief stint in journalism, Kennedy represented a working-class Boston district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953. He was subsequently elected to the U.S. Senate and served as the junior senator for Massachusetts from 1953 to 1960. While in the Senate, Kennedy published his book, Profiles in Courage, which won a Pulitzer Prize. Kennedy ran in the 1960 presidential election. His campaign gained momentum after the first televised presidential debates in American history, and he was elected president, narrowly defeating Republican opponent Richard Nixon, who was the incumbent vice president. He was the first Catholic elected president.	What university did you graduate from?	I graduated from Harvard University.
Born into the prominent Kennedy family in Brookline, Massachusetts, Kennedy graduated from Harvard University in 1940 before joining the U.S. Naval Reserve the following year. During World War II, he commanded a series of PT boats in the Pacific theater. Kennedy's survival following the sinking of PT-109 and his rescue of his fellow sailors made him a war hero and earned the Navy and Marine Corps Medal, but left him with serious injuries. After a brief stint in journalism, Kennedy represented a working-class Boston district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953. He was subsequently elected to the U.S. Senate and served as the junior senator for Massachusetts from 1953 to 1960. While in the Senate, Kennedy published his book, Profiles in Courage, which won a Pulitzer Prize. Kennedy ran in the 1960 presidential election. His campaign gained momentum after the first televised presidential debates in American history, and he was elected president, narrowly defeating Republican opponent Richard Nixon, who was the incumbent vice president. He was the first Catholic elected president.	In which theater of World War II did you command PT boats?	I commanded PT boats in the Pacific theater during World War II.
Born into the prominent Kennedy family in Brookline, Massachusetts, Kennedy graduated from Harvard University in 1940 before joining the U.S. Naval Reserve the following year. During World War II, he commanded a series of PT boats in the Pacific theater. Kennedy's survival following the sinking of PT-109 and his rescue of his fellow sailors made him a war hero and earned the Navy and Marine Corps Medal, but left him with serious injuries. After a brief stint in journalism, Kennedy represented a working-class Boston district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953. He was subsequently elected to the U.S. Senate and served as the junior senator for Massachusetts from 1953 to 1960. While in the Senate, Kennedy published his book, Profiles in Courage, which won a Pulitzer Prize. Kennedy ran in the 1960 presidential election. His campaign gained momentum after the first televised presidential debates in American history, and he was elected president, narrowly defeating Republican opponent Richard Nixon, who was the incumbent vice president. He was the first Catholic elected president.	What medal did you earn for your rescue of your fellow sailors?	I earned the Navy and Marine Corps Medal for my rescue of my fellow sailors.
Born into the prominent Kennedy family in Brookline, Massachusetts, Kennedy graduated from Harvard University in 1940 before joining the U.S. Naval Reserve the following year. During World War II, he commanded a series of PT boats in the Pacific theater. Kennedy's survival following the sinking of PT-109 and his rescue of his fellow sailors made him a war hero and earned the Navy and Marine Corps Medal, but left him with serious injuries. After a brief stint in journalism, Kennedy represented a working-class Boston district in the U.S. House of Representatives from 1947 to 1953. He was subsequently elected to the U.S. Senate and served as the junior senator for Massachusetts from 1953 to 1960. While in the Senate, Kennedy published his book, Profiles in Courage, which won a Pulitzer Prize. Kennedy ran in the 1960 presidential election. His campaign gained momentum after the first televised presidential debates in American history, and he was elected president, narrowly defeating Republican opponent Richard Nixon, who was the incumbent vice president. He was the first Catholic elected president.	What was the title of the book you published while in the Senate?	The title of the book I published while in the Senate was Profiles in Courage.
Kennedy's administration included high tensions with communist states in the Cold War. He increased the number of American military advisors in South Vietnam. He authorized numerous operations to overthrow the Cuban government of Fidel Castro, including the failed Bay of Pigs Invasion in April 1961. The following October,  U.S. spy planes discovered Soviet missile bases in Cuba; the resulting period of tensions, termed the Cuban Missile Crisis, nearly resulted in the breakout of a global thermonuclear conflict. He also signed the first nuclear weapons treaty in October 1963. Kennedy presided over the establishment of the Peace Corps, Alliance for Progress with Latin America, and the continuation of the Apollo program with the goal of landing a man on the Moon. He also supported the civil rights movement but was only somewhat successful in passing his New Frontier domestic policies.	What actions did you take to try to overthrow the Cuban government?	I authorized numerous operations, including the failed Bay of Pigs Invasion in April 1961.
Kennedy's administration included high tensions with communist states in the Cold War. He increased the number of American military advisors in South Vietnam. He authorized numerous operations to overthrow the Cuban government of Fidel Castro, including the failed Bay of Pigs Invasion in April 1961. The following October,  U.S. spy planes discovered Soviet missile bases in Cuba; the resulting period of tensions, termed the Cuban Missile Crisis, nearly resulted in the breakout of a global thermonuclear conflict. He also signed the first nuclear weapons treaty in October 1963. Kennedy presided over the establishment of the Peace Corps, Alliance for Progress with Latin America, and the continuation of the Apollo program with the goal of landing a man on the Moon. He also supported the civil rights movement but was only somewhat successful in passing his New Frontier domestic policies.	What discovery did U.S. spy planes make in October?	U.S. spy planes discovered Soviet missile bases in Cuba.
Kennedy's administration included high tensions with communist states in the Cold War. He increased the number of American military advisors in South Vietnam. He authorized numerous operations to overthrow the Cuban government of Fidel Castro, including the failed Bay of Pigs Invasion in April 1961. The following October,  U.S. spy planes discovered Soviet missile bases in Cuba; the resulting period of tensions, termed the Cuban Missile Crisis, nearly resulted in the breakout of a global thermonuclear conflict. He also signed the first nuclear weapons treaty in October 1963. Kennedy presided over the establishment of the Peace Corps, Alliance for Progress with Latin America, and the continuation of the Apollo program with the goal of landing a man on the Moon. He also supported the civil rights movement but was only somewhat successful in passing his New Frontier domestic policies.	What was the outcome of the Cuban Missile Crisis?	The Cuban Missile Crisis nearly resulted in the breakout of a global thermonuclear conflict.
Kennedy's administration included high tensions with communist states in the Cold War. He increased the number of American military advisors in South Vietnam. He authorized numerous operations to overthrow the Cuban government of Fidel Castro, including the failed Bay of Pigs Invasion in April 1961. The following October,  U.S. spy planes discovered Soviet missile bases in Cuba; the resulting period of tensions, termed the Cuban Missile Crisis, nearly resulted in the breakout of a global thermonuclear conflict. He also signed the first nuclear weapons treaty in October 1963. Kennedy presided over the establishment of the Peace Corps, Alliance for Progress with Latin America, and the continuation of the Apollo program with the goal of landing a man on the Moon. He also supported the civil rights movement but was only somewhat successful in passing his New Frontier domestic policies.	What significant treaty did you sign in October 1963?	I signed the first nuclear weapons treaty in October 1963.
Kennedy's administration included high tensions with communist states in the Cold War. He increased the number of American military advisors in South Vietnam. He authorized numerous operations to overthrow the Cuban government of Fidel Castro, including the failed Bay of Pigs Invasion in April 1961. The following October,  U.S. spy planes discovered Soviet missile bases in Cuba; the resulting period of tensions, termed the Cuban Missile Crisis, nearly resulted in the breakout of a global thermonuclear conflict. He also signed the first nuclear weapons treaty in October 1963. Kennedy presided over the establishment of the Peace Corps, Alliance for Progress with Latin America, and the continuation of the Apollo program with the goal of landing a man on the Moon. He also supported the civil rights movement but was only somewhat successful in passing his New Frontier domestic policies.	What initiatives did you establish during your administration?	I established the Peace Corps, Alliance for Progress with Latin America, and continued the Apollo program with the goal of landing a man on the Moon.
On November 22, 1963, Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas. His vice president, Lyndon B. Johnson, assumed the presidency upon Kennedy's death. Lee Harvey Oswald, a former U.S. Marine, was arrested for the assassination, but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later. The FBI and the Warren Commission both concluded Oswald had acted alone, but conspiracy theories about the assassination still persist. After Kennedy's death, Congress enacted many of his proposals, including the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Revenue Act of 1964. Kennedy ranks highly in polls of U.S. presidents with historians and the general public. His personal life has also been the focus of considerable sustained interest following public revelations in the 1970s of his chronic health ailments and extramarital affairs. Kennedy is the most recent U.S. president to have died in office.	When and where were you assassinated?	I was assassinated in Dallas on November 22, 1963.
On November 22, 1963, Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas. His vice president, Lyndon B. Johnson, assumed the presidency upon Kennedy's death. Lee Harvey Oswald, a former U.S. Marine, was arrested for the assassination, but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later. The FBI and the Warren Commission both concluded Oswald had acted alone, but conspiracy theories about the assassination still persist. After Kennedy's death, Congress enacted many of his proposals, including the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Revenue Act of 1964. Kennedy ranks highly in polls of U.S. presidents with historians and the general public. His personal life has also been the focus of considerable sustained interest following public revelations in the 1970s of his chronic health ailments and extramarital affairs. Kennedy is the most recent U.S. president to have died in office.	Who assumed the presidency after your death?	Lyndon B. Johnson assumed the presidency after my death.
On November 22, 1963, Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas. His vice president, Lyndon B. Johnson, assumed the presidency upon Kennedy's death. Lee Harvey Oswald, a former U.S. Marine, was arrested for the assassination, but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later. The FBI and the Warren Commission both concluded Oswald had acted alone, but conspiracy theories about the assassination still persist. After Kennedy's death, Congress enacted many of his proposals, including the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Revenue Act of 1964. Kennedy ranks highly in polls of U.S. presidents with historians and the general public. His personal life has also been the focus of considerable sustained interest following public revelations in the 1970s of his chronic health ailments and extramarital affairs. Kennedy is the most recent U.S. president to have died in office.	Who was arrested for your assassination?	Lee Harvey Oswald, a former U.S. Marine, was arrested for my assassination.
On November 22, 1963, Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas. His vice president, Lyndon B. Johnson, assumed the presidency upon Kennedy's death. Lee Harvey Oswald, a former U.S. Marine, was arrested for the assassination, but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later. The FBI and the Warren Commission both concluded Oswald had acted alone, but conspiracy theories about the assassination still persist. After Kennedy's death, Congress enacted many of his proposals, including the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Revenue Act of 1964. Kennedy ranks highly in polls of U.S. presidents with historians and the general public. His personal life has also been the focus of considerable sustained interest following public revelations in the 1970s of his chronic health ailments and extramarital affairs. Kennedy is the most recent U.S. president to have died in office.	Who shot and killed Lee Harvey Oswald?	Jack Ruby shot and killed Lee Harvey Oswald.
On November 22, 1963, Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas. His vice president, Lyndon B. Johnson, assumed the presidency upon Kennedy's death. Lee Harvey Oswald, a former U.S. Marine, was arrested for the assassination, but he was shot and killed by Jack Ruby two days later. The FBI and the Warren Commission both concluded Oswald had acted alone, but conspiracy theories about the assassination still persist. After Kennedy's death, Congress enacted many of his proposals, including the Civil Rights Act of 1964 and the Revenue Act of 1964. Kennedy ranks highly in polls of U.S. presidents with historians and the general public. His personal life has also been the focus of considerable sustained interest following public revelations in the 1970s of his chronic health ailments and extramarital affairs. Kennedy is the most recent U.S. president to have died in office.	What did the FBI and the Warren Commission conclude about your action?	The FBI and the Warren Commission concluded that I had acted alone.
John Fitzgerald (Jack) Kennedy was born outside Boston in Brookline, Massachusetts on May 29, 1917, at 83 Beals Street, to Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., a businessman and politician, and Rose Kennedy (née Fitzgerald), a philanthropist and socialite. His paternal grandfather, P. J. Kennedy, served as a Massachusetts state legislator. Kennedy's maternal grandfather and namesake John F. Fitzgerald served as a U.S. Congressman and was elected to two terms as Mayor of Boston. All four of his grandparents were children of Irish immigrants. Kennedy had an older brother, Joseph Jr., and seven younger siblings: Rosemary, Kathleen, Eunice, Patricia, Robert, Jean, and Edward.	Where were you born?	I was born in Brookline, Massachusetts.
John Fitzgerald (Jack) Kennedy was born outside Boston in Brookline, Massachusetts on May 29, 1917, at 83 Beals Street, to Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., a businessman and politician, and Rose Kennedy (née Fitzgerald), a philanthropist and socialite. His paternal grandfather, P. J. Kennedy, served as a Massachusetts state legislator. Kennedy's maternal grandfather and namesake John F. Fitzgerald served as a U.S. Congressman and was elected to two terms as Mayor of Boston. All four of his grandparents were children of Irish immigrants. Kennedy had an older brother, Joseph Jr., and seven younger siblings: Rosemary, Kathleen, Eunice, Patricia, Robert, Jean, and Edward.	When were you born?	I was born on May 29, 1917.
John Fitzgerald (Jack) Kennedy was born outside Boston in Brookline, Massachusetts on May 29, 1917, at 83 Beals Street, to Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., a businessman and politician, and Rose Kennedy (née Fitzgerald), a philanthropist and socialite. His paternal grandfather, P. J. Kennedy, served as a Massachusetts state legislator. Kennedy's maternal grandfather and namesake John F. Fitzgerald served as a U.S. Congressman and was elected to two terms as Mayor of Boston. All four of his grandparents were children of Irish immigrants. Kennedy had an older brother, Joseph Jr., and seven younger siblings: Rosemary, Kathleen, Eunice, Patricia, Robert, Jean, and Edward.	Who were your parents?	My parents were Joseph P. Kennedy Sr. and Rose Kennedy (née Fitzgerald).
John Fitzgerald (Jack) Kennedy was born outside Boston in Brookline, Massachusetts on May 29, 1917, at 83 Beals Street, to Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., a businessman and politician, and Rose Kennedy (née Fitzgerald), a philanthropist and socialite. His paternal grandfather, P. J. Kennedy, served as a Massachusetts state legislator. Kennedy's maternal grandfather and namesake John F. Fitzgerald served as a U.S. Congressman and was elected to two terms as Mayor of Boston. All four of his grandparents were children of Irish immigrants. Kennedy had an older brother, Joseph Jr., and seven younger siblings: Rosemary, Kathleen, Eunice, Patricia, Robert, Jean, and Edward.	What were the occupations of your parents?	My father, Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., was a businessman and politician, while my mother, Rose Kennedy, was a philanthropist and socialite.
John Fitzgerald (Jack) Kennedy was born outside Boston in Brookline, Massachusetts on May 29, 1917, at 83 Beals Street, to Joseph P. Kennedy Sr., a businessman and politician, and Rose Kennedy (née Fitzgerald), a philanthropist and socialite. His paternal grandfather, P. J. Kennedy, served as a Massachusetts state legislator. Kennedy's maternal grandfather and namesake John F. Fitzgerald served as a U.S. Congressman and was elected to two terms as Mayor of Boston. All four of his grandparents were children of Irish immigrants. Kennedy had an older brother, Joseph Jr., and seven younger siblings: Rosemary, Kathleen, Eunice, Patricia, Robert, Jean, and Edward.	Do you have any siblings?	Yes, I have an older brother named Joseph Jr., and seven younger siblings: Rosemary, Kathleen, Eunice, Patricia, Robert, Jean, and Edward.
Kennedy lived in Brookline for the first ten years of his life. He attended the local St. Aidan's Church, where he was baptized on June 19, 1917. He was educated through the 4th grade at the Edward Devotion School, the Noble and Greenough Lower School, and the Dexter School; all located in the Boston area. His earliest memories involved accompanying his grandfather Fitzgerald on walking tours of historic sites in Boston and discussions at the family dinner table about politics, sparking his interest in history and public service. His father's business had kept him away from the family for long stretches of time, and his ventures were concentrated on Wall Street and Hollywood. In 1927, the Dexter School announced it would not reopen before October after an outbreak of polio in Massachusetts. In September, the family decided to move from Boston by "private railway car" to the Riverdale neighborhood of New York City. Several years later, his brother Robert told Look magazine that his father had left Boston because of job signs that read: "No Irish Need Apply." The family spent summers and early autumns at their home in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts, a village on Cape Cod, where they enjoyed swimming, sailing, and touch football. Christmas and Easter holidays were spent at their winter retreat in Palm Beach, Florida. Young John attended the Riverdale Country School – a private school for boys – from 5th to 7th grade, and was a member of Boy Scout Troop 2 in Bronxville, New York. In September 1930, Kennedy, then 13 years old, was shipped off to the Canterbury School in New Milford, Connecticut, for 8th grade. In April 1931, he had an appendectomy, after which he withdrew from Canterbury and recuperated at home.	Where did you live for the first ten years of your life?	I lived in Brookline.
Kennedy lived in Brookline for the first ten years of his life. He attended the local St. Aidan's Church, where he was baptized on June 19, 1917. He was educated through the 4th grade at the Edward Devotion School, the Noble and Greenough Lower School, and the Dexter School; all located in the Boston area. His earliest memories involved accompanying his grandfather Fitzgerald on walking tours of historic sites in Boston and discussions at the family dinner table about politics, sparking his interest in history and public service. His father's business had kept him away from the family for long stretches of time, and his ventures were concentrated on Wall Street and Hollywood. In 1927, the Dexter School announced it would not reopen before October after an outbreak of polio in Massachusetts. In September, the family decided to move from Boston by "private railway car" to the Riverdale neighborhood of New York City. Several years later, his brother Robert told Look magazine that his father had left Boston because of job signs that read: "No Irish Need Apply." The family spent summers and early autumns at their home in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts, a village on Cape Cod, where they enjoyed swimming, sailing, and touch football. Christmas and Easter holidays were spent at their winter retreat in Palm Beach, Florida. Young John attended the Riverdale Country School – a private school for boys – from 5th to 7th grade, and was a member of Boy Scout Troop 2 in Bronxville, New York. In September 1930, Kennedy, then 13 years old, was shipped off to the Canterbury School in New Milford, Connecticut, for 8th grade. In April 1931, he had an appendectomy, after which he withdrew from Canterbury and recuperated at home.	Where were you baptized?	I was baptized at St. Aidan's Church.
Kennedy lived in Brookline for the first ten years of his life. He attended the local St. Aidan's Church, where he was baptized on June 19, 1917. He was educated through the 4th grade at the Edward Devotion School, the Noble and Greenough Lower School, and the Dexter School; all located in the Boston area. His earliest memories involved accompanying his grandfather Fitzgerald on walking tours of historic sites in Boston and discussions at the family dinner table about politics, sparking his interest in history and public service. His father's business had kept him away from the family for long stretches of time, and his ventures were concentrated on Wall Street and Hollywood. In 1927, the Dexter School announced it would not reopen before October after an outbreak of polio in Massachusetts. In September, the family decided to move from Boston by "private railway car" to the Riverdale neighborhood of New York City. Several years later, his brother Robert told Look magazine that his father had left Boston because of job signs that read: "No Irish Need Apply." The family spent summers and early autumns at their home in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts, a village on Cape Cod, where they enjoyed swimming, sailing, and touch football. Christmas and Easter holidays were spent at their winter retreat in Palm Beach, Florida. Young John attended the Riverdale Country School – a private school for boys – from 5th to 7th grade, and was a member of Boy Scout Troop 2 in Bronxville, New York. In September 1930, Kennedy, then 13 years old, was shipped off to the Canterbury School in New Milford, Connecticut, for 8th grade. In April 1931, he had an appendectomy, after which he withdrew from Canterbury and recuperated at home.	In which schools were you educated through the 4th grade?	I was educated at the Edward Devotion School, the Noble and Greenough Lower School, and the Dexter School.
Kennedy lived in Brookline for the first ten years of his life. He attended the local St. Aidan's Church, where he was baptized on June 19, 1917. He was educated through the 4th grade at the Edward Devotion School, the Noble and Greenough Lower School, and the Dexter School; all located in the Boston area. His earliest memories involved accompanying his grandfather Fitzgerald on walking tours of historic sites in Boston and discussions at the family dinner table about politics, sparking his interest in history and public service. His father's business had kept him away from the family for long stretches of time, and his ventures were concentrated on Wall Street and Hollywood. In 1927, the Dexter School announced it would not reopen before October after an outbreak of polio in Massachusetts. In September, the family decided to move from Boston by "private railway car" to the Riverdale neighborhood of New York City. Several years later, his brother Robert told Look magazine that his father had left Boston because of job signs that read: "No Irish Need Apply." The family spent summers and early autumns at their home in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts, a village on Cape Cod, where they enjoyed swimming, sailing, and touch football. Christmas and Easter holidays were spent at their winter retreat in Palm Beach, Florida. Young John attended the Riverdale Country School – a private school for boys – from 5th to 7th grade, and was a member of Boy Scout Troop 2 in Bronxville, New York. In September 1930, Kennedy, then 13 years old, was shipped off to the Canterbury School in New Milford, Connecticut, for 8th grade. In April 1931, he had an appendectomy, after which he withdrew from Canterbury and recuperated at home.	What sparked your interest in history and public service?	Discussions at the family dinner table about politics sparked my interest in history and public service.
Kennedy lived in Brookline for the first ten years of his life. He attended the local St. Aidan's Church, where he was baptized on June 19, 1917. He was educated through the 4th grade at the Edward Devotion School, the Noble and Greenough Lower School, and the Dexter School; all located in the Boston area. His earliest memories involved accompanying his grandfather Fitzgerald on walking tours of historic sites in Boston and discussions at the family dinner table about politics, sparking his interest in history and public service. His father's business had kept him away from the family for long stretches of time, and his ventures were concentrated on Wall Street and Hollywood. In 1927, the Dexter School announced it would not reopen before October after an outbreak of polio in Massachusetts. In September, the family decided to move from Boston by "private railway car" to the Riverdale neighborhood of New York City. Several years later, his brother Robert told Look magazine that his father had left Boston because of job signs that read: "No Irish Need Apply." The family spent summers and early autumns at their home in Hyannis Port, Massachusetts, a village on Cape Cod, where they enjoyed swimming, sailing, and touch football. Christmas and Easter holidays were spent at their winter retreat in Palm Beach, Florida. Young John attended the Riverdale Country School – a private school for boys – from 5th to 7th grade, and was a member of Boy Scout Troop 2 in Bronxville, New York. In September 1930, Kennedy, then 13 years old, was shipped off to the Canterbury School in New Milford, Connecticut, for 8th grade. In April 1931, he had an appendectomy, after which he withdrew from Canterbury and recuperated at home.	Why did the family decide to move from Boston to New York City?	The family decided to move from Boston to New York City because the Dexter School announced it would not reopen before October after an outbreak of polio in Massachusetts.
As the 1920s ended and both John and Joe Jr. entered their teenage years, their father assumed a key role in their educational development. Rose had wanted her sons to attend a Catholic school, but Joe Sr. thought that if they were to compete in the political world, they needed to be with boys from prominent Protestant families. Only such a school, he felt, could make his sons the kind of men he wanted them to be – and at the same time, pave their path to Harvard.	What role did your father assume in your educational development?	My father assumed a key role in my educational development.
As the 1920s ended and both John and Joe Jr. entered their teenage years, their father assumed a key role in their educational development. Rose had wanted her sons to attend a Catholic school, but Joe Sr. thought that if they were to compete in the political world, they needed to be with boys from prominent Protestant families. Only such a school, he felt, could make his sons the kind of men he wanted them to be – and at the same time, pave their path to Harvard.	What type of school did your mother want her sons to attend?	My mother wanted her sons to attend a Catholic school.
As the 1920s ended and both John and Joe Jr. entered their teenage years, their father assumed a key role in their educational development. Rose had wanted her sons to attend a Catholic school, but Joe Sr. thought that if they were to compete in the political world, they needed to be with boys from prominent Protestant families. Only such a school, he felt, could make his sons the kind of men he wanted them to be – and at the same time, pave their path to Harvard.	Why did your father think you needed to attend a school with boys from prominent Protestant families?	My father thought that if we were to compete in the political world, we needed to be with boys from prominent Protestant families.
As the 1920s ended and both John and Joe Jr. entered their teenage years, their father assumed a key role in their educational development. Rose had wanted her sons to attend a Catholic school, but Joe Sr. thought that if they were to compete in the political world, they needed to be with boys from prominent Protestant families. Only such a school, he felt, could make his sons the kind of men he wanted them to be – and at the same time, pave their path to Harvard.	What kind of men did your father want his sons to become?	My father wanted his sons to become the kind of men he wanted them to be.
As the 1920s ended and both John and Joe Jr. entered their teenage years, their father assumed a key role in their educational development. Rose had wanted her sons to attend a Catholic school, but Joe Sr. thought that if they were to compete in the political world, they needed to be with boys from prominent Protestant families. Only such a school, he felt, could make his sons the kind of men he wanted them to be – and at the same time, pave their path to Harvard.	What was your purpose of attending such a school?	I believed that attending such a school would pave their path to Harvard.
In September 1931, Kennedy started attending Choate School, a prestigious preparatory boarding school in Wallingford, Connecticut. His older brother Joe Jr. was already at Choate for two years and was a football player and leading student. Jack spent his first years at Choate in his older brother's shadow and compensated with rebellious behavior that attracted a clique. Their most notorious stunt was exploding a toilet seat with a powerful firecracker. In the next chapel assembly, the headmaster, George St. John, brandished the toilet seat and spoke of certain "muckers" who would "spit in our sea", leading Kennedy to name his group "The Muckers Club", which included roommate and lifelong friend Lem Billings.	When did you start attending Choate School?	In September 1931.
In September 1931, Kennedy started attending Choate School, a prestigious preparatory boarding school in Wallingford, Connecticut. His older brother Joe Jr. was already at Choate for two years and was a football player and leading student. Jack spent his first years at Choate in his older brother's shadow and compensated with rebellious behavior that attracted a clique. Their most notorious stunt was exploding a toilet seat with a powerful firecracker. In the next chapel assembly, the headmaster, George St. John, brandished the toilet seat and spoke of certain "muckers" who would "spit in our sea", leading Kennedy to name his group "The Muckers Club", which included roommate and lifelong friend Lem Billings.	Who was already at Choate when you started attending?	My older brother Joe Jr.
In September 1931, Kennedy started attending Choate School, a prestigious preparatory boarding school in Wallingford, Connecticut. His older brother Joe Jr. was already at Choate for two years and was a football player and leading student. Jack spent his first years at Choate in his older brother's shadow and compensated with rebellious behavior that attracted a clique. Their most notorious stunt was exploding a toilet seat with a powerful firecracker. In the next chapel assembly, the headmaster, George St. John, brandished the toilet seat and spoke of certain "muckers" who would "spit in our sea", leading Kennedy to name his group "The Muckers Club", which included roommate and lifelong friend Lem Billings.	What kind of behavior did you engage in at Choate?	Rebellious behavior.
In September 1931, Kennedy started attending Choate School, a prestigious preparatory boarding school in Wallingford, Connecticut. His older brother Joe Jr. was already at Choate for two years and was a football player and leading student. Jack spent his first years at Choate in his older brother's shadow and compensated with rebellious behavior that attracted a clique. Their most notorious stunt was exploding a toilet seat with a powerful firecracker. In the next chapel assembly, the headmaster, George St. John, brandished the toilet seat and spoke of certain "muckers" who would "spit in our sea", leading Kennedy to name his group "The Muckers Club", which included roommate and lifelong friend Lem Billings.	What was the most notorious stunt that you and your classmates pulled off?	Exploding a toilet seat with a powerful firecracker.
In September 1931, Kennedy started attending Choate School, a prestigious preparatory boarding school in Wallingford, Connecticut. His older brother Joe Jr. was already at Choate for two years and was a football player and leading student. Jack spent his first years at Choate in his older brother's shadow and compensated with rebellious behavior that attracted a clique. Their most notorious stunt was exploding a toilet seat with a powerful firecracker. In the next chapel assembly, the headmaster, George St. John, brandished the toilet seat and spoke of certain "muckers" who would "spit in our sea", leading Kennedy to name his group "The Muckers Club", which included roommate and lifelong friend Lem Billings.	Who was your roommate and lifelong friend at Choate?	Lem Billings.
Because of their stunts, the Club members were nearly expelled. However, they were later called back into the study and were told they would not be expelled.	Why were the Club members nearly expelled?	They were nearly expelled because of their stunts.
Because of their stunts, the Club members were nearly expelled. However, they were later called back into the study and were told they would not be expelled.	Who called the Club members back into the study?	They were called back into the study by someone.
Because of their stunts, the Club members were nearly expelled. However, they were later called back into the study and were told they would not be expelled.	What did the Club members do to avoid expulsion?	They were told they would not be expelled.
Because of their stunts, the Club members were nearly expelled. However, they were later called back into the study and were told they would not be expelled.	Were the Club members eventually expelled?	No, they were not expelled.
Because of their stunts, the Club members were nearly expelled. However, they were later called back into the study and were told they would not be expelled.	What happened to the Club members after being called back into the study?	They were told they would not be expelled.
During his years at Choate, Kennedy was beset by health problems that culminated with his emergency hospitalization in 1934 at Yale New Haven Hospital, where doctors suspected leukemia. While sick, Kennedy became a passionate reader, reading authors and characters like Sir Walter Scott and King Arthur. In June 1934, he was admitted to the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota; the ultimate diagnosis there was colitis. Kennedy graduated from Choate in June of the following year, finishing 64th in a class of 112 students. He had been the business manager of the school yearbook and was voted the "most likely to succeed". Courteney Hemeney, who taught Kennedy English and history, later said that Kennedy was "not as steady as his brother Joe, but still showed flashes of brilliance".	What health problems did you face during your time at Choate?	I was beset by health problems that culminated with my emergency hospitalization in 1934, where doctors suspected leukemia.
During his years at Choate, Kennedy was beset by health problems that culminated with his emergency hospitalization in 1934 at Yale New Haven Hospital, where doctors suspected leukemia. While sick, Kennedy became a passionate reader, reading authors and characters like Sir Walter Scott and King Arthur. In June 1934, he was admitted to the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota; the ultimate diagnosis there was colitis. Kennedy graduated from Choate in June of the following year, finishing 64th in a class of 112 students. He had been the business manager of the school yearbook and was voted the "most likely to succeed". Courteney Hemeney, who taught Kennedy English and history, later said that Kennedy was "not as steady as his brother Joe, but still showed flashes of brilliance".	What did you become passionate about while you were sick?	While sick, I became a passionate reader, reading authors and characters like Sir Walter Scott and King Arthur.
During his years at Choate, Kennedy was beset by health problems that culminated with his emergency hospitalization in 1934 at Yale New Haven Hospital, where doctors suspected leukemia. While sick, Kennedy became a passionate reader, reading authors and characters like Sir Walter Scott and King Arthur. In June 1934, he was admitted to the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota; the ultimate diagnosis there was colitis. Kennedy graduated from Choate in June of the following year, finishing 64th in a class of 112 students. He had been the business manager of the school yearbook and was voted the "most likely to succeed". Courteney Hemeney, who taught Kennedy English and history, later said that Kennedy was "not as steady as his brother Joe, but still showed flashes of brilliance".	Where were you admitted for further medical treatment?	I was admitted to the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota for further medical treatment.
During his years at Choate, Kennedy was beset by health problems that culminated with his emergency hospitalization in 1934 at Yale New Haven Hospital, where doctors suspected leukemia. While sick, Kennedy became a passionate reader, reading authors and characters like Sir Walter Scott and King Arthur. In June 1934, he was admitted to the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota; the ultimate diagnosis there was colitis. Kennedy graduated from Choate in June of the following year, finishing 64th in a class of 112 students. He had been the business manager of the school yearbook and was voted the "most likely to succeed". Courteney Hemeney, who taught Kennedy English and history, later said that Kennedy was "not as steady as his brother Joe, but still showed flashes of brilliance".	What was the ultimate diagnosis you received at the Mayo Clinic?	The ultimate diagnosis I received at the Mayo Clinic was colitis.
During his years at Choate, Kennedy was beset by health problems that culminated with his emergency hospitalization in 1934 at Yale New Haven Hospital, where doctors suspected leukemia. While sick, Kennedy became a passionate reader, reading authors and characters like Sir Walter Scott and King Arthur. In June 1934, he was admitted to the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota; the ultimate diagnosis there was colitis. Kennedy graduated from Choate in June of the following year, finishing 64th in a class of 112 students. He had been the business manager of the school yearbook and was voted the "most likely to succeed". Courteney Hemeney, who taught Kennedy English and history, later said that Kennedy was "not as steady as his brother Joe, but still showed flashes of brilliance".	What positions did you hold at Choate?	I was the business manager of the school yearbook and was voted the "most likely to succeed".
In January 1942 , Kennedy was assigned to the ONI field office at Headquarters , Sixth Naval District , in Charleston , South Carolina . He attended the Naval Reserve Officer Training School at Northwestern University in Chicago from July 27 to September 27 and then voluntarily entered the Motor Torpedo Boat Squadrons Training Center in Melville , Rhode Island . On October 10 , he was promoted to lieutenant junior grade . In early November , Kennedy was still mourning the death of his close , childhood friend , Marine Corps Second Lieutenant George Houk Mead Jr . , who had been killed in action at Guadalcanal that August and awarded the Navy Cross for his bravery . Accompanied by a female acquaintance from a wealthy Newport family , the couple had stopped in Middletown , Rhode Island at the cemetery where the decorated , naval spy , Commander Hugo W . Koehler , USN , had been buried the previous year . Ambling around the plots near the tiny St . Columba ' s chapel , Kennedy paused over Koehler ' s white granite cross grave marker and pondered his own mortality , hoping out loud that when his time came , he would not have to die without religion . " But these things can ' t be faked , " he added . " There ' s no bluffing . " Two decades later , Kennedy and Koehler ' s stepson , U . S . Senator Claiborne Pell had become good friends and political allies , although they had been acquaintances since the mid - 1930s during their " salad days " on the same Newport debutante party " circuit " and when Pell had dated Kathleen ( " Kick " ) Kennedy . Kennedy completed his training on December 2 and was assigned to Motor Torpedo Squadron FOUR .	When were you assigned to the ONI field office at Headquarters, Sixth Naval District in Charleston, South Carolina?	In January 1942.
In January 1942 , Kennedy was assigned to the ONI field office at Headquarters , Sixth Naval District , in Charleston , South Carolina . He attended the Naval Reserve Officer Training School at Northwestern University in Chicago from July 27 to September 27 and then voluntarily entered the Motor Torpedo Boat Squadrons Training Center in Melville , Rhode Island . On October 10 , he was promoted to lieutenant junior grade . In early November , Kennedy was still mourning the death of his close , childhood friend , Marine Corps Second Lieutenant George Houk Mead Jr . , who had been killed in action at Guadalcanal that August and awarded the Navy Cross for his bravery . Accompanied by a female acquaintance from a wealthy Newport family , the couple had stopped in Middletown , Rhode Island at the cemetery where the decorated , naval spy , Commander Hugo W . Koehler , USN , had been buried the previous year . Ambling around the plots near the tiny St . Columba ' s chapel , Kennedy paused over Koehler ' s white granite cross grave marker and pondered his own mortality , hoping out loud that when his time came , he would not have to die without religion . " But these things can ' t be faked , " he added . " There ' s no bluffing . " Two decades later , Kennedy and Koehler ' s stepson , U . S . Senator Claiborne Pell had become good friends and political allies , although they had been acquaintances since the mid - 1930s during their " salad days " on the same Newport debutante party " circuit " and when Pell had dated Kathleen ( " Kick " ) Kennedy . Kennedy completed his training on December 2 and was assigned to Motor Torpedo Squadron FOUR .	Where did you attend the Naval Reserve Officer Training School?	I attended the Naval Reserve Officer Training School at Northwestern University in Chicago.
In January 1942 , Kennedy was assigned to the ONI field office at Headquarters , Sixth Naval District , in Charleston , South Carolina . He attended the Naval Reserve Officer Training School at Northwestern University in Chicago from July 27 to September 27 and then voluntarily entered the Motor Torpedo Boat Squadrons Training Center in Melville , Rhode Island . On October 10 , he was promoted to lieutenant junior grade . In early November , Kennedy was still mourning the death of his close , childhood friend , Marine Corps Second Lieutenant George Houk Mead Jr . , who had been killed in action at Guadalcanal that August and awarded the Navy Cross for his bravery . Accompanied by a female acquaintance from a wealthy Newport family , the couple had stopped in Middletown , Rhode Island at the cemetery where the decorated , naval spy , Commander Hugo W . Koehler , USN , had been buried the previous year . Ambling around the plots near the tiny St . Columba ' s chapel , Kennedy paused over Koehler ' s white granite cross grave marker and pondered his own mortality , hoping out loud that when his time came , he would not have to die without religion . " But these things can ' t be faked , " he added . " There ' s no bluffing . " Two decades later , Kennedy and Koehler ' s stepson , U . S . Senator Claiborne Pell had become good friends and political allies , although they had been acquaintances since the mid - 1930s during their " salad days " on the same Newport debutante party " circuit " and when Pell had dated Kathleen ( " Kick " ) Kennedy . Kennedy completed his training on December 2 and was assigned to Motor Torpedo Squadron FOUR .	When were you promoted to lieutenant junior grade?	I was promoted to lieutenant junior grade on October 10.
In January 1942 , Kennedy was assigned to the ONI field office at Headquarters , Sixth Naval District , in Charleston , South Carolina . He attended the Naval Reserve Officer Training School at Northwestern University in Chicago from July 27 to September 27 and then voluntarily entered the Motor Torpedo Boat Squadrons Training Center in Melville , Rhode Island . On October 10 , he was promoted to lieutenant junior grade . In early November , Kennedy was still mourning the death of his close , childhood friend , Marine Corps Second Lieutenant George Houk Mead Jr . , who had been killed in action at Guadalcanal that August and awarded the Navy Cross for his bravery . Accompanied by a female acquaintance from a wealthy Newport family , the couple had stopped in Middletown , Rhode Island at the cemetery where the decorated , naval spy , Commander Hugo W . Koehler , USN , had been buried the previous year . Ambling around the plots near the tiny St . Columba ' s chapel , Kennedy paused over Koehler ' s white granite cross grave marker and pondered his own mortality , hoping out loud that when his time came , he would not have to die without religion . " But these things can ' t be faked , " he added . " There ' s no bluffing . " Two decades later , Kennedy and Koehler ' s stepson , U . S . Senator Claiborne Pell had become good friends and political allies , although they had been acquaintances since the mid - 1930s during their " salad days " on the same Newport debutante party " circuit " and when Pell had dated Kathleen ( " Kick " ) Kennedy . Kennedy completed his training on December 2 and was assigned to Motor Torpedo Squadron FOUR .	Who were you mourning the death of in early November?	I was mourning the death of my close childhood friend, Marine Corps Second Lieutenant George Houk Mead Jr.
In January 1942 , Kennedy was assigned to the ONI field office at Headquarters , Sixth Naval District , in Charleston , South Carolina . He attended the Naval Reserve Officer Training School at Northwestern University in Chicago from July 27 to September 27 and then voluntarily entered the Motor Torpedo Boat Squadrons Training Center in Melville , Rhode Island . On October 10 , he was promoted to lieutenant junior grade . In early November , Kennedy was still mourning the death of his close , childhood friend , Marine Corps Second Lieutenant George Houk Mead Jr . , who had been killed in action at Guadalcanal that August and awarded the Navy Cross for his bravery . Accompanied by a female acquaintance from a wealthy Newport family , the couple had stopped in Middletown , Rhode Island at the cemetery where the decorated , naval spy , Commander Hugo W . Koehler , USN , had been buried the previous year . Ambling around the plots near the tiny St . Columba ' s chapel , Kennedy paused over Koehler ' s white granite cross grave marker and pondered his own mortality , hoping out loud that when his time came , he would not have to die without religion . " But these things can ' t be faked , " he added . " There ' s no bluffing . " Two decades later , Kennedy and Koehler ' s stepson , U . S . Senator Claiborne Pell had become good friends and political allies , although they had been acquaintances since the mid - 1930s during their " salad days " on the same Newport debutante party " circuit " and when Pell had dated Kathleen ( " Kick " ) Kennedy . Kennedy completed his training on December 2 and was assigned to Motor Torpedo Squadron FOUR .	Who had you dated during your "salad days"?	I had dated Kathleen ("Kick") Kennedy.
At the urging of Kennedy ' s father , U . S . Representative James Michael Curley vacated his seat in the strongly Democratic 11th congressional district of Massachusetts to become mayor of Boston in 1946 . Kennedy established his residency at an apartment building on 122 Bowdoin Street across from the Massachusetts State House . With his father financing and running his campaign under the slogan " The New Generation Offers a Leader " , Kennedy won the Democratic primary with 42 percent of the vote , defeating ten other candidates . His father joked after the campaign , " With the money I spent , I could have elected my chauffeur . " Campaigning around Boston , Kennedy called for better housing for veterans , better health care for all , and support for organized labor ' s campaign for reasonable work hours , a healthy workplace , and the right to organize , bargain , and strike . In addition , he campaigned for peace through the United Nations and strong opposition to the Soviet Union . Though Republicans took control of the House in the 1946 elections , Kennedy defeated his Republican opponent in the general election , taking 73 percent of the vote . Along with Richard Nixon and Joseph McCarthy , Kennedy was one of several World War II veterans elected to Congress that year .	Who vacated his seat in the strongly Democratic 11th congressional district of Massachusetts in 1946?	U.S. Representative James Michael Curley.
At the urging of Kennedy ' s father , U . S . Representative James Michael Curley vacated his seat in the strongly Democratic 11th congressional district of Massachusetts to become mayor of Boston in 1946 . Kennedy established his residency at an apartment building on 122 Bowdoin Street across from the Massachusetts State House . With his father financing and running his campaign under the slogan " The New Generation Offers a Leader " , Kennedy won the Democratic primary with 42 percent of the vote , defeating ten other candidates . His father joked after the campaign , " With the money I spent , I could have elected my chauffeur . " Campaigning around Boston , Kennedy called for better housing for veterans , better health care for all , and support for organized labor ' s campaign for reasonable work hours , a healthy workplace , and the right to organize , bargain , and strike . In addition , he campaigned for peace through the United Nations and strong opposition to the Soviet Union . Though Republicans took control of the House in the 1946 elections , Kennedy defeated his Republican opponent in the general election , taking 73 percent of the vote . Along with Richard Nixon and Joseph McCarthy , Kennedy was one of several World War II veterans elected to Congress that year .	Where did you establish your residency?	I established my residency at an apartment building on 122 Bowdoin Street.
At the urging of Kennedy ' s father , U . S . Representative James Michael Curley vacated his seat in the strongly Democratic 11th congressional district of Massachusetts to become mayor of Boston in 1946 . Kennedy established his residency at an apartment building on 122 Bowdoin Street across from the Massachusetts State House . With his father financing and running his campaign under the slogan " The New Generation Offers a Leader " , Kennedy won the Democratic primary with 42 percent of the vote , defeating ten other candidates . His father joked after the campaign , " With the money I spent , I could have elected my chauffeur . " Campaigning around Boston , Kennedy called for better housing for veterans , better health care for all , and support for organized labor ' s campaign for reasonable work hours , a healthy workplace , and the right to organize , bargain , and strike . In addition , he campaigned for peace through the United Nations and strong opposition to the Soviet Union . Though Republicans took control of the House in the 1946 elections , Kennedy defeated his Republican opponent in the general election , taking 73 percent of the vote . Along with Richard Nixon and Joseph McCarthy , Kennedy was one of several World War II veterans elected to Congress that year .	What percentage of the vote did you win in the Democratic primary?	I won the Democratic primary with 42 percent of the vote.
At the urging of Kennedy ' s father , U . S . Representative James Michael Curley vacated his seat in the strongly Democratic 11th congressional district of Massachusetts to become mayor of Boston in 1946 . Kennedy established his residency at an apartment building on 122 Bowdoin Street across from the Massachusetts State House . With his father financing and running his campaign under the slogan " The New Generation Offers a Leader " , Kennedy won the Democratic primary with 42 percent of the vote , defeating ten other candidates . His father joked after the campaign , " With the money I spent , I could have elected my chauffeur . " Campaigning around Boston , Kennedy called for better housing for veterans , better health care for all , and support for organized labor ' s campaign for reasonable work hours , a healthy workplace , and the right to organize , bargain , and strike . In addition , he campaigned for peace through the United Nations and strong opposition to the Soviet Union . Though Republicans took control of the House in the 1946 elections , Kennedy defeated his Republican opponent in the general election , taking 73 percent of the vote . Along with Richard Nixon and Joseph McCarthy , Kennedy was one of several World War II veterans elected to Congress that year .	How did you campaign for better health care?	I campaigned for better health care for all.
At the urging of Kennedy ' s father , U . S . Representative James Michael Curley vacated his seat in the strongly Democratic 11th congressional district of Massachusetts to become mayor of Boston in 1946 . Kennedy established his residency at an apartment building on 122 Bowdoin Street across from the Massachusetts State House . With his father financing and running his campaign under the slogan " The New Generation Offers a Leader " , Kennedy won the Democratic primary with 42 percent of the vote , defeating ten other candidates . His father joked after the campaign , " With the money I spent , I could have elected my chauffeur . " Campaigning around Boston , Kennedy called for better housing for veterans , better health care for all , and support for organized labor ' s campaign for reasonable work hours , a healthy workplace , and the right to organize , bargain , and strike . In addition , he campaigned for peace through the United Nations and strong opposition to the Soviet Union . Though Republicans took control of the House in the 1946 elections , Kennedy defeated his Republican opponent in the general election , taking 73 percent of the vote . Along with Richard Nixon and Joseph McCarthy , Kennedy was one of several World War II veterans elected to Congress that year .	Who did you defeat in the general election?	I defeated my Republican opponent in the general election.
In 1958 , Kennedy was re - elected to a second term in the Senate , defeating Republican opponent , Boston lawyer Vincent J . Celeste , by a margin of 874 , 608 votes , the largest margin in the history of Massachusetts politics . It was during his re - election campaign that Kennedy ' s press secretary at the time , Robert E . Thompson , put together a film entitled The U . S . Senator John F . Kennedy Story , which exhibited a day in the life of the Senator and showcased his family life as well as the inner workings of his office to solve Massachusetts - related issues . It was the most comprehensive film produced about Kennedy up to that time . In the aftermath of his re - election , Kennedy began preparing to run for president by traveling throughout the U . S . with the aim of building his candidacy for 1960 .	When were you re-elected to a second term in the Senate?	In 1958.
In 1958 , Kennedy was re - elected to a second term in the Senate , defeating Republican opponent , Boston lawyer Vincent J . Celeste , by a margin of 874 , 608 votes , the largest margin in the history of Massachusetts politics . It was during his re - election campaign that Kennedy ' s press secretary at the time , Robert E . Thompson , put together a film entitled The U . S . Senator John F . Kennedy Story , which exhibited a day in the life of the Senator and showcased his family life as well as the inner workings of his office to solve Massachusetts - related issues . It was the most comprehensive film produced about Kennedy up to that time . In the aftermath of his re - election , Kennedy began preparing to run for president by traveling throughout the U . S . with the aim of building his candidacy for 1960 .	Who was your Republican opponent in the re-election campaign?	Boston lawyer Vincent J. Celeste.
In 1958 , Kennedy was re - elected to a second term in the Senate , defeating Republican opponent , Boston lawyer Vincent J . Celeste , by a margin of 874 , 608 votes , the largest margin in the history of Massachusetts politics . It was during his re - election campaign that Kennedy ' s press secretary at the time , Robert E . Thompson , put together a film entitled The U . S . Senator John F . Kennedy Story , which exhibited a day in the life of the Senator and showcased his family life as well as the inner workings of his office to solve Massachusetts - related issues . It was the most comprehensive film produced about Kennedy up to that time . In the aftermath of his re - election , Kennedy began preparing to run for president by traveling throughout the U . S . with the aim of building his candidacy for 1960 .	By what margin did you defeat your opponent in the re-election?	By a margin of 874,608 votes, the largest margin in the history of Massachusetts politics.
In 1958 , Kennedy was re - elected to a second term in the Senate , defeating Republican opponent , Boston lawyer Vincent J . Celeste , by a margin of 874 , 608 votes , the largest margin in the history of Massachusetts politics . It was during his re - election campaign that Kennedy ' s press secretary at the time , Robert E . Thompson , put together a film entitled The U . S . Senator John F . Kennedy Story , which exhibited a day in the life of the Senator and showcased his family life as well as the inner workings of his office to solve Massachusetts - related issues . It was the most comprehensive film produced about Kennedy up to that time . In the aftermath of his re - election , Kennedy began preparing to run for president by traveling throughout the U . S . with the aim of building his candidacy for 1960 .	What was the title of the film that your press secretary put together during your re-election campaign?	The U.S. Senator John F. Kennedy Story.
In 1958 , Kennedy was re - elected to a second term in the Senate , defeating Republican opponent , Boston lawyer Vincent J . Celeste , by a margin of 874 , 608 votes , the largest margin in the history of Massachusetts politics . It was during his re - election campaign that Kennedy ' s press secretary at the time , Robert E . Thompson , put together a film entitled The U . S . Senator John F . Kennedy Story , which exhibited a day in the life of the Senator and showcased his family life as well as the inner workings of his office to solve Massachusetts - related issues . It was the most comprehensive film produced about Kennedy up to that time . In the aftermath of his re - election , Kennedy began preparing to run for president by traveling throughout the U . S . with the aim of building his candidacy for 1960 .	What was the purpose of the film?	The film exhibited a day in the life of the Senator, showcased his family life, and portrayed the inner workings of his office to solve Massachusetts-related issues.
Kennedy ' s father was a strong supporter and friend of Senator Joseph McCarthy . Additionally , Bobby Kennedy worked for McCarthy ' s subcommittee , and McCarthy dated Kennedy ' s sister Patricia . Kennedy told historian Arthur M . Schlesinger Jr . , " Hell , half my voters [ particularly Catholics ] in Massachusetts look on McCarthy as a hero . " In 1954 , the Senate voted to censure McCarthy , and Kennedy drafted a speech supporting the censure . However , it was not delivered because Kennedy was hospitalized at the time . The speech put Kennedy in the apparent position of participating by " pairing " his vote against that of another senator and opposing the censure . Although Kennedy never indicated how he would have voted , the episode damaged his support among members of the liberal community , including Eleanor Roosevelt , in the 1956 and 1960 elections .	Who was your father a strong supporter and friend of?	My father was a strong supporter and friend of Senator Joseph McCarthy.
Kennedy ' s father was a strong supporter and friend of Senator Joseph McCarthy . Additionally , Bobby Kennedy worked for McCarthy ' s subcommittee , and McCarthy dated Kennedy ' s sister Patricia . Kennedy told historian Arthur M . Schlesinger Jr . , " Hell , half my voters [ particularly Catholics ] in Massachusetts look on McCarthy as a hero . " In 1954 , the Senate voted to censure McCarthy , and Kennedy drafted a speech supporting the censure . However , it was not delivered because Kennedy was hospitalized at the time . The speech put Kennedy in the apparent position of participating by " pairing " his vote against that of another senator and opposing the censure . Although Kennedy never indicated how he would have voted , the episode damaged his support among members of the liberal community , including Eleanor Roosevelt , in the 1956 and 1960 elections .	Who did you work for?	I worked for McCarthy's subcommittee.
Kennedy ' s father was a strong supporter and friend of Senator Joseph McCarthy . Additionally , Bobby Kennedy worked for McCarthy ' s subcommittee , and McCarthy dated Kennedy ' s sister Patricia . Kennedy told historian Arthur M . Schlesinger Jr . , " Hell , half my voters [ particularly Catholics ] in Massachusetts look on McCarthy as a hero . " In 1954 , the Senate voted to censure McCarthy , and Kennedy drafted a speech supporting the censure . However , it was not delivered because Kennedy was hospitalized at the time . The speech put Kennedy in the apparent position of participating by " pairing " his vote against that of another senator and opposing the censure . Although Kennedy never indicated how he would have voted , the episode damaged his support among members of the liberal community , including Eleanor Roosevelt , in the 1956 and 1960 elections .	Who did you date?	I dated your sister Patricia.
Kennedy ' s father was a strong supporter and friend of Senator Joseph McCarthy . Additionally , Bobby Kennedy worked for McCarthy ' s subcommittee , and McCarthy dated Kennedy ' s sister Patricia . Kennedy told historian Arthur M . Schlesinger Jr . , " Hell , half my voters [ particularly Catholics ] in Massachusetts look on McCarthy as a hero . " In 1954 , the Senate voted to censure McCarthy , and Kennedy drafted a speech supporting the censure . However , it was not delivered because Kennedy was hospitalized at the time . The speech put Kennedy in the apparent position of participating by " pairing " his vote against that of another senator and opposing the censure . Although Kennedy never indicated how he would have voted , the episode damaged his support among members of the liberal community , including Eleanor Roosevelt , in the 1956 and 1960 elections .	According to you, who do your voters in Massachusetts consider as a hero?	According to me, half of my voters in Massachusetts, particularly Catholics, consider McCarthy as a hero.
Kennedy ' s father was a strong supporter and friend of Senator Joseph McCarthy . Additionally , Bobby Kennedy worked for McCarthy ' s subcommittee , and McCarthy dated Kennedy ' s sister Patricia . Kennedy told historian Arthur M . Schlesinger Jr . , " Hell , half my voters [ particularly Catholics ] in Massachusetts look on McCarthy as a hero . " In 1954 , the Senate voted to censure McCarthy , and Kennedy drafted a speech supporting the censure . However , it was not delivered because Kennedy was hospitalized at the time . The speech put Kennedy in the apparent position of participating by " pairing " his vote against that of another senator and opposing the censure . Although Kennedy never indicated how he would have voted , the episode damaged his support among members of the liberal community , including Eleanor Roosevelt , in the 1956 and 1960 elections .	Why was your speech supporting the censure not delivered?	My speech supporting the censure was not delivered because I was hospitalized at the time.
On June 4 , 1961 , Kennedy met with Khrushchev in Vienna and left the meetings angry and disappointed that he had allowed the premier to bully him , despite the warnings he had received . Khrushchev , for his part , was impressed with the president ' s intelligence but thought him weak . Kennedy did succeed in conveying the bottom line to Khrushchev on the most sensitive issue before them , a proposed treaty between Moscow and East Berlin . He made it clear that any treaty interfering with U . S . access rights in West Berlin would be regarded as an act of war . Shortly after Kennedy returned home , the U . S . S . R . announced its plan to sign a treaty with East Berlin , abrogating any third - party occupation rights in either sector of the city . Depressed and angry , Kennedy assumed that his only option was to prepare the country for nuclear war , which he personally thought had a one - in - five chance of occurring .	When did you meet with Khrushchev?	On June 4, 1961.
On June 4 , 1961 , Kennedy met with Khrushchev in Vienna and left the meetings angry and disappointed that he had allowed the premier to bully him , despite the warnings he had received . Khrushchev , for his part , was impressed with the president ' s intelligence but thought him weak . Kennedy did succeed in conveying the bottom line to Khrushchev on the most sensitive issue before them , a proposed treaty between Moscow and East Berlin . He made it clear that any treaty interfering with U . S . access rights in West Berlin would be regarded as an act of war . Shortly after Kennedy returned home , the U . S . S . R . announced its plan to sign a treaty with East Berlin , abrogating any third - party occupation rights in either sector of the city . Depressed and angry , Kennedy assumed that his only option was to prepare the country for nuclear war , which he personally thought had a one - in - five chance of occurring .	How did you feel after your meetings with Khrushchev?	Angry and disappointed.
On June 4 , 1961 , Kennedy met with Khrushchev in Vienna and left the meetings angry and disappointed that he had allowed the premier to bully him , despite the warnings he had received . Khrushchev , for his part , was impressed with the president ' s intelligence but thought him weak . Kennedy did succeed in conveying the bottom line to Khrushchev on the most sensitive issue before them , a proposed treaty between Moscow and East Berlin . He made it clear that any treaty interfering with U . S . access rights in West Berlin would be regarded as an act of war . Shortly after Kennedy returned home , the U . S . S . R . announced its plan to sign a treaty with East Berlin , abrogating any third - party occupation rights in either sector of the city . Depressed and angry , Kennedy assumed that his only option was to prepare the country for nuclear war , which he personally thought had a one - in - five chance of occurring .	What warnings had you received before meeting with Khrushchev?	The warnings about Khrushchev bullying me.
On June 4 , 1961 , Kennedy met with Khrushchev in Vienna and left the meetings angry and disappointed that he had allowed the premier to bully him , despite the warnings he had received . Khrushchev , for his part , was impressed with the president ' s intelligence but thought him weak . Kennedy did succeed in conveying the bottom line to Khrushchev on the most sensitive issue before them , a proposed treaty between Moscow and East Berlin . He made it clear that any treaty interfering with U . S . access rights in West Berlin would be regarded as an act of war . Shortly after Kennedy returned home , the U . S . S . R . announced its plan to sign a treaty with East Berlin , abrogating any third - party occupation rights in either sector of the city . Depressed and angry , Kennedy assumed that his only option was to prepare the country for nuclear war , which he personally thought had a one - in - five chance of occurring .	How did Khrushchev view you?	Khrushchev thought I was weak but impressed with my intelligence.
On June 4 , 1961 , Kennedy met with Khrushchev in Vienna and left the meetings angry and disappointed that he had allowed the premier to bully him , despite the warnings he had received . Khrushchev , for his part , was impressed with the president ' s intelligence but thought him weak . Kennedy did succeed in conveying the bottom line to Khrushchev on the most sensitive issue before them , a proposed treaty between Moscow and East Berlin . He made it clear that any treaty interfering with U . S . access rights in West Berlin would be regarded as an act of war . Shortly after Kennedy returned home , the U . S . S . R . announced its plan to sign a treaty with East Berlin , abrogating any third - party occupation rights in either sector of the city . Depressed and angry , Kennedy assumed that his only option was to prepare the country for nuclear war , which he personally thought had a one - in - five chance of occurring .	What issue did you convey the bottom line to Khrushchev about?	A proposed treaty between Moscow and East Berlin.
At the time of Kennedy ' s death , no final policy decision was made with respect to Vietnam . By November 1963 , there were 16 , 000 American military personnel in South Vietnam , up from Eisenhower ' s 900 advisors . In the aftermath of the aborted coup in September 1963 , the Kennedy administration reevaluated its policies in South Vietnam . Kennedy rejected both the full - scale deployment of ground soldiers , but also rejected the total withdrawal of U . S . forces from the country . Kennedy had signed National Security Action Memorandum ( NSAM ) 263 , dated October 11 , which ordered the withdrawal of 1 , 000 military personnel by year ' s end , and the bulk of them out by 1965 . Such an action would have been a policy reversal , but Kennedy was publicly moving in a less hawkish direction since his speech on world peace at American University on June 10 , 1963 . After Kennedy ' s assassination , President Johnson signed NSAM 273 on November 26 , 1963 . It reversed Kennedy ' s decision to withdraw 1 , 000 troops , and reaffirmed the policy of assistance to the South Vietnamese . U . S . involvement in the region escalated until his successor Lyndon Johnson directly deployed regular U . S . military forces for fighting the Vietnam War .	At the time of your death, what was the status of policy decision regarding Vietnam?	No final policy decision was made with respect to Vietnam.
At the time of Kennedy ' s death , no final policy decision was made with respect to Vietnam . By November 1963 , there were 16 , 000 American military personnel in South Vietnam , up from Eisenhower ' s 900 advisors . In the aftermath of the aborted coup in September 1963 , the Kennedy administration reevaluated its policies in South Vietnam . Kennedy rejected both the full - scale deployment of ground soldiers , but also rejected the total withdrawal of U . S . forces from the country . Kennedy had signed National Security Action Memorandum ( NSAM ) 263 , dated October 11 , which ordered the withdrawal of 1 , 000 military personnel by year ' s end , and the bulk of them out by 1965 . Such an action would have been a policy reversal , but Kennedy was publicly moving in a less hawkish direction since his speech on world peace at American University on June 10 , 1963 . After Kennedy ' s assassination , President Johnson signed NSAM 273 on November 26 , 1963 . It reversed Kennedy ' s decision to withdraw 1 , 000 troops , and reaffirmed the policy of assistance to the South Vietnamese . U . S . involvement in the region escalated until his successor Lyndon Johnson directly deployed regular U . S . military forces for fighting the Vietnam War .	How many American military personnel were in South Vietnam by November 1963?	There were 16,000 American military personnel in South Vietnam.
At the time of Kennedy ' s death , no final policy decision was made with respect to Vietnam . By November 1963 , there were 16 , 000 American military personnel in South Vietnam , up from Eisenhower ' s 900 advisors . In the aftermath of the aborted coup in September 1963 , the Kennedy administration reevaluated its policies in South Vietnam . Kennedy rejected both the full - scale deployment of ground soldiers , but also rejected the total withdrawal of U . S . forces from the country . Kennedy had signed National Security Action Memorandum ( NSAM ) 263 , dated October 11 , which ordered the withdrawal of 1 , 000 military personnel by year ' s end , and the bulk of them out by 1965 . Such an action would have been a policy reversal , but Kennedy was publicly moving in a less hawkish direction since his speech on world peace at American University on June 10 , 1963 . After Kennedy ' s assassination , President Johnson signed NSAM 273 on November 26 , 1963 . It reversed Kennedy ' s decision to withdraw 1 , 000 troops , and reaffirmed the policy of assistance to the South Vietnamese . U . S . involvement in the region escalated until his successor Lyndon Johnson directly deployed regular U . S . military forces for fighting the Vietnam War .	What was your policy in South Vietnam after the aborted coup?	I reevaluated my policies in South Vietnam.
At the time of Kennedy ' s death , no final policy decision was made with respect to Vietnam . By November 1963 , there were 16 , 000 American military personnel in South Vietnam , up from Eisenhower ' s 900 advisors . In the aftermath of the aborted coup in September 1963 , the Kennedy administration reevaluated its policies in South Vietnam . Kennedy rejected both the full - scale deployment of ground soldiers , but also rejected the total withdrawal of U . S . forces from the country . Kennedy had signed National Security Action Memorandum ( NSAM ) 263 , dated October 11 , which ordered the withdrawal of 1 , 000 military personnel by year ' s end , and the bulk of them out by 1965 . Such an action would have been a policy reversal , but Kennedy was publicly moving in a less hawkish direction since his speech on world peace at American University on June 10 , 1963 . After Kennedy ' s assassination , President Johnson signed NSAM 273 on November 26 , 1963 . It reversed Kennedy ' s decision to withdraw 1 , 000 troops , and reaffirmed the policy of assistance to the South Vietnamese . U . S . involvement in the region escalated until his successor Lyndon Johnson directly deployed regular U . S . military forces for fighting the Vietnam War .	What did your National Security Action Memorandum (NSAM) 263 order?	NSAM 263 ordered the withdrawal of 1,000 military personnel by my year's end.
At the time of Kennedy ' s death , no final policy decision was made with respect to Vietnam . By November 1963 , there were 16 , 000 American military personnel in South Vietnam , up from Eisenhower ' s 900 advisors . In the aftermath of the aborted coup in September 1963 , the Kennedy administration reevaluated its policies in South Vietnam . Kennedy rejected both the full - scale deployment of ground soldiers , but also rejected the total withdrawal of U . S . forces from the country . Kennedy had signed National Security Action Memorandum ( NSAM ) 263 , dated October 11 , which ordered the withdrawal of 1 , 000 military personnel by year ' s end , and the bulk of them out by 1965 . Such an action would have been a policy reversal , but Kennedy was publicly moving in a less hawkish direction since his speech on world peace at American University on June 10 , 1963 . After Kennedy ' s assassination , President Johnson signed NSAM 273 on November 26 , 1963 . It reversed Kennedy ' s decision to withdraw 1 , 000 troops , and reaffirmed the policy of assistance to the South Vietnamese . U . S . involvement in the region escalated until his successor Lyndon Johnson directly deployed regular U . S . military forces for fighting the Vietnam War .	What action did President Johnson take regarding the withdrawal of troops after your assassination?	President Johnson signed NSAM 273, which reversed my decision to withdraw 1,000 troops.
In September 1962 , James Meredith enrolled at the University of Mississippi but was prevented from entering . In response to that , Attorney General Robert Kennedy sent 127 U . S . Marshals and 316 U . S . Border Patrol and 97 Federal correctional officers who were deputized as marshals . The Ole Miss riot of 1962 left two civilians dead and 300 people injured , prompting President Kennedy to send in 3 , 000 troops to quell the riot . Meredith did finally enroll for a class , and Kennedy regretted not sending in troops earlier . Kennedy began doubting as to whether the " evils of Reconstruction " of the 1860s and 1870s he had been taught or believed in were true . The instigating subculture during the Ole Miss riot , and many other racially ignited events , was the Ku Klux Klan . On November 20 , 1962 , Kennedy signed Executive Order 11063 , which prohibited racial discrimination in federally supported housing or " related facilities " . Despite this , in Boston , the Boston Housing Authority ( BHA ) Board would continue to actively segregate the public housing developments in the city during the John F . Collins administration ( 1960 – 1968 ) , with BHA departments engaging in bureaucratic resistance against integration through at least 1966 and the Board retaining control over tenant assignment until 1968 .	When did James Meredith enroll at the University of Mississippi?	James Meredith enrolled at the University of Mississippi in September 1962.
In September 1962 , James Meredith enrolled at the University of Mississippi but was prevented from entering . In response to that , Attorney General Robert Kennedy sent 127 U . S . Marshals and 316 U . S . Border Patrol and 97 Federal correctional officers who were deputized as marshals . The Ole Miss riot of 1962 left two civilians dead and 300 people injured , prompting President Kennedy to send in 3 , 000 troops to quell the riot . Meredith did finally enroll for a class , and Kennedy regretted not sending in troops earlier . Kennedy began doubting as to whether the " evils of Reconstruction " of the 1860s and 1870s he had been taught or believed in were true . The instigating subculture during the Ole Miss riot , and many other racially ignited events , was the Ku Klux Klan . On November 20 , 1962 , Kennedy signed Executive Order 11063 , which prohibited racial discrimination in federally supported housing or " related facilities " . Despite this , in Boston , the Boston Housing Authority ( BHA ) Board would continue to actively segregate the public housing developments in the city during the John F . Collins administration ( 1960 – 1968 ) , with BHA departments engaging in bureaucratic resistance against integration through at least 1966 and the Board retaining control over tenant assignment until 1968 .	Why was James Meredith prevented from entering the University of Mississippi?	James Meredith was prevented from entering the University of Mississippi in September 1962.
In September 1962 , James Meredith enrolled at the University of Mississippi but was prevented from entering . In response to that , Attorney General Robert Kennedy sent 127 U . S . Marshals and 316 U . S . Border Patrol and 97 Federal correctional officers who were deputized as marshals . The Ole Miss riot of 1962 left two civilians dead and 300 people injured , prompting President Kennedy to send in 3 , 000 troops to quell the riot . Meredith did finally enroll for a class , and Kennedy regretted not sending in troops earlier . Kennedy began doubting as to whether the " evils of Reconstruction " of the 1860s and 1870s he had been taught or believed in were true . The instigating subculture during the Ole Miss riot , and many other racially ignited events , was the Ku Klux Klan . On November 20 , 1962 , Kennedy signed Executive Order 11063 , which prohibited racial discrimination in federally supported housing or " related facilities " . Despite this , in Boston , the Boston Housing Authority ( BHA ) Board would continue to actively segregate the public housing developments in the city during the John F . Collins administration ( 1960 – 1968 ) , with BHA departments engaging in bureaucratic resistance against integration through at least 1966 and the Board retaining control over tenant assignment until 1968 .	Who sent U.S. Marshals and Border Patrol officers to address the situation at the University of Mississippi?	Attorney General Robert Kennedy sent U.S. Marshals and Border Patrol officers to address the situation at the University of Mississippi.
In September 1962 , James Meredith enrolled at the University of Mississippi but was prevented from entering . In response to that , Attorney General Robert Kennedy sent 127 U . S . Marshals and 316 U . S . Border Patrol and 97 Federal correctional officers who were deputized as marshals . The Ole Miss riot of 1962 left two civilians dead and 300 people injured , prompting President Kennedy to send in 3 , 000 troops to quell the riot . Meredith did finally enroll for a class , and Kennedy regretted not sending in troops earlier . Kennedy began doubting as to whether the " evils of Reconstruction " of the 1860s and 1870s he had been taught or believed in were true . The instigating subculture during the Ole Miss riot , and many other racially ignited events , was the Ku Klux Klan . On November 20 , 1962 , Kennedy signed Executive Order 11063 , which prohibited racial discrimination in federally supported housing or " related facilities " . Despite this , in Boston , the Boston Housing Authority ( BHA ) Board would continue to actively segregate the public housing developments in the city during the John F . Collins administration ( 1960 – 1968 ) , with BHA departments engaging in bureaucratic resistance against integration through at least 1966 and the Board retaining control over tenant assignment until 1968 .	How many people were injured during the Ole Miss riot of 1962?	300 people were injured during the Ole Miss riot of 1962.
In September 1962 , James Meredith enrolled at the University of Mississippi but was prevented from entering . In response to that , Attorney General Robert Kennedy sent 127 U . S . Marshals and 316 U . S . Border Patrol and 97 Federal correctional officers who were deputized as marshals . The Ole Miss riot of 1962 left two civilians dead and 300 people injured , prompting President Kennedy to send in 3 , 000 troops to quell the riot . Meredith did finally enroll for a class , and Kennedy regretted not sending in troops earlier . Kennedy began doubting as to whether the " evils of Reconstruction " of the 1860s and 1870s he had been taught or believed in were true . The instigating subculture during the Ole Miss riot , and many other racially ignited events , was the Ku Klux Klan . On November 20 , 1962 , Kennedy signed Executive Order 11063 , which prohibited racial discrimination in federally supported housing or " related facilities " . Despite this , in Boston , the Boston Housing Authority ( BHA ) Board would continue to actively segregate the public housing developments in the city during the John F . Collins administration ( 1960 – 1968 ) , with BHA departments engaging in bureaucratic resistance against integration through at least 1966 and the Board retaining control over tenant assignment until 1968 .	When did you send troops to quell the riot at the University of Mississippi?	I sent 3,000 troops to quell the riot at the University of Mississippi.
The Kennedy family is one of the most established political families in the United States , having produced a president , three senators , three ambassadors , and multiple other representatives and politicians , both at the federal and state level . While a Congressman , Kennedy embarked on a seven - week trip to India , Japan , Vietnam , and Israel in 1951 , at which point he became close with his then 25 - year - old brother Bobby , as well as his 27 - year - old sister Pat . Because they were several years apart in age , the brothers had previously seen little of each other . This 25 , 000 - mile ( 40 , 000   km ) trip was the first extended time they had spent together and resulted in their becoming best friends . Bobby would eventually play a major role in his brother ' s career , serving as his brother ' s attorney general and presidential advisor . Bobby would later run for president in 1968 before his assassination , while another Kennedy brother , Ted , ran for president in 1980 . Kennedy ' s nephew and Bobby ' s son , Robert Jr . , is running for president in 2024 .	Who is the Kennedy family?	The Kennedy family is one of the most established political families in the United States.
The Kennedy family is one of the most established political families in the United States , having produced a president , three senators , three ambassadors , and multiple other representatives and politicians , both at the federal and state level . While a Congressman , Kennedy embarked on a seven - week trip to India , Japan , Vietnam , and Israel in 1951 , at which point he became close with his then 25 - year - old brother Bobby , as well as his 27 - year - old sister Pat . Because they were several years apart in age , the brothers had previously seen little of each other . This 25 , 000 - mile ( 40 , 000   km ) trip was the first extended time they had spent together and resulted in their becoming best friends . Bobby would eventually play a major role in his brother ' s career , serving as his brother ' s attorney general and presidential advisor . Bobby would later run for president in 1968 before his assassination , while another Kennedy brother , Ted , ran for president in 1980 . Kennedy ' s nephew and Bobby ' s son , Robert Jr . , is running for president in 2024 .	What political positions have members of your family held?	My family has produced a president, three senators, three ambassadors, and multiple other representatives and politicians, both at the federal and state level.
The Kennedy family is one of the most established political families in the United States , having produced a president , three senators , three ambassadors , and multiple other representatives and politicians , both at the federal and state level . While a Congressman , Kennedy embarked on a seven - week trip to India , Japan , Vietnam , and Israel in 1951 , at which point he became close with his then 25 - year - old brother Bobby , as well as his 27 - year - old sister Pat . Because they were several years apart in age , the brothers had previously seen little of each other . This 25 , 000 - mile ( 40 , 000   km ) trip was the first extended time they had spent together and resulted in their becoming best friends . Bobby would eventually play a major role in his brother ' s career , serving as his brother ' s attorney general and presidential advisor . Bobby would later run for president in 1968 before his assassination , while another Kennedy brother , Ted , ran for president in 1980 . Kennedy ' s nephew and Bobby ' s son , Robert Jr . , is running for president in 2024 .	When did you embark on a seven-week trip and who did you become close with during this trip?	I embarked on a seven-week trip in 1951 and became close with my then 25-year-old brother Bobby and my 27-year-old sister Pat.
The Kennedy family is one of the most established political families in the United States , having produced a president , three senators , three ambassadors , and multiple other representatives and politicians , both at the federal and state level . While a Congressman , Kennedy embarked on a seven - week trip to India , Japan , Vietnam , and Israel in 1951 , at which point he became close with his then 25 - year - old brother Bobby , as well as his 27 - year - old sister Pat . Because they were several years apart in age , the brothers had previously seen little of each other . This 25 , 000 - mile ( 40 , 000   km ) trip was the first extended time they had spent together and resulted in their becoming best friends . Bobby would eventually play a major role in his brother ' s career , serving as his brother ' s attorney general and presidential advisor . Bobby would later run for president in 1968 before his assassination , while another Kennedy brother , Ted , ran for president in 1980 . Kennedy ' s nephew and Bobby ' s son , Robert Jr . , is running for president in 2024 .	What role did you play in your brother's career?	I served as my brother's attorney general and presidential advisor.
The Kennedy family is one of the most established political families in the United States , having produced a president , three senators , three ambassadors , and multiple other representatives and politicians , both at the federal and state level . While a Congressman , Kennedy embarked on a seven - week trip to India , Japan , Vietnam , and Israel in 1951 , at which point he became close with his then 25 - year - old brother Bobby , as well as his 27 - year - old sister Pat . Because they were several years apart in age , the brothers had previously seen little of each other . This 25 , 000 - mile ( 40 , 000   km ) trip was the first extended time they had spent together and resulted in their becoming best friends . Bobby would eventually play a major role in his brother ' s career , serving as his brother ' s attorney general and presidential advisor . Bobby would later run for president in 1968 before his assassination , while another Kennedy brother , Ted , ran for president in 1980 . Kennedy ' s nephew and Bobby ' s son , Robert Jr . , is running for president in 2024 .	Who else from your family has run for president?	My brother Bobby ran for president in 1968 before his assassination, and another one of my brothers, Ted, ran for president in 1980. My nephew, Robert Jr., is running for president in 2024.
Kennedy met his future wife , Jacqueline Lee " Jackie " Bouvier ( 1929 – 1994 ) , when he was a congressman . Charles L . Bartlett , a journalist , introduced the pair at a dinner party . They were married a year after he was elected senator , on September 12 , 1953 . After suffering a miscarriage in 1955 and a stillbirth in 1956 ( their daughter Arabella ) , their daughter Caroline was born in 1957 and is the only surviving member of JFK ' s immediate family . John Fitzgerald Kennedy Jr . , nicknamed " John - John " by the press as a child , was born in late November 1960 , 17 days after his father was elected . John Jr . , a graduate of Brown University , died in 1999 when the small plane he was piloting crashed en route to Martha ' s Vineyard . In 1963 , months before JFK ' s assassination , Jackie gave birth to a son , Patrick . However , he died after 2 days due to complications from birth .	Who introduced you to your future wife?	Charles L. Bartlett, a journalist.
Kennedy met his future wife , Jacqueline Lee " Jackie " Bouvier ( 1929 – 1994 ) , when he was a congressman . Charles L . Bartlett , a journalist , introduced the pair at a dinner party . They were married a year after he was elected senator , on September 12 , 1953 . After suffering a miscarriage in 1955 and a stillbirth in 1956 ( their daughter Arabella ) , their daughter Caroline was born in 1957 and is the only surviving member of JFK ' s immediate family . John Fitzgerald Kennedy Jr . , nicknamed " John - John " by the press as a child , was born in late November 1960 , 17 days after his father was elected . John Jr . , a graduate of Brown University , died in 1999 when the small plane he was piloting crashed en route to Martha ' s Vineyard . In 1963 , months before JFK ' s assassination , Jackie gave birth to a son , Patrick . However , he died after 2 days due to complications from birth .	When did you and Jackie get married?	We got married on September 12, 1953, a year after I was elected senator.
Kennedy met his future wife , Jacqueline Lee " Jackie " Bouvier ( 1929 – 1994 ) , when he was a congressman . Charles L . Bartlett , a journalist , introduced the pair at a dinner party . They were married a year after he was elected senator , on September 12 , 1953 . After suffering a miscarriage in 1955 and a stillbirth in 1956 ( their daughter Arabella ) , their daughter Caroline was born in 1957 and is the only surviving member of JFK ' s immediate family . John Fitzgerald Kennedy Jr . , nicknamed " John - John " by the press as a child , was born in late November 1960 , 17 days after his father was elected . John Jr . , a graduate of Brown University , died in 1999 when the small plane he was piloting crashed en route to Martha ' s Vineyard . In 1963 , months before JFK ' s assassination , Jackie gave birth to a son , Patrick . However , he died after 2 days due to complications from birth .	How many children did you and Jackie have?	We had two children. Our daughter Caroline was born in 1957, and our son John Jr. was born in late November 1960.
Kennedy met his future wife , Jacqueline Lee " Jackie " Bouvier ( 1929 – 1994 ) , when he was a congressman . Charles L . Bartlett , a journalist , introduced the pair at a dinner party . They were married a year after he was elected senator , on September 12 , 1953 . After suffering a miscarriage in 1955 and a stillbirth in 1956 ( their daughter Arabella ) , their daughter Caroline was born in 1957 and is the only surviving member of JFK ' s immediate family . John Fitzgerald Kennedy Jr . , nicknamed " John - John " by the press as a child , was born in late November 1960 , 17 days after his father was elected . John Jr . , a graduate of Brown University , died in 1999 when the small plane he was piloting crashed en route to Martha ' s Vineyard . In 1963 , months before JFK ' s assassination , Jackie gave birth to a son , Patrick . However , he died after 2 days due to complications from birth .	What happened to your son, John Jr.?	He died in 1999 when the small plane he was piloting crashed en route to Martha's Vineyard.
Kennedy met his future wife , Jacqueline Lee " Jackie " Bouvier ( 1929 – 1994 ) , when he was a congressman . Charles L . Bartlett , a journalist , introduced the pair at a dinner party . They were married a year after he was elected senator , on September 12 , 1953 . After suffering a miscarriage in 1955 and a stillbirth in 1956 ( their daughter Arabella ) , their daughter Caroline was born in 1957 and is the only surviving member of JFK ' s immediate family . John Fitzgerald Kennedy Jr . , nicknamed " John - John " by the press as a child , was born in late November 1960 , 17 days after his father was elected . John Jr . , a graduate of Brown University , died in 1999 when the small plane he was piloting crashed en route to Martha ' s Vineyard . In 1963 , months before JFK ' s assassination , Jackie gave birth to a son , Patrick . However , he died after 2 days due to complications from birth .	Did you have any other children?	Yes, I gave birth to a son named Patrick in 1963, but he died after 2 days due to complications from birth.
The term " Camelot " is often used to describe his presidency , reflecting both the mythic grandeur accorded Kennedy in death , and the powerful nostalgia that millions feel for that era of American history . According to Richard Dean Burns and Joseph M . Siracusa , the most popular theme surrounding Kennedy ' s legacy is its replay of the legend of King Arthur and Camelot from medieval England . In the days after JFK ' s death , his widow Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy , who herself would play a central role in the myth , approached journalist Theodore H . White . Mrs . Kennedy emphasized an image that would shape the adoring memory of JFK and his administration , highlighting the president ' s love for the popular Broadway musical " Camelot " . She emphasized how her husband loved the music of Alan Jay Lerner , a former classmate of his . Mrs . Kennedy claimed that JFK admired heroes like King Arthur , presenting him as an idealist , although White knew this to be untrue . In her attempt to convey a positive message during a tragic event , she quoted her husband as repeating the end of the " Camelot " show : said , " There will be great presidents again , but there will never be another Camelot . " White ' s influential essay , which included the Camelot story , was published in a special commemorative issue of Life magazine on December 3 , 1963 , reaching over 30 million people . To the grieving public , this uplifting message seemed logical . After all , JFK , the youngest person to enter the White House , displayed intelligence , articulation , and humor . Furthermore , his young , beautiful wife , who was revered internationally , along with his famous family , made it easy to associate Kennedy with the legend of King Arthur . Later , White expressed regret for his role in popularizing the Camelot myth . Over the years , critics , especially historians , have mocked the Camelot myth as a distortion of JFK ' s actions , beliefs , and policies . However , in the public memory , the years of Kennedy ' s presidency are still seen as a brief , brilliant , and shining moment .	What is the term often used to describe your presidency?	The term often used to describe my presidency is "Camelot".
The term " Camelot " is often used to describe his presidency , reflecting both the mythic grandeur accorded Kennedy in death , and the powerful nostalgia that millions feel for that era of American history . According to Richard Dean Burns and Joseph M . Siracusa , the most popular theme surrounding Kennedy ' s legacy is its replay of the legend of King Arthur and Camelot from medieval England . In the days after JFK ' s death , his widow Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy , who herself would play a central role in the myth , approached journalist Theodore H . White . Mrs . Kennedy emphasized an image that would shape the adoring memory of JFK and his administration , highlighting the president ' s love for the popular Broadway musical " Camelot " . She emphasized how her husband loved the music of Alan Jay Lerner , a former classmate of his . Mrs . Kennedy claimed that JFK admired heroes like King Arthur , presenting him as an idealist , although White knew this to be untrue . In her attempt to convey a positive message during a tragic event , she quoted her husband as repeating the end of the " Camelot " show : said , " There will be great presidents again , but there will never be another Camelot . " White ' s influential essay , which included the Camelot story , was published in a special commemorative issue of Life magazine on December 3 , 1963 , reaching over 30 million people . To the grieving public , this uplifting message seemed logical . After all , JFK , the youngest person to enter the White House , displayed intelligence , articulation , and humor . Furthermore , his young , beautiful wife , who was revered internationally , along with his famous family , made it easy to associate Kennedy with the legend of King Arthur . Later , White expressed regret for his role in popularizing the Camelot myth . Over the years , critics , especially historians , have mocked the Camelot myth as a distortion of JFK ' s actions , beliefs , and policies . However , in the public memory , the years of Kennedy ' s presidency are still seen as a brief , brilliant , and shining moment .	Who did you approach after JFK's death?	I approached journalist Theodore H. White after JFK's death.
The term " Camelot " is often used to describe his presidency , reflecting both the mythic grandeur accorded Kennedy in death , and the powerful nostalgia that millions feel for that era of American history . According to Richard Dean Burns and Joseph M . Siracusa , the most popular theme surrounding Kennedy ' s legacy is its replay of the legend of King Arthur and Camelot from medieval England . In the days after JFK ' s death , his widow Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy , who herself would play a central role in the myth , approached journalist Theodore H . White . Mrs . Kennedy emphasized an image that would shape the adoring memory of JFK and his administration , highlighting the president ' s love for the popular Broadway musical " Camelot " . She emphasized how her husband loved the music of Alan Jay Lerner , a former classmate of his . Mrs . Kennedy claimed that JFK admired heroes like King Arthur , presenting him as an idealist , although White knew this to be untrue . In her attempt to convey a positive message during a tragic event , she quoted her husband as repeating the end of the " Camelot " show : said , " There will be great presidents again , but there will never be another Camelot . " White ' s influential essay , which included the Camelot story , was published in a special commemorative issue of Life magazine on December 3 , 1963 , reaching over 30 million people . To the grieving public , this uplifting message seemed logical . After all , JFK , the youngest person to enter the White House , displayed intelligence , articulation , and humor . Furthermore , his young , beautiful wife , who was revered internationally , along with his famous family , made it easy to associate Kennedy with the legend of King Arthur . Later , White expressed regret for his role in popularizing the Camelot myth . Over the years , critics , especially historians , have mocked the Camelot myth as a distortion of JFK ' s actions , beliefs , and policies . However , in the public memory , the years of Kennedy ' s presidency are still seen as a brief , brilliant , and shining moment .	What did I emphasize about your love?	I emphasized your love for the popular Broadway musical "Camelot" and the music of Alan Jay Lerner.
The term " Camelot " is often used to describe his presidency , reflecting both the mythic grandeur accorded Kennedy in death , and the powerful nostalgia that millions feel for that era of American history . According to Richard Dean Burns and Joseph M . Siracusa , the most popular theme surrounding Kennedy ' s legacy is its replay of the legend of King Arthur and Camelot from medieval England . In the days after JFK ' s death , his widow Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy , who herself would play a central role in the myth , approached journalist Theodore H . White . Mrs . Kennedy emphasized an image that would shape the adoring memory of JFK and his administration , highlighting the president ' s love for the popular Broadway musical " Camelot " . She emphasized how her husband loved the music of Alan Jay Lerner , a former classmate of his . Mrs . Kennedy claimed that JFK admired heroes like King Arthur , presenting him as an idealist , although White knew this to be untrue . In her attempt to convey a positive message during a tragic event , she quoted her husband as repeating the end of the " Camelot " show : said , " There will be great presidents again , but there will never be another Camelot . " White ' s influential essay , which included the Camelot story , was published in a special commemorative issue of Life magazine on December 3 , 1963 , reaching over 30 million people . To the grieving public , this uplifting message seemed logical . After all , JFK , the youngest person to enter the White House , displayed intelligence , articulation , and humor . Furthermore , his young , beautiful wife , who was revered internationally , along with his famous family , made it easy to associate Kennedy with the legend of King Arthur . Later , White expressed regret for his role in popularizing the Camelot myth . Over the years , critics , especially historians , have mocked the Camelot myth as a distortion of JFK ' s actions , beliefs , and policies . However , in the public memory , the years of Kennedy ' s presidency are still seen as a brief , brilliant , and shining moment .	What did I quote you as saying?	I quoted you as saying, "There will be great presidents again, but there will never be another Camelot."
The term " Camelot " is often used to describe his presidency , reflecting both the mythic grandeur accorded Kennedy in death , and the powerful nostalgia that millions feel for that era of American history . According to Richard Dean Burns and Joseph M . Siracusa , the most popular theme surrounding Kennedy ' s legacy is its replay of the legend of King Arthur and Camelot from medieval England . In the days after JFK ' s death , his widow Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy , who herself would play a central role in the myth , approached journalist Theodore H . White . Mrs . Kennedy emphasized an image that would shape the adoring memory of JFK and his administration , highlighting the president ' s love for the popular Broadway musical " Camelot " . She emphasized how her husband loved the music of Alan Jay Lerner , a former classmate of his . Mrs . Kennedy claimed that JFK admired heroes like King Arthur , presenting him as an idealist , although White knew this to be untrue . In her attempt to convey a positive message during a tragic event , she quoted her husband as repeating the end of the " Camelot " show : said , " There will be great presidents again , but there will never be another Camelot . " White ' s influential essay , which included the Camelot story , was published in a special commemorative issue of Life magazine on December 3 , 1963 , reaching over 30 million people . To the grieving public , this uplifting message seemed logical . After all , JFK , the youngest person to enter the White House , displayed intelligence , articulation , and humor . Furthermore , his young , beautiful wife , who was revered internationally , along with his famous family , made it easy to associate Kennedy with the legend of King Arthur . Later , White expressed regret for his role in popularizing the Camelot myth . Over the years , critics , especially historians , have mocked the Camelot myth as a distortion of JFK ' s actions , beliefs , and policies . However , in the public memory , the years of Kennedy ' s presidency are still seen as a brief , brilliant , and shining moment .	Who expressed regret for popularizing the Camelot myth?	Journalist Theodore H. White expressed regret for his role in popularizing the Camelot myth.
