Kimberly Noel Kardashian (formerly West; born October 21, 1980) is an American media personality, socialite, model, and businesswoman. She first gained media attention as a friend and stylist of Paris Hilton, but received wider notice after the sex tape Kim Kardashian, Superstar, shot in 2003 with her then-boyfriend Ray J, was released in 2007. Later that year, she and her family began to appear in the E! reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians (2007–2021). Its success led to the formation of the spin-off series Kourtney and Kim Take New York (2011–2012), Kourtney and Kim Take Miami (2009–2013), and Hulu's The Kardashians (2022–present).	When were you born?	I was born on October 21, 1980.
Kimberly Noel Kardashian (formerly West; born October 21, 1980) is an American media personality, socialite, model, and businesswoman. She first gained media attention as a friend and stylist of Paris Hilton, but received wider notice after the sex tape Kim Kardashian, Superstar, shot in 2003 with her then-boyfriend Ray J, was released in 2007. Later that year, she and her family began to appear in the E! reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians (2007–2021). Its success led to the formation of the spin-off series Kourtney and Kim Take New York (2011–2012), Kourtney and Kim Take Miami (2009–2013), and Hulu's The Kardashians (2022–present).	What is your nationality?	I am an American.
Kimberly Noel Kardashian (formerly West; born October 21, 1980) is an American media personality, socialite, model, and businesswoman. She first gained media attention as a friend and stylist of Paris Hilton, but received wider notice after the sex tape Kim Kardashian, Superstar, shot in 2003 with her then-boyfriend Ray J, was released in 2007. Later that year, she and her family began to appear in the E! reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians (2007–2021). Its success led to the formation of the spin-off series Kourtney and Kim Take New York (2011–2012), Kourtney and Kim Take Miami (2009–2013), and Hulu's The Kardashians (2022–present).	How did you gain media attention initially?	I initially gained media attention as a friend and stylist of Paris Hilton.
Kimberly Noel Kardashian (formerly West; born October 21, 1980) is an American media personality, socialite, model, and businesswoman. She first gained media attention as a friend and stylist of Paris Hilton, but received wider notice after the sex tape Kim Kardashian, Superstar, shot in 2003 with her then-boyfriend Ray J, was released in 2007. Later that year, she and her family began to appear in the E! reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians (2007–2021). Its success led to the formation of the spin-off series Kourtney and Kim Take New York (2011–2012), Kourtney and Kim Take Miami (2009–2013), and Hulu's The Kardashians (2022–present).	What famous sex tape was released in 2007 involving you?	The famous sex tape released in 2007 involving me is called "Kim Kardashian, Superstar" and was shot with my then-boyfriend Ray J.
Kimberly Noel Kardashian (formerly West; born October 21, 1980) is an American media personality, socialite, model, and businesswoman. She first gained media attention as a friend and stylist of Paris Hilton, but received wider notice after the sex tape Kim Kardashian, Superstar, shot in 2003 with her then-boyfriend Ray J, was released in 2007. Later that year, she and her family began to appear in the E! reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians (2007–2021). Its success led to the formation of the spin-off series Kourtney and Kim Take New York (2011–2012), Kourtney and Kim Take Miami (2009–2013), and Hulu's The Kardashians (2022–present).	What reality television series did you and your family appear in?	I and my family appeared in the reality television series called "Keeping Up with the Kardashians" from 2007 to 2021.
Kardashian has developed a significant presence online and across numerous social media platforms, including hundreds of millions of followers on Twitter and Instagram. With sisters Kourtney and Khloé, she launched the fashion boutique chain Dash, which operated from 2006 to 2018. Kardashian founded KKW Beauty and KKW Fragrance in 2017, and the shaping underwear or foundation garment company Skims in 2019. She has released a variety of products tied to her name, including the 2014 mobile game Kim Kardashian: Hollywood and the 2015 photo book Selfish. As an actress, she has appeared in the films Disaster Movie (2008), Deep in the Valley (2009), and Temptation: Confessions of a Marriage Counselor (2013), and provided her voice for PAW Patrol: The Movie (2021). She is set to star in the twelfth season of the American anthology television series, American Horror Story (2023).	What social media platforms do you have a significant presence on?	I have a significant presence on Twitter and Instagram.
Kardashian has developed a significant presence online and across numerous social media platforms, including hundreds of millions of followers on Twitter and Instagram. With sisters Kourtney and Khloé, she launched the fashion boutique chain Dash, which operated from 2006 to 2018. Kardashian founded KKW Beauty and KKW Fragrance in 2017, and the shaping underwear or foundation garment company Skims in 2019. She has released a variety of products tied to her name, including the 2014 mobile game Kim Kardashian: Hollywood and the 2015 photo book Selfish. As an actress, she has appeared in the films Disaster Movie (2008), Deep in the Valley (2009), and Temptation: Confessions of a Marriage Counselor (2013), and provided her voice for PAW Patrol: The Movie (2021). She is set to star in the twelfth season of the American anthology television series, American Horror Story (2023).	What is the name of the fashion boutique chain you launched with your sisters?	I launched the fashion boutique chain Dash with my sisters Kourtney and Khloé.
Kardashian has developed a significant presence online and across numerous social media platforms, including hundreds of millions of followers on Twitter and Instagram. With sisters Kourtney and Khloé, she launched the fashion boutique chain Dash, which operated from 2006 to 2018. Kardashian founded KKW Beauty and KKW Fragrance in 2017, and the shaping underwear or foundation garment company Skims in 2019. She has released a variety of products tied to her name, including the 2014 mobile game Kim Kardashian: Hollywood and the 2015 photo book Selfish. As an actress, she has appeared in the films Disaster Movie (2008), Deep in the Valley (2009), and Temptation: Confessions of a Marriage Counselor (2013), and provided her voice for PAW Patrol: The Movie (2021). She is set to star in the twelfth season of the American anthology television series, American Horror Story (2023).	When did you found KKW Beauty and KKW Fragrance?	I founded KKW Beauty and KKW Fragrance in 2017.
Kardashian has developed a significant presence online and across numerous social media platforms, including hundreds of millions of followers on Twitter and Instagram. With sisters Kourtney and Khloé, she launched the fashion boutique chain Dash, which operated from 2006 to 2018. Kardashian founded KKW Beauty and KKW Fragrance in 2017, and the shaping underwear or foundation garment company Skims in 2019. She has released a variety of products tied to her name, including the 2014 mobile game Kim Kardashian: Hollywood and the 2015 photo book Selfish. As an actress, she has appeared in the films Disaster Movie (2008), Deep in the Valley (2009), and Temptation: Confessions of a Marriage Counselor (2013), and provided her voice for PAW Patrol: The Movie (2021). She is set to star in the twelfth season of the American anthology television series, American Horror Story (2023).	When was the shaping underwear or foundation garment company Skims founded by you?	Skims, the shaping underwear or foundation garment company, was founded by me in 2019.
Kardashian has developed a significant presence online and across numerous social media platforms, including hundreds of millions of followers on Twitter and Instagram. With sisters Kourtney and Khloé, she launched the fashion boutique chain Dash, which operated from 2006 to 2018. Kardashian founded KKW Beauty and KKW Fragrance in 2017, and the shaping underwear or foundation garment company Skims in 2019. She has released a variety of products tied to her name, including the 2014 mobile game Kim Kardashian: Hollywood and the 2015 photo book Selfish. As an actress, she has appeared in the films Disaster Movie (2008), Deep in the Valley (2009), and Temptation: Confessions of a Marriage Counselor (2013), and provided her voice for PAW Patrol: The Movie (2021). She is set to star in the twelfth season of the American anthology television series, American Horror Story (2023).	Can you name some of the products that you have released tied to your name?	Some of the products that I have released tied to my name include the 2014 mobile game Kim Kardashian: Hollywood and the 2015 photo book Selfish.
Time magazine included Kardashian on their list of 2015's 100 most influential people. Both critics and admirers have described her as exemplifying the notion of being famous for being famous. She is estimated to be worth US$1.8 billion, as of 2022. Kardashian has become more politically active by lobbying for prison reform and clemency, and is currently under a four-year law apprenticeship supervised by the legal nonprofit #cut50. Her relationship with rapper Kanye West has also received significant media coverage; they were married from 2014 to 2022 and have four children together.	What recognition did Time magazine give to you in 2015?	Time magazine included me on their list of 2015's 100 most influential people.
Time magazine included Kardashian on their list of 2015's 100 most influential people. Both critics and admirers have described her as exemplifying the notion of being famous for being famous. She is estimated to be worth US$1.8 billion, as of 2022. Kardashian has become more politically active by lobbying for prison reform and clemency, and is currently under a four-year law apprenticeship supervised by the legal nonprofit #cut50. Her relationship with rapper Kanye West has also received significant media coverage; they were married from 2014 to 2022 and have four children together.	How do critics and admirers describe you?	Both critics and admirers have described me as exemplifying the notion of being famous for being famous.
Time magazine included Kardashian on their list of 2015's 100 most influential people. Both critics and admirers have described her as exemplifying the notion of being famous for being famous. She is estimated to be worth US$1.8 billion, as of 2022. Kardashian has become more politically active by lobbying for prison reform and clemency, and is currently under a four-year law apprenticeship supervised by the legal nonprofit #cut50. Her relationship with rapper Kanye West has also received significant media coverage; they were married from 2014 to 2022 and have four children together.	How much are you estimated to be worth as of 2022?	I am estimated to be worth US$1.8 billion, as of 2022.
Time magazine included Kardashian on their list of 2015's 100 most influential people. Both critics and admirers have described her as exemplifying the notion of being famous for being famous. She is estimated to be worth US$1.8 billion, as of 2022. Kardashian has become more politically active by lobbying for prison reform and clemency, and is currently under a four-year law apprenticeship supervised by the legal nonprofit #cut50. Her relationship with rapper Kanye West has also received significant media coverage; they were married from 2014 to 2022 and have four children together.	What political activities have you been involved in?	I have become more politically active by lobbying for prison reform and clemency.
Time magazine included Kardashian on their list of 2015's 100 most influential people. Both critics and admirers have described her as exemplifying the notion of being famous for being famous. She is estimated to be worth US$1.8 billion, as of 2022. Kardashian has become more politically active by lobbying for prison reform and clemency, and is currently under a four-year law apprenticeship supervised by the legal nonprofit #cut50. Her relationship with rapper Kanye West has also received significant media coverage; they were married from 2014 to 2022 and have four children together.	What are you currently doing in terms of your education?	I am currently under a four-year law apprenticeship supervised by the legal nonprofit #cut50.
Time magazine included Kardashian on their list of 2015's 100 most influential people. Both critics and admirers have described her as exemplifying the notion of being famous for being famous. She is estimated to be worth US$1.8 billion, as of 2022. Kardashian has become more politically active by lobbying for prison reform and clemency, and is currently under a four-year law apprenticeship supervised by the legal nonprofit #cut50. Her relationship with rapper Kanye West has also received significant media coverage; they were married from 2014 to 2022 and have four children together.	How many children do you have and who is their father?	I have four children and their father is rapper Kanye West.
Time magazine included Kardashian on their list of 2015's 100 most influential people. Both critics and admirers have described her as exemplifying the notion of being famous for being famous. She is estimated to be worth US$1.8 billion, as of 2022. Kardashian has become more politically active by lobbying for prison reform and clemency, and is currently under a four-year law apprenticeship supervised by the legal nonprofit #cut50. Her relationship with rapper Kanye West has also received significant media coverage; they were married from 2014 to 2022 and have four children together.	When did you and Kanye West get married?	We were married from 2014 to 2022.
Kimberly Noel Kardashian was born on October 21, 1980, in Los Angeles, California, to Robert and Kris Kardashian (née Houghton). She has an older sister, Kourtney, a younger sister, Khloé, and a younger brother, Rob. Their mother is of Dutch, English, Irish, and Scottish ancestry, while their father was a third-generation Armenian-American. In 1991, their parents divorced and their mother married Bruce Jenner,[a] the 1976 Summer Olympics decathlon winner. As a result of her mother's remarriage, Kim Kardashian acquired step-brothers Burton "Burt", Brandon, and Brody; a step-sister, Casey; and later two half-sisters, Kendall and Kylie Jenner.	When were you born?	I was born on October 21, 1980.
Kimberly Noel Kardashian was born on October 21, 1980, in Los Angeles, California, to Robert and Kris Kardashian (née Houghton). She has an older sister, Kourtney, a younger sister, Khloé, and a younger brother, Rob. Their mother is of Dutch, English, Irish, and Scottish ancestry, while their father was a third-generation Armenian-American. In 1991, their parents divorced and their mother married Bruce Jenner,[a] the 1976 Summer Olympics decathlon winner. As a result of her mother's remarriage, Kim Kardashian acquired step-brothers Burton "Burt", Brandon, and Brody; a step-sister, Casey; and later two half-sisters, Kendall and Kylie Jenner.	Where were you born?	I was born in Los Angeles, California.
Kimberly Noel Kardashian was born on October 21, 1980, in Los Angeles, California, to Robert and Kris Kardashian (née Houghton). She has an older sister, Kourtney, a younger sister, Khloé, and a younger brother, Rob. Their mother is of Dutch, English, Irish, and Scottish ancestry, while their father was a third-generation Armenian-American. In 1991, their parents divorced and their mother married Bruce Jenner,[a] the 1976 Summer Olympics decathlon winner. As a result of her mother's remarriage, Kim Kardashian acquired step-brothers Burton "Burt", Brandon, and Brody; a step-sister, Casey; and later two half-sisters, Kendall and Kylie Jenner.	Who are your parents?	My parents are Robert and Kris Kardashian (née Houghton).
Kimberly Noel Kardashian was born on October 21, 1980, in Los Angeles, California, to Robert and Kris Kardashian (née Houghton). She has an older sister, Kourtney, a younger sister, Khloé, and a younger brother, Rob. Their mother is of Dutch, English, Irish, and Scottish ancestry, while their father was a third-generation Armenian-American. In 1991, their parents divorced and their mother married Bruce Jenner,[a] the 1976 Summer Olympics decathlon winner. As a result of her mother's remarriage, Kim Kardashian acquired step-brothers Burton "Burt", Brandon, and Brody; a step-sister, Casey; and later two half-sisters, Kendall and Kylie Jenner.	How many siblings do you have?	I have 3 siblings - an older sister, Kourtney, a younger sister, Khloé, and a younger brother, Rob.
Kimberly Noel Kardashian was born on October 21, 1980, in Los Angeles, California, to Robert and Kris Kardashian (née Houghton). She has an older sister, Kourtney, a younger sister, Khloé, and a younger brother, Rob. Their mother is of Dutch, English, Irish, and Scottish ancestry, while their father was a third-generation Armenian-American. In 1991, their parents divorced and their mother married Bruce Jenner,[a] the 1976 Summer Olympics decathlon winner. As a result of her mother's remarriage, Kim Kardashian acquired step-brothers Burton "Burt", Brandon, and Brody; a step-sister, Casey; and later two half-sisters, Kendall and Kylie Jenner.	How did you acquire your step-siblings and half-siblings?	I acquired my step-brothers Burton "Burt", Brandon, and Brody; a step-sister, Casey; and later two half-sisters, Kendall and Kylie Jenner, as a result of my mother's remarriage to Bruce Jenner.
Kardashian attended Marymount High School, a Roman Catholic all-girls school in Los Angeles. In 1994, her father represented football player O. J. Simpson during his murder trial. Simpson is Kardashian's godfather. Kardashian's father died in 2003 of cancer. In her teenage years, Kardashian was a close friend of Nicole Richie and Paris Hilton, through whom she first garnered media attention. After totaling her car at age 16, her father agreed to buy her a new one on condition that she agree to be responsible for paying all expenses related to any future damages. She subsequently began working at Body, a local clothing store in Encino, California, where she worked for four years, assisting in the opening of the Calabasas location. In 2000, after entering into her first marriage, she resigned.	Where did you attend high school?	I attended Marymount High School in Los Angeles.
Kardashian attended Marymount High School, a Roman Catholic all-girls school in Los Angeles. In 1994, her father represented football player O. J. Simpson during his murder trial. Simpson is Kardashian's godfather. Kardashian's father died in 2003 of cancer. In her teenage years, Kardashian was a close friend of Nicole Richie and Paris Hilton, through whom she first garnered media attention. After totaling her car at age 16, her father agreed to buy her a new one on condition that she agree to be responsible for paying all expenses related to any future damages. She subsequently began working at Body, a local clothing store in Encino, California, where she worked for four years, assisting in the opening of the Calabasas location. In 2000, after entering into her first marriage, she resigned.	Who did your father represent during his murder trial?	My father represented football player O. J. Simpson during his murder trial.
Kardashian attended Marymount High School, a Roman Catholic all-girls school in Los Angeles. In 1994, her father represented football player O. J. Simpson during his murder trial. Simpson is Kardashian's godfather. Kardashian's father died in 2003 of cancer. In her teenage years, Kardashian was a close friend of Nicole Richie and Paris Hilton, through whom she first garnered media attention. After totaling her car at age 16, her father agreed to buy her a new one on condition that she agree to be responsible for paying all expenses related to any future damages. She subsequently began working at Body, a local clothing store in Encino, California, where she worked for four years, assisting in the opening of the Calabasas location. In 2000, after entering into her first marriage, she resigned.	How did you become friends with Nicole Richie and Paris Hilton?	I became friends with Nicole Richie and Paris Hilton in my teenage years and they were the ones through whom I first garnered media attention.
Kardashian attended Marymount High School, a Roman Catholic all-girls school in Los Angeles. In 1994, her father represented football player O. J. Simpson during his murder trial. Simpson is Kardashian's godfather. Kardashian's father died in 2003 of cancer. In her teenage years, Kardashian was a close friend of Nicole Richie and Paris Hilton, through whom she first garnered media attention. After totaling her car at age 16, her father agreed to buy her a new one on condition that she agree to be responsible for paying all expenses related to any future damages. She subsequently began working at Body, a local clothing store in Encino, California, where she worked for four years, assisting in the opening of the Calabasas location. In 2000, after entering into her first marriage, she resigned.	What did your father agree to buy you after you totaled your car at age 16?	My father agreed to buy me a new car on the condition that I would be responsible for paying all expenses related to any future damages.
Kardashian attended Marymount High School, a Roman Catholic all-girls school in Los Angeles. In 1994, her father represented football player O. J. Simpson during his murder trial. Simpson is Kardashian's godfather. Kardashian's father died in 2003 of cancer. In her teenage years, Kardashian was a close friend of Nicole Richie and Paris Hilton, through whom she first garnered media attention. After totaling her car at age 16, her father agreed to buy her a new one on condition that she agree to be responsible for paying all expenses related to any future damages. She subsequently began working at Body, a local clothing store in Encino, California, where she worked for four years, assisting in the opening of the Calabasas location. In 2000, after entering into her first marriage, she resigned.	Where did you work for four years?	I worked at Body, a local clothing store in Encino, California, for four years, including assisting in the opening of the Calabasas location.
By 2003, Kardashian was working as a personal stylist to the R&B singer and actress, Brandy, the sister of Ray J. Later, the siblings' mother (and manager) Sonja Norwood, alleged that in 2004 she had authorized Kardashian to make "one and only one" purchase on her American Express credit card and that nevertheless Kardashian and her sisters Khloé and Kourtney had incurred over $120,000 in unauthorized charges to that card. Norwood also alleged that the bulk of the charges were attributable to purchases made at Kardashian's family-owned boutique in 2006 and 2007, after Kardashian was no longer employed by Norwood's daughter. Norwood further alleged that, at the request of her children, she did not file criminal charges, instead presenting her allegations personally to Kardashian, and that Kardashian apologized and promised to repay the debt. In 2008, no payments having been forthcoming, Norwood filed a lawsuit. Kardashian has denied all these allegations. In 2009, the parties reportedly reached a confidential settlement, and the lawsuit was dismissed.	Who were you working as a personal stylist for in 2003?	Brandy, the R&B singer and actress, and the sister of Ray J.
By 2003, Kardashian was working as a personal stylist to the R&B singer and actress, Brandy, the sister of Ray J. Later, the siblings' mother (and manager) Sonja Norwood, alleged that in 2004 she had authorized Kardashian to make "one and only one" purchase on her American Express credit card and that nevertheless Kardashian and her sisters Khloé and Kourtney had incurred over $120,000 in unauthorized charges to that card. Norwood also alleged that the bulk of the charges were attributable to purchases made at Kardashian's family-owned boutique in 2006 and 2007, after Kardashian was no longer employed by Norwood's daughter. Norwood further alleged that, at the request of her children, she did not file criminal charges, instead presenting her allegations personally to Kardashian, and that Kardashian apologized and promised to repay the debt. In 2008, no payments having been forthcoming, Norwood filed a lawsuit. Kardashian has denied all these allegations. In 2009, the parties reportedly reached a confidential settlement, and the lawsuit was dismissed.	Who authorized you to make a purchase on your American Express credit card?	Sonja Norwood, the mother and manager of Brandy and Ray J.
By 2003, Kardashian was working as a personal stylist to the R&B singer and actress, Brandy, the sister of Ray J. Later, the siblings' mother (and manager) Sonja Norwood, alleged that in 2004 she had authorized Kardashian to make "one and only one" purchase on her American Express credit card and that nevertheless Kardashian and her sisters Khloé and Kourtney had incurred over $120,000 in unauthorized charges to that card. Norwood also alleged that the bulk of the charges were attributable to purchases made at Kardashian's family-owned boutique in 2006 and 2007, after Kardashian was no longer employed by Norwood's daughter. Norwood further alleged that, at the request of her children, she did not file criminal charges, instead presenting her allegations personally to Kardashian, and that Kardashian apologized and promised to repay the debt. In 2008, no payments having been forthcoming, Norwood filed a lawsuit. Kardashian has denied all these allegations. In 2009, the parties reportedly reached a confidential settlement, and the lawsuit was dismissed.	How much unauthorized charges were incurred by you and your sisters?	Over $120,000.
By 2003, Kardashian was working as a personal stylist to the R&B singer and actress, Brandy, the sister of Ray J. Later, the siblings' mother (and manager) Sonja Norwood, alleged that in 2004 she had authorized Kardashian to make "one and only one" purchase on her American Express credit card and that nevertheless Kardashian and her sisters Khloé and Kourtney had incurred over $120,000 in unauthorized charges to that card. Norwood also alleged that the bulk of the charges were attributable to purchases made at Kardashian's family-owned boutique in 2006 and 2007, after Kardashian was no longer employed by Norwood's daughter. Norwood further alleged that, at the request of her children, she did not file criminal charges, instead presenting her allegations personally to Kardashian, and that Kardashian apologized and promised to repay the debt. In 2008, no payments having been forthcoming, Norwood filed a lawsuit. Kardashian has denied all these allegations. In 2009, the parties reportedly reached a confidential settlement, and the lawsuit was dismissed.	Where were the majority of the charges made at?	At my family-owned boutique.
By 2003, Kardashian was working as a personal stylist to the R&B singer and actress, Brandy, the sister of Ray J. Later, the siblings' mother (and manager) Sonja Norwood, alleged that in 2004 she had authorized Kardashian to make "one and only one" purchase on her American Express credit card and that nevertheless Kardashian and her sisters Khloé and Kourtney had incurred over $120,000 in unauthorized charges to that card. Norwood also alleged that the bulk of the charges were attributable to purchases made at Kardashian's family-owned boutique in 2006 and 2007, after Kardashian was no longer employed by Norwood's daughter. Norwood further alleged that, at the request of her children, she did not file criminal charges, instead presenting her allegations personally to Kardashian, and that Kardashian apologized and promised to repay the debt. In 2008, no payments having been forthcoming, Norwood filed a lawsuit. Kardashian has denied all these allegations. In 2009, the parties reportedly reached a confidential settlement, and the lawsuit was dismissed.	Did you file criminal charges against me?	No, instead you presented your allegations personally to me.
In 2006, Kardashian had begun working as a stylist for Paris Hilton, a childhood friend of hers. She appeared in several episodes of the reality series The Simple Life and was frequently photographed accompanying Hilton to events and parties. Sheeraz Hasan, a PR strategist working with Hilton, had previously met Kardashian and her mother Kris Jenner in 2005, and stated in a 2020 20/20 television special that Kardashian was "ready to do whatever it takes" to create a successful brand. Rick Mendozza, a freelance photographer on assignment for the tabloid TMZ, remarked in the same interview that, when Kardashian accompanied Hilton to Hyde, which was a Hollywood hotspot at the time, he continued to get assignments from tabloids to get photographs of Kardashian for the next three years. In 2021, Kardashian said that Hilton "literally gave me a career. And I totally acknowledge that."	Who did you start working as a stylist for in 2006?	Paris Hilton.
In 2006, Kardashian had begun working as a stylist for Paris Hilton, a childhood friend of hers. She appeared in several episodes of the reality series The Simple Life and was frequently photographed accompanying Hilton to events and parties. Sheeraz Hasan, a PR strategist working with Hilton, had previously met Kardashian and her mother Kris Jenner in 2005, and stated in a 2020 20/20 television special that Kardashian was "ready to do whatever it takes" to create a successful brand. Rick Mendozza, a freelance photographer on assignment for the tabloid TMZ, remarked in the same interview that, when Kardashian accompanied Hilton to Hyde, which was a Hollywood hotspot at the time, he continued to get assignments from tabloids to get photographs of Kardashian for the next three years. In 2021, Kardashian said that Hilton "literally gave me a career. And I totally acknowledge that."	What reality series did you appear in alongside Paris Hilton?	The Simple Life.
In 2006, Kardashian had begun working as a stylist for Paris Hilton, a childhood friend of hers. She appeared in several episodes of the reality series The Simple Life and was frequently photographed accompanying Hilton to events and parties. Sheeraz Hasan, a PR strategist working with Hilton, had previously met Kardashian and her mother Kris Jenner in 2005, and stated in a 2020 20/20 television special that Kardashian was "ready to do whatever it takes" to create a successful brand. Rick Mendozza, a freelance photographer on assignment for the tabloid TMZ, remarked in the same interview that, when Kardashian accompanied Hilton to Hyde, which was a Hollywood hotspot at the time, he continued to get assignments from tabloids to get photographs of Kardashian for the next three years. In 2021, Kardashian said that Hilton "literally gave me a career. And I totally acknowledge that."	Who did you previously meet in 2005?	Me and Kris Jenner.
In 2006, Kardashian had begun working as a stylist for Paris Hilton, a childhood friend of hers. She appeared in several episodes of the reality series The Simple Life and was frequently photographed accompanying Hilton to events and parties. Sheeraz Hasan, a PR strategist working with Hilton, had previously met Kardashian and her mother Kris Jenner in 2005, and stated in a 2020 20/20 television special that Kardashian was "ready to do whatever it takes" to create a successful brand. Rick Mendozza, a freelance photographer on assignment for the tabloid TMZ, remarked in the same interview that, when Kardashian accompanied Hilton to Hyde, which was a Hollywood hotspot at the time, he continued to get assignments from tabloids to get photographs of Kardashian for the next three years. In 2021, Kardashian said that Hilton "literally gave me a career. And I totally acknowledge that."	What does Sheeraz Hasan say about your willingness to create a successful brand?	I was "ready to do whatever it takes" to create a successful brand.
In 2006, Kardashian had begun working as a stylist for Paris Hilton, a childhood friend of hers. She appeared in several episodes of the reality series The Simple Life and was frequently photographed accompanying Hilton to events and parties. Sheeraz Hasan, a PR strategist working with Hilton, had previously met Kardashian and her mother Kris Jenner in 2005, and stated in a 2020 20/20 television special that Kardashian was "ready to do whatever it takes" to create a successful brand. Rick Mendozza, a freelance photographer on assignment for the tabloid TMZ, remarked in the same interview that, when Kardashian accompanied Hilton to Hyde, which was a Hollywood hotspot at the time, he continued to get assignments from tabloids to get photographs of Kardashian for the next three years. In 2021, Kardashian said that Hilton "literally gave me a career. And I totally acknowledge that."	How long did you continue to get assignments from tabloids to photograph me after I accompanied Hilton to Hyde?	You continued to get assignments from tabloids to photograph me for the next three years.
In 2006, Kardashian had begun working as a stylist for Paris Hilton, a childhood friend of hers. She appeared in several episodes of the reality series The Simple Life and was frequently photographed accompanying Hilton to events and parties. Sheeraz Hasan, a PR strategist working with Hilton, had previously met Kardashian and her mother Kris Jenner in 2005, and stated in a 2020 20/20 television special that Kardashian was "ready to do whatever it takes" to create a successful brand. Rick Mendozza, a freelance photographer on assignment for the tabloid TMZ, remarked in the same interview that, when Kardashian accompanied Hilton to Hyde, which was a Hollywood hotspot at the time, he continued to get assignments from tabloids to get photographs of Kardashian for the next three years. In 2021, Kardashian said that Hilton "literally gave me a career. And I totally acknowledge that."	According to you, who gave you a career?	Paris Hilton.
In February 2007, a sex tape made by Kardashian and Ray J in 2003 was leaked. Kardashian filed a lawsuit against Vivid Entertainment, who distributed the film as Kim Kardashian, Superstar. She later dropped the suit and settled for a reported US$5 million, allowing Vivid to release the tape. Several media outlets later criticized her and the family for using the sex tape's release as a publicity stunt to promote their forthcoming reality show. In October 2007, Kardashian and her mother, Kris Jenner, her step-parent Caitlyn Jenner, her siblings Kourtney, Khloé, and Rob Kardashian, and half-sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner, began to appear in the reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians. The series proved successful for E!, and led to the creation of a number of spin-offs, including Kourtney and Kim Take New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami. The flagship series concluded in 2021 after 294 episodes.	When was your sex tape leaked and what actions did you take in response?	The sex tape was leaked in February 2007. I filed a lawsuit against Vivid Entertainment, the distributor of the film, but later dropped the suit and settled for a reported US$5 million.
In February 2007, a sex tape made by Kardashian and Ray J in 2003 was leaked. Kardashian filed a lawsuit against Vivid Entertainment, who distributed the film as Kim Kardashian, Superstar. She later dropped the suit and settled for a reported US$5 million, allowing Vivid to release the tape. Several media outlets later criticized her and the family for using the sex tape's release as a publicity stunt to promote their forthcoming reality show. In October 2007, Kardashian and her mother, Kris Jenner, her step-parent Caitlyn Jenner, her siblings Kourtney, Khloé, and Rob Kardashian, and half-sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner, began to appear in the reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians. The series proved successful for E!, and led to the creation of a number of spin-offs, including Kourtney and Kim Take New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami. The flagship series concluded in 2021 after 294 episodes.	How did the media criticize you and your family regarding the sex tape's release?	Several media outlets criticized me and my family for using the sex tape's release as a publicity stunt to promote our forthcoming reality show.
In February 2007, a sex tape made by Kardashian and Ray J in 2003 was leaked. Kardashian filed a lawsuit against Vivid Entertainment, who distributed the film as Kim Kardashian, Superstar. She later dropped the suit and settled for a reported US$5 million, allowing Vivid to release the tape. Several media outlets later criticized her and the family for using the sex tape's release as a publicity stunt to promote their forthcoming reality show. In October 2007, Kardashian and her mother, Kris Jenner, her step-parent Caitlyn Jenner, her siblings Kourtney, Khloé, and Rob Kardashian, and half-sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner, began to appear in the reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians. The series proved successful for E!, and led to the creation of a number of spin-offs, including Kourtney and Kim Take New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami. The flagship series concluded in 2021 after 294 episodes.	When did your reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians start and who were the main cast members?	Keeping Up with the Kardashians began in October 2007. The main cast members were I, my mother Kris Jenner, my step-parent Caitlyn Jenner, my siblings Kourtney, Khloé, and Rob Kardashian, and my half-sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner.
In February 2007, a sex tape made by Kardashian and Ray J in 2003 was leaked. Kardashian filed a lawsuit against Vivid Entertainment, who distributed the film as Kim Kardashian, Superstar. She later dropped the suit and settled for a reported US$5 million, allowing Vivid to release the tape. Several media outlets later criticized her and the family for using the sex tape's release as a publicity stunt to promote their forthcoming reality show. In October 2007, Kardashian and her mother, Kris Jenner, her step-parent Caitlyn Jenner, her siblings Kourtney, Khloé, and Rob Kardashian, and half-sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner, began to appear in the reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians. The series proved successful for E!, and led to the creation of a number of spin-offs, including Kourtney and Kim Take New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami. The flagship series concluded in 2021 after 294 episodes.	What spin-offs were created as a result of your family show's success?	As a result of my family show's success, a number of spin-offs were created, including Kourtney and I Take New York and Kourtney and I Take Miami.
In February 2007, a sex tape made by Kardashian and Ray J in 2003 was leaked. Kardashian filed a lawsuit against Vivid Entertainment, who distributed the film as Kim Kardashian, Superstar. She later dropped the suit and settled for a reported US$5 million, allowing Vivid to release the tape. Several media outlets later criticized her and the family for using the sex tape's release as a publicity stunt to promote their forthcoming reality show. In October 2007, Kardashian and her mother, Kris Jenner, her step-parent Caitlyn Jenner, her siblings Kourtney, Khloé, and Rob Kardashian, and half-sisters Kendall and Kylie Jenner, began to appear in the reality television series Keeping Up with the Kardashians. The series proved successful for E!, and led to the creation of a number of spin-offs, including Kourtney and Kim Take New York and Kourtney and Kim Take Miami. The flagship series concluded in 2021 after 294 episodes.	When did your flagship series Keeping Up with the Kardashians conclude and how many episodes were there?	My flagship series Keeping Up with the Kardashians concluded in 2021 after 294 episodes.
Kardashian posed in a nude pictorial for the December 2007 issue of Playboy, and appeared on the cover of the November 2010 issue of Romanian Playboy, promoting a pictorial titled "Poezia Unui Fund Bombat" (The Poetry of a Bulging Ass). She made her feature film debut, opposite Carmen Electra, in the disaster film spoof Disaster Movie (2008), in which she appeared as a character named Lisa. In 2008, she was a participant on season seven of Dancing with the Stars, where she was partnered with Mark Ballas. She was the third contestant to be eliminated. In September 2009, Fusion Beauty and Seven Bar Foundation launched "Kiss Away Poverty", with Kardashian as the face of the campaign. For each LipFusion lipgloss sold, US$1 went to the Foundation to fund women entrepreneurs in the United States. In October, she launched her first fragrance, self-titled "Kim Kardashian". That year, she also released a workout DVD series, became a guest host–judge of WrestleMania XXIV on America's Next Top Model, and guest-starred in How I Met Your Mother, Beyond the Break, and CBS's CSI: NY.	What was the title of the pictorial you posed for in the December 2007 issue of Playboy?	"Poezia Unui Fund Bombat" (The Poetry of a Bulging Ass)
Kardashian posed in a nude pictorial for the December 2007 issue of Playboy, and appeared on the cover of the November 2010 issue of Romanian Playboy, promoting a pictorial titled "Poezia Unui Fund Bombat" (The Poetry of a Bulging Ass). She made her feature film debut, opposite Carmen Electra, in the disaster film spoof Disaster Movie (2008), in which she appeared as a character named Lisa. In 2008, she was a participant on season seven of Dancing with the Stars, where she was partnered with Mark Ballas. She was the third contestant to be eliminated. In September 2009, Fusion Beauty and Seven Bar Foundation launched "Kiss Away Poverty", with Kardashian as the face of the campaign. For each LipFusion lipgloss sold, US$1 went to the Foundation to fund women entrepreneurs in the United States. In October, she launched her first fragrance, self-titled "Kim Kardashian". That year, she also released a workout DVD series, became a guest host–judge of WrestleMania XXIV on America's Next Top Model, and guest-starred in How I Met Your Mother, Beyond the Break, and CBS's CSI: NY.	Who was your co-star in your feature film debut?	Carmen Electra
Kardashian posed in a nude pictorial for the December 2007 issue of Playboy, and appeared on the cover of the November 2010 issue of Romanian Playboy, promoting a pictorial titled "Poezia Unui Fund Bombat" (The Poetry of a Bulging Ass). She made her feature film debut, opposite Carmen Electra, in the disaster film spoof Disaster Movie (2008), in which she appeared as a character named Lisa. In 2008, she was a participant on season seven of Dancing with the Stars, where she was partnered with Mark Ballas. She was the third contestant to be eliminated. In September 2009, Fusion Beauty and Seven Bar Foundation launched "Kiss Away Poverty", with Kardashian as the face of the campaign. For each LipFusion lipgloss sold, US$1 went to the Foundation to fund women entrepreneurs in the United States. In October, she launched her first fragrance, self-titled "Kim Kardashian". That year, she also released a workout DVD series, became a guest host–judge of WrestleMania XXIV on America's Next Top Model, and guest-starred in How I Met Your Mother, Beyond the Break, and CBS's CSI: NY.	On which season of Dancing with the Stars did you participate?	Season seven
Kardashian posed in a nude pictorial for the December 2007 issue of Playboy, and appeared on the cover of the November 2010 issue of Romanian Playboy, promoting a pictorial titled "Poezia Unui Fund Bombat" (The Poetry of a Bulging Ass). She made her feature film debut, opposite Carmen Electra, in the disaster film spoof Disaster Movie (2008), in which she appeared as a character named Lisa. In 2008, she was a participant on season seven of Dancing with the Stars, where she was partnered with Mark Ballas. She was the third contestant to be eliminated. In September 2009, Fusion Beauty and Seven Bar Foundation launched "Kiss Away Poverty", with Kardashian as the face of the campaign. For each LipFusion lipgloss sold, US$1 went to the Foundation to fund women entrepreneurs in the United States. In October, she launched her first fragrance, self-titled "Kim Kardashian". That year, she also released a workout DVD series, became a guest host–judge of WrestleMania XXIV on America's Next Top Model, and guest-starred in How I Met Your Mother, Beyond the Break, and CBS's CSI: NY.	Which foundation did you collaborate with for the "Kiss Away Poverty" campaign?	Fusion Beauty and Seven Bar Foundation
Kardashian posed in a nude pictorial for the December 2007 issue of Playboy, and appeared on the cover of the November 2010 issue of Romanian Playboy, promoting a pictorial titled "Poezia Unui Fund Bombat" (The Poetry of a Bulging Ass). She made her feature film debut, opposite Carmen Electra, in the disaster film spoof Disaster Movie (2008), in which she appeared as a character named Lisa. In 2008, she was a participant on season seven of Dancing with the Stars, where she was partnered with Mark Ballas. She was the third contestant to be eliminated. In September 2009, Fusion Beauty and Seven Bar Foundation launched "Kiss Away Poverty", with Kardashian as the face of the campaign. For each LipFusion lipgloss sold, US$1 went to the Foundation to fund women entrepreneurs in the United States. In October, she launched her first fragrance, self-titled "Kim Kardashian". That year, she also released a workout DVD series, became a guest host–judge of WrestleMania XXIV on America's Next Top Model, and guest-starred in How I Met Your Mother, Beyond the Break, and CBS's CSI: NY.	What was the name of your first fragrance?	"Kim Kardashian"
By 2010, Kardashian had ventured into several new endorsement deals, including endorsing various food products for Carl's Jr. On July 1, 2010, the New York City branch of Madame Tussauds revealed a wax figure of Kardashian. Kim, Kourtney, and Khloé wrote an autobiography titled Kardashian Konfidential, which was released in stores on November 23, 2010, and appeared on New York Times's Best Seller List. In December 2010, she filmed a music video for a song titled "Jam (Turn It Up)". The video was directed by Hype Williams; Kanye West makes a cameo in the video. Kardashian premiered the song during a New Year's Eve party at TAO Las Vegas on December 31, 2010. The song was produced by The-Dream and Tricky Stewart. When asked if an album was in the works, Kardashian replied, "There's no album in the works or anything—just one song we did for Kourtney and Kim Take New York, and a video Hype Williams directed, half of the proceeds we're giving away to a cancer foundation, because The-Dream's and one of my parents passed away from cancer. It's just all having fun—with a good cause". Jim Farber, writing for the Daily News, called the song a "dead-brained piece of generic dance music, without a single distinguishing feature", and suggested that the single made Kardashian the "worst singer in the reality TV universe".	What endorsement deals did you venture into by 2010?	I ventured into several new endorsement deals, including endorsing various food products for Carl's Jr.
By 2010, Kardashian had ventured into several new endorsement deals, including endorsing various food products for Carl's Jr. On July 1, 2010, the New York City branch of Madame Tussauds revealed a wax figure of Kardashian. Kim, Kourtney, and Khloé wrote an autobiography titled Kardashian Konfidential, which was released in stores on November 23, 2010, and appeared on New York Times's Best Seller List. In December 2010, she filmed a music video for a song titled "Jam (Turn It Up)". The video was directed by Hype Williams; Kanye West makes a cameo in the video. Kardashian premiered the song during a New Year's Eve party at TAO Las Vegas on December 31, 2010. The song was produced by The-Dream and Tricky Stewart. When asked if an album was in the works, Kardashian replied, "There's no album in the works or anything—just one song we did for Kourtney and Kim Take New York, and a video Hype Williams directed, half of the proceeds we're giving away to a cancer foundation, because The-Dream's and one of my parents passed away from cancer. It's just all having fun—with a good cause". Jim Farber, writing for the Daily News, called the song a "dead-brained piece of generic dance music, without a single distinguishing feature", and suggested that the single made Kardashian the "worst singer in the reality TV universe".	When was your wax figure revealed in the New York City branch of Madame Tussauds?	My wax figure was revealed on July 1, 2010, in the New York City branch of Madame Tussauds.
By 2010, Kardashian had ventured into several new endorsement deals, including endorsing various food products for Carl's Jr. On July 1, 2010, the New York City branch of Madame Tussauds revealed a wax figure of Kardashian. Kim, Kourtney, and Khloé wrote an autobiography titled Kardashian Konfidential, which was released in stores on November 23, 2010, and appeared on New York Times's Best Seller List. In December 2010, she filmed a music video for a song titled "Jam (Turn It Up)". The video was directed by Hype Williams; Kanye West makes a cameo in the video. Kardashian premiered the song during a New Year's Eve party at TAO Las Vegas on December 31, 2010. The song was produced by The-Dream and Tricky Stewart. When asked if an album was in the works, Kardashian replied, "There's no album in the works or anything—just one song we did for Kourtney and Kim Take New York, and a video Hype Williams directed, half of the proceeds we're giving away to a cancer foundation, because The-Dream's and one of my parents passed away from cancer. It's just all having fun—with a good cause". Jim Farber, writing for the Daily News, called the song a "dead-brained piece of generic dance music, without a single distinguishing feature", and suggested that the single made Kardashian the "worst singer in the reality TV universe".	What is the title of the autobiography written by you, Kourtney, and Khloé Kardashian?	The autobiography written by me, Kourtney, and Khloé Kardashian is titled "Kardashian Konfidential".
By 2010, Kardashian had ventured into several new endorsement deals, including endorsing various food products for Carl's Jr. On July 1, 2010, the New York City branch of Madame Tussauds revealed a wax figure of Kardashian. Kim, Kourtney, and Khloé wrote an autobiography titled Kardashian Konfidential, which was released in stores on November 23, 2010, and appeared on New York Times's Best Seller List. In December 2010, she filmed a music video for a song titled "Jam (Turn It Up)". The video was directed by Hype Williams; Kanye West makes a cameo in the video. Kardashian premiered the song during a New Year's Eve party at TAO Las Vegas on December 31, 2010. The song was produced by The-Dream and Tricky Stewart. When asked if an album was in the works, Kardashian replied, "There's no album in the works or anything—just one song we did for Kourtney and Kim Take New York, and a video Hype Williams directed, half of the proceeds we're giving away to a cancer foundation, because The-Dream's and one of my parents passed away from cancer. It's just all having fun—with a good cause". Jim Farber, writing for the Daily News, called the song a "dead-brained piece of generic dance music, without a single distinguishing feature", and suggested that the single made Kardashian the "worst singer in the reality TV universe".	When was the autobiography released in stores?	The autobiography was released in stores on November 23, 2010.
By 2010, Kardashian had ventured into several new endorsement deals, including endorsing various food products for Carl's Jr. On July 1, 2010, the New York City branch of Madame Tussauds revealed a wax figure of Kardashian. Kim, Kourtney, and Khloé wrote an autobiography titled Kardashian Konfidential, which was released in stores on November 23, 2010, and appeared on New York Times's Best Seller List. In December 2010, she filmed a music video for a song titled "Jam (Turn It Up)". The video was directed by Hype Williams; Kanye West makes a cameo in the video. Kardashian premiered the song during a New Year's Eve party at TAO Las Vegas on December 31, 2010. The song was produced by The-Dream and Tricky Stewart. When asked if an album was in the works, Kardashian replied, "There's no album in the works or anything—just one song we did for Kourtney and Kim Take New York, and a video Hype Williams directed, half of the proceeds we're giving away to a cancer foundation, because The-Dream's and one of my parents passed away from cancer. It's just all having fun—with a good cause". Jim Farber, writing for the Daily News, called the song a "dead-brained piece of generic dance music, without a single distinguishing feature", and suggested that the single made Kardashian the "worst singer in the reality TV universe".	Who directed the music video for the song "Jam (Turn It Up)" and who made a cameo in the video?	The music video for the song "Jam (Turn It Up)" was directed by Hype Williams, and Kanye West made a cameo in the video.
In 2011 , Kardashian released her third fragrance , " Gold " , as well as a novel , Dollhouse , along with sisters Kourtney and Khloe . In 2012 , E ! renewed Keeping Up with the Kardashians for two additional seasons , in a deal reported to be worth $ 50 million . That year , Kardashian released her fourth fragrance , " True Reflection " , which she worked with the company Dress for Success to promote , and her fifth fragrance , " Glam " , which was made available through Debenhams . In Temptation : Confessions of a Marriage Counselor ( 2013 ) , a romantic drama produced , written , and directed by Tyler Perry , Kardashian obtained the role of the co - worker of an ambitious therapist . While the film was a moderate box office success , with a worldwide gross of US $ 53.1 million , critical response was negative and Kardashian won the Razzie Award for Worst Supporting Actress .	When did you release your third fragrance?	In 2011.
In 2011 , Kardashian released her third fragrance , " Gold " , as well as a novel , Dollhouse , along with sisters Kourtney and Khloe . In 2012 , E ! renewed Keeping Up with the Kardashians for two additional seasons , in a deal reported to be worth $ 50 million . That year , Kardashian released her fourth fragrance , " True Reflection " , which she worked with the company Dress for Success to promote , and her fifth fragrance , " Glam " , which was made available through Debenhams . In Temptation : Confessions of a Marriage Counselor ( 2013 ) , a romantic drama produced , written , and directed by Tyler Perry , Kardashian obtained the role of the co - worker of an ambitious therapist . While the film was a moderate box office success , with a worldwide gross of US $ 53.1 million , critical response was negative and Kardashian won the Razzie Award for Worst Supporting Actress .	What is the name of your third fragrance?	"Gold".
In 2011 , Kardashian released her third fragrance , " Gold " , as well as a novel , Dollhouse , along with sisters Kourtney and Khloe . In 2012 , E ! renewed Keeping Up with the Kardashians for two additional seasons , in a deal reported to be worth $ 50 million . That year , Kardashian released her fourth fragrance , " True Reflection " , which she worked with the company Dress for Success to promote , and her fifth fragrance , " Glam " , which was made available through Debenhams . In Temptation : Confessions of a Marriage Counselor ( 2013 ) , a romantic drama produced , written , and directed by Tyler Perry , Kardashian obtained the role of the co - worker of an ambitious therapist . While the film was a moderate box office success , with a worldwide gross of US $ 53.1 million , critical response was negative and Kardashian won the Razzie Award for Worst Supporting Actress .	In which year was Keeping Up with the Kardashians renewed?	In 2012.
In 2011 , Kardashian released her third fragrance , " Gold " , as well as a novel , Dollhouse , along with sisters Kourtney and Khloe . In 2012 , E ! renewed Keeping Up with the Kardashians for two additional seasons , in a deal reported to be worth $ 50 million . That year , Kardashian released her fourth fragrance , " True Reflection " , which she worked with the company Dress for Success to promote , and her fifth fragrance , " Glam " , which was made available through Debenhams . In Temptation : Confessions of a Marriage Counselor ( 2013 ) , a romantic drama produced , written , and directed by Tyler Perry , Kardashian obtained the role of the co - worker of an ambitious therapist . While the film was a moderate box office success , with a worldwide gross of US $ 53.1 million , critical response was negative and Kardashian won the Razzie Award for Worst Supporting Actress .	How much was the deal reported to be worth?	$50 million.
In 2011 , Kardashian released her third fragrance , " Gold " , as well as a novel , Dollhouse , along with sisters Kourtney and Khloe . In 2012 , E ! renewed Keeping Up with the Kardashians for two additional seasons , in a deal reported to be worth $ 50 million . That year , Kardashian released her fourth fragrance , " True Reflection " , which she worked with the company Dress for Success to promote , and her fifth fragrance , " Glam " , which was made available through Debenhams . In Temptation : Confessions of a Marriage Counselor ( 2013 ) , a romantic drama produced , written , and directed by Tyler Perry , Kardashian obtained the role of the co - worker of an ambitious therapist . While the film was a moderate box office success , with a worldwide gross of US $ 53.1 million , critical response was negative and Kardashian won the Razzie Award for Worst Supporting Actress .	What role did you obtain in the film Temptation: Confessions of a Marriage Counselor?	The role of the co-worker of an ambitious therapist.
Kardashian appeared on the cover and in a pictorial in Paper ' s winter 2014 issue , photographed by Jean - Paul Goude . On the cover , her nude buttocks are featured above the caption : " Break the Internet " , which generated considerable comment in both social and traditional media . A Time magazine writer commented that , unlike previous celebrities ' nudes that represented the women ' s rebellion against repressed society and " trying to tear down " barriers , Kardashian ' s exhibition was " just provocation and bluster , repeated images that seem to offer us some sort of truth or insight but are really just self serving . We want there to be something more , some reason or context , some great explanation that tells us what it is like to live in this very day and age , but there is not . Kim Kardashian ' s ass is nothing but an empty promise . " However , the stunt " set a new benchmark " in social media response , and Paper ' s website received 15.9 million views in one day , compared with 25 , 000 views on an average day .	Who photographed you for the cover and pictorial in Paper's winter 2014 issue?	Jean-Paul Goude.
Kardashian appeared on the cover and in a pictorial in Paper ' s winter 2014 issue , photographed by Jean - Paul Goude . On the cover , her nude buttocks are featured above the caption : " Break the Internet " , which generated considerable comment in both social and traditional media . A Time magazine writer commented that , unlike previous celebrities ' nudes that represented the women ' s rebellion against repressed society and " trying to tear down " barriers , Kardashian ' s exhibition was " just provocation and bluster , repeated images that seem to offer us some sort of truth or insight but are really just self serving . We want there to be something more , some reason or context , some great explanation that tells us what it is like to live in this very day and age , but there is not . Kim Kardashian ' s ass is nothing but an empty promise . " However , the stunt " set a new benchmark " in social media response , and Paper ' s website received 15.9 million views in one day , compared with 25 , 000 views on an average day .	What caption is featured above your nude buttocks on the cover?	"Break the Internet."
Kardashian appeared on the cover and in a pictorial in Paper ' s winter 2014 issue , photographed by Jean - Paul Goude . On the cover , her nude buttocks are featured above the caption : " Break the Internet " , which generated considerable comment in both social and traditional media . A Time magazine writer commented that , unlike previous celebrities ' nudes that represented the women ' s rebellion against repressed society and " trying to tear down " barriers , Kardashian ' s exhibition was " just provocation and bluster , repeated images that seem to offer us some sort of truth or insight but are really just self serving . We want there to be something more , some reason or context , some great explanation that tells us what it is like to live in this very day and age , but there is not . Kim Kardashian ' s ass is nothing but an empty promise . " However , the stunt " set a new benchmark " in social media response , and Paper ' s website received 15.9 million views in one day , compared with 25 , 000 views on an average day .	How did your exhibition generate comment in the media?	It generated considerable comment in both social and traditional media.
Kardashian appeared on the cover and in a pictorial in Paper ' s winter 2014 issue , photographed by Jean - Paul Goude . On the cover , her nude buttocks are featured above the caption : " Break the Internet " , which generated considerable comment in both social and traditional media . A Time magazine writer commented that , unlike previous celebrities ' nudes that represented the women ' s rebellion against repressed society and " trying to tear down " barriers , Kardashian ' s exhibition was " just provocation and bluster , repeated images that seem to offer us some sort of truth or insight but are really just self serving . We want there to be something more , some reason or context , some great explanation that tells us what it is like to live in this very day and age , but there is not . Kim Kardashian ' s ass is nothing but an empty promise . " However , the stunt " set a new benchmark " in social media response , and Paper ' s website received 15.9 million views in one day , compared with 25 , 000 views on an average day .	What did a Time magazine writer comment about your exhibition?	The writer commented that my exhibition was just provocation and bluster, repeated images that seem to offer some sort of truth or insight but are really just self-serving.
Kardashian appeared on the cover and in a pictorial in Paper ' s winter 2014 issue , photographed by Jean - Paul Goude . On the cover , her nude buttocks are featured above the caption : " Break the Internet " , which generated considerable comment in both social and traditional media . A Time magazine writer commented that , unlike previous celebrities ' nudes that represented the women ' s rebellion against repressed society and " trying to tear down " barriers , Kardashian ' s exhibition was " just provocation and bluster , repeated images that seem to offer us some sort of truth or insight but are really just self serving . We want there to be something more , some reason or context , some great explanation that tells us what it is like to live in this very day and age , but there is not . Kim Kardashian ' s ass is nothing but an empty promise . " However , the stunt " set a new benchmark " in social media response , and Paper ' s website received 15.9 million views in one day , compared with 25 , 000 views on an average day .	How did the stunt impact your website?	The stunt set a new benchmark in social media response and my website received 15.9 million views in one day, compared with 25,000 views on an average day.
After announcing a new range of shapewear called Kimono in June 2019 , Kardashian was heavily criticized over the name of the brand , which critics argued disrespected Japanese culture and ignored the significance behind the traditional outfit . Following the launch of the range , the hashtag # KimOhNo began trending on Twitter and the mayor of Kyoto wrote to Kardashian to ask her to reconsider the trademark on Kimono . In response to public pressure , she announced that she would change the name . However , Japanese trade minister Hiroshige Seko stated that he would still be dispatching patent officials for a meeting at the U . S . Patent and Trademark Office , and that Japan would keep an eye on the situation . In August 2019 , she changed and rebranded the shapewear company to the name Skims , officially launching the following month on its own digital store and later made available on various other websites ( such as online stores of SSENSE , David Jones , Net - a - Porter , Ounass ) .	What was the name of the shapewear range that you announced in June 2019?	Kimono.
After announcing a new range of shapewear called Kimono in June 2019 , Kardashian was heavily criticized over the name of the brand , which critics argued disrespected Japanese culture and ignored the significance behind the traditional outfit . Following the launch of the range , the hashtag # KimOhNo began trending on Twitter and the mayor of Kyoto wrote to Kardashian to ask her to reconsider the trademark on Kimono . In response to public pressure , she announced that she would change the name . However , Japanese trade minister Hiroshige Seko stated that he would still be dispatching patent officials for a meeting at the U . S . Patent and Trademark Office , and that Japan would keep an eye on the situation . In August 2019 , she changed and rebranded the shapewear company to the name Skims , officially launching the following month on its own digital store and later made available on various other websites ( such as online stores of SSENSE , David Jones , Net - a - Porter , Ounass ) .	Why was I heavily criticized for the name of my shapewear brand?	Critics argued that the name disrespected Japanese culture and ignored the significance behind the traditional outfit.
After announcing a new range of shapewear called Kimono in June 2019 , Kardashian was heavily criticized over the name of the brand , which critics argued disrespected Japanese culture and ignored the significance behind the traditional outfit . Following the launch of the range , the hashtag # KimOhNo began trending on Twitter and the mayor of Kyoto wrote to Kardashian to ask her to reconsider the trademark on Kimono . In response to public pressure , she announced that she would change the name . However , Japanese trade minister Hiroshige Seko stated that he would still be dispatching patent officials for a meeting at the U . S . Patent and Trademark Office , and that Japan would keep an eye on the situation . In August 2019 , she changed and rebranded the shapewear company to the name Skims , officially launching the following month on its own digital store and later made available on various other websites ( such as online stores of SSENSE , David Jones , Net - a - Porter , Ounass ) .	What was the response to the launch of your Kimono range on Twitter?	The hashtag #KimOhNo began trending.
After announcing a new range of shapewear called Kimono in June 2019 , Kardashian was heavily criticized over the name of the brand , which critics argued disrespected Japanese culture and ignored the significance behind the traditional outfit . Following the launch of the range , the hashtag # KimOhNo began trending on Twitter and the mayor of Kyoto wrote to Kardashian to ask her to reconsider the trademark on Kimono . In response to public pressure , she announced that she would change the name . However , Japanese trade minister Hiroshige Seko stated that he would still be dispatching patent officials for a meeting at the U . S . Patent and Trademark Office , and that Japan would keep an eye on the situation . In August 2019 , she changed and rebranded the shapewear company to the name Skims , officially launching the following month on its own digital store and later made available on various other websites ( such as online stores of SSENSE , David Jones , Net - a - Porter , Ounass ) .	Who wrote a letter to you asking you to reconsider the trademark on Kimono?	The mayor of Kyoto.
After announcing a new range of shapewear called Kimono in June 2019 , Kardashian was heavily criticized over the name of the brand , which critics argued disrespected Japanese culture and ignored the significance behind the traditional outfit . Following the launch of the range , the hashtag # KimOhNo began trending on Twitter and the mayor of Kyoto wrote to Kardashian to ask her to reconsider the trademark on Kimono . In response to public pressure , she announced that she would change the name . However , Japanese trade minister Hiroshige Seko stated that he would still be dispatching patent officials for a meeting at the U . S . Patent and Trademark Office , and that Japan would keep an eye on the situation . In August 2019 , she changed and rebranded the shapewear company to the name Skims , officially launching the following month on its own digital store and later made available on various other websites ( such as online stores of SSENSE , David Jones , Net - a - Porter , Ounass ) .	What did you change the name of your shapewear company to?	Skims.
In February 2020 , under a retail partnership with Nordstrom , Skims ' products were made available to shop exclusively at the chain ' s stores across the United States . The company has also expanded into lingerie , bodysuits , loungewear , dresses , and winterwear . Since 2021 , Skims has opened various pop - up stores in the United States , Europe and Asia . In June 2021 , Kardashian revealed the brand entered into a partnership with the US Olympics team under which the company would provide undergarments , loungewear and pajamas and other clothing items with American flags and the Olympics rings with a Team USA branding printed on them to the team ' s female athletes at the 2020 Summer Olympics and Paralympics . The athletes also wore Skims ' clothing at the 2022 Winter Olympics , and were featured in the brand ' s campaign for a capsule collection launched ahead of the event , in collaboration with the United States ' Winter Olympics delegation . In November 2021 , luxury fashion house Fendi released a capsule collection in collaboration with Skims , consisting of a range of shapewear , leather dresses , and bodysuits . That month , Kardashian was honored with the Brand Innovator award , for her work on Skims , at the 2021 WSJ . Innovator Awards . In January 2022 , it was reported that her company stood at a valuation of US $ 3.2 billion .	When did your brand Skims enter into a retail partnership with Nordstrom?	In February 2020.
In February 2020 , under a retail partnership with Nordstrom , Skims ' products were made available to shop exclusively at the chain ' s stores across the United States . The company has also expanded into lingerie , bodysuits , loungewear , dresses , and winterwear . Since 2021 , Skims has opened various pop - up stores in the United States , Europe and Asia . In June 2021 , Kardashian revealed the brand entered into a partnership with the US Olympics team under which the company would provide undergarments , loungewear and pajamas and other clothing items with American flags and the Olympics rings with a Team USA branding printed on them to the team ' s female athletes at the 2020 Summer Olympics and Paralympics . The athletes also wore Skims ' clothing at the 2022 Winter Olympics , and were featured in the brand ' s campaign for a capsule collection launched ahead of the event , in collaboration with the United States ' Winter Olympics delegation . In November 2021 , luxury fashion house Fendi released a capsule collection in collaboration with Skims , consisting of a range of shapewear , leather dresses , and bodysuits . That month , Kardashian was honored with the Brand Innovator award , for her work on Skims , at the 2021 WSJ . Innovator Awards . In January 2022 , it was reported that her company stood at a valuation of US $ 3.2 billion .	What products were made available exclusively at Nordstrom stores?	My products were made available exclusively at Nordstrom stores.
In February 2020 , under a retail partnership with Nordstrom , Skims ' products were made available to shop exclusively at the chain ' s stores across the United States . The company has also expanded into lingerie , bodysuits , loungewear , dresses , and winterwear . Since 2021 , Skims has opened various pop - up stores in the United States , Europe and Asia . In June 2021 , Kardashian revealed the brand entered into a partnership with the US Olympics team under which the company would provide undergarments , loungewear and pajamas and other clothing items with American flags and the Olympics rings with a Team USA branding printed on them to the team ' s female athletes at the 2020 Summer Olympics and Paralympics . The athletes also wore Skims ' clothing at the 2022 Winter Olympics , and were featured in the brand ' s campaign for a capsule collection launched ahead of the event , in collaboration with the United States ' Winter Olympics delegation . In November 2021 , luxury fashion house Fendi released a capsule collection in collaboration with Skims , consisting of a range of shapewear , leather dresses , and bodysuits . That month , Kardashian was honored with the Brand Innovator award , for her work on Skims , at the 2021 WSJ . Innovator Awards . In January 2022 , it was reported that her company stood at a valuation of US $ 3.2 billion .	Besides lingerie and bodysuits, what other clothing items have you expanded Skims into?	I have expanded Skims into loungewear, dresses, and winterwear.
In February 2020 , under a retail partnership with Nordstrom , Skims ' products were made available to shop exclusively at the chain ' s stores across the United States . The company has also expanded into lingerie , bodysuits , loungewear , dresses , and winterwear . Since 2021 , Skims has opened various pop - up stores in the United States , Europe and Asia . In June 2021 , Kardashian revealed the brand entered into a partnership with the US Olympics team under which the company would provide undergarments , loungewear and pajamas and other clothing items with American flags and the Olympics rings with a Team USA branding printed on them to the team ' s female athletes at the 2020 Summer Olympics and Paralympics . The athletes also wore Skims ' clothing at the 2022 Winter Olympics , and were featured in the brand ' s campaign for a capsule collection launched ahead of the event , in collaboration with the United States ' Winter Olympics delegation . In November 2021 , luxury fashion house Fendi released a capsule collection in collaboration with Skims , consisting of a range of shapewear , leather dresses , and bodysuits . That month , Kardashian was honored with the Brand Innovator award , for her work on Skims , at the 2021 WSJ . Innovator Awards . In January 2022 , it was reported that her company stood at a valuation of US $ 3.2 billion .	When did you open various pop-up stores in the United States, Europe, and Asia?	Since 2021.
In February 2020 , under a retail partnership with Nordstrom , Skims ' products were made available to shop exclusively at the chain ' s stores across the United States . The company has also expanded into lingerie , bodysuits , loungewear , dresses , and winterwear . Since 2021 , Skims has opened various pop - up stores in the United States , Europe and Asia . In June 2021 , Kardashian revealed the brand entered into a partnership with the US Olympics team under which the company would provide undergarments , loungewear and pajamas and other clothing items with American flags and the Olympics rings with a Team USA branding printed on them to the team ' s female athletes at the 2020 Summer Olympics and Paralympics . The athletes also wore Skims ' clothing at the 2022 Winter Olympics , and were featured in the brand ' s campaign for a capsule collection launched ahead of the event , in collaboration with the United States ' Winter Olympics delegation . In November 2021 , luxury fashion house Fendi released a capsule collection in collaboration with Skims , consisting of a range of shapewear , leather dresses , and bodysuits . That month , Kardashian was honored with the Brand Innovator award , for her work on Skims , at the 2021 WSJ . Innovator Awards . In January 2022 , it was reported that her company stood at a valuation of US $ 3.2 billion .	Which fashion house released a capsule collection in collaboration with your brand, and what did the collection consist of?	Luxury fashion house Fendi released a capsule collection in collaboration with my brand, consisting of a range of shapewear, leather dresses, and bodysuits.
In May 2011 , Kardashian became engaged to NBA player Kris Humphries , then of the New Jersey Nets , whom she had been dating since October 2010 . They were married in a wedding ceremony on August 20 in Montecito , California . Earlier that month , she had released her " wedding fragrance " called " Kim Kardashian Love " which coincided with her own wedding . A two - part TV special showing the preparations and the wedding itself aired on E ! in early October 2011 , amidst what The Washington Post called a " media blitz " related to the wedding . After 72 days of marriage , she filed for divorce from Humphries on October 31 , citing irreconcilable differences . Several news outlets surmised that Kardashian ' s marriage to Humphries was merely a publicity stunt to promote the Kardashian family ' s brand and their subsequent television ventures . A man professing to be her former publicist , Jonathan Jaxson , also claimed that her short - lived marriage was indeed staged and a ploy to generate money . Kardashian filed a suit against Jaxson , saying his claims were untrue , and subsequently settled the case that included an apology from Jaxson . A widely circulated petition asking to remove all Kardashian - related programming from the air followed the split . The divorce was subject to widespread media attention .	When did you become engaged to Kris Humphries?	In May 2011.
In May 2011 , Kardashian became engaged to NBA player Kris Humphries , then of the New Jersey Nets , whom she had been dating since October 2010 . They were married in a wedding ceremony on August 20 in Montecito , California . Earlier that month , she had released her " wedding fragrance " called " Kim Kardashian Love " which coincided with her own wedding . A two - part TV special showing the preparations and the wedding itself aired on E ! in early October 2011 , amidst what The Washington Post called a " media blitz " related to the wedding . After 72 days of marriage , she filed for divorce from Humphries on October 31 , citing irreconcilable differences . Several news outlets surmised that Kardashian ' s marriage to Humphries was merely a publicity stunt to promote the Kardashian family ' s brand and their subsequent television ventures . A man professing to be her former publicist , Jonathan Jaxson , also claimed that her short - lived marriage was indeed staged and a ploy to generate money . Kardashian filed a suit against Jaxson , saying his claims were untrue , and subsequently settled the case that included an apology from Jaxson . A widely circulated petition asking to remove all Kardashian - related programming from the air followed the split . The divorce was subject to widespread media attention .	Who were you married to?	I was married to Kris Humphries.
In May 2011 , Kardashian became engaged to NBA player Kris Humphries , then of the New Jersey Nets , whom she had been dating since October 2010 . They were married in a wedding ceremony on August 20 in Montecito , California . Earlier that month , she had released her " wedding fragrance " called " Kim Kardashian Love " which coincided with her own wedding . A two - part TV special showing the preparations and the wedding itself aired on E ! in early October 2011 , amidst what The Washington Post called a " media blitz " related to the wedding . After 72 days of marriage , she filed for divorce from Humphries on October 31 , citing irreconcilable differences . Several news outlets surmised that Kardashian ' s marriage to Humphries was merely a publicity stunt to promote the Kardashian family ' s brand and their subsequent television ventures . A man professing to be her former publicist , Jonathan Jaxson , also claimed that her short - lived marriage was indeed staged and a ploy to generate money . Kardashian filed a suit against Jaxson , saying his claims were untrue , and subsequently settled the case that included an apology from Jaxson . A widely circulated petition asking to remove all Kardashian - related programming from the air followed the split . The divorce was subject to widespread media attention .	Where did you and Kris Humphries get married?	We got married in Montecito, California.
In May 2011 , Kardashian became engaged to NBA player Kris Humphries , then of the New Jersey Nets , whom she had been dating since October 2010 . They were married in a wedding ceremony on August 20 in Montecito , California . Earlier that month , she had released her " wedding fragrance " called " Kim Kardashian Love " which coincided with her own wedding . A two - part TV special showing the preparations and the wedding itself aired on E ! in early October 2011 , amidst what The Washington Post called a " media blitz " related to the wedding . After 72 days of marriage , she filed for divorce from Humphries on October 31 , citing irreconcilable differences . Several news outlets surmised that Kardashian ' s marriage to Humphries was merely a publicity stunt to promote the Kardashian family ' s brand and their subsequent television ventures . A man professing to be her former publicist , Jonathan Jaxson , also claimed that her short - lived marriage was indeed staged and a ploy to generate money . Kardashian filed a suit against Jaxson , saying his claims were untrue , and subsequently settled the case that included an apology from Jaxson . A widely circulated petition asking to remove all Kardashian - related programming from the air followed the split . The divorce was subject to widespread media attention .	How long did your marriage with Kris Humphries last?	My marriage lasted for 72 days.
In May 2011 , Kardashian became engaged to NBA player Kris Humphries , then of the New Jersey Nets , whom she had been dating since October 2010 . They were married in a wedding ceremony on August 20 in Montecito , California . Earlier that month , she had released her " wedding fragrance " called " Kim Kardashian Love " which coincided with her own wedding . A two - part TV special showing the preparations and the wedding itself aired on E ! in early October 2011 , amidst what The Washington Post called a " media blitz " related to the wedding . After 72 days of marriage , she filed for divorce from Humphries on October 31 , citing irreconcilable differences . Several news outlets surmised that Kardashian ' s marriage to Humphries was merely a publicity stunt to promote the Kardashian family ' s brand and their subsequent television ventures . A man professing to be her former publicist , Jonathan Jaxson , also claimed that her short - lived marriage was indeed staged and a ploy to generate money . Kardashian filed a suit against Jaxson , saying his claims were untrue , and subsequently settled the case that included an apology from Jaxson . A widely circulated petition asking to remove all Kardashian - related programming from the air followed the split . The divorce was subject to widespread media attention .	What reason did you give for filing for divorce from Kris Humphries?	I cited irreconcilable differences as the reason for filing for divorce.
Kardashian began dating rapper and longtime friend Kanye West in April 2012 , while still legally married to Humphries . Her divorce was finalized on June 3 , 2013 , Kardashian and West became engaged on October 21 , Kardashian ' s 33rd birthday , and married on May 24 , 2014 , at Forte di Belvedere in Florence , Italy . Her wedding dress was designed by Riccardo Tisci of Givenchy with some guests ' dresses designed by designer Michael Costello . The couple ' s high status and respective careers have resulted in their relationship becoming subject to heavy media coverage ; The New York Times referred to their marriage as " a historic blizzard of celebrity " . West said Kardashian was his muse .	When did you and West become engaged?	We became engaged on October 21, my 33rd birthday.
Kardashian began dating rapper and longtime friend Kanye West in April 2012 , while still legally married to Humphries . Her divorce was finalized on June 3 , 2013 , Kardashian and West became engaged on October 21 , Kardashian ' s 33rd birthday , and married on May 24 , 2014 , at Forte di Belvedere in Florence , Italy . Her wedding dress was designed by Riccardo Tisci of Givenchy with some guests ' dresses designed by designer Michael Costello . The couple ' s high status and respective careers have resulted in their relationship becoming subject to heavy media coverage ; The New York Times referred to their marriage as " a historic blizzard of celebrity " . West said Kardashian was his muse .	When did you and West get married?	We got married on May 24, 2014.
Kardashian began dating rapper and longtime friend Kanye West in April 2012 , while still legally married to Humphries . Her divorce was finalized on June 3 , 2013 , Kardashian and West became engaged on October 21 , Kardashian ' s 33rd birthday , and married on May 24 , 2014 , at Forte di Belvedere in Florence , Italy . Her wedding dress was designed by Riccardo Tisci of Givenchy with some guests ' dresses designed by designer Michael Costello . The couple ' s high status and respective careers have resulted in their relationship becoming subject to heavy media coverage ; The New York Times referred to their marriage as " a historic blizzard of celebrity " . West said Kardashian was his muse .	Where did you and West get married?	We got married at Forte di Belvedere in Florence, Italy.
Kardashian began dating rapper and longtime friend Kanye West in April 2012 , while still legally married to Humphries . Her divorce was finalized on June 3 , 2013 , Kardashian and West became engaged on October 21 , Kardashian ' s 33rd birthday , and married on May 24 , 2014 , at Forte di Belvedere in Florence , Italy . Her wedding dress was designed by Riccardo Tisci of Givenchy with some guests ' dresses designed by designer Michael Costello . The couple ' s high status and respective careers have resulted in their relationship becoming subject to heavy media coverage ; The New York Times referred to their marriage as " a historic blizzard of celebrity " . West said Kardashian was his muse .	Who designed your wedding dress?	My wedding dress was designed by Riccardo Tisci of Givenchy.
Kardashian began dating rapper and longtime friend Kanye West in April 2012 , while still legally married to Humphries . Her divorce was finalized on June 3 , 2013 , Kardashian and West became engaged on October 21 , Kardashian ' s 33rd birthday , and married on May 24 , 2014 , at Forte di Belvedere in Florence , Italy . Her wedding dress was designed by Riccardo Tisci of Givenchy with some guests ' dresses designed by designer Michael Costello . The couple ' s high status and respective careers have resulted in their relationship becoming subject to heavy media coverage ; The New York Times referred to their marriage as " a historic blizzard of celebrity " . West said Kardashian was his muse .	Who designed some of the guests' dresses?	Some of the guests' dresses were designed by designer Michael Costello.
In January 2021 , CNN reported that the couple were discussing divorce and on February 19 , 2021 , Kardashian officially filed for divorce . In April 2021 , they both agreed before court that they would end their marriage due to " irreconcilable differences " and agreed to joint custody of their four children . They also agreed that neither of them need spousal support . In February 2022 , Kardashian filed a complaint to the Los Angeles Superior Court , asking for a quicker proceedings in the divorce from West , saying that West was trying to delay it and saying that " Mr . West , by his actions , has made it clear that he does not accept that the parties ' marital relationship is over . " Kardashian was declared legally single on March 2 , 2022 . This allowed her to drop " West " as her legal last name and ended their marriage . A divorce settlement was finalized on November 29 , 2022 .	When did you officially file for divorce?	I officially filed for divorce on February 19, 2021.
In January 2021 , CNN reported that the couple were discussing divorce and on February 19 , 2021 , Kardashian officially filed for divorce . In April 2021 , they both agreed before court that they would end their marriage due to " irreconcilable differences " and agreed to joint custody of their four children . They also agreed that neither of them need spousal support . In February 2022 , Kardashian filed a complaint to the Los Angeles Superior Court , asking for a quicker proceedings in the divorce from West , saying that West was trying to delay it and saying that " Mr . West , by his actions , has made it clear that he does not accept that the parties ' marital relationship is over . " Kardashian was declared legally single on March 2 , 2022 . This allowed her to drop " West " as her legal last name and ended their marriage . A divorce settlement was finalized on November 29 , 2022 .	Why did you agree to end your marriage?	I agreed to end my marriage due to "irreconcilable differences".
In January 2021 , CNN reported that the couple were discussing divorce and on February 19 , 2021 , Kardashian officially filed for divorce . In April 2021 , they both agreed before court that they would end their marriage due to " irreconcilable differences " and agreed to joint custody of their four children . They also agreed that neither of them need spousal support . In February 2022 , Kardashian filed a complaint to the Los Angeles Superior Court , asking for a quicker proceedings in the divorce from West , saying that West was trying to delay it and saying that " Mr . West , by his actions , has made it clear that he does not accept that the parties ' marital relationship is over . " Kardashian was declared legally single on March 2 , 2022 . This allowed her to drop " West " as her legal last name and ended their marriage . A divorce settlement was finalized on November 29 , 2022 .	What did we agree on regarding our children?	We agreed to joint custody of our four children.
In January 2021 , CNN reported that the couple were discussing divorce and on February 19 , 2021 , Kardashian officially filed for divorce . In April 2021 , they both agreed before court that they would end their marriage due to " irreconcilable differences " and agreed to joint custody of their four children . They also agreed that neither of them need spousal support . In February 2022 , Kardashian filed a complaint to the Los Angeles Superior Court , asking for a quicker proceedings in the divorce from West , saying that West was trying to delay it and saying that " Mr . West , by his actions , has made it clear that he does not accept that the parties ' marital relationship is over . " Kardashian was declared legally single on March 2 , 2022 . This allowed her to drop " West " as her legal last name and ended their marriage . A divorce settlement was finalized on November 29 , 2022 .	Did either of us request spousal support?	No, neither of us requested spousal support.
In January 2021 , CNN reported that the couple were discussing divorce and on February 19 , 2021 , Kardashian officially filed for divorce . In April 2021 , they both agreed before court that they would end their marriage due to " irreconcilable differences " and agreed to joint custody of their four children . They also agreed that neither of them need spousal support . In February 2022 , Kardashian filed a complaint to the Los Angeles Superior Court , asking for a quicker proceedings in the divorce from West , saying that West was trying to delay it and saying that " Mr . West , by his actions , has made it clear that he does not accept that the parties ' marital relationship is over . " Kardashian was declared legally single on March 2 , 2022 . This allowed her to drop " West " as her legal last name and ended their marriage . A divorce settlement was finalized on November 29 , 2022 .	When were you declared legally single?	I was declared legally single on March 2, 2022.
In May 2014 , Kardashian was estimated to be worth US $ 45   million . In 2015 , Forbes reported she had " made more this year than ever as her earnings nearly doubled to $ 53 million from 2014 ' s $ 28 million " , and reported that she " has monetized fame better than any other " . Much of her income includes wholesale earnings of the Sears line , the Kardashian Kollection , which brought in $ 600 million in 2013 and the Kardashian Beauty cosmetics line , Kardashian - branded tanning products , the boutique - line DASH , as well as sponsored social media posts which are collectively worth $ 300 , 000 – 500 , 000 per post . As of July 2018 , Kardashian was worth US $ 350 million . Kardashian does not receive alimony payments from either of her first two marriages . On April 6 , 2021 , Forbes estimated Kardashian ' s net worth at US $ 1 billion .	How much were you estimated to be worth in May 2014?	I was estimated to be worth US $45 million in May 2014.
In May 2014 , Kardashian was estimated to be worth US $ 45   million . In 2015 , Forbes reported she had " made more this year than ever as her earnings nearly doubled to $ 53 million from 2014 ' s $ 28 million " , and reported that she " has monetized fame better than any other " . Much of her income includes wholesale earnings of the Sears line , the Kardashian Kollection , which brought in $ 600 million in 2013 and the Kardashian Beauty cosmetics line , Kardashian - branded tanning products , the boutique - line DASH , as well as sponsored social media posts which are collectively worth $ 300 , 000 – 500 , 000 per post . As of July 2018 , Kardashian was worth US $ 350 million . Kardashian does not receive alimony payments from either of her first two marriages . On April 6 , 2021 , Forbes estimated Kardashian ' s net worth at US $ 1 billion .	How much did you earn in 2015?	Forbes reported that I earned $53 million in 2015, nearly doubling my earnings from $28 million in 2014.
In May 2014 , Kardashian was estimated to be worth US $ 45   million . In 2015 , Forbes reported she had " made more this year than ever as her earnings nearly doubled to $ 53 million from 2014 ' s $ 28 million " , and reported that she " has monetized fame better than any other " . Much of her income includes wholesale earnings of the Sears line , the Kardashian Kollection , which brought in $ 600 million in 2013 and the Kardashian Beauty cosmetics line , Kardashian - branded tanning products , the boutique - line DASH , as well as sponsored social media posts which are collectively worth $ 300 , 000 – 500 , 000 per post . As of July 2018 , Kardashian was worth US $ 350 million . Kardashian does not receive alimony payments from either of her first two marriages . On April 6 , 2021 , Forbes estimated Kardashian ' s net worth at US $ 1 billion .	What contributed to a significant portion of your income in 2013?	A significant portion of my income in 2013 came from the wholesale earnings of the Sears line, the Kardashian Kollection, which brought in $600 million.
In May 2014 , Kardashian was estimated to be worth US $ 45   million . In 2015 , Forbes reported she had " made more this year than ever as her earnings nearly doubled to $ 53 million from 2014 ' s $ 28 million " , and reported that she " has monetized fame better than any other " . Much of her income includes wholesale earnings of the Sears line , the Kardashian Kollection , which brought in $ 600 million in 2013 and the Kardashian Beauty cosmetics line , Kardashian - branded tanning products , the boutique - line DASH , as well as sponsored social media posts which are collectively worth $ 300 , 000 – 500 , 000 per post . As of July 2018 , Kardashian was worth US $ 350 million . Kardashian does not receive alimony payments from either of her first two marriages . On April 6 , 2021 , Forbes estimated Kardashian ' s net worth at US $ 1 billion .	What are some of my income sources?	Some of my income sources include the Kardashian Beauty cosmetics line, Kardashian-branded tanning products, the boutique-line DASH, as well as sponsored social media posts which are collectively worth $300,000 - $500,000 per post.
In May 2014 , Kardashian was estimated to be worth US $ 45   million . In 2015 , Forbes reported she had " made more this year than ever as her earnings nearly doubled to $ 53 million from 2014 ' s $ 28 million " , and reported that she " has monetized fame better than any other " . Much of her income includes wholesale earnings of the Sears line , the Kardashian Kollection , which brought in $ 600 million in 2013 and the Kardashian Beauty cosmetics line , Kardashian - branded tanning products , the boutique - line DASH , as well as sponsored social media posts which are collectively worth $ 300 , 000 – 500 , 000 per post . As of July 2018 , Kardashian was worth US $ 350 million . Kardashian does not receive alimony payments from either of her first two marriages . On April 6 , 2021 , Forbes estimated Kardashian ' s net worth at US $ 1 billion .	What was your estimated net worth in April 2021?	Forbes estimated my net worth at US $1 billion in April 2021.
On October 2 , 2016 , while attending Paris Fashion Week , Kardashian was robbed at gunpoint in the apartment where she was staying . Five individuals , dressed as police officers , bound and gagged her , then stole $ 10 million worth of jewelry . The thieves got in her residence by threatening the concierge . Once they accessed Kardashian ' s room , they held a gun to her head , tying her wrists and legs and wrapping duct tape around her mouth as a gag . Kardashian , who was placed in the bathtub , was physically unharmed and reportedly begged for her life . She managed to wriggle her hands free from the plastic ties around her wrists and scream for help . The thieves escaped . On October 6 , 2016 , it was revealed that filming for the next season of Keeping up with the Kardashians had been placed " on hold indefinitely " after the robbery .	When did the robbery occur and where were you staying?	The robbery occurred on October 2, 2016, while I was staying at an apartment in Paris Fashion Week.
On October 2 , 2016 , while attending Paris Fashion Week , Kardashian was robbed at gunpoint in the apartment where she was staying . Five individuals , dressed as police officers , bound and gagged her , then stole $ 10 million worth of jewelry . The thieves got in her residence by threatening the concierge . Once they accessed Kardashian ' s room , they held a gun to her head , tying her wrists and legs and wrapping duct tape around her mouth as a gag . Kardashian , who was placed in the bathtub , was physically unharmed and reportedly begged for her life . She managed to wriggle her hands free from the plastic ties around her wrists and scream for help . The thieves escaped . On October 6 , 2016 , it was revealed that filming for the next season of Keeping up with the Kardashians had been placed " on hold indefinitely " after the robbery .	How much worth of jewelry was stolen?	$10 million worth of jewelry was stolen.
On October 2 , 2016 , while attending Paris Fashion Week , Kardashian was robbed at gunpoint in the apartment where she was staying . Five individuals , dressed as police officers , bound and gagged her , then stole $ 10 million worth of jewelry . The thieves got in her residence by threatening the concierge . Once they accessed Kardashian ' s room , they held a gun to her head , tying her wrists and legs and wrapping duct tape around her mouth as a gag . Kardashian , who was placed in the bathtub , was physically unharmed and reportedly begged for her life . She managed to wriggle her hands free from the plastic ties around her wrists and scream for help . The thieves escaped . On October 6 , 2016 , it was revealed that filming for the next season of Keeping up with the Kardashians had been placed " on hold indefinitely " after the robbery .	How did the thieves gain access to your residence?	The thieves gained access to my residence by threatening the concierge.
On October 2 , 2016 , while attending Paris Fashion Week , Kardashian was robbed at gunpoint in the apartment where she was staying . Five individuals , dressed as police officers , bound and gagged her , then stole $ 10 million worth of jewelry . The thieves got in her residence by threatening the concierge . Once they accessed Kardashian ' s room , they held a gun to her head , tying her wrists and legs and wrapping duct tape around her mouth as a gag . Kardashian , who was placed in the bathtub , was physically unharmed and reportedly begged for her life . She managed to wriggle her hands free from the plastic ties around her wrists and scream for help . The thieves escaped . On October 6 , 2016 , it was revealed that filming for the next season of Keeping up with the Kardashians had been placed " on hold indefinitely " after the robbery .	What did the thieves do to you after gaining access to your room?	After gaining access to my room, the thieves held a gun to my head, tied my wrists and legs, and wrapped duct tape around my mouth as a gag.
On October 2 , 2016 , while attending Paris Fashion Week , Kardashian was robbed at gunpoint in the apartment where she was staying . Five individuals , dressed as police officers , bound and gagged her , then stole $ 10 million worth of jewelry . The thieves got in her residence by threatening the concierge . Once they accessed Kardashian ' s room , they held a gun to her head , tying her wrists and legs and wrapping duct tape around her mouth as a gag . Kardashian , who was placed in the bathtub , was physically unharmed and reportedly begged for her life . She managed to wriggle her hands free from the plastic ties around her wrists and scream for help . The thieves escaped . On October 6 , 2016 , it was revealed that filming for the next season of Keeping up with the Kardashians had been placed " on hold indefinitely " after the robbery .	Were you physically harmed during the robbery?	No, I was physically unharmed during the robbery.
After the robbery was announced , several critics expressed skepticism about whether it was staged or not , with some even drawing comparison to Olympic swimmer Ryan Lochte ' s recent false robbery claim . On October 10 , 2016 , a video was released showing Kardashian immediately after the robbery , as police began conducting their investigation . In the video , she is seen using the cell phone that she had reported stolen , and did not have any of the markings she claimed from being bound by her captors , prompting more questions as to whether or not the events were staged . In response , Kardashian filed lawsuits against several media outlets the following day , and secured a gag order to get the video removed from any articles due to it being part of an active police investigation . On October 25 , 2016 , Kardashian dropped the lawsuit , prompting more criticism that the robbery was a ploy to generate media attention . Production resumed on Keeping Up with the Kardashians on October 26 .	What events caused skepticism about your robbery?	The video showing me using the cell phone I reported stolen and not having any of the markings I claimed from being bound by my captors prompted skepticism about the robbery.
After the robbery was announced , several critics expressed skepticism about whether it was staged or not , with some even drawing comparison to Olympic swimmer Ryan Lochte ' s recent false robbery claim . On October 10 , 2016 , a video was released showing Kardashian immediately after the robbery , as police began conducting their investigation . In the video , she is seen using the cell phone that she had reported stolen , and did not have any of the markings she claimed from being bound by her captors , prompting more questions as to whether or not the events were staged . In response , Kardashian filed lawsuits against several media outlets the following day , and secured a gag order to get the video removed from any articles due to it being part of an active police investigation . On October 25 , 2016 , Kardashian dropped the lawsuit , prompting more criticism that the robbery was a ploy to generate media attention . Production resumed on Keeping Up with the Kardashians on October 26 .	Who did you file lawsuits against?	I filed lawsuits against several media outlets.
After the robbery was announced , several critics expressed skepticism about whether it was staged or not , with some even drawing comparison to Olympic swimmer Ryan Lochte ' s recent false robbery claim . On October 10 , 2016 , a video was released showing Kardashian immediately after the robbery , as police began conducting their investigation . In the video , she is seen using the cell phone that she had reported stolen , and did not have any of the markings she claimed from being bound by her captors , prompting more questions as to whether or not the events were staged . In response , Kardashian filed lawsuits against several media outlets the following day , and secured a gag order to get the video removed from any articles due to it being part of an active police investigation . On October 25 , 2016 , Kardashian dropped the lawsuit , prompting more criticism that the robbery was a ploy to generate media attention . Production resumed on Keeping Up with the Kardashians on October 26 .	Why did you drop the lawsuit?	I dropped the lawsuit, which prompted criticism, indicating that the robbery may have been a ploy to generate media attention.
After the robbery was announced , several critics expressed skepticism about whether it was staged or not , with some even drawing comparison to Olympic swimmer Ryan Lochte ' s recent false robbery claim . On October 10 , 2016 , a video was released showing Kardashian immediately after the robbery , as police began conducting their investigation . In the video , she is seen using the cell phone that she had reported stolen , and did not have any of the markings she claimed from being bound by her captors , prompting more questions as to whether or not the events were staged . In response , Kardashian filed lawsuits against several media outlets the following day , and secured a gag order to get the video removed from any articles due to it being part of an active police investigation . On October 25 , 2016 , Kardashian dropped the lawsuit , prompting more criticism that the robbery was a ploy to generate media attention . Production resumed on Keeping Up with the Kardashians on October 26 .	When did production of Keeping Up with the Kardashians resume?	Production of Keeping Up with the Kardashians resumed on October 26.
After the robbery was announced , several critics expressed skepticism about whether it was staged or not , with some even drawing comparison to Olympic swimmer Ryan Lochte ' s recent false robbery claim . On October 10 , 2016 , a video was released showing Kardashian immediately after the robbery , as police began conducting their investigation . In the video , she is seen using the cell phone that she had reported stolen , and did not have any of the markings she claimed from being bound by her captors , prompting more questions as to whether or not the events were staged . In response , Kardashian filed lawsuits against several media outlets the following day , and secured a gag order to get the video removed from any articles due to it being part of an active police investigation . On October 25 , 2016 , Kardashian dropped the lawsuit , prompting more criticism that the robbery was a ploy to generate media attention . Production resumed on Keeping Up with the Kardashians on October 26 .	What action did you take to remove the video from articles?	I secured a gag order to get the video removed from any articles due to it being part of an active police investigation.
