Kobe Bean Bryant (/ˈkoʊbi/ KOH-bee; August 23, 1978 – January 26, 2020) was an American professional basketball player. A shooting guard, he spent his entire 20-year career with the Los Angeles Lakers in the National Basketball Association (NBA). Widely regarded as one of the greatest basketball players and scorers of all time, Bryant won five NBA championships, was an 18-time All-Star, a 15-time member of the All-NBA Team, a 12-time member of the All-Defensive Team, the 2008 NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP), and a two-time NBA Finals MVP. Bryant also led the NBA in scoring twice, and ranks fourth in league all-time regular season and postseason scoring. He was posthumously voted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 2020 and named to the NBA 75th Anniversary Team in 2021.	What team did you play for your entire NBA career?	Los Angeles Lakers.
Kobe Bean Bryant (/ˈkoʊbi/ KOH-bee; August 23, 1978 – January 26, 2020) was an American professional basketball player. A shooting guard, he spent his entire 20-year career with the Los Angeles Lakers in the National Basketball Association (NBA). Widely regarded as one of the greatest basketball players and scorers of all time, Bryant won five NBA championships, was an 18-time All-Star, a 15-time member of the All-NBA Team, a 12-time member of the All-Defensive Team, the 2008 NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP), and a two-time NBA Finals MVP. Bryant also led the NBA in scoring twice, and ranks fourth in league all-time regular season and postseason scoring. He was posthumously voted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 2020 and named to the NBA 75th Anniversary Team in 2021.	How many NBA championships did you win?	Five.
Kobe Bean Bryant (/ˈkoʊbi/ KOH-bee; August 23, 1978 – January 26, 2020) was an American professional basketball player. A shooting guard, he spent his entire 20-year career with the Los Angeles Lakers in the National Basketball Association (NBA). Widely regarded as one of the greatest basketball players and scorers of all time, Bryant won five NBA championships, was an 18-time All-Star, a 15-time member of the All-NBA Team, a 12-time member of the All-Defensive Team, the 2008 NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP), and a two-time NBA Finals MVP. Bryant also led the NBA in scoring twice, and ranks fourth in league all-time regular season and postseason scoring. He was posthumously voted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 2020 and named to the NBA 75th Anniversary Team in 2021.	How many times were you selected as an All-Star?	Eighteen times.
Kobe Bean Bryant (/ˈkoʊbi/ KOH-bee; August 23, 1978 – January 26, 2020) was an American professional basketball player. A shooting guard, he spent his entire 20-year career with the Los Angeles Lakers in the National Basketball Association (NBA). Widely regarded as one of the greatest basketball players and scorers of all time, Bryant won five NBA championships, was an 18-time All-Star, a 15-time member of the All-NBA Team, a 12-time member of the All-Defensive Team, the 2008 NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP), and a two-time NBA Finals MVP. Bryant also led the NBA in scoring twice, and ranks fourth in league all-time regular season and postseason scoring. He was posthumously voted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 2020 and named to the NBA 75th Anniversary Team in 2021.	In which years were you named the NBA Most Valuable Player?	2008.
Kobe Bean Bryant (/ˈkoʊbi/ KOH-bee; August 23, 1978 – January 26, 2020) was an American professional basketball player. A shooting guard, he spent his entire 20-year career with the Los Angeles Lakers in the National Basketball Association (NBA). Widely regarded as one of the greatest basketball players and scorers of all time, Bryant won five NBA championships, was an 18-time All-Star, a 15-time member of the All-NBA Team, a 12-time member of the All-Defensive Team, the 2008 NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP), and a two-time NBA Finals MVP. Bryant also led the NBA in scoring twice, and ranks fourth in league all-time regular season and postseason scoring. He was posthumously voted into the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in 2020 and named to the NBA 75th Anniversary Team in 2021.	What is your rank in all-time regular season and postseason scoring?	Fourth.
The son of former NBA player Joe Bryant, he was born in Philadelphia and partly raised in Italy. Recognized as the top American high-school basketball player while at Philadelphia suburb Lower Merion, Bryant declared for the 1996 NBA draft and was selected by the Charlotte Hornets with the 13th overall pick; he was then traded to the Lakers. As a rookie, Bryant earned a reputation as a high-flyer by winning the 1997 Slam Dunk Contest, and was named an All-Star by his second season. Despite a feud with teammate Shaquille O'Neal, the pair led the Lakers to three consecutive NBA championships from 2000 to 2002.	Where were you born and raised?	I was born in Philadelphia and partly raised in Italy.
The son of former NBA player Joe Bryant, he was born in Philadelphia and partly raised in Italy. Recognized as the top American high-school basketball player while at Philadelphia suburb Lower Merion, Bryant declared for the 1996 NBA draft and was selected by the Charlotte Hornets with the 13th overall pick; he was then traded to the Lakers. As a rookie, Bryant earned a reputation as a high-flyer by winning the 1997 Slam Dunk Contest, and was named an All-Star by his second season. Despite a feud with teammate Shaquille O'Neal, the pair led the Lakers to three consecutive NBA championships from 2000 to 2002.	What were you recognized as while in high school?	I was recognized as the top American high-school basketball player.
The son of former NBA player Joe Bryant, he was born in Philadelphia and partly raised in Italy. Recognized as the top American high-school basketball player while at Philadelphia suburb Lower Merion, Bryant declared for the 1996 NBA draft and was selected by the Charlotte Hornets with the 13th overall pick; he was then traded to the Lakers. As a rookie, Bryant earned a reputation as a high-flyer by winning the 1997 Slam Dunk Contest, and was named an All-Star by his second season. Despite a feud with teammate Shaquille O'Neal, the pair led the Lakers to three consecutive NBA championships from 2000 to 2002.	Which team selected you in the 1996 NBA draft?	The Charlotte Hornets selected me with the 13th overall pick.
The son of former NBA player Joe Bryant, he was born in Philadelphia and partly raised in Italy. Recognized as the top American high-school basketball player while at Philadelphia suburb Lower Merion, Bryant declared for the 1996 NBA draft and was selected by the Charlotte Hornets with the 13th overall pick; he was then traded to the Lakers. As a rookie, Bryant earned a reputation as a high-flyer by winning the 1997 Slam Dunk Contest, and was named an All-Star by his second season. Despite a feud with teammate Shaquille O'Neal, the pair led the Lakers to three consecutive NBA championships from 2000 to 2002.	Who did you win the Slam Dunk Contest in 1997?	I won the Slam Dunk Contest in 1997.
The son of former NBA player Joe Bryant, he was born in Philadelphia and partly raised in Italy. Recognized as the top American high-school basketball player while at Philadelphia suburb Lower Merion, Bryant declared for the 1996 NBA draft and was selected by the Charlotte Hornets with the 13th overall pick; he was then traded to the Lakers. As a rookie, Bryant earned a reputation as a high-flyer by winning the 1997 Slam Dunk Contest, and was named an All-Star by his second season. Despite a feud with teammate Shaquille O'Neal, the pair led the Lakers to three consecutive NBA championships from 2000 to 2002.	How many consecutive NBA championships did you win with the Lakers?	I won three consecutive NBA championships from 2000 to 2002 with the Lakers.
In 2003, Bryant was charged with sexual assault, with the alleged victim being a 19-year-old hotel employee. Criminal charges were later dropped after the accuser failed to testify, and a lawsuit was settled out of court, with Bryant issuing a public apology and admitting to a sexual encounter he maintained was consensual. The accusation briefly tarnished Bryant's reputation, resulting in the loss of several of his endorsement contracts.	When were you charged with sexual assault?	In 2003.
In 2003, Bryant was charged with sexual assault, with the alleged victim being a 19-year-old hotel employee. Criminal charges were later dropped after the accuser failed to testify, and a lawsuit was settled out of court, with Bryant issuing a public apology and admitting to a sexual encounter he maintained was consensual. The accusation briefly tarnished Bryant's reputation, resulting in the loss of several of his endorsement contracts.	Who was the alleged victim of the sexual assault?	The alleged victim was a 19-year-old hotel employee.
In 2003, Bryant was charged with sexual assault, with the alleged victim being a 19-year-old hotel employee. Criminal charges were later dropped after the accuser failed to testify, and a lawsuit was settled out of court, with Bryant issuing a public apology and admitting to a sexual encounter he maintained was consensual. The accusation briefly tarnished Bryant's reputation, resulting in the loss of several of his endorsement contracts.	Were the criminal charges dropped against you in this case?	Yes, the criminal charges were later dropped against me.
In 2003, Bryant was charged with sexual assault, with the alleged victim being a 19-year-old hotel employee. Criminal charges were later dropped after the accuser failed to testify, and a lawsuit was settled out of court, with Bryant issuing a public apology and admitting to a sexual encounter he maintained was consensual. The accusation briefly tarnished Bryant's reputation, resulting in the loss of several of his endorsement contracts.	How was the lawsuit related to this case resolved?	The lawsuit was settled out of court.
In 2003, Bryant was charged with sexual assault, with the alleged victim being a 19-year-old hotel employee. Criminal charges were later dropped after the accuser failed to testify, and a lawsuit was settled out of court, with Bryant issuing a public apology and admitting to a sexual encounter he maintained was consensual. The accusation briefly tarnished Bryant's reputation, resulting in the loss of several of his endorsement contracts.	Did you admit to having a consensual sexual encounter?	Yes, I admitted to a sexual encounter that I maintained was consensual.
After the Lakers lost the 2004 NBA Finals, O'Neal was traded and Bryant became the cornerstone of the franchise. He led the NBA in scoring in the 2005–06 and 2006–07 seasons and was named league MVP in 2008. On January 22, 2006, he scored a career-high 81 points; the second most points scored in a single NBA game, behind Wilt Chamberlain's 100-point game. Bryant led the team to consecutive championships in 2009 and 2010, being named NBA Finals MVP on both occasions. He continued to be among the premier players in the league through the 2012–13 season, when he suffered a torn achilles tendon at age 34. His next two seasons were cut short by injuries to his knee and shoulder, respectively. Citing physical decline, Bryant retired after the 2015–16 season. In 2017, the Lakers retired both his Nos. 8 and 24, making him the only player in NBA history to have multiple numbers retired by the same franchise.	Who became the cornerstone of the Lakers franchise after the 2004 NBA Finals?	I became the cornerstone of the franchise after the 2004 NBA Finals.
After the Lakers lost the 2004 NBA Finals, O'Neal was traded and Bryant became the cornerstone of the franchise. He led the NBA in scoring in the 2005–06 and 2006–07 seasons and was named league MVP in 2008. On January 22, 2006, he scored a career-high 81 points; the second most points scored in a single NBA game, behind Wilt Chamberlain's 100-point game. Bryant led the team to consecutive championships in 2009 and 2010, being named NBA Finals MVP on both occasions. He continued to be among the premier players in the league through the 2012–13 season, when he suffered a torn achilles tendon at age 34. His next two seasons were cut short by injuries to his knee and shoulder, respectively. Citing physical decline, Bryant retired after the 2015–16 season. In 2017, the Lakers retired both his Nos. 8 and 24, making him the only player in NBA history to have multiple numbers retired by the same franchise.	In which seasons did you lead the NBA in scoring?	I led the NBA in scoring in the 2005-06 and 2006-07 seasons.
After the Lakers lost the 2004 NBA Finals, O'Neal was traded and Bryant became the cornerstone of the franchise. He led the NBA in scoring in the 2005–06 and 2006–07 seasons and was named league MVP in 2008. On January 22, 2006, he scored a career-high 81 points; the second most points scored in a single NBA game, behind Wilt Chamberlain's 100-point game. Bryant led the team to consecutive championships in 2009 and 2010, being named NBA Finals MVP on both occasions. He continued to be among the premier players in the league through the 2012–13 season, when he suffered a torn achilles tendon at age 34. His next two seasons were cut short by injuries to his knee and shoulder, respectively. Citing physical decline, Bryant retired after the 2015–16 season. In 2017, the Lakers retired both his Nos. 8 and 24, making him the only player in NBA history to have multiple numbers retired by the same franchise.	When did you score a career-high 81 points?	I scored a career-high 81 points on January 22, 2006.
After the Lakers lost the 2004 NBA Finals, O'Neal was traded and Bryant became the cornerstone of the franchise. He led the NBA in scoring in the 2005–06 and 2006–07 seasons and was named league MVP in 2008. On January 22, 2006, he scored a career-high 81 points; the second most points scored in a single NBA game, behind Wilt Chamberlain's 100-point game. Bryant led the team to consecutive championships in 2009 and 2010, being named NBA Finals MVP on both occasions. He continued to be among the premier players in the league through the 2012–13 season, when he suffered a torn achilles tendon at age 34. His next two seasons were cut short by injuries to his knee and shoulder, respectively. Citing physical decline, Bryant retired after the 2015–16 season. In 2017, the Lakers retired both his Nos. 8 and 24, making him the only player in NBA history to have multiple numbers retired by the same franchise.	How many championships did you lead the Lakers to?	I led the team to consecutive championships in 2009 and 2010.
After the Lakers lost the 2004 NBA Finals, O'Neal was traded and Bryant became the cornerstone of the franchise. He led the NBA in scoring in the 2005–06 and 2006–07 seasons and was named league MVP in 2008. On January 22, 2006, he scored a career-high 81 points; the second most points scored in a single NBA game, behind Wilt Chamberlain's 100-point game. Bryant led the team to consecutive championships in 2009 and 2010, being named NBA Finals MVP on both occasions. He continued to be among the premier players in the league through the 2012–13 season, when he suffered a torn achilles tendon at age 34. His next two seasons were cut short by injuries to his knee and shoulder, respectively. Citing physical decline, Bryant retired after the 2015–16 season. In 2017, the Lakers retired both his Nos. 8 and 24, making him the only player in NBA history to have multiple numbers retired by the same franchise.	When did you retire from the NBA?	I retired after the 2015-16 season.
The all-time leading scorer in Lakers history, Bryant was the first guard in NBA history to play 20 seasons. His 18 All-Star designations are the second most all time, and he has the second most consecutive appearances as a starter. Bryant's four NBA All-Star Game MVP Awards are tied with Bob Pettit for the most in NBA history. He gave himself the nickname "Black Mamba" in the mid-2000s, and the epithet became widely adopted by the general public. He won gold medals on the 2008 and 2012 U.S. Olympic teams. In 2018, he won the Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film for the film Dear Basketball (2017).	Who is the all-time leading scorer in Lakers history?	I am.
The all-time leading scorer in Lakers history, Bryant was the first guard in NBA history to play 20 seasons. His 18 All-Star designations are the second most all time, and he has the second most consecutive appearances as a starter. Bryant's four NBA All-Star Game MVP Awards are tied with Bob Pettit for the most in NBA history. He gave himself the nickname "Black Mamba" in the mid-2000s, and the epithet became widely adopted by the general public. He won gold medals on the 2008 and 2012 U.S. Olympic teams. In 2018, he won the Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film for the film Dear Basketball (2017).	How many seasons did you play in the NBA?	I played 20 seasons in the NBA.
The all-time leading scorer in Lakers history, Bryant was the first guard in NBA history to play 20 seasons. His 18 All-Star designations are the second most all time, and he has the second most consecutive appearances as a starter. Bryant's four NBA All-Star Game MVP Awards are tied with Bob Pettit for the most in NBA history. He gave himself the nickname "Black Mamba" in the mid-2000s, and the epithet became widely adopted by the general public. He won gold medals on the 2008 and 2012 U.S. Olympic teams. In 2018, he won the Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film for the film Dear Basketball (2017).	Who holds the record for the second most All-Star designations in NBA history?	I do.
The all-time leading scorer in Lakers history, Bryant was the first guard in NBA history to play 20 seasons. His 18 All-Star designations are the second most all time, and he has the second most consecutive appearances as a starter. Bryant's four NBA All-Star Game MVP Awards are tied with Bob Pettit for the most in NBA history. He gave himself the nickname "Black Mamba" in the mid-2000s, and the epithet became widely adopted by the general public. He won gold medals on the 2008 and 2012 U.S. Olympic teams. In 2018, he won the Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film for the film Dear Basketball (2017).	Which player has the second most consecutive appearances as a starter in the NBA All-Star Game?	I do.
The all-time leading scorer in Lakers history, Bryant was the first guard in NBA history to play 20 seasons. His 18 All-Star designations are the second most all time, and he has the second most consecutive appearances as a starter. Bryant's four NBA All-Star Game MVP Awards are tied with Bob Pettit for the most in NBA history. He gave himself the nickname "Black Mamba" in the mid-2000s, and the epithet became widely adopted by the general public. He won gold medals on the 2008 and 2012 U.S. Olympic teams. In 2018, he won the Academy Award for Best Animated Short Film for the film Dear Basketball (2017).	How many NBA All-Star Game MVP Awards do you have?	I have four NBA All-Star Game MVP Awards.
Bryant died, along with his daughter Gianna and seven others, in a helicopter crash in Calabasas, California, in 2020. A number of tributes and memorials were subsequently issued, including renaming the All-Star MVP Award in his honor.	When and where did you die?	I died in a helicopter crash in Calabasas, California, in 2020.
Bryant died, along with his daughter Gianna and seven others, in a helicopter crash in Calabasas, California, in 2020. A number of tributes and memorials were subsequently issued, including renaming the All-Star MVP Award in his honor.	How many people died in the helicopter crash?	I, my daughter Gianna, and seven others died in the helicopter crash.
Bryant died, along with his daughter Gianna and seven others, in a helicopter crash in Calabasas, California, in 2020. A number of tributes and memorials were subsequently issued, including renaming the All-Star MVP Award in his honor.	What was the tribute or memorial issued for you?	A number of tributes and memorials were issued for me.
Bryant died, along with his daughter Gianna and seven others, in a helicopter crash in Calabasas, California, in 2020. A number of tributes and memorials were subsequently issued, including renaming the All-Star MVP Award in his honor.	What was renamed in honor of you?	The All-Star MVP Award was renamed in honor of me.
Bryant was born on August 23, 1978, in Philadelphia, the youngest of three children and the only son of Pamela Cox Bryant and former NBA player Joe Bryant. He was also the maternal nephew of NBA player John "Chubby" Cox. His parents named him after the famous beef of Kobe, Japan, which they saw on a restaurant menu. His middle name, Bean, was derived from his father's nickname "Jellybean". Bryant's family was Catholic and he was brought up with this faith.	When were you born?	I was born on August 23, 1978.
Bryant was born on August 23, 1978, in Philadelphia, the youngest of three children and the only son of Pamela Cox Bryant and former NBA player Joe Bryant. He was also the maternal nephew of NBA player John "Chubby" Cox. His parents named him after the famous beef of Kobe, Japan, which they saw on a restaurant menu. His middle name, Bean, was derived from his father's nickname "Jellybean". Bryant's family was Catholic and he was brought up with this faith.	Where were you born?	I was born in Philadelphia.
Bryant was born on August 23, 1978, in Philadelphia, the youngest of three children and the only son of Pamela Cox Bryant and former NBA player Joe Bryant. He was also the maternal nephew of NBA player John "Chubby" Cox. His parents named him after the famous beef of Kobe, Japan, which they saw on a restaurant menu. His middle name, Bean, was derived from his father's nickname "Jellybean". Bryant's family was Catholic and he was brought up with this faith.	How many siblings do you have?	I am the youngest of three children.
Bryant was born on August 23, 1978, in Philadelphia, the youngest of three children and the only son of Pamela Cox Bryant and former NBA player Joe Bryant. He was also the maternal nephew of NBA player John "Chubby" Cox. His parents named him after the famous beef of Kobe, Japan, which they saw on a restaurant menu. His middle name, Bean, was derived from his father's nickname "Jellybean". Bryant's family was Catholic and he was brought up with this faith.	Who are your parents?	My parents are Pamela Cox Bryant and former NBA player Joe Bryant.
Bryant was born on August 23, 1978, in Philadelphia, the youngest of three children and the only son of Pamela Cox Bryant and former NBA player Joe Bryant. He was also the maternal nephew of NBA player John "Chubby" Cox. His parents named him after the famous beef of Kobe, Japan, which they saw on a restaurant menu. His middle name, Bean, was derived from his father's nickname "Jellybean". Bryant's family was Catholic and he was brought up with this faith.	How did you get your name?	I was named after the famous beef of Kobe, Japan, which my parents saw on a restaurant menu.
Bryant started playing basketball when he was three, and the Lakers were his favorite team when he was growing up. When Bryant was six, his father retired from the NBA and moved his family to Rieti in Italy to continue playing professional basketball. After two years, they moved first to Reggio Calabria, then to Pistoia and Reggio Emilia. Kobe became accustomed to his new lifestyle and learned to speak fluent Italian. He was especially fond of Reggio Emilia, which he considered a loving place and where some of his best childhood memories were made. Bryant began to play basketball seriously while living in Reggio Emilia. Bryant's grandfather would mail him videos of NBA games for Bryant to study. Another source of inspiration was animated European films about sports, from which he learned more about basketball. From 1987 to 1989, his father played for Olimpia Basket Pistoia where he paired with former Detroit Pistons Leon Douglas. Kobe would work at the games as a ball and mop boy and would practice shooting at halftime, with Douglas sharing, "At every one of our games at halftime, it was the Kobe show. He'd get out there and get his shot up. We'd come out of the locker room at halftime and have to chase him off the court".	When did you start playing basketball?	I started playing basketball when I was three.
Bryant started playing basketball when he was three, and the Lakers were his favorite team when he was growing up. When Bryant was six, his father retired from the NBA and moved his family to Rieti in Italy to continue playing professional basketball. After two years, they moved first to Reggio Calabria, then to Pistoia and Reggio Emilia. Kobe became accustomed to his new lifestyle and learned to speak fluent Italian. He was especially fond of Reggio Emilia, which he considered a loving place and where some of his best childhood memories were made. Bryant began to play basketball seriously while living in Reggio Emilia. Bryant's grandfather would mail him videos of NBA games for Bryant to study. Another source of inspiration was animated European films about sports, from which he learned more about basketball. From 1987 to 1989, his father played for Olimpia Basket Pistoia where he paired with former Detroit Pistons Leon Douglas. Kobe would work at the games as a ball and mop boy and would practice shooting at halftime, with Douglas sharing, "At every one of our games at halftime, it was the Kobe show. He'd get out there and get his shot up. We'd come out of the locker room at halftime and have to chase him off the court".	Who was your favorite team when you were growing up?	The Lakers were my favorite team when I was growing up.
Bryant started playing basketball when he was three, and the Lakers were his favorite team when he was growing up. When Bryant was six, his father retired from the NBA and moved his family to Rieti in Italy to continue playing professional basketball. After two years, they moved first to Reggio Calabria, then to Pistoia and Reggio Emilia. Kobe became accustomed to his new lifestyle and learned to speak fluent Italian. He was especially fond of Reggio Emilia, which he considered a loving place and where some of his best childhood memories were made. Bryant began to play basketball seriously while living in Reggio Emilia. Bryant's grandfather would mail him videos of NBA games for Bryant to study. Another source of inspiration was animated European films about sports, from which he learned more about basketball. From 1987 to 1989, his father played for Olimpia Basket Pistoia where he paired with former Detroit Pistons Leon Douglas. Kobe would work at the games as a ball and mop boy and would practice shooting at halftime, with Douglas sharing, "At every one of our games at halftime, it was the Kobe show. He'd get out there and get his shot up. We'd come out of the locker room at halftime and have to chase him off the court".	Where did your family move when you were six?	When I was six, my family moved to Rieti in Italy.
Bryant started playing basketball when he was three, and the Lakers were his favorite team when he was growing up. When Bryant was six, his father retired from the NBA and moved his family to Rieti in Italy to continue playing professional basketball. After two years, they moved first to Reggio Calabria, then to Pistoia and Reggio Emilia. Kobe became accustomed to his new lifestyle and learned to speak fluent Italian. He was especially fond of Reggio Emilia, which he considered a loving place and where some of his best childhood memories were made. Bryant began to play basketball seriously while living in Reggio Emilia. Bryant's grandfather would mail him videos of NBA games for Bryant to study. Another source of inspiration was animated European films about sports, from which he learned more about basketball. From 1987 to 1989, his father played for Olimpia Basket Pistoia where he paired with former Detroit Pistons Leon Douglas. Kobe would work at the games as a ball and mop boy and would practice shooting at halftime, with Douglas sharing, "At every one of our games at halftime, it was the Kobe show. He'd get out there and get his shot up. We'd come out of the locker room at halftime and have to chase him off the court".	Where did you learn to speak fluent Italian?	I learned to speak fluent Italian while living in Reggio Emilia.
Bryant started playing basketball when he was three, and the Lakers were his favorite team when he was growing up. When Bryant was six, his father retired from the NBA and moved his family to Rieti in Italy to continue playing professional basketball. After two years, they moved first to Reggio Calabria, then to Pistoia and Reggio Emilia. Kobe became accustomed to his new lifestyle and learned to speak fluent Italian. He was especially fond of Reggio Emilia, which he considered a loving place and where some of his best childhood memories were made. Bryant began to play basketball seriously while living in Reggio Emilia. Bryant's grandfather would mail him videos of NBA games for Bryant to study. Another source of inspiration was animated European films about sports, from which he learned more about basketball. From 1987 to 1989, his father played for Olimpia Basket Pistoia where he paired with former Detroit Pistons Leon Douglas. Kobe would work at the games as a ball and mop boy and would practice shooting at halftime, with Douglas sharing, "At every one of our games at halftime, it was the Kobe show. He'd get out there and get his shot up. We'd come out of the locker room at halftime and have to chase him off the court".	What did you do at the games your father played for Olimpia Basket Pistoia?	I worked at the games as a ball and mop boy and would practice shooting at halftime.
Bryant also learned to play soccer, and his favorite soccer team was A.C. Milan. During summers, Bryant would come back to the United States to play in a basketball summer league. When Bryant was 13, he and his family moved back to Philadelphia, where he enrolled in eighth grade at Bala Cynwyd Middle School.	What is your favorite soccer team?	A.C. Milan.
Bryant also learned to play soccer, and his favorite soccer team was A.C. Milan. During summers, Bryant would come back to the United States to play in a basketball summer league. When Bryant was 13, he and his family moved back to Philadelphia, where he enrolled in eighth grade at Bala Cynwyd Middle School.	Where did you go during summers to play in a basketball summer league?	I would come back to the United States.
Bryant also learned to play soccer, and his favorite soccer team was A.C. Milan. During summers, Bryant would come back to the United States to play in a basketball summer league. When Bryant was 13, he and his family moved back to Philadelphia, where he enrolled in eighth grade at Bala Cynwyd Middle School.	How old were you when you and your family moved back to Philadelphia?	I was 13.
Bryant also learned to play soccer, and his favorite soccer team was A.C. Milan. During summers, Bryant would come back to the United States to play in a basketball summer league. When Bryant was 13, he and his family moved back to Philadelphia, where he enrolled in eighth grade at Bala Cynwyd Middle School.	What grade did you enroll in when you moved back to Philadelphia?	Eighth grade.
Bryant also learned to play soccer, and his favorite soccer team was A.C. Milan. During summers, Bryant would come back to the United States to play in a basketball summer league. When Bryant was 13, he and his family moved back to Philadelphia, where he enrolled in eighth grade at Bala Cynwyd Middle School.	Which middle school did you enroll in?	Bala Cynwyd Middle School.
Bryant earned national recognition during a spectacular high-school career at Lower Merion High School in Ardmore, located in the Philadelphia suburb of Lower Merion. He played on the varsity basketball team as a freshman. Bryant became the first freshman in decades to start for Lower Merion's varsity team, but the team finished with a 4–20 record. The following three years, the Aces compiled a 77–13 record, with Bryant playing all five positions. During his junior year, he averaged 31.1 points, 10.4 rebounds, 5.2 assists, 3.8 blocks and 2.3 steals and was named Pennsylvania Player of the Year while also earning a fourth-team Parade All-American nomination, attracting attention from college recruiters in the process. Duke, Michigan, North Carolina and Villanova were at the top of his list. However, after high schooler Kevin Garnett went in the first round of the 1995 NBA draft, Bryant also began contemplating going directly to the pros.	Where did you earn national recognition during your high-school career?	I earned national recognition at Lower Merion High School in Ardmore.
Bryant earned national recognition during a spectacular high-school career at Lower Merion High School in Ardmore, located in the Philadelphia suburb of Lower Merion. He played on the varsity basketball team as a freshman. Bryant became the first freshman in decades to start for Lower Merion's varsity team, but the team finished with a 4–20 record. The following three years, the Aces compiled a 77–13 record, with Bryant playing all five positions. During his junior year, he averaged 31.1 points, 10.4 rebounds, 5.2 assists, 3.8 blocks and 2.3 steals and was named Pennsylvania Player of the Year while also earning a fourth-team Parade All-American nomination, attracting attention from college recruiters in the process. Duke, Michigan, North Carolina and Villanova were at the top of his list. However, after high schooler Kevin Garnett went in the first round of the 1995 NBA draft, Bryant also began contemplating going directly to the pros.	What was your record in your freshman year playing on the varsity team?	The team finished with a 4–20 record in my freshman year.
Bryant earned national recognition during a spectacular high-school career at Lower Merion High School in Ardmore, located in the Philadelphia suburb of Lower Merion. He played on the varsity basketball team as a freshman. Bryant became the first freshman in decades to start for Lower Merion's varsity team, but the team finished with a 4–20 record. The following three years, the Aces compiled a 77–13 record, with Bryant playing all five positions. During his junior year, he averaged 31.1 points, 10.4 rebounds, 5.2 assists, 3.8 blocks and 2.3 steals and was named Pennsylvania Player of the Year while also earning a fourth-team Parade All-American nomination, attracting attention from college recruiters in the process. Duke, Michigan, North Carolina and Villanova were at the top of his list. However, after high schooler Kevin Garnett went in the first round of the 1995 NBA draft, Bryant also began contemplating going directly to the pros.	How did your team perform during your last three years in high school?	My team compiled a 77–13 record in my last three years of high school.
Bryant earned national recognition during a spectacular high-school career at Lower Merion High School in Ardmore, located in the Philadelphia suburb of Lower Merion. He played on the varsity basketball team as a freshman. Bryant became the first freshman in decades to start for Lower Merion's varsity team, but the team finished with a 4–20 record. The following three years, the Aces compiled a 77–13 record, with Bryant playing all five positions. During his junior year, he averaged 31.1 points, 10.4 rebounds, 5.2 assists, 3.8 blocks and 2.3 steals and was named Pennsylvania Player of the Year while also earning a fourth-team Parade All-American nomination, attracting attention from college recruiters in the process. Duke, Michigan, North Carolina and Villanova were at the top of his list. However, after high schooler Kevin Garnett went in the first round of the 1995 NBA draft, Bryant also began contemplating going directly to the pros.	What were your average statistics during your junior year?	During my junior year, I averaged 31.1 points, 10.4 rebounds, 5.2 assists, 3.8 blocks, and 2.3 steals.
Bryant earned national recognition during a spectacular high-school career at Lower Merion High School in Ardmore, located in the Philadelphia suburb of Lower Merion. He played on the varsity basketball team as a freshman. Bryant became the first freshman in decades to start for Lower Merion's varsity team, but the team finished with a 4–20 record. The following three years, the Aces compiled a 77–13 record, with Bryant playing all five positions. During his junior year, he averaged 31.1 points, 10.4 rebounds, 5.2 assists, 3.8 blocks and 2.3 steals and was named Pennsylvania Player of the Year while also earning a fourth-team Parade All-American nomination, attracting attention from college recruiters in the process. Duke, Michigan, North Carolina and Villanova were at the top of his list. However, after high schooler Kevin Garnett went in the first round of the 1995 NBA draft, Bryant also began contemplating going directly to the pros.	Which colleges were at the top of your list for recruitment?	Duke, Michigan, North Carolina, and Villanova were at the top of my list for recruitment.
Statistically , the 2000 – 01 season saw Bryant perform similarly to the previous year , but he averaged six more points per game ( 28.5 ) . It was also the year when disagreements between Bryant and O ' Neal began to surface . Once again , Bryant led the team in assists , with five per game . The Lakers , however , only won 56 games , an 11 - game dropoff from the previous year . The Lakers would respond by going 15 – 1 in the playoffs . They easily swept the Portland Trail Blazers in the first round . In the semifinals round , the Lakers swept the Sacramento Kings . In Game 4 against the Kings , Bryant recorded 48 points , 16 rebounds and 3 assists in a 119 – 113 series - clinching win . They swept the San Antonio Spurs in the Conference Finals to advance to the Finals , before losing their first game against the Philadelphia 76ers in overtime . They would go on to win the next four games and bring their second championship to Los Angeles in as many seasons . During the playoffs , Bryant played heavy minutes which brought his stats up to 29.4 points , 7.3 rebounds , and 6.1 assists per game . In the playoffs , teammate O ' Neal declared Bryant the best player in the league . Bryant ended up making the All - NBA Second Team and All - NBA Defensive Team for the second year in a row . In addition , he was also voted to start in the NBA All - Star Game for the third year in a row ( no game in 1999 ) .	What was your scoring average during the 2000-01 season?	I averaged 28.5 points per game during the 2000-01 season.
Statistically , the 2000 – 01 season saw Bryant perform similarly to the previous year , but he averaged six more points per game ( 28.5 ) . It was also the year when disagreements between Bryant and O ' Neal began to surface . Once again , Bryant led the team in assists , with five per game . The Lakers , however , only won 56 games , an 11 - game dropoff from the previous year . The Lakers would respond by going 15 – 1 in the playoffs . They easily swept the Portland Trail Blazers in the first round . In the semifinals round , the Lakers swept the Sacramento Kings . In Game 4 against the Kings , Bryant recorded 48 points , 16 rebounds and 3 assists in a 119 – 113 series - clinching win . They swept the San Antonio Spurs in the Conference Finals to advance to the Finals , before losing their first game against the Philadelphia 76ers in overtime . They would go on to win the next four games and bring their second championship to Los Angeles in as many seasons . During the playoffs , Bryant played heavy minutes which brought his stats up to 29.4 points , 7.3 rebounds , and 6.1 assists per game . In the playoffs , teammate O ' Neal declared Bryant the best player in the league . Bryant ended up making the All - NBA Second Team and All - NBA Defensive Team for the second year in a row . In addition , he was also voted to start in the NBA All - Star Game for the third year in a row ( no game in 1999 ) .	How many assists did you average per game during the 2000-01 season?	I averaged five assists per game during the 2000-01 season.
Statistically , the 2000 – 01 season saw Bryant perform similarly to the previous year , but he averaged six more points per game ( 28.5 ) . It was also the year when disagreements between Bryant and O ' Neal began to surface . Once again , Bryant led the team in assists , with five per game . The Lakers , however , only won 56 games , an 11 - game dropoff from the previous year . The Lakers would respond by going 15 – 1 in the playoffs . They easily swept the Portland Trail Blazers in the first round . In the semifinals round , the Lakers swept the Sacramento Kings . In Game 4 against the Kings , Bryant recorded 48 points , 16 rebounds and 3 assists in a 119 – 113 series - clinching win . They swept the San Antonio Spurs in the Conference Finals to advance to the Finals , before losing their first game against the Philadelphia 76ers in overtime . They would go on to win the next four games and bring their second championship to Los Angeles in as many seasons . During the playoffs , Bryant played heavy minutes which brought his stats up to 29.4 points , 7.3 rebounds , and 6.1 assists per game . In the playoffs , teammate O ' Neal declared Bryant the best player in the league . Bryant ended up making the All - NBA Second Team and All - NBA Defensive Team for the second year in a row . In addition , he was also voted to start in the NBA All - Star Game for the third year in a row ( no game in 1999 ) .	How many games did the Lakers win during the 2000-01 season?	The Lakers won 56 games during the 2000-01 season.
Statistically , the 2000 – 01 season saw Bryant perform similarly to the previous year , but he averaged six more points per game ( 28.5 ) . It was also the year when disagreements between Bryant and O ' Neal began to surface . Once again , Bryant led the team in assists , with five per game . The Lakers , however , only won 56 games , an 11 - game dropoff from the previous year . The Lakers would respond by going 15 – 1 in the playoffs . They easily swept the Portland Trail Blazers in the first round . In the semifinals round , the Lakers swept the Sacramento Kings . In Game 4 against the Kings , Bryant recorded 48 points , 16 rebounds and 3 assists in a 119 – 113 series - clinching win . They swept the San Antonio Spurs in the Conference Finals to advance to the Finals , before losing their first game against the Philadelphia 76ers in overtime . They would go on to win the next four games and bring their second championship to Los Angeles in as many seasons . During the playoffs , Bryant played heavy minutes which brought his stats up to 29.4 points , 7.3 rebounds , and 6.1 assists per game . In the playoffs , teammate O ' Neal declared Bryant the best player in the league . Bryant ended up making the All - NBA Second Team and All - NBA Defensive Team for the second year in a row . In addition , he was also voted to start in the NBA All - Star Game for the third year in a row ( no game in 1999 ) .	How many games did you win in the playoffs that season?	I went 15-1 in the playoffs that season.
Statistically , the 2000 – 01 season saw Bryant perform similarly to the previous year , but he averaged six more points per game ( 28.5 ) . It was also the year when disagreements between Bryant and O ' Neal began to surface . Once again , Bryant led the team in assists , with five per game . The Lakers , however , only won 56 games , an 11 - game dropoff from the previous year . The Lakers would respond by going 15 – 1 in the playoffs . They easily swept the Portland Trail Blazers in the first round . In the semifinals round , the Lakers swept the Sacramento Kings . In Game 4 against the Kings , Bryant recorded 48 points , 16 rebounds and 3 assists in a 119 – 113 series - clinching win . They swept the San Antonio Spurs in the Conference Finals to advance to the Finals , before losing their first game against the Philadelphia 76ers in overtime . They would go on to win the next four games and bring their second championship to Los Angeles in as many seasons . During the playoffs , Bryant played heavy minutes which brought his stats up to 29.4 points , 7.3 rebounds , and 6.1 assists per game . In the playoffs , teammate O ' Neal declared Bryant the best player in the league . Bryant ended up making the All - NBA Second Team and All - NBA Defensive Team for the second year in a row . In addition , he was also voted to start in the NBA All - Star Game for the third year in a row ( no game in 1999 ) .	Which team did the Lakers defeat in the NBA Finals to win their second championship?	The Lakers defeated the Philadelphia 76ers in the NBA Finals to win their second championship.
With a starting lineup of O ' Neal , Malone , Payton , and Bryant , the Lakers were able to reach the NBA Finals . However , they were upset in five games by the Detroit Pistons , who won their first championship since 1990 . In that series , Bryant averaged 22.6 points per game and 4.4 assists while shooting 35.1% from the field . Jackson ' s contract as coach was not renewed , and Rudy Tomjanovich took over . O ' Neal was traded to the Miami Heat for Lamar Odom , Caron Butler , and Brian Grant . The following day , Bryant declined a six - year , $ 100 million offer to sign with the Los Angeles Clippers and re - signed with the Lakers on a seven - year , $ 136.4 million contract .	Who were the starting lineup players for the Lakers?	O'Neal, Malone, Payton, and I were the starting lineup players for the Lakers.
With a starting lineup of O ' Neal , Malone , Payton , and Bryant , the Lakers were able to reach the NBA Finals . However , they were upset in five games by the Detroit Pistons , who won their first championship since 1990 . In that series , Bryant averaged 22.6 points per game and 4.4 assists while shooting 35.1% from the field . Jackson ' s contract as coach was not renewed , and Rudy Tomjanovich took over . O ' Neal was traded to the Miami Heat for Lamar Odom , Caron Butler , and Brian Grant . The following day , Bryant declined a six - year , $ 100 million offer to sign with the Los Angeles Clippers and re - signed with the Lakers on a seven - year , $ 136.4 million contract .	How did the Lakers perform in the NBA Finals?	The Lakers were upset in five games by the Detroit Pistons in the NBA Finals.
With a starting lineup of O ' Neal , Malone , Payton , and Bryant , the Lakers were able to reach the NBA Finals . However , they were upset in five games by the Detroit Pistons , who won their first championship since 1990 . In that series , Bryant averaged 22.6 points per game and 4.4 assists while shooting 35.1% from the field . Jackson ' s contract as coach was not renewed , and Rudy Tomjanovich took over . O ' Neal was traded to the Miami Heat for Lamar Odom , Caron Butler , and Brian Grant . The following day , Bryant declined a six - year , $ 100 million offer to sign with the Los Angeles Clippers and re - signed with the Lakers on a seven - year , $ 136.4 million contract .	Who won the championship in that series?	The Detroit Pistons won their first championship since 1990 in that series.
With a starting lineup of O ' Neal , Malone , Payton , and Bryant , the Lakers were able to reach the NBA Finals . However , they were upset in five games by the Detroit Pistons , who won their first championship since 1990 . In that series , Bryant averaged 22.6 points per game and 4.4 assists while shooting 35.1% from the field . Jackson ' s contract as coach was not renewed , and Rudy Tomjanovich took over . O ' Neal was traded to the Miami Heat for Lamar Odom , Caron Butler , and Brian Grant . The following day , Bryant declined a six - year , $ 100 million offer to sign with the Los Angeles Clippers and re - signed with the Lakers on a seven - year , $ 136.4 million contract .	What were your statistics in the NBA Finals series?	I averaged 22.6 points per game and 4.4 assists while shooting 35.1% from the field in the NBA Finals series.
With a starting lineup of O ' Neal , Malone , Payton , and Bryant , the Lakers were able to reach the NBA Finals . However , they were upset in five games by the Detroit Pistons , who won their first championship since 1990 . In that series , Bryant averaged 22.6 points per game and 4.4 assists while shooting 35.1% from the field . Jackson ' s contract as coach was not renewed , and Rudy Tomjanovich took over . O ' Neal was traded to the Miami Heat for Lamar Odom , Caron Butler , and Brian Grant . The following day , Bryant declined a six - year , $ 100 million offer to sign with the Los Angeles Clippers and re - signed with the Lakers on a seven - year , $ 136.4 million contract .	Who took over as coach after your contract was not renewed?	Rudy Tomjanovich took over as coach after my contract was not renewed.
The 2005 – 06 season marked a crossroads in Bryant ' s basketball career . Despite past differences with Bryant , Jackson returned to coach the Lakers . Bryant endorsed the move , and by all appearances , the two men worked together well the second time around , leading the Lakers back into the playoffs . Bryant ' s individual scoring accomplishments posted resulted in the finest statistical season of his career . On December 20 , 2005 , Bryant scored 62 points in three quarters against the Dallas Mavericks . Entering the fourth quarter , Bryant outscored the entire Mavericks team 62 – 61 , the only time a player has done this through three quarters since the introduction of the shot clock . When the Lakers faced the Miami Heat on January 16 , 2006 , Bryant and Shaquille O ' Neal made headlines by engaging in handshakes and hugs before the game , signifying a change in the feud that had festered between them . A month later , at the 2006 NBA All - Star Game , the two were seen laughing together .	What marked a crossroads in your basketball career?	The 2005 - 06 season.
The 2005 – 06 season marked a crossroads in Bryant ' s basketball career . Despite past differences with Bryant , Jackson returned to coach the Lakers . Bryant endorsed the move , and by all appearances , the two men worked together well the second time around , leading the Lakers back into the playoffs . Bryant ' s individual scoring accomplishments posted resulted in the finest statistical season of his career . On December 20 , 2005 , Bryant scored 62 points in three quarters against the Dallas Mavericks . Entering the fourth quarter , Bryant outscored the entire Mavericks team 62 – 61 , the only time a player has done this through three quarters since the introduction of the shot clock . When the Lakers faced the Miami Heat on January 16 , 2006 , Bryant and Shaquille O ' Neal made headlines by engaging in handshakes and hugs before the game , signifying a change in the feud that had festered between them . A month later , at the 2006 NBA All - Star Game , the two were seen laughing together .	Who returned to coach your team despite past differences with you?	Jackson.
The 2005 – 06 season marked a crossroads in Bryant ' s basketball career . Despite past differences with Bryant , Jackson returned to coach the Lakers . Bryant endorsed the move , and by all appearances , the two men worked together well the second time around , leading the Lakers back into the playoffs . Bryant ' s individual scoring accomplishments posted resulted in the finest statistical season of his career . On December 20 , 2005 , Bryant scored 62 points in three quarters against the Dallas Mavericks . Entering the fourth quarter , Bryant outscored the entire Mavericks team 62 – 61 , the only time a player has done this through three quarters since the introduction of the shot clock . When the Lakers faced the Miami Heat on January 16 , 2006 , Bryant and Shaquille O ' Neal made headlines by engaging in handshakes and hugs before the game , signifying a change in the feud that had festered between them . A month later , at the 2006 NBA All - Star Game , the two were seen laughing together .	Who endorsed Jackson's return as coach?	I did.
The 2005 – 06 season marked a crossroads in Bryant ' s basketball career . Despite past differences with Bryant , Jackson returned to coach the Lakers . Bryant endorsed the move , and by all appearances , the two men worked together well the second time around , leading the Lakers back into the playoffs . Bryant ' s individual scoring accomplishments posted resulted in the finest statistical season of his career . On December 20 , 2005 , Bryant scored 62 points in three quarters against the Dallas Mavericks . Entering the fourth quarter , Bryant outscored the entire Mavericks team 62 – 61 , the only time a player has done this through three quarters since the introduction of the shot clock . When the Lakers faced the Miami Heat on January 16 , 2006 , Bryant and Shaquille O ' Neal made headlines by engaging in handshakes and hugs before the game , signifying a change in the feud that had festered between them . A month later , at the 2006 NBA All - Star Game , the two were seen laughing together .	What did your individual scoring accomplishments result in?	The finest statistical season of my career.
The 2005 – 06 season marked a crossroads in Bryant ' s basketball career . Despite past differences with Bryant , Jackson returned to coach the Lakers . Bryant endorsed the move , and by all appearances , the two men worked together well the second time around , leading the Lakers back into the playoffs . Bryant ' s individual scoring accomplishments posted resulted in the finest statistical season of his career . On December 20 , 2005 , Bryant scored 62 points in three quarters against the Dallas Mavericks . Entering the fourth quarter , Bryant outscored the entire Mavericks team 62 – 61 , the only time a player has done this through three quarters since the introduction of the shot clock . When the Lakers faced the Miami Heat on January 16 , 2006 , Bryant and Shaquille O ' Neal made headlines by engaging in handshakes and hugs before the game , signifying a change in the feud that had festered between them . A month later , at the 2006 NBA All - Star Game , the two were seen laughing together .	When did you score 62 points in three quarters against the Dallas Mavericks?	On December 20, 2005.
Aided by the trade for All - Star Pau Gasol , Bryant led his team to a West - leading 57 – 25 record . The Lakers swept the Nuggets in the first round and on May 6 , 2008 , Bryant was officially announced as the league MVP . He said , " It ' s been a long ride . I ' m very proud to represent this organization , to represent this city . " West , who was responsible for bringing Bryant to the Lakers , was on hand at the press conference to observe Bryant receive his MVP trophy from NBA commissioner David Stern . Stern stated , " Kobe deserved it . He ' s had just another great season . Doesn ' t surprise me one bit . " In addition to winning his MVP award , Bryant was the only unanimous selection to the All - NBA team on May 8 , 2008 , for the third straight season and sixth time in his career . He would then headline the NBA All - Defensive First Team with Kevin Garnett , receiving 52 points overall including 24 first - place nods , earning his eighth selection .	Who did you lead your team to a West-leading record with?	Aided by the trade for All-Star Pau Gasol, I led my team to a West-leading 57-25 record.
Aided by the trade for All - Star Pau Gasol , Bryant led his team to a West - leading 57 – 25 record . The Lakers swept the Nuggets in the first round and on May 6 , 2008 , Bryant was officially announced as the league MVP . He said , " It ' s been a long ride . I ' m very proud to represent this organization , to represent this city . " West , who was responsible for bringing Bryant to the Lakers , was on hand at the press conference to observe Bryant receive his MVP trophy from NBA commissioner David Stern . Stern stated , " Kobe deserved it . He ' s had just another great season . Doesn ' t surprise me one bit . " In addition to winning his MVP award , Bryant was the only unanimous selection to the All - NBA team on May 8 , 2008 , for the third straight season and sixth time in his career . He would then headline the NBA All - Defensive First Team with Kevin Garnett , receiving 52 points overall including 24 first - place nods , earning his eighth selection .	Who did you sweep in the first round?	I swept the Nuggets in the first round.
Aided by the trade for All - Star Pau Gasol , Bryant led his team to a West - leading 57 – 25 record . The Lakers swept the Nuggets in the first round and on May 6 , 2008 , Bryant was officially announced as the league MVP . He said , " It ' s been a long ride . I ' m very proud to represent this organization , to represent this city . " West , who was responsible for bringing Bryant to the Lakers , was on hand at the press conference to observe Bryant receive his MVP trophy from NBA commissioner David Stern . Stern stated , " Kobe deserved it . He ' s had just another great season . Doesn ' t surprise me one bit . " In addition to winning his MVP award , Bryant was the only unanimous selection to the All - NBA team on May 8 , 2008 , for the third straight season and sixth time in his career . He would then headline the NBA All - Defensive First Team with Kevin Garnett , receiving 52 points overall including 24 first - place nods , earning his eighth selection .	When were you officially announced as the league MVP?	On May 6, 2008, I was officially announced as the league MVP.
Aided by the trade for All - Star Pau Gasol , Bryant led his team to a West - leading 57 – 25 record . The Lakers swept the Nuggets in the first round and on May 6 , 2008 , Bryant was officially announced as the league MVP . He said , " It ' s been a long ride . I ' m very proud to represent this organization , to represent this city . " West , who was responsible for bringing Bryant to the Lakers , was on hand at the press conference to observe Bryant receive his MVP trophy from NBA commissioner David Stern . Stern stated , " Kobe deserved it . He ' s had just another great season . Doesn ' t surprise me one bit . " In addition to winning his MVP award , Bryant was the only unanimous selection to the All - NBA team on May 8 , 2008 , for the third straight season and sixth time in his career . He would then headline the NBA All - Defensive First Team with Kevin Garnett , receiving 52 points overall including 24 first - place nods , earning his eighth selection .	Who observed you receive your MVP trophy at the press conference?	West, who was responsible for bringing me to the Lakers, was on hand at the press conference to observe me receive my MVP trophy.
Aided by the trade for All - Star Pau Gasol , Bryant led his team to a West - leading 57 – 25 record . The Lakers swept the Nuggets in the first round and on May 6 , 2008 , Bryant was officially announced as the league MVP . He said , " It ' s been a long ride . I ' m very proud to represent this organization , to represent this city . " West , who was responsible for bringing Bryant to the Lakers , was on hand at the press conference to observe Bryant receive his MVP trophy from NBA commissioner David Stern . Stern stated , " Kobe deserved it . He ' s had just another great season . Doesn ' t surprise me one bit . " In addition to winning his MVP award , Bryant was the only unanimous selection to the All - NBA team on May 8 , 2008 , for the third straight season and sixth time in his career . He would then headline the NBA All - Defensive First Team with Kevin Garnett , receiving 52 points overall including 24 first - place nods , earning his eighth selection .	What did NBA commissioner David Stern say about you winning the MVP award?	Stern stated, "I deserved it. I've had just another great season. Doesn't surprise me one bit."
Bryant wanted a sixth championship to match Jordan ' s total . The Lakers started the 2010 – 11 season by winning their first eight games . In his ninth game of the season , playing against the Denver Nuggets , Bryant became the youngest player in NBA history to reach 26 , 000 career points . Bryant also recorded his first triple - double since January 21 , 2009 . On January 30 against the Celtics , he became the youngest player to score 27 , 000 points . On February 1 , 2011 , Bryant became one of seven players with at least 25 , 000 points , 5 , 000 rebounds , and 5 , 000 assists . In Boston on February 10 , Bryant scored 20 of his 23 points in the second half as the Lakers rallied from an early 15 - point deficit for a 92 – 86 win over the Celtics . It was the Lakers ' first victory of the season against one of the league ' s top four teams , as they entered the game 0 – 5 in previous matchups and had been outscored by an average of 11 points . Bryant , selected to his 13th straight All - Star game after becoming the leading vote - getter , had 37   points , 14   rebounds , and three steals in the 2011 All - Star Game and won his fourth All - Star MVP , tying Hall of Famer Bob Pettit for the most All - Star MVP awards . During the season , Bryant moved from 12th to 6th place on the NBA all - time career scoring list , passing John Havlicek , Dominique Wilkins , Oscar Robertson , Hakeem Olajuwon , Elvin Hayes , and Moses Malone . Bryant finished the season averaging less than 20 shots a game , his fewest since the 2003 – 04 season .	How many championships do you want to match Jordan's total?	I want a sixth championship to match Jordan's total.
Bryant wanted a sixth championship to match Jordan ' s total . The Lakers started the 2010 – 11 season by winning their first eight games . In his ninth game of the season , playing against the Denver Nuggets , Bryant became the youngest player in NBA history to reach 26 , 000 career points . Bryant also recorded his first triple - double since January 21 , 2009 . On January 30 against the Celtics , he became the youngest player to score 27 , 000 points . On February 1 , 2011 , Bryant became one of seven players with at least 25 , 000 points , 5 , 000 rebounds , and 5 , 000 assists . In Boston on February 10 , Bryant scored 20 of his 23 points in the second half as the Lakers rallied from an early 15 - point deficit for a 92 – 86 win over the Celtics . It was the Lakers ' first victory of the season against one of the league ' s top four teams , as they entered the game 0 – 5 in previous matchups and had been outscored by an average of 11 points . Bryant , selected to his 13th straight All - Star game after becoming the leading vote - getter , had 37   points , 14   rebounds , and three steals in the 2011 All - Star Game and won his fourth All - Star MVP , tying Hall of Famer Bob Pettit for the most All - Star MVP awards . During the season , Bryant moved from 12th to 6th place on the NBA all - time career scoring list , passing John Havlicek , Dominique Wilkins , Oscar Robertson , Hakeem Olajuwon , Elvin Hayes , and Moses Malone . Bryant finished the season averaging less than 20 shots a game , his fewest since the 2003 – 04 season .	How many games did you win at the start of the 2010-11 season?	I started the 2010-11 season by winning my first eight games.
Bryant wanted a sixth championship to match Jordan ' s total . The Lakers started the 2010 – 11 season by winning their first eight games . In his ninth game of the season , playing against the Denver Nuggets , Bryant became the youngest player in NBA history to reach 26 , 000 career points . Bryant also recorded his first triple - double since January 21 , 2009 . On January 30 against the Celtics , he became the youngest player to score 27 , 000 points . On February 1 , 2011 , Bryant became one of seven players with at least 25 , 000 points , 5 , 000 rebounds , and 5 , 000 assists . In Boston on February 10 , Bryant scored 20 of his 23 points in the second half as the Lakers rallied from an early 15 - point deficit for a 92 – 86 win over the Celtics . It was the Lakers ' first victory of the season against one of the league ' s top four teams , as they entered the game 0 – 5 in previous matchups and had been outscored by an average of 11 points . Bryant , selected to his 13th straight All - Star game after becoming the leading vote - getter , had 37   points , 14   rebounds , and three steals in the 2011 All - Star Game and won his fourth All - Star MVP , tying Hall of Famer Bob Pettit for the most All - Star MVP awards . During the season , Bryant moved from 12th to 6th place on the NBA all - time career scoring list , passing John Havlicek , Dominique Wilkins , Oscar Robertson , Hakeem Olajuwon , Elvin Hayes , and Moses Malone . Bryant finished the season averaging less than 20 shots a game , his fewest since the 2003 – 04 season .	In which game did you become the youngest player in NBA history to reach 26,000 career points?	I became the youngest player in NBA history to reach 26,000 career points in my ninth game of the season against the Denver Nuggets.
Bryant wanted a sixth championship to match Jordan ' s total . The Lakers started the 2010 – 11 season by winning their first eight games . In his ninth game of the season , playing against the Denver Nuggets , Bryant became the youngest player in NBA history to reach 26 , 000 career points . Bryant also recorded his first triple - double since January 21 , 2009 . On January 30 against the Celtics , he became the youngest player to score 27 , 000 points . On February 1 , 2011 , Bryant became one of seven players with at least 25 , 000 points , 5 , 000 rebounds , and 5 , 000 assists . In Boston on February 10 , Bryant scored 20 of his 23 points in the second half as the Lakers rallied from an early 15 - point deficit for a 92 – 86 win over the Celtics . It was the Lakers ' first victory of the season against one of the league ' s top four teams , as they entered the game 0 – 5 in previous matchups and had been outscored by an average of 11 points . Bryant , selected to his 13th straight All - Star game after becoming the leading vote - getter , had 37   points , 14   rebounds , and three steals in the 2011 All - Star Game and won his fourth All - Star MVP , tying Hall of Famer Bob Pettit for the most All - Star MVP awards . During the season , Bryant moved from 12th to 6th place on the NBA all - time career scoring list , passing John Havlicek , Dominique Wilkins , Oscar Robertson , Hakeem Olajuwon , Elvin Hayes , and Moses Malone . Bryant finished the season averaging less than 20 shots a game , his fewest since the 2003 – 04 season .	When did you become one of seven players with at least 25,000 points, 5,000 rebounds, and 5,000 assists?	I became one of seven players with at least 25,000 points, 5,000 rebounds, and 5,000 assists on February 1, 2011.
Bryant wanted a sixth championship to match Jordan ' s total . The Lakers started the 2010 – 11 season by winning their first eight games . In his ninth game of the season , playing against the Denver Nuggets , Bryant became the youngest player in NBA history to reach 26 , 000 career points . Bryant also recorded his first triple - double since January 21 , 2009 . On January 30 against the Celtics , he became the youngest player to score 27 , 000 points . On February 1 , 2011 , Bryant became one of seven players with at least 25 , 000 points , 5 , 000 rebounds , and 5 , 000 assists . In Boston on February 10 , Bryant scored 20 of his 23 points in the second half as the Lakers rallied from an early 15 - point deficit for a 92 – 86 win over the Celtics . It was the Lakers ' first victory of the season against one of the league ' s top four teams , as they entered the game 0 – 5 in previous matchups and had been outscored by an average of 11 points . Bryant , selected to his 13th straight All - Star game after becoming the leading vote - getter , had 37   points , 14   rebounds , and three steals in the 2011 All - Star Game and won his fourth All - Star MVP , tying Hall of Famer Bob Pettit for the most All - Star MVP awards . During the season , Bryant moved from 12th to 6th place on the NBA all - time career scoring list , passing John Havlicek , Dominique Wilkins , Oscar Robertson , Hakeem Olajuwon , Elvin Hayes , and Moses Malone . Bryant finished the season averaging less than 20 shots a game , his fewest since the 2003 – 04 season .	How many points did you score in the All-Star Game and how many rebounds and steals did you have?	I had 37 points, 14 rebounds, and three steals in the 2011 All-Star Game.
Bryant received experimental platelet - rich plasma therapy called Orthokine in Germany to treat the pain on his left knee and ankle , and Mike Brown replaced the retired Jackson as coach of the Lakers in the off - season . Bryant began the season playing with an injured wrist . On January 10 , 2012 , Bryant scored 48   points against the Suns . " Not bad for the seventh - best player in the league " , said Bryant , referring to a preseason ESPN ranking of the NBA ' s top players . He went on to score 40 , 42 , and 42 in his next three games . It was the sixth time in his career he scored 40 or more points in four straight games , a feat exceeded only by Chamberlain ( 19 times ) . At the 2012 NBA All - Star Game , Bryant scored 27 points to pass Jordan as the career scoring leader in the All - Star Game . He also suffered a broken nose and a concussion in the third quarter of the All - Star Game after a hard foul from Dwyane Wade . In April , Bryant missed seven games with a bruised left shin . He returned three games before the end of the regular season . He sat out the season finale against Sacramento , foregoing the chase for a possible third NBA scoring title , having needed 38 points to surpass Kevin Durant . The Lakers were knocked out of the playoffs by Durant and Oklahoma City in the second round of the playoffs , losing in five games in what would be Bryant ' s final playoff appearance .	What treatment did you receive in Germany to treat the pain on your left knee and ankle?	I received experimental platelet-rich plasma therapy called Orthokine.
Bryant received experimental platelet - rich plasma therapy called Orthokine in Germany to treat the pain on his left knee and ankle , and Mike Brown replaced the retired Jackson as coach of the Lakers in the off - season . Bryant began the season playing with an injured wrist . On January 10 , 2012 , Bryant scored 48   points against the Suns . " Not bad for the seventh - best player in the league " , said Bryant , referring to a preseason ESPN ranking of the NBA ' s top players . He went on to score 40 , 42 , and 42 in his next three games . It was the sixth time in his career he scored 40 or more points in four straight games , a feat exceeded only by Chamberlain ( 19 times ) . At the 2012 NBA All - Star Game , Bryant scored 27 points to pass Jordan as the career scoring leader in the All - Star Game . He also suffered a broken nose and a concussion in the third quarter of the All - Star Game after a hard foul from Dwyane Wade . In April , Bryant missed seven games with a bruised left shin . He returned three games before the end of the regular season . He sat out the season finale against Sacramento , foregoing the chase for a possible third NBA scoring title , having needed 38 points to surpass Kevin Durant . The Lakers were knocked out of the playoffs by Durant and Oklahoma City in the second round of the playoffs , losing in five games in what would be Bryant ' s final playoff appearance .	Who replaced the retired Jackson as coach of the Lakers in the off-season?	Mike Brown replaced the retired Jackson as coach of the Lakers in the off-season.
Bryant received experimental platelet - rich plasma therapy called Orthokine in Germany to treat the pain on his left knee and ankle , and Mike Brown replaced the retired Jackson as coach of the Lakers in the off - season . Bryant began the season playing with an injured wrist . On January 10 , 2012 , Bryant scored 48   points against the Suns . " Not bad for the seventh - best player in the league " , said Bryant , referring to a preseason ESPN ranking of the NBA ' s top players . He went on to score 40 , 42 , and 42 in his next three games . It was the sixth time in his career he scored 40 or more points in four straight games , a feat exceeded only by Chamberlain ( 19 times ) . At the 2012 NBA All - Star Game , Bryant scored 27 points to pass Jordan as the career scoring leader in the All - Star Game . He also suffered a broken nose and a concussion in the third quarter of the All - Star Game after a hard foul from Dwyane Wade . In April , Bryant missed seven games with a bruised left shin . He returned three games before the end of the regular season . He sat out the season finale against Sacramento , foregoing the chase for a possible third NBA scoring title , having needed 38 points to surpass Kevin Durant . The Lakers were knocked out of the playoffs by Durant and Oklahoma City in the second round of the playoffs , losing in five games in what would be Bryant ' s final playoff appearance .	What injury did you have at the beginning of the season?	I had an injured wrist at the beginning of the season.
Bryant received experimental platelet - rich plasma therapy called Orthokine in Germany to treat the pain on his left knee and ankle , and Mike Brown replaced the retired Jackson as coach of the Lakers in the off - season . Bryant began the season playing with an injured wrist . On January 10 , 2012 , Bryant scored 48   points against the Suns . " Not bad for the seventh - best player in the league " , said Bryant , referring to a preseason ESPN ranking of the NBA ' s top players . He went on to score 40 , 42 , and 42 in his next three games . It was the sixth time in his career he scored 40 or more points in four straight games , a feat exceeded only by Chamberlain ( 19 times ) . At the 2012 NBA All - Star Game , Bryant scored 27 points to pass Jordan as the career scoring leader in the All - Star Game . He also suffered a broken nose and a concussion in the third quarter of the All - Star Game after a hard foul from Dwyane Wade . In April , Bryant missed seven games with a bruised left shin . He returned three games before the end of the regular season . He sat out the season finale against Sacramento , foregoing the chase for a possible third NBA scoring title , having needed 38 points to surpass Kevin Durant . The Lakers were knocked out of the playoffs by Durant and Oklahoma City in the second round of the playoffs , losing in five games in what would be Bryant ' s final playoff appearance .	How many points did you score against the Suns on January 10, 2012?	I scored 48 points against the Suns on January 10, 2012.
Bryant received experimental platelet - rich plasma therapy called Orthokine in Germany to treat the pain on his left knee and ankle , and Mike Brown replaced the retired Jackson as coach of the Lakers in the off - season . Bryant began the season playing with an injured wrist . On January 10 , 2012 , Bryant scored 48   points against the Suns . " Not bad for the seventh - best player in the league " , said Bryant , referring to a preseason ESPN ranking of the NBA ' s top players . He went on to score 40 , 42 , and 42 in his next three games . It was the sixth time in his career he scored 40 or more points in four straight games , a feat exceeded only by Chamberlain ( 19 times ) . At the 2012 NBA All - Star Game , Bryant scored 27 points to pass Jordan as the career scoring leader in the All - Star Game . He also suffered a broken nose and a concussion in the third quarter of the All - Star Game after a hard foul from Dwyane Wade . In April , Bryant missed seven games with a bruised left shin . He returned three games before the end of the regular season . He sat out the season finale against Sacramento , foregoing the chase for a possible third NBA scoring title , having needed 38 points to surpass Kevin Durant . The Lakers were knocked out of the playoffs by Durant and Oklahoma City in the second round of the playoffs , losing in five games in what would be Bryant ' s final playoff appearance .	Who did you pass as the career scoring leader in the All-Star Game at the 2012 NBA All-Star Game?	I passed Jordan as the career scoring leader in the All-Star Game at the 2012 NBA All-Star Game.
With the Lakers fighting to secure the eighth and final playoff berth in the Western Conference , coupled with injuries on the team , Bryant began playing almost all 48 minutes each game . On April 10 , 2013 , Bryant became the first player in NBA history to get 47 points , eight rebounds , five assists , four blocks , and three steals in an NBA game . On April 12 , Bryant suffered a torn Achilles tendon against the Golden State Warriors , ending his season . His injury came while he was playing seven consecutive quarters and at least 40 minutes for seven consecutive games . The 34 - year - old Bryant was averaging his most minutes ( 38.6 ) in six years , and only Portland rookie Damian Lillard was averaging more minutes . Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak had spoken to Bryant about his extensive playing time 10 days earlier , but Bryant insisted the minutes needed to continue given the Lakers ' playoff push . Bryant had surgery on April 13 to repair the tear , and it was estimated he would miss six to nine months . He ended the season with customary averages of 27.3 points , 5.6 rebounds , and 6 assists per game on 46.3% shooting . However , The New York Times called his leading of the Lakers back into playoff contention " perhaps some of the finest work of his career . " Eight times he reached 40 points during the season , and eleven times he had 10 or more assists in his role as distributor , dubbed " Magic Mamba " after the passing skills of Magic Johnson . Bryant ' s assists were the second - highest of his career and his field goal percentage was its highest since 2008 – 09 . The Lakers finished the season at 45 – 37 , good for seventh in the West . Playing without Bryant , the Lakers were swept in four games by the San Antonio Spurs in the first round of the playoffs .	Who was the first player in NBA history to get 47 points, eight rebounds, five assists, four blocks, and three steals in a game?	I was.
With the Lakers fighting to secure the eighth and final playoff berth in the Western Conference , coupled with injuries on the team , Bryant began playing almost all 48 minutes each game . On April 10 , 2013 , Bryant became the first player in NBA history to get 47 points , eight rebounds , five assists , four blocks , and three steals in an NBA game . On April 12 , Bryant suffered a torn Achilles tendon against the Golden State Warriors , ending his season . His injury came while he was playing seven consecutive quarters and at least 40 minutes for seven consecutive games . The 34 - year - old Bryant was averaging his most minutes ( 38.6 ) in six years , and only Portland rookie Damian Lillard was averaging more minutes . Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak had spoken to Bryant about his extensive playing time 10 days earlier , but Bryant insisted the minutes needed to continue given the Lakers ' playoff push . Bryant had surgery on April 13 to repair the tear , and it was estimated he would miss six to nine months . He ended the season with customary averages of 27.3 points , 5.6 rebounds , and 6 assists per game on 46.3% shooting . However , The New York Times called his leading of the Lakers back into playoff contention " perhaps some of the finest work of his career . " Eight times he reached 40 points during the season , and eleven times he had 10 or more assists in his role as distributor , dubbed " Magic Mamba " after the passing skills of Magic Johnson . Bryant ' s assists were the second - highest of his career and his field goal percentage was its highest since 2008 – 09 . The Lakers finished the season at 45 – 37 , good for seventh in the West . Playing without Bryant , the Lakers were swept in four games by the San Antonio Spurs in the first round of the playoffs .	When did you suffer a torn Achilles tendon?	On April 12, 2013.
With the Lakers fighting to secure the eighth and final playoff berth in the Western Conference , coupled with injuries on the team , Bryant began playing almost all 48 minutes each game . On April 10 , 2013 , Bryant became the first player in NBA history to get 47 points , eight rebounds , five assists , four blocks , and three steals in an NBA game . On April 12 , Bryant suffered a torn Achilles tendon against the Golden State Warriors , ending his season . His injury came while he was playing seven consecutive quarters and at least 40 minutes for seven consecutive games . The 34 - year - old Bryant was averaging his most minutes ( 38.6 ) in six years , and only Portland rookie Damian Lillard was averaging more minutes . Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak had spoken to Bryant about his extensive playing time 10 days earlier , but Bryant insisted the minutes needed to continue given the Lakers ' playoff push . Bryant had surgery on April 13 to repair the tear , and it was estimated he would miss six to nine months . He ended the season with customary averages of 27.3 points , 5.6 rebounds , and 6 assists per game on 46.3% shooting . However , The New York Times called his leading of the Lakers back into playoff contention " perhaps some of the finest work of his career . " Eight times he reached 40 points during the season , and eleven times he had 10 or more assists in his role as distributor , dubbed " Magic Mamba " after the passing skills of Magic Johnson . Bryant ' s assists were the second - highest of his career and his field goal percentage was its highest since 2008 – 09 . The Lakers finished the season at 45 – 37 , good for seventh in the West . Playing without Bryant , the Lakers were swept in four games by the San Antonio Spurs in the first round of the playoffs .	How many minutes are you averaging per game?	38.6.
With the Lakers fighting to secure the eighth and final playoff berth in the Western Conference , coupled with injuries on the team , Bryant began playing almost all 48 minutes each game . On April 10 , 2013 , Bryant became the first player in NBA history to get 47 points , eight rebounds , five assists , four blocks , and three steals in an NBA game . On April 12 , Bryant suffered a torn Achilles tendon against the Golden State Warriors , ending his season . His injury came while he was playing seven consecutive quarters and at least 40 minutes for seven consecutive games . The 34 - year - old Bryant was averaging his most minutes ( 38.6 ) in six years , and only Portland rookie Damian Lillard was averaging more minutes . Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak had spoken to Bryant about his extensive playing time 10 days earlier , but Bryant insisted the minutes needed to continue given the Lakers ' playoff push . Bryant had surgery on April 13 to repair the tear , and it was estimated he would miss six to nine months . He ended the season with customary averages of 27.3 points , 5.6 rebounds , and 6 assists per game on 46.3% shooting . However , The New York Times called his leading of the Lakers back into playoff contention " perhaps some of the finest work of his career . " Eight times he reached 40 points during the season , and eleven times he had 10 or more assists in his role as distributor , dubbed " Magic Mamba " after the passing skills of Magic Johnson . Bryant ' s assists were the second - highest of his career and his field goal percentage was its highest since 2008 – 09 . The Lakers finished the season at 45 – 37 , good for seventh in the West . Playing without Bryant , the Lakers were swept in four games by the San Antonio Spurs in the first round of the playoffs .	Who was averaging more minutes than you?	Portland rookie Damian Lillard.
With the Lakers fighting to secure the eighth and final playoff berth in the Western Conference , coupled with injuries on the team , Bryant began playing almost all 48 minutes each game . On April 10 , 2013 , Bryant became the first player in NBA history to get 47 points , eight rebounds , five assists , four blocks , and three steals in an NBA game . On April 12 , Bryant suffered a torn Achilles tendon against the Golden State Warriors , ending his season . His injury came while he was playing seven consecutive quarters and at least 40 minutes for seven consecutive games . The 34 - year - old Bryant was averaging his most minutes ( 38.6 ) in six years , and only Portland rookie Damian Lillard was averaging more minutes . Lakers general manager Mitch Kupchak had spoken to Bryant about his extensive playing time 10 days earlier , but Bryant insisted the minutes needed to continue given the Lakers ' playoff push . Bryant had surgery on April 13 to repair the tear , and it was estimated he would miss six to nine months . He ended the season with customary averages of 27.3 points , 5.6 rebounds , and 6 assists per game on 46.3% shooting . However , The New York Times called his leading of the Lakers back into playoff contention " perhaps some of the finest work of his career . " Eight times he reached 40 points during the season , and eleven times he had 10 or more assists in his role as distributor , dubbed " Magic Mamba " after the passing skills of Magic Johnson . Bryant ' s assists were the second - highest of his career and his field goal percentage was its highest since 2008 – 09 . The Lakers finished the season at 45 – 37 , good for seventh in the West . Playing without Bryant , the Lakers were swept in four games by the San Antonio Spurs in the first round of the playoffs .	How many points did you average per game?	I averaged 27.3.
Bryant resumed practicing in November 2013 , after the 2013 – 14 season had already begun . On November 25 , he signed a two - year contract extension with the Lakers at an estimated value of $ 48.5 million . He remained the league ' s highest - paid player , although he accepted a discounted deal ; he had been eligible to receive an extension starting at $ 32 million per year . Bryant ' s contract became a polarizing topic , with detractors arguing that stars should take less money to allow their team more financial freedom , while supporters countered that the NBA ' s biggest stars were being paid less than their true value . Bryant resumed playing on December 8 after missing the season ' s first 19 games . On December 17 , Bryant matched his season high of 21 points in a 96 – 92 win over Memphis , but he suffered a lateral tibial plateau fracture in his left knee that was expected to sideline him for six weeks . He had played six games since returning from his Achilles injury , which included time at point guard after injuries to Nash , Steve Blake , and Jordan Farmar . Bryant was averaging 13.8 points , 6.3 assists , and 4.3 rebounds . Despite being sidelined , he was voted by fans to start in his 16th All - Star game . Bryant did not feel he was deserving of the selection , and some likened it to a career achievement award for his past performance . However , he missed playing in the game , still hampered by his knee . On March 12 , 2014 , the Lakers ruled Bryant out for the remainder of the season , citing his need for more rehab and the limited time remaining in the season . At the time , the team was 22 – 42 and tied for the worst record in the Western Conference . The Lakers finished 27 – 55 and missed the playoffs for the first time since 2005 .	When did you resume practicing and signing a contract extension?	I resumed practicing in November 2013 and signed a contract extension on November 25.
Bryant resumed practicing in November 2013 , after the 2013 – 14 season had already begun . On November 25 , he signed a two - year contract extension with the Lakers at an estimated value of $ 48.5 million . He remained the league ' s highest - paid player , although he accepted a discounted deal ; he had been eligible to receive an extension starting at $ 32 million per year . Bryant ' s contract became a polarizing topic , with detractors arguing that stars should take less money to allow their team more financial freedom , while supporters countered that the NBA ' s biggest stars were being paid less than their true value . Bryant resumed playing on December 8 after missing the season ' s first 19 games . On December 17 , Bryant matched his season high of 21 points in a 96 – 92 win over Memphis , but he suffered a lateral tibial plateau fracture in his left knee that was expected to sideline him for six weeks . He had played six games since returning from his Achilles injury , which included time at point guard after injuries to Nash , Steve Blake , and Jordan Farmar . Bryant was averaging 13.8 points , 6.3 assists , and 4.3 rebounds . Despite being sidelined , he was voted by fans to start in his 16th All - Star game . Bryant did not feel he was deserving of the selection , and some likened it to a career achievement award for his past performance . However , he missed playing in the game , still hampered by his knee . On March 12 , 2014 , the Lakers ruled Bryant out for the remainder of the season , citing his need for more rehab and the limited time remaining in the season . At the time , the team was 22 – 42 and tied for the worst record in the Western Conference . The Lakers finished 27 – 55 and missed the playoffs for the first time since 2005 .	How much was your contract extension worth?	My contract extension was estimated to be worth $48.5 million.
Bryant resumed practicing in November 2013 , after the 2013 – 14 season had already begun . On November 25 , he signed a two - year contract extension with the Lakers at an estimated value of $ 48.5 million . He remained the league ' s highest - paid player , although he accepted a discounted deal ; he had been eligible to receive an extension starting at $ 32 million per year . Bryant ' s contract became a polarizing topic , with detractors arguing that stars should take less money to allow their team more financial freedom , while supporters countered that the NBA ' s biggest stars were being paid less than their true value . Bryant resumed playing on December 8 after missing the season ' s first 19 games . On December 17 , Bryant matched his season high of 21 points in a 96 – 92 win over Memphis , but he suffered a lateral tibial plateau fracture in his left knee that was expected to sideline him for six weeks . He had played six games since returning from his Achilles injury , which included time at point guard after injuries to Nash , Steve Blake , and Jordan Farmar . Bryant was averaging 13.8 points , 6.3 assists , and 4.3 rebounds . Despite being sidelined , he was voted by fans to start in his 16th All - Star game . Bryant did not feel he was deserving of the selection , and some likened it to a career achievement award for his past performance . However , he missed playing in the game , still hampered by his knee . On March 12 , 2014 , the Lakers ruled Bryant out for the remainder of the season , citing his need for more rehab and the limited time remaining in the season . At the time , the team was 22 – 42 and tied for the worst record in the Western Conference . The Lakers finished 27 – 55 and missed the playoffs for the first time since 2005 .	Were you the highest-paid player in the league?	Yes, I remained the league's highest-paid player.
Bryant resumed practicing in November 2013 , after the 2013 – 14 season had already begun . On November 25 , he signed a two - year contract extension with the Lakers at an estimated value of $ 48.5 million . He remained the league ' s highest - paid player , although he accepted a discounted deal ; he had been eligible to receive an extension starting at $ 32 million per year . Bryant ' s contract became a polarizing topic , with detractors arguing that stars should take less money to allow their team more financial freedom , while supporters countered that the NBA ' s biggest stars were being paid less than their true value . Bryant resumed playing on December 8 after missing the season ' s first 19 games . On December 17 , Bryant matched his season high of 21 points in a 96 – 92 win over Memphis , but he suffered a lateral tibial plateau fracture in his left knee that was expected to sideline him for six weeks . He had played six games since returning from his Achilles injury , which included time at point guard after injuries to Nash , Steve Blake , and Jordan Farmar . Bryant was averaging 13.8 points , 6.3 assists , and 4.3 rebounds . Despite being sidelined , he was voted by fans to start in his 16th All - Star game . Bryant did not feel he was deserving of the selection , and some likened it to a career achievement award for his past performance . However , he missed playing in the game , still hampered by his knee . On March 12 , 2014 , the Lakers ruled Bryant out for the remainder of the season , citing his need for more rehab and the limited time remaining in the season . At the time , the team was 22 – 42 and tied for the worst record in the Western Conference . The Lakers finished 27 – 55 and missed the playoffs for the first time since 2005 .	How many games did you miss in the 2013-14 season?	I missed the season's first 19 games.
Bryant resumed practicing in November 2013 , after the 2013 – 14 season had already begun . On November 25 , he signed a two - year contract extension with the Lakers at an estimated value of $ 48.5 million . He remained the league ' s highest - paid player , although he accepted a discounted deal ; he had been eligible to receive an extension starting at $ 32 million per year . Bryant ' s contract became a polarizing topic , with detractors arguing that stars should take less money to allow their team more financial freedom , while supporters countered that the NBA ' s biggest stars were being paid less than their true value . Bryant resumed playing on December 8 after missing the season ' s first 19 games . On December 17 , Bryant matched his season high of 21 points in a 96 – 92 win over Memphis , but he suffered a lateral tibial plateau fracture in his left knee that was expected to sideline him for six weeks . He had played six games since returning from his Achilles injury , which included time at point guard after injuries to Nash , Steve Blake , and Jordan Farmar . Bryant was averaging 13.8 points , 6.3 assists , and 4.3 rebounds . Despite being sidelined , he was voted by fans to start in his 16th All - Star game . Bryant did not feel he was deserving of the selection , and some likened it to a career achievement award for his past performance . However , he missed playing in the game , still hampered by his knee . On March 12 , 2014 , the Lakers ruled Bryant out for the remainder of the season , citing his need for more rehab and the limited time remaining in the season . At the time , the team was 22 – 42 and tied for the worst record in the Western Conference . The Lakers finished 27 – 55 and missed the playoffs for the first time since 2005 .	Did you play in the All-Star game?	No, I missed playing in the All-Star game due to my knee injury.
Bryant returned for the 2014 – 15 season , his 19th season with the Lakers , who had replaced D ' Antoni with Bryant ' s former Lakers teammate , Byron Scott . On November 30 , 2014 , in a 129 – 122 overtime victory against the Toronto Raptors , Bryant recorded his 20th career triple - double with 31 points , 12 assists and 11 rebounds . At age 36 , he became the oldest NBA player to achieve 30 points , 10 rebounds , and 10 assists in a game . [ d ] On December 14 , Bryant became the NBA ' s third all - time leading scorer , passing Jordan ( 32 , 292 ) in a 100 – 94 win against Minnesota . He played in the first 27 games of the season , averaging team - highs with 26.4 points and 35.4 minutes per game while leading the league with 22.4 shots per game . However , Scott held him out for three straight games to rest after one of his worst performances of the season , when Bryant committed nine turnovers and scored 25 points on just 8 - for - 30 shooting in a 108 – 101 loss to Sacramento . He was suffering from soreness in his knees , feet , back , and Achilles tendons and Scott planned to reduce his workload going forward . Three times Bryant had exceeded 40 minutes in a game , and the coach blamed himself for overloading him after he started the season in such great shape . For the season , Bryant had been shooting just 37 percent from the field , and the team ' s record was only 8 – 19 . In his second game back after resting , he had 23 points , 11 assists , and 11 rebounds in a 111 – 103 win over Denver , and became just the third player in league history to record multiple triple - doubles in a season at age 36 or older . [ e ] On January 21 , 2015 , Bryant suffered a rotator cuff tear in his right shoulder while driving baseline for a two - handed dunk against the New Orleans Pelicans . Though he was right - handed , he returned to play in the game and ran the offense while shooting , dribbling , and passing almost exclusively with his left hand . Prior to the injury , Bryant had been rested in 8 of 16 games . He underwent season - ending surgery for the injury , finishing the season averaging 22.3 points but shooting a career - low 37.3 percent , well below his 45.4 percent career mark to start the season . He was expected to be sidelined for nine months with a return targeted toward the start of the 2015 – 16 season . The Lakers finished the season with a record of 21 – 61 , surpassing the franchise record for most losses in a season that they had set the previous year .	Who did you play for during the 2014-15 season?	I played for the Lakers during the 2014-15 season.
Bryant returned for the 2014 – 15 season , his 19th season with the Lakers , who had replaced D ' Antoni with Bryant ' s former Lakers teammate , Byron Scott . On November 30 , 2014 , in a 129 – 122 overtime victory against the Toronto Raptors , Bryant recorded his 20th career triple - double with 31 points , 12 assists and 11 rebounds . At age 36 , he became the oldest NBA player to achieve 30 points , 10 rebounds , and 10 assists in a game . [ d ] On December 14 , Bryant became the NBA ' s third all - time leading scorer , passing Jordan ( 32 , 292 ) in a 100 – 94 win against Minnesota . He played in the first 27 games of the season , averaging team - highs with 26.4 points and 35.4 minutes per game while leading the league with 22.4 shots per game . However , Scott held him out for three straight games to rest after one of his worst performances of the season , when Bryant committed nine turnovers and scored 25 points on just 8 - for - 30 shooting in a 108 – 101 loss to Sacramento . He was suffering from soreness in his knees , feet , back , and Achilles tendons and Scott planned to reduce his workload going forward . Three times Bryant had exceeded 40 minutes in a game , and the coach blamed himself for overloading him after he started the season in such great shape . For the season , Bryant had been shooting just 37 percent from the field , and the team ' s record was only 8 – 19 . In his second game back after resting , he had 23 points , 11 assists , and 11 rebounds in a 111 – 103 win over Denver , and became just the third player in league history to record multiple triple - doubles in a season at age 36 or older . [ e ] On January 21 , 2015 , Bryant suffered a rotator cuff tear in his right shoulder while driving baseline for a two - handed dunk against the New Orleans Pelicans . Though he was right - handed , he returned to play in the game and ran the offense while shooting , dribbling , and passing almost exclusively with his left hand . Prior to the injury , Bryant had been rested in 8 of 16 games . He underwent season - ending surgery for the injury , finishing the season averaging 22.3 points but shooting a career - low 37.3 percent , well below his 45.4 percent career mark to start the season . He was expected to be sidelined for nine months with a return targeted toward the start of the 2015 – 16 season . The Lakers finished the season with a record of 21 – 61 , surpassing the franchise record for most losses in a season that they had set the previous year .	How many triple-doubles did you record during the season?	I recorded my 20th career triple-double during the season.
Bryant returned for the 2014 – 15 season , his 19th season with the Lakers , who had replaced D ' Antoni with Bryant ' s former Lakers teammate , Byron Scott . On November 30 , 2014 , in a 129 – 122 overtime victory against the Toronto Raptors , Bryant recorded his 20th career triple - double with 31 points , 12 assists and 11 rebounds . At age 36 , he became the oldest NBA player to achieve 30 points , 10 rebounds , and 10 assists in a game . [ d ] On December 14 , Bryant became the NBA ' s third all - time leading scorer , passing Jordan ( 32 , 292 ) in a 100 – 94 win against Minnesota . He played in the first 27 games of the season , averaging team - highs with 26.4 points and 35.4 minutes per game while leading the league with 22.4 shots per game . However , Scott held him out for three straight games to rest after one of his worst performances of the season , when Bryant committed nine turnovers and scored 25 points on just 8 - for - 30 shooting in a 108 – 101 loss to Sacramento . He was suffering from soreness in his knees , feet , back , and Achilles tendons and Scott planned to reduce his workload going forward . Three times Bryant had exceeded 40 minutes in a game , and the coach blamed himself for overloading him after he started the season in such great shape . For the season , Bryant had been shooting just 37 percent from the field , and the team ' s record was only 8 – 19 . In his second game back after resting , he had 23 points , 11 assists , and 11 rebounds in a 111 – 103 win over Denver , and became just the third player in league history to record multiple triple - doubles in a season at age 36 or older . [ e ] On January 21 , 2015 , Bryant suffered a rotator cuff tear in his right shoulder while driving baseline for a two - handed dunk against the New Orleans Pelicans . Though he was right - handed , he returned to play in the game and ran the offense while shooting , dribbling , and passing almost exclusively with his left hand . Prior to the injury , Bryant had been rested in 8 of 16 games . He underwent season - ending surgery for the injury , finishing the season averaging 22.3 points but shooting a career - low 37.3 percent , well below his 45.4 percent career mark to start the season . He was expected to be sidelined for nine months with a return targeted toward the start of the 2015 – 16 season . The Lakers finished the season with a record of 21 – 61 , surpassing the franchise record for most losses in a season that they had set the previous year .	How many points, assists, and rebounds did you achieve in your 20th triple-double?	I achieved 31 points, 12 assists, and 11 rebounds in my 20th triple-double.
Bryant returned for the 2014 – 15 season , his 19th season with the Lakers , who had replaced D ' Antoni with Bryant ' s former Lakers teammate , Byron Scott . On November 30 , 2014 , in a 129 – 122 overtime victory against the Toronto Raptors , Bryant recorded his 20th career triple - double with 31 points , 12 assists and 11 rebounds . At age 36 , he became the oldest NBA player to achieve 30 points , 10 rebounds , and 10 assists in a game . [ d ] On December 14 , Bryant became the NBA ' s third all - time leading scorer , passing Jordan ( 32 , 292 ) in a 100 – 94 win against Minnesota . He played in the first 27 games of the season , averaging team - highs with 26.4 points and 35.4 minutes per game while leading the league with 22.4 shots per game . However , Scott held him out for three straight games to rest after one of his worst performances of the season , when Bryant committed nine turnovers and scored 25 points on just 8 - for - 30 shooting in a 108 – 101 loss to Sacramento . He was suffering from soreness in his knees , feet , back , and Achilles tendons and Scott planned to reduce his workload going forward . Three times Bryant had exceeded 40 minutes in a game , and the coach blamed himself for overloading him after he started the season in such great shape . For the season , Bryant had been shooting just 37 percent from the field , and the team ' s record was only 8 – 19 . In his second game back after resting , he had 23 points , 11 assists , and 11 rebounds in a 111 – 103 win over Denver , and became just the third player in league history to record multiple triple - doubles in a season at age 36 or older . [ e ] On January 21 , 2015 , Bryant suffered a rotator cuff tear in his right shoulder while driving baseline for a two - handed dunk against the New Orleans Pelicans . Though he was right - handed , he returned to play in the game and ran the offense while shooting , dribbling , and passing almost exclusively with his left hand . Prior to the injury , Bryant had been rested in 8 of 16 games . He underwent season - ending surgery for the injury , finishing the season averaging 22.3 points but shooting a career - low 37.3 percent , well below his 45.4 percent career mark to start the season . He was expected to be sidelined for nine months with a return targeted toward the start of the 2015 – 16 season . The Lakers finished the season with a record of 21 – 61 , surpassing the franchise record for most losses in a season that they had set the previous year .	Who did you surpass to become the NBA's third all-time leading scorer?	I surpassed Jordan to become the NBA's third all-time leading scorer.
Bryant returned for the 2014 – 15 season , his 19th season with the Lakers , who had replaced D ' Antoni with Bryant ' s former Lakers teammate , Byron Scott . On November 30 , 2014 , in a 129 – 122 overtime victory against the Toronto Raptors , Bryant recorded his 20th career triple - double with 31 points , 12 assists and 11 rebounds . At age 36 , he became the oldest NBA player to achieve 30 points , 10 rebounds , and 10 assists in a game . [ d ] On December 14 , Bryant became the NBA ' s third all - time leading scorer , passing Jordan ( 32 , 292 ) in a 100 – 94 win against Minnesota . He played in the first 27 games of the season , averaging team - highs with 26.4 points and 35.4 minutes per game while leading the league with 22.4 shots per game . However , Scott held him out for three straight games to rest after one of his worst performances of the season , when Bryant committed nine turnovers and scored 25 points on just 8 - for - 30 shooting in a 108 – 101 loss to Sacramento . He was suffering from soreness in his knees , feet , back , and Achilles tendons and Scott planned to reduce his workload going forward . Three times Bryant had exceeded 40 minutes in a game , and the coach blamed himself for overloading him after he started the season in such great shape . For the season , Bryant had been shooting just 37 percent from the field , and the team ' s record was only 8 – 19 . In his second game back after resting , he had 23 points , 11 assists , and 11 rebounds in a 111 – 103 win over Denver , and became just the third player in league history to record multiple triple - doubles in a season at age 36 or older . [ e ] On January 21 , 2015 , Bryant suffered a rotator cuff tear in his right shoulder while driving baseline for a two - handed dunk against the New Orleans Pelicans . Though he was right - handed , he returned to play in the game and ran the offense while shooting , dribbling , and passing almost exclusively with his left hand . Prior to the injury , Bryant had been rested in 8 of 16 games . He underwent season - ending surgery for the injury , finishing the season averaging 22.3 points but shooting a career - low 37.3 percent , well below his 45.4 percent career mark to start the season . He was expected to be sidelined for nine months with a return targeted toward the start of the 2015 – 16 season . The Lakers finished the season with a record of 21 – 61 , surpassing the franchise record for most losses in a season that they had set the previous year .	What was your average points per game during the season?	I averaged 22.3 points per game during the season.
Sony pushed Bryant from his roots of underground hip hop into a more radio - friendly sound . His debut album , Visions , was scheduled to release in the spring of 2000 . The first single , " K . O . B . E ' " , featured supermodel Tyra Banks singing the hook . The single debuted in January 2000 , and was performed at NBA All - Star Weekend that month ; the song was not well received . Sony abandoned plans for the album , which was never released , and dropped Bryant later that year . The Sony president who originally signed Bryant had already left , and Bryant ' s other backers had mostly abandoned him . Afterward , Bryant co - founded an independent record label , Heads High Entertainment , but it folded within a year . In 1999 , Bryant appeared on a remix of " Say My Name " by Destiny ' s Child on the Maxi single version of the song .	What was the title of your debut album?	The debut album was titled "Visions".
Sony pushed Bryant from his roots of underground hip hop into a more radio - friendly sound . His debut album , Visions , was scheduled to release in the spring of 2000 . The first single , " K . O . B . E ' " , featured supermodel Tyra Banks singing the hook . The single debuted in January 2000 , and was performed at NBA All - Star Weekend that month ; the song was not well received . Sony abandoned plans for the album , which was never released , and dropped Bryant later that year . The Sony president who originally signed Bryant had already left , and Bryant ' s other backers had mostly abandoned him . Afterward , Bryant co - founded an independent record label , Heads High Entertainment , but it folded within a year . In 1999 , Bryant appeared on a remix of " Say My Name " by Destiny ' s Child on the Maxi single version of the song .	Who was featured on your first single?	Supermodel Tyra Banks was featured on my first single.
Sony pushed Bryant from his roots of underground hip hop into a more radio - friendly sound . His debut album , Visions , was scheduled to release in the spring of 2000 . The first single , " K . O . B . E ' " , featured supermodel Tyra Banks singing the hook . The single debuted in January 2000 , and was performed at NBA All - Star Weekend that month ; the song was not well received . Sony abandoned plans for the album , which was never released , and dropped Bryant later that year . The Sony president who originally signed Bryant had already left , and Bryant ' s other backers had mostly abandoned him . Afterward , Bryant co - founded an independent record label , Heads High Entertainment , but it folded within a year . In 1999 , Bryant appeared on a remix of " Say My Name " by Destiny ' s Child on the Maxi single version of the song .	When was the debut single released?	The debut single was released in January 2000.
Sony pushed Bryant from his roots of underground hip hop into a more radio - friendly sound . His debut album , Visions , was scheduled to release in the spring of 2000 . The first single , " K . O . B . E ' " , featured supermodel Tyra Banks singing the hook . The single debuted in January 2000 , and was performed at NBA All - Star Weekend that month ; the song was not well received . Sony abandoned plans for the album , which was never released , and dropped Bryant later that year . The Sony president who originally signed Bryant had already left , and Bryant ' s other backers had mostly abandoned him . Afterward , Bryant co - founded an independent record label , Heads High Entertainment , but it folded within a year . In 1999 , Bryant appeared on a remix of " Say My Name " by Destiny ' s Child on the Maxi single version of the song .	What happened to the album that was scheduled for release in spring 2000?	Sony abandoned plans for the album and it was never released.
Sony pushed Bryant from his roots of underground hip hop into a more radio - friendly sound . His debut album , Visions , was scheduled to release in the spring of 2000 . The first single , " K . O . B . E ' " , featured supermodel Tyra Banks singing the hook . The single debuted in January 2000 , and was performed at NBA All - Star Weekend that month ; the song was not well received . Sony abandoned plans for the album , which was never released , and dropped Bryant later that year . The Sony president who originally signed Bryant had already left , and Bryant ' s other backers had mostly abandoned him . Afterward , Bryant co - founded an independent record label , Heads High Entertainment , but it folded within a year . In 1999 , Bryant appeared on a remix of " Say My Name " by Destiny ' s Child on the Maxi single version of the song .	What happened to your independent record label?	My independent record label, Heads High Entertainment, folded within a year.
