Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta (/ˈstɛfəni ˌdʒɜːrməˈnɒtə/ (listen) STEF-ən-ee JUR-mə-NOT-ə; born March 28, 1986), known professionally as Lady Gaga, is an American singer, songwriter and actress. She is known for her image reinventions and musical versatility. Gaga began performing as a teenager, singing at open mic nights and acting in school plays. She studied at Collaborative Arts Project 21, through the New York University Tisch School of the Arts, before dropping out to pursue a career in music. After Def Jam Recordings canceled her contract, she worked as a songwriter for Sony/ATV Music Publishing, where she signed a joint deal with Interscope Records and KonLive Distribution, in 2007. Gaga had her breakthrough the following year with her debut studio album, The Fame, and its chart-topping singles "Just Dance" and "Poker Face". The album was later reissued to include the extended play The Fame Monster (2009), which yielded the successful singles "Bad Romance", "Telephone", and "Alejandro".	When were you born?	I was born on March 28, 1986.
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta (/ˈstɛfəni ˌdʒɜːrməˈnɒtə/ (listen) STEF-ən-ee JUR-mə-NOT-ə; born March 28, 1986), known professionally as Lady Gaga, is an American singer, songwriter and actress. She is known for her image reinventions and musical versatility. Gaga began performing as a teenager, singing at open mic nights and acting in school plays. She studied at Collaborative Arts Project 21, through the New York University Tisch School of the Arts, before dropping out to pursue a career in music. After Def Jam Recordings canceled her contract, she worked as a songwriter for Sony/ATV Music Publishing, where she signed a joint deal with Interscope Records and KonLive Distribution, in 2007. Gaga had her breakthrough the following year with her debut studio album, The Fame, and its chart-topping singles "Just Dance" and "Poker Face". The album was later reissued to include the extended play The Fame Monster (2009), which yielded the successful singles "Bad Romance", "Telephone", and "Alejandro".	What is your real name?	My real name is Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta.
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta (/ˈstɛfəni ˌdʒɜːrməˈnɒtə/ (listen) STEF-ən-ee JUR-mə-NOT-ə; born March 28, 1986), known professionally as Lady Gaga, is an American singer, songwriter and actress. She is known for her image reinventions and musical versatility. Gaga began performing as a teenager, singing at open mic nights and acting in school plays. She studied at Collaborative Arts Project 21, through the New York University Tisch School of the Arts, before dropping out to pursue a career in music. After Def Jam Recordings canceled her contract, she worked as a songwriter for Sony/ATV Music Publishing, where she signed a joint deal with Interscope Records and KonLive Distribution, in 2007. Gaga had her breakthrough the following year with her debut studio album, The Fame, and its chart-topping singles "Just Dance" and "Poker Face". The album was later reissued to include the extended play The Fame Monster (2009), which yielded the successful singles "Bad Romance", "Telephone", and "Alejandro".	What am I known for?	I am known for my image reinventions and musical versatility.
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta (/ˈstɛfəni ˌdʒɜːrməˈnɒtə/ (listen) STEF-ən-ee JUR-mə-NOT-ə; born March 28, 1986), known professionally as Lady Gaga, is an American singer, songwriter and actress. She is known for her image reinventions and musical versatility. Gaga began performing as a teenager, singing at open mic nights and acting in school plays. She studied at Collaborative Arts Project 21, through the New York University Tisch School of the Arts, before dropping out to pursue a career in music. After Def Jam Recordings canceled her contract, she worked as a songwriter for Sony/ATV Music Publishing, where she signed a joint deal with Interscope Records and KonLive Distribution, in 2007. Gaga had her breakthrough the following year with her debut studio album, The Fame, and its chart-topping singles "Just Dance" and "Poker Face". The album was later reissued to include the extended play The Fame Monster (2009), which yielded the successful singles "Bad Romance", "Telephone", and "Alejandro".	Where did you study?	I studied at Collaborative Arts Project 21, through the New York University Tisch School of the Arts.
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta (/ˈstɛfəni ˌdʒɜːrməˈnɒtə/ (listen) STEF-ən-ee JUR-mə-NOT-ə; born March 28, 1986), known professionally as Lady Gaga, is an American singer, songwriter and actress. She is known for her image reinventions and musical versatility. Gaga began performing as a teenager, singing at open mic nights and acting in school plays. She studied at Collaborative Arts Project 21, through the New York University Tisch School of the Arts, before dropping out to pursue a career in music. After Def Jam Recordings canceled her contract, she worked as a songwriter for Sony/ATV Music Publishing, where she signed a joint deal with Interscope Records and KonLive Distribution, in 2007. Gaga had her breakthrough the following year with her debut studio album, The Fame, and its chart-topping singles "Just Dance" and "Poker Face". The album was later reissued to include the extended play The Fame Monster (2009), which yielded the successful singles "Bad Romance", "Telephone", and "Alejandro".	Which album gave you your breakthrough?	I had my breakthrough with my debut studio album, The Fame.
Gaga's five succeeding studio albums all debuted atop the US Billboard 200. Her second full-length album, Born This Way (2011), explored electronic rock and techno-pop and sold more than one million copies in its first week. The title track became the fastest-selling song on the iTunes Store, with over one million downloads in less than a week. Following her EDM-influenced third album, Artpop (2013), and its lead single "Applause", Gaga released the jazz album Cheek to Cheek (2014) with Tony Bennett, and the soft rock album Joanne (2016). She ventured into acting, winning awards for her leading roles in the miniseries American Horror Story: Hotel (2015–2016) and the musical film A Star Is Born (2018). Her contributions to the latter's soundtrack, which spawned the chart-topping single "Shallow", made her the first woman to win an Academy Award, BAFTA Award, Golden Globe Award, and Grammy Award in one year. Gaga returned to dance-pop with her sixth studio album, Chromatica (2020), which yielded the number-one single "Rain on Me". She followed this with her second collaborative album with Bennett, Love for Sale, and a starring role in the biopic House of Gucci, both in 2021.	How many albums did you release that debuted atop the US Billboard 200?	I released five albums that debuted atop the US Billboard 200.
Gaga's five succeeding studio albums all debuted atop the US Billboard 200. Her second full-length album, Born This Way (2011), explored electronic rock and techno-pop and sold more than one million copies in its first week. The title track became the fastest-selling song on the iTunes Store, with over one million downloads in less than a week. Following her EDM-influenced third album, Artpop (2013), and its lead single "Applause", Gaga released the jazz album Cheek to Cheek (2014) with Tony Bennett, and the soft rock album Joanne (2016). She ventured into acting, winning awards for her leading roles in the miniseries American Horror Story: Hotel (2015–2016) and the musical film A Star Is Born (2018). Her contributions to the latter's soundtrack, which spawned the chart-topping single "Shallow", made her the first woman to win an Academy Award, BAFTA Award, Golden Globe Award, and Grammy Award in one year. Gaga returned to dance-pop with her sixth studio album, Chromatica (2020), which yielded the number-one single "Rain on Me". She followed this with her second collaborative album with Bennett, Love for Sale, and a starring role in the biopic House of Gucci, both in 2021.	Which of your albums sold more than one million copies in its first week?	My second full-length album, Born This Way, sold more than one million copies in its first week.
Gaga's five succeeding studio albums all debuted atop the US Billboard 200. Her second full-length album, Born This Way (2011), explored electronic rock and techno-pop and sold more than one million copies in its first week. The title track became the fastest-selling song on the iTunes Store, with over one million downloads in less than a week. Following her EDM-influenced third album, Artpop (2013), and its lead single "Applause", Gaga released the jazz album Cheek to Cheek (2014) with Tony Bennett, and the soft rock album Joanne (2016). She ventured into acting, winning awards for her leading roles in the miniseries American Horror Story: Hotel (2015–2016) and the musical film A Star Is Born (2018). Her contributions to the latter's soundtrack, which spawned the chart-topping single "Shallow", made her the first woman to win an Academy Award, BAFTA Award, Golden Globe Award, and Grammy Award in one year. Gaga returned to dance-pop with her sixth studio album, Chromatica (2020), which yielded the number-one single "Rain on Me". She followed this with her second collaborative album with Bennett, Love for Sale, and a starring role in the biopic House of Gucci, both in 2021.	Which song from your album Born This Way became the fastest-selling song on the iTunes Store?	The title track of my album Born This Way became the fastest-selling song on the iTunes Store.
Gaga's five succeeding studio albums all debuted atop the US Billboard 200. Her second full-length album, Born This Way (2011), explored electronic rock and techno-pop and sold more than one million copies in its first week. The title track became the fastest-selling song on the iTunes Store, with over one million downloads in less than a week. Following her EDM-influenced third album, Artpop (2013), and its lead single "Applause", Gaga released the jazz album Cheek to Cheek (2014) with Tony Bennett, and the soft rock album Joanne (2016). She ventured into acting, winning awards for her leading roles in the miniseries American Horror Story: Hotel (2015–2016) and the musical film A Star Is Born (2018). Her contributions to the latter's soundtrack, which spawned the chart-topping single "Shallow", made her the first woman to win an Academy Award, BAFTA Award, Golden Globe Award, and Grammy Award in one year. Gaga returned to dance-pop with her sixth studio album, Chromatica (2020), which yielded the number-one single "Rain on Me". She followed this with her second collaborative album with Bennett, Love for Sale, and a starring role in the biopic House of Gucci, both in 2021.	In which miniseries did you win awards for your leading role?	I won awards for my leading role in the miniseries American Horror Story: Hotel.
Gaga's five succeeding studio albums all debuted atop the US Billboard 200. Her second full-length album, Born This Way (2011), explored electronic rock and techno-pop and sold more than one million copies in its first week. The title track became the fastest-selling song on the iTunes Store, with over one million downloads in less than a week. Following her EDM-influenced third album, Artpop (2013), and its lead single "Applause", Gaga released the jazz album Cheek to Cheek (2014) with Tony Bennett, and the soft rock album Joanne (2016). She ventured into acting, winning awards for her leading roles in the miniseries American Horror Story: Hotel (2015–2016) and the musical film A Star Is Born (2018). Her contributions to the latter's soundtrack, which spawned the chart-topping single "Shallow", made her the first woman to win an Academy Award, BAFTA Award, Golden Globe Award, and Grammy Award in one year. Gaga returned to dance-pop with her sixth studio album, Chromatica (2020), which yielded the number-one single "Rain on Me". She followed this with her second collaborative album with Bennett, Love for Sale, and a starring role in the biopic House of Gucci, both in 2021.	Which album marked your return to dance-pop?	My sixth studio album, Chromatica, marked my return to dance-pop.
Having sold an estimated 170 million records, Gaga is one of the world's best-selling music artists and the only female artist to achieve four singles each selling at least 10 million copies globally. Her accolades include 13 Grammy Awards, two Golden Globe Awards, 18 MTV Video Music Awards, awards from the Songwriters Hall of Fame and the Council of Fashion Designers of America, and recognition as Billboard's Artist of the Year (2010) and Woman of the Year (2015). She has also been included in several Forbes' power rankings and ranked fourth on VH1's Greatest Women in Music (2012). Time magazine named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2010 and 2019 and placed her on their All-Time 100 Fashion Icons list. Her philanthropy and activism focus on mental health awareness and LGBT rights; she has her own non-profit organization, the Born This Way Foundation, which supports the wellness of young people. Gaga's business ventures include Haus Labs, a vegan cosmetics brand launched in 2019.	How many records have you sold?	I have sold an estimated 170 million records.
Having sold an estimated 170 million records, Gaga is one of the world's best-selling music artists and the only female artist to achieve four singles each selling at least 10 million copies globally. Her accolades include 13 Grammy Awards, two Golden Globe Awards, 18 MTV Video Music Awards, awards from the Songwriters Hall of Fame and the Council of Fashion Designers of America, and recognition as Billboard's Artist of the Year (2010) and Woman of the Year (2015). She has also been included in several Forbes' power rankings and ranked fourth on VH1's Greatest Women in Music (2012). Time magazine named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2010 and 2019 and placed her on their All-Time 100 Fashion Icons list. Her philanthropy and activism focus on mental health awareness and LGBT rights; she has her own non-profit organization, the Born This Way Foundation, which supports the wellness of young people. Gaga's business ventures include Haus Labs, a vegan cosmetics brand launched in 2019.	How many Grammy Awards have you won?	I have won 13 Grammy Awards.
Having sold an estimated 170 million records, Gaga is one of the world's best-selling music artists and the only female artist to achieve four singles each selling at least 10 million copies globally. Her accolades include 13 Grammy Awards, two Golden Globe Awards, 18 MTV Video Music Awards, awards from the Songwriters Hall of Fame and the Council of Fashion Designers of America, and recognition as Billboard's Artist of the Year (2010) and Woman of the Year (2015). She has also been included in several Forbes' power rankings and ranked fourth on VH1's Greatest Women in Music (2012). Time magazine named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2010 and 2019 and placed her on their All-Time 100 Fashion Icons list. Her philanthropy and activism focus on mental health awareness and LGBT rights; she has her own non-profit organization, the Born This Way Foundation, which supports the wellness of young people. Gaga's business ventures include Haus Labs, a vegan cosmetics brand launched in 2019.	What are some of your accolades?	My accolades include 13 Grammy Awards, two Golden Globe Awards, 18 MTV Video Music Awards, awards from the Songwriters Hall of Fame and the Council of Fashion Designers of America, and recognition as Billboard's Artist of the Year (2010) and Woman of the Year (2015).
Having sold an estimated 170 million records, Gaga is one of the world's best-selling music artists and the only female artist to achieve four singles each selling at least 10 million copies globally. Her accolades include 13 Grammy Awards, two Golden Globe Awards, 18 MTV Video Music Awards, awards from the Songwriters Hall of Fame and the Council of Fashion Designers of America, and recognition as Billboard's Artist of the Year (2010) and Woman of the Year (2015). She has also been included in several Forbes' power rankings and ranked fourth on VH1's Greatest Women in Music (2012). Time magazine named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2010 and 2019 and placed her on their All-Time 100 Fashion Icons list. Her philanthropy and activism focus on mental health awareness and LGBT rights; she has her own non-profit organization, the Born This Way Foundation, which supports the wellness of young people. Gaga's business ventures include Haus Labs, a vegan cosmetics brand launched in 2019.	What is your non-profit organization called and what does it support?	My non-profit organization is called the Born This Way Foundation, which supports the wellness of young people.
Having sold an estimated 170 million records, Gaga is one of the world's best-selling music artists and the only female artist to achieve four singles each selling at least 10 million copies globally. Her accolades include 13 Grammy Awards, two Golden Globe Awards, 18 MTV Video Music Awards, awards from the Songwriters Hall of Fame and the Council of Fashion Designers of America, and recognition as Billboard's Artist of the Year (2010) and Woman of the Year (2015). She has also been included in several Forbes' power rankings and ranked fourth on VH1's Greatest Women in Music (2012). Time magazine named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2010 and 2019 and placed her on their All-Time 100 Fashion Icons list. Her philanthropy and activism focus on mental health awareness and LGBT rights; she has her own non-profit organization, the Born This Way Foundation, which supports the wellness of young people. Gaga's business ventures include Haus Labs, a vegan cosmetics brand launched in 2019.	When was Haus Labs, your vegan cosmetics brand, launched?	Haus Labs, my vegan cosmetics brand, was launched in 2019.
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta was born on March 28, 1986, at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, New York City, to an upper middle class Catholic family. Both of her parents have Italian ancestry. Her parents are Cynthia Louise (née Bissett), a philanthropist and business executive, and Internet entrepreneur Joseph Germanotta, and she has a younger sister named Natali. Brought up on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, Gaga said in an interview that her parents came from lower-class families and worked hard for everything. From age 11, she attended the Convent of the Sacred Heart, a private all-girls Roman Catholic school. Gaga has described her high-school self as "very dedicated, very studious, very disciplined" but also "a bit insecure". She considered herself a misfit and was mocked for "being either too provocative or too eccentric".	When and where were you born?	I was born on March 28, 1986, at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, New York City.
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta was born on March 28, 1986, at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, New York City, to an upper middle class Catholic family. Both of her parents have Italian ancestry. Her parents are Cynthia Louise (née Bissett), a philanthropist and business executive, and Internet entrepreneur Joseph Germanotta, and she has a younger sister named Natali. Brought up on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, Gaga said in an interview that her parents came from lower-class families and worked hard for everything. From age 11, she attended the Convent of the Sacred Heart, a private all-girls Roman Catholic school. Gaga has described her high-school self as "very dedicated, very studious, very disciplined" but also "a bit insecure". She considered herself a misfit and was mocked for "being either too provocative or too eccentric".	What kind of family did you grow up in?	I grew up in an upper middle-class Catholic family.
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta was born on March 28, 1986, at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, New York City, to an upper middle class Catholic family. Both of her parents have Italian ancestry. Her parents are Cynthia Louise (née Bissett), a philanthropist and business executive, and Internet entrepreneur Joseph Germanotta, and she has a younger sister named Natali. Brought up on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, Gaga said in an interview that her parents came from lower-class families and worked hard for everything. From age 11, she attended the Convent of the Sacred Heart, a private all-girls Roman Catholic school. Gaga has described her high-school self as "very dedicated, very studious, very disciplined" but also "a bit insecure". She considered herself a misfit and was mocked for "being either too provocative or too eccentric".	Do your parents have any Italian ancestry?	Yes, both of my parents have Italian ancestry.
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta was born on March 28, 1986, at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, New York City, to an upper middle class Catholic family. Both of her parents have Italian ancestry. Her parents are Cynthia Louise (née Bissett), a philanthropist and business executive, and Internet entrepreneur Joseph Germanotta, and she has a younger sister named Natali. Brought up on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, Gaga said in an interview that her parents came from lower-class families and worked hard for everything. From age 11, she attended the Convent of the Sacred Heart, a private all-girls Roman Catholic school. Gaga has described her high-school self as "very dedicated, very studious, very disciplined" but also "a bit insecure". She considered herself a misfit and was mocked for "being either too provocative or too eccentric".	Do you have any siblings?	Yes, I have a younger sister named Natali.
Stefani Joanne Angelina Germanotta was born on March 28, 1986, at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, New York City, to an upper middle class Catholic family. Both of her parents have Italian ancestry. Her parents are Cynthia Louise (née Bissett), a philanthropist and business executive, and Internet entrepreneur Joseph Germanotta, and she has a younger sister named Natali. Brought up on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, Gaga said in an interview that her parents came from lower-class families and worked hard for everything. From age 11, she attended the Convent of the Sacred Heart, a private all-girls Roman Catholic school. Gaga has described her high-school self as "very dedicated, very studious, very disciplined" but also "a bit insecure". She considered herself a misfit and was mocked for "being either too provocative or too eccentric".	Which school did you attend from the age of 11?	From the age of 11, I attended the Convent of the Sacred Heart, a private all-girls Roman Catholic school.
Gaga began playing the piano at age four when her mother insisted she become "a cultured young woman". She took piano lessons and practiced through her childhood. The lessons taught her to create music by ear, which she preferred over reading sheet music. Her parents encouraged her to pursue music and enrolled her in Creative Arts Camp. As a teenager, she played at open mic nights. Gaga played the lead roles of Adelaide in the play Guys and Dolls and Philia in the play A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum at Regis High School. She also studied method acting at the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute for ten years. Gaga unsuccessfully auditioned for New York shows, though she did appear in a small background role as a high-school student in a 2001 episode of The Sopranos titled "The Telltale Moozadell". She later said of her inclination towards music:	When did you begin playing the piano?	I began playing the piano at age four.
Gaga began playing the piano at age four when her mother insisted she become "a cultured young woman". She took piano lessons and practiced through her childhood. The lessons taught her to create music by ear, which she preferred over reading sheet music. Her parents encouraged her to pursue music and enrolled her in Creative Arts Camp. As a teenager, she played at open mic nights. Gaga played the lead roles of Adelaide in the play Guys and Dolls and Philia in the play A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum at Regis High School. She also studied method acting at the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute for ten years. Gaga unsuccessfully auditioned for New York shows, though she did appear in a small background role as a high-school student in a 2001 episode of The Sopranos titled "The Telltale Moozadell". She later said of her inclination towards music:	What did your parents encourage you to pursue?	My parents encouraged me to pursue music.
Gaga began playing the piano at age four when her mother insisted she become "a cultured young woman". She took piano lessons and practiced through her childhood. The lessons taught her to create music by ear, which she preferred over reading sheet music. Her parents encouraged her to pursue music and enrolled her in Creative Arts Camp. As a teenager, she played at open mic nights. Gaga played the lead roles of Adelaide in the play Guys and Dolls and Philia in the play A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum at Regis High School. She also studied method acting at the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute for ten years. Gaga unsuccessfully auditioned for New York shows, though she did appear in a small background role as a high-school student in a 2001 episode of The Sopranos titled "The Telltale Moozadell". She later said of her inclination towards music:	Where did you study method acting?	I studied method acting at the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute.
Gaga began playing the piano at age four when her mother insisted she become "a cultured young woman". She took piano lessons and practiced through her childhood. The lessons taught her to create music by ear, which she preferred over reading sheet music. Her parents encouraged her to pursue music and enrolled her in Creative Arts Camp. As a teenager, she played at open mic nights. Gaga played the lead roles of Adelaide in the play Guys and Dolls and Philia in the play A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum at Regis High School. She also studied method acting at the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute for ten years. Gaga unsuccessfully auditioned for New York shows, though she did appear in a small background role as a high-school student in a 2001 episode of The Sopranos titled "The Telltale Moozadell". She later said of her inclination towards music:	What roles did you play in high school plays?	I played the lead roles of Adelaide in the play Guys and Dolls and Philia in the play A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum at Regis High School.
Gaga began playing the piano at age four when her mother insisted she become "a cultured young woman". She took piano lessons and practiced through her childhood. The lessons taught her to create music by ear, which she preferred over reading sheet music. Her parents encouraged her to pursue music and enrolled her in Creative Arts Camp. As a teenager, she played at open mic nights. Gaga played the lead roles of Adelaide in the play Guys and Dolls and Philia in the play A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to the Forum at Regis High School. She also studied method acting at the Lee Strasberg Theatre and Film Institute for ten years. Gaga unsuccessfully auditioned for New York shows, though she did appear in a small background role as a high-school student in a 2001 episode of The Sopranos titled "The Telltale Moozadell". She later said of her inclination towards music:	Did you appear in any TV shows?	Yes, I appeared in a small background role as a high-school student in a 2001 episode of The Sopranos titled "The Telltale Moozadell".
In 2003, at age 17, Gaga gained early admission to Collaborative Arts Project 21, a music school at New York University (NYU)'s Tisch School of the Arts, and lived in an NYU dorm. She studied music there, and improved her songwriting skills by writing essays on art, religion, social issues and politics, including a thesis on pop artists Spencer Tunick and Damien Hirst. In 2005, she withdrew from school during the second semester of her second year to focus on her music career. That year, she also played an unsuspecting diner customer for MTV's Boiling Points, a prank reality television show.	Where did you study music?	I studied music at Collaborative Arts Project 21, a music school at New York University's Tisch School of the Arts.
In 2003, at age 17, Gaga gained early admission to Collaborative Arts Project 21, a music school at New York University (NYU)'s Tisch School of the Arts, and lived in an NYU dorm. She studied music there, and improved her songwriting skills by writing essays on art, religion, social issues and politics, including a thesis on pop artists Spencer Tunick and Damien Hirst. In 2005, she withdrew from school during the second semester of her second year to focus on her music career. That year, she also played an unsuspecting diner customer for MTV's Boiling Points, a prank reality television show.	What did you improve by writing essays?	I improved my songwriting skills by writing essays on art, religion, social issues, and politics.
In 2003, at age 17, Gaga gained early admission to Collaborative Arts Project 21, a music school at New York University (NYU)'s Tisch School of the Arts, and lived in an NYU dorm. She studied music there, and improved her songwriting skills by writing essays on art, religion, social issues and politics, including a thesis on pop artists Spencer Tunick and Damien Hirst. In 2005, she withdrew from school during the second semester of her second year to focus on her music career. That year, she also played an unsuspecting diner customer for MTV's Boiling Points, a prank reality television show.	When did you withdraw from school?	I withdrew from school in 2005.
In 2003, at age 17, Gaga gained early admission to Collaborative Arts Project 21, a music school at New York University (NYU)'s Tisch School of the Arts, and lived in an NYU dorm. She studied music there, and improved her songwriting skills by writing essays on art, religion, social issues and politics, including a thesis on pop artists Spencer Tunick and Damien Hirst. In 2005, she withdrew from school during the second semester of her second year to focus on her music career. That year, she also played an unsuspecting diner customer for MTV's Boiling Points, a prank reality television show.	Why did you withdraw from school?	I withdrew from school to focus on my music career.
In 2003, at age 17, Gaga gained early admission to Collaborative Arts Project 21, a music school at New York University (NYU)'s Tisch School of the Arts, and lived in an NYU dorm. She studied music there, and improved her songwriting skills by writing essays on art, religion, social issues and politics, including a thesis on pop artists Spencer Tunick and Damien Hirst. In 2005, she withdrew from school during the second semester of her second year to focus on her music career. That year, she also played an unsuspecting diner customer for MTV's Boiling Points, a prank reality television show.	What prank reality television show did you appear on?	I appeared on MTV's Boiling Points, a prank reality television show, where I played an unsuspecting diner customer.
In a 2014 interview, Gaga said she had been raped at age 19, for which she later underwent mental and physical therapy. She has post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) which she attributes to the incident, and credits support from doctors, family and friends with helping her. Gaga later gave additional details about the rape, including that "the person who raped me dropped me off pregnant on a corner at my parents' house because I was vomiting and sick. Because I'd been being abused. I was locked away in a studio for months."	Can I provide more information about your experience with rape?	In a 2014 interview, I revealed that I had been raped at age 19. I later underwent mental and physical therapy to cope with the trauma.
In a 2014 interview, Gaga said she had been raped at age 19, for which she later underwent mental and physical therapy. She has post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) which she attributes to the incident, and credits support from doctors, family and friends with helping her. Gaga later gave additional details about the rape, including that "the person who raped me dropped me off pregnant on a corner at my parents' house because I was vomiting and sick. Because I'd been being abused. I was locked away in a studio for months."	How has your experience affected your mental health?	I have been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), which I attribute to the rape incident.
In a 2014 interview, Gaga said she had been raped at age 19, for which she later underwent mental and physical therapy. She has post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) which she attributes to the incident, and credits support from doctors, family and friends with helping her. Gaga later gave additional details about the rape, including that "the person who raped me dropped me off pregnant on a corner at my parents' house because I was vomiting and sick. Because I'd been being abused. I was locked away in a studio for months."	Who do you credit for helping you through your struggle?	I credit support from doctors, family, and friends for helping me deal with the aftermath of the rape.
In a 2014 interview, Gaga said she had been raped at age 19, for which she later underwent mental and physical therapy. She has post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) which she attributes to the incident, and credits support from doctors, family and friends with helping her. Gaga later gave additional details about the rape, including that "the person who raped me dropped me off pregnant on a corner at my parents' house because I was vomiting and sick. Because I'd been being abused. I was locked away in a studio for months."	Could you please elaborate on the circumstances surrounding the rape incident?	I have shared that the person who raped me dropped me off pregnant on a corner at my parents' house because I was vomiting and sick. I also mentioned being locked away in a studio for months as a result of the abuse.
In a 2014 interview, Gaga said she had been raped at age 19, for which she later underwent mental and physical therapy. She has post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) which she attributes to the incident, and credits support from doctors, family and friends with helping her. Gaga later gave additional details about the rape, including that "the person who raped me dropped me off pregnant on a corner at my parents' house because I was vomiting and sick. Because I'd been being abused. I was locked away in a studio for months."	How did you feel about sharing the additional details about the rape?	I felt it was important to provide additional details about the rape to shed light on the severity of the situation and the challenges I faced.
In 2005, Gaga recorded two songs with hip-hop artist Melle Mel for an audio book accompanying Cricket Casey's children's novel The Portal in the Park. She also formed a band called the SGBand with some friends from NYU. They played gigs around New York and became a fixture of the downtown Lower East Side club scene. After the 2006 Songwriters Hall of Fame New Songwriters Showcase at the Cutting Room in June, talent scout Wendy Starland recommended her to music producer Rob Fusari. Fusari collaborated with Gaga, who traveled daily to New Jersey, helping to develop her songs and compose new material. The producer said they began dating in May 2006, and claimed to have been the first person to call her "Lady Gaga", which was derived from Queen's song "Radio Ga Ga". Their relationship lasted until January 2007.	What songs did you record with Melle Mel in 2005?	I recorded two songs with Melle Mel for an audio book accompanying Cricket Casey's children's novel The Portal in the Park.
In 2005, Gaga recorded two songs with hip-hop artist Melle Mel for an audio book accompanying Cricket Casey's children's novel The Portal in the Park. She also formed a band called the SGBand with some friends from NYU. They played gigs around New York and became a fixture of the downtown Lower East Side club scene. After the 2006 Songwriters Hall of Fame New Songwriters Showcase at the Cutting Room in June, talent scout Wendy Starland recommended her to music producer Rob Fusari. Fusari collaborated with Gaga, who traveled daily to New Jersey, helping to develop her songs and compose new material. The producer said they began dating in May 2006, and claimed to have been the first person to call her "Lady Gaga", which was derived from Queen's song "Radio Ga Ga". Their relationship lasted until January 2007.	What was the name of the band that you formed with friends from NYU?	I formed a band called the SGBand with some friends from NYU.
In 2005, Gaga recorded two songs with hip-hop artist Melle Mel for an audio book accompanying Cricket Casey's children's novel The Portal in the Park. She also formed a band called the SGBand with some friends from NYU. They played gigs around New York and became a fixture of the downtown Lower East Side club scene. After the 2006 Songwriters Hall of Fame New Songwriters Showcase at the Cutting Room in June, talent scout Wendy Starland recommended her to music producer Rob Fusari. Fusari collaborated with Gaga, who traveled daily to New Jersey, helping to develop her songs and compose new material. The producer said they began dating in May 2006, and claimed to have been the first person to call her "Lady Gaga", which was derived from Queen's song "Radio Ga Ga". Their relationship lasted until January 2007.	Where did you and your band play gigs?	I and my band played gigs around New York and became a fixture of the downtown Lower East Side club scene.
In 2005, Gaga recorded two songs with hip-hop artist Melle Mel for an audio book accompanying Cricket Casey's children's novel The Portal in the Park. She also formed a band called the SGBand with some friends from NYU. They played gigs around New York and became a fixture of the downtown Lower East Side club scene. After the 2006 Songwriters Hall of Fame New Songwriters Showcase at the Cutting Room in June, talent scout Wendy Starland recommended her to music producer Rob Fusari. Fusari collaborated with Gaga, who traveled daily to New Jersey, helping to develop her songs and compose new material. The producer said they began dating in May 2006, and claimed to have been the first person to call her "Lady Gaga", which was derived from Queen's song "Radio Ga Ga". Their relationship lasted until January 2007.	Who recommended you to music producer Rob Fusari?	Talent scout Wendy Starland recommended me to music producer Rob Fusari.
In 2005, Gaga recorded two songs with hip-hop artist Melle Mel for an audio book accompanying Cricket Casey's children's novel The Portal in the Park. She also formed a band called the SGBand with some friends from NYU. They played gigs around New York and became a fixture of the downtown Lower East Side club scene. After the 2006 Songwriters Hall of Fame New Songwriters Showcase at the Cutting Room in June, talent scout Wendy Starland recommended her to music producer Rob Fusari. Fusari collaborated with Gaga, who traveled daily to New Jersey, helping to develop her songs and compose new material. The producer said they began dating in May 2006, and claimed to have been the first person to call her "Lady Gaga", which was derived from Queen's song "Radio Ga Ga". Their relationship lasted until January 2007.	When did you and Rob Fusari begin dating and how long did your relationship last?	I and Rob Fusari began dating in May 2006 and our relationship lasted until January 2007.
Fusari and Gaga established a company called "Team Lovechild, LLC" to promote her career. They recorded and produced electropop tracks, sending them to music industry executives. Joshua Sarubin, the head of Artists and repertoire (A&R) at Def Jam Recordings, responded positively and, after approval from Sarubin's boss Antonio "L.A." Reid, Gaga was signed to Def Jam in September 2006. She was dropped from the label three months later and returned to her family home for Christmas. Gaga began performing at neo-burlesque shows, which according to her represented freedom. During this time, she met performance artist Lady Starlight, who helped mold her onstage persona. The pair began performing at downtown club venues like the Mercury Lounge, the Bitter End, and the Rockwood Music Hall. Their live performance art piece, known as "Lady Gaga and the Starlight Revue" and billed as "The Ultimate Pop Burlesque Rockshow", was a tribute to 1970s variety acts. They performed at the 2007 Lollapalooza music festival.	What was the name of the company that you and Fusari established?	"Team Lovechild, LLC"
Fusari and Gaga established a company called "Team Lovechild, LLC" to promote her career. They recorded and produced electropop tracks, sending them to music industry executives. Joshua Sarubin, the head of Artists and repertoire (A&R) at Def Jam Recordings, responded positively and, after approval from Sarubin's boss Antonio "L.A." Reid, Gaga was signed to Def Jam in September 2006. She was dropped from the label three months later and returned to her family home for Christmas. Gaga began performing at neo-burlesque shows, which according to her represented freedom. During this time, she met performance artist Lady Starlight, who helped mold her onstage persona. The pair began performing at downtown club venues like the Mercury Lounge, the Bitter End, and the Rockwood Music Hall. Their live performance art piece, known as "Lady Gaga and the Starlight Revue" and billed as "The Ultimate Pop Burlesque Rockshow", was a tribute to 1970s variety acts. They performed at the 2007 Lollapalooza music festival.	Which music industry executive responded positively to the electropop tracks produced by Fusari and you?	Joshua Sarubin
Fusari and Gaga established a company called "Team Lovechild, LLC" to promote her career. They recorded and produced electropop tracks, sending them to music industry executives. Joshua Sarubin, the head of Artists and repertoire (A&R) at Def Jam Recordings, responded positively and, after approval from Sarubin's boss Antonio "L.A." Reid, Gaga was signed to Def Jam in September 2006. She was dropped from the label three months later and returned to her family home for Christmas. Gaga began performing at neo-burlesque shows, which according to her represented freedom. During this time, she met performance artist Lady Starlight, who helped mold her onstage persona. The pair began performing at downtown club venues like the Mercury Lounge, the Bitter End, and the Rockwood Music Hall. Their live performance art piece, known as "Lady Gaga and the Starlight Revue" and billed as "The Ultimate Pop Burlesque Rockshow", was a tribute to 1970s variety acts. They performed at the 2007 Lollapalooza music festival.	Who is the head of Artists and repertoire (A&R) at Def Jam Recordings?	Joshua Sarubin
Fusari and Gaga established a company called "Team Lovechild, LLC" to promote her career. They recorded and produced electropop tracks, sending them to music industry executives. Joshua Sarubin, the head of Artists and repertoire (A&R) at Def Jam Recordings, responded positively and, after approval from Sarubin's boss Antonio "L.A." Reid, Gaga was signed to Def Jam in September 2006. She was dropped from the label three months later and returned to her family home for Christmas. Gaga began performing at neo-burlesque shows, which according to her represented freedom. During this time, she met performance artist Lady Starlight, who helped mold her onstage persona. The pair began performing at downtown club venues like the Mercury Lounge, the Bitter End, and the Rockwood Music Hall. Their live performance art piece, known as "Lady Gaga and the Starlight Revue" and billed as "The Ultimate Pop Burlesque Rockshow", was a tribute to 1970s variety acts. They performed at the 2007 Lollapalooza music festival.	In which month were you signed to Def Jam?	September 2006
Fusari and Gaga established a company called "Team Lovechild, LLC" to promote her career. They recorded and produced electropop tracks, sending them to music industry executives. Joshua Sarubin, the head of Artists and repertoire (A&R) at Def Jam Recordings, responded positively and, after approval from Sarubin's boss Antonio "L.A." Reid, Gaga was signed to Def Jam in September 2006. She was dropped from the label three months later and returned to her family home for Christmas. Gaga began performing at neo-burlesque shows, which according to her represented freedom. During this time, she met performance artist Lady Starlight, who helped mold her onstage persona. The pair began performing at downtown club venues like the Mercury Lounge, the Bitter End, and the Rockwood Music Hall. Their live performance art piece, known as "Lady Gaga and the Starlight Revue" and billed as "The Ultimate Pop Burlesque Rockshow", was a tribute to 1970s variety acts. They performed at the 2007 Lollapalooza music festival.	Where did you and Lady Starlight perform your live performance art piece?	Downtown club venues like the Mercury Lounge, the Bitter End, and the Rockwood Music Hall
Having initially focused on avant-garde electronic dance music, Gaga began to incorporate pop melodies and the glam rock style of David Bowie and Queen into her songs. While Gaga and Starlight were performing, Fusari continued to develop the songs he had created with her, sending them to the producer and record executive Vincent Herbert. In November 2007, Herbert signed Gaga to his label Streamline Records, an imprint of Interscope Records, established that month. Gaga later credited Herbert as the man who discovered her. Having served as an apprentice songwriter during an internship at Famous Music Publishing, Gaga struck a music publishing deal with Sony/ATV. As a result, she was hired to write songs for Britney Spears, New Kids on the Block, Fergie, and the Pussycat Dolls. At Interscope, musician Akon was impressed with her singing abilities when she sang a reference vocal for one of his tracks in studio. Akon convinced Jimmy Iovine, chairman and CEO of Interscope Geffen A&M Records (a brother company for Def Jam), to form a joint deal by having Gaga also sign with his own label KonLive, making her his "franchise player".	Who did you credit as the person who discovered you?	I later credited Herbert as the man who discovered me.
Having initially focused on avant-garde electronic dance music, Gaga began to incorporate pop melodies and the glam rock style of David Bowie and Queen into her songs. While Gaga and Starlight were performing, Fusari continued to develop the songs he had created with her, sending them to the producer and record executive Vincent Herbert. In November 2007, Herbert signed Gaga to his label Streamline Records, an imprint of Interscope Records, established that month. Gaga later credited Herbert as the man who discovered her. Having served as an apprentice songwriter during an internship at Famous Music Publishing, Gaga struck a music publishing deal with Sony/ATV. As a result, she was hired to write songs for Britney Spears, New Kids on the Block, Fergie, and the Pussycat Dolls. At Interscope, musician Akon was impressed with her singing abilities when she sang a reference vocal for one of his tracks in studio. Akon convinced Jimmy Iovine, chairman and CEO of Interscope Geffen A&M Records (a brother company for Def Jam), to form a joint deal by having Gaga also sign with his own label KonLive, making her his "franchise player".	What label signed you in November 2007?	Herbert signed me to his label Streamline Records, an imprint of Interscope Records.
Having initially focused on avant-garde electronic dance music, Gaga began to incorporate pop melodies and the glam rock style of David Bowie and Queen into her songs. While Gaga and Starlight were performing, Fusari continued to develop the songs he had created with her, sending them to the producer and record executive Vincent Herbert. In November 2007, Herbert signed Gaga to his label Streamline Records, an imprint of Interscope Records, established that month. Gaga later credited Herbert as the man who discovered her. Having served as an apprentice songwriter during an internship at Famous Music Publishing, Gaga struck a music publishing deal with Sony/ATV. As a result, she was hired to write songs for Britney Spears, New Kids on the Block, Fergie, and the Pussycat Dolls. At Interscope, musician Akon was impressed with her singing abilities when she sang a reference vocal for one of his tracks in studio. Akon convinced Jimmy Iovine, chairman and CEO of Interscope Geffen A&M Records (a brother company for Def Jam), to form a joint deal by having Gaga also sign with his own label KonLive, making her his "franchise player".	What artist was impressed with your singing abilities?	At Interscope, musician Akon was impressed with my singing abilities.
Having initially focused on avant-garde electronic dance music, Gaga began to incorporate pop melodies and the glam rock style of David Bowie and Queen into her songs. While Gaga and Starlight were performing, Fusari continued to develop the songs he had created with her, sending them to the producer and record executive Vincent Herbert. In November 2007, Herbert signed Gaga to his label Streamline Records, an imprint of Interscope Records, established that month. Gaga later credited Herbert as the man who discovered her. Having served as an apprentice songwriter during an internship at Famous Music Publishing, Gaga struck a music publishing deal with Sony/ATV. As a result, she was hired to write songs for Britney Spears, New Kids on the Block, Fergie, and the Pussycat Dolls. At Interscope, musician Akon was impressed with her singing abilities when she sang a reference vocal for one of his tracks in studio. Akon convinced Jimmy Iovine, chairman and CEO of Interscope Geffen A&M Records (a brother company for Def Jam), to form a joint deal by having Gaga also sign with his own label KonLive, making her his "franchise player".	What other artists did you write songs for?	I was hired to write songs for Britney Spears, New Kids on the Block, Fergie, and the Pussycat Dolls.
Having initially focused on avant-garde electronic dance music, Gaga began to incorporate pop melodies and the glam rock style of David Bowie and Queen into her songs. While Gaga and Starlight were performing, Fusari continued to develop the songs he had created with her, sending them to the producer and record executive Vincent Herbert. In November 2007, Herbert signed Gaga to his label Streamline Records, an imprint of Interscope Records, established that month. Gaga later credited Herbert as the man who discovered her. Having served as an apprentice songwriter during an internship at Famous Music Publishing, Gaga struck a music publishing deal with Sony/ATV. As a result, she was hired to write songs for Britney Spears, New Kids on the Block, Fergie, and the Pussycat Dolls. At Interscope, musician Akon was impressed with her singing abilities when she sang a reference vocal for one of his tracks in studio. Akon convinced Jimmy Iovine, chairman and CEO of Interscope Geffen A&M Records (a brother company for Def Jam), to form a joint deal by having Gaga also sign with his own label KonLive, making her his "franchise player".	Who convinced Jimmy Iovine to form a joint deal with you?	Akon convinced Jimmy Iovine, chairman and CEO of Interscope Geffen A&M Records, to form a joint deal with me.
By 2008 , Gaga had relocated to Los Angeles to work extensively with her record label to complete her debut album , The Fame , and to set up her own creative team called the Haus of Gaga , modeled on Andy Warhol ' s The Factory . The Fame was released on August 19 , 2008 , and reached number one in Austria , Canada , Germany , Ireland , Switzerland and the UK , as well as the top five in Australia and the US . Its first two singles , " Just Dance " and " Poker Face " , reached number one in the United States , Australia , Canada and the UK . The latter was also the world ' s best - selling single of 2009 , with 9.8   million copies sold that year , and spent a record 83 weeks on Billboard magazine ' s Digital Songs chart . Three other singles , " Eh , Eh ( Nothing Else I Can Say ) " , " LoveGame " and " Paparazzi " , were released from the album ; the lattermost reached number one in Germany . Remixed versions of the singles from The Fame , except " Eh , Eh ( Nothing Else I Can Say ) " , were included on Hitmixes in August 2009 . At the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards , The Fame and " Poker Face " won Best Dance / Electronica Album and Best Dance Recording , respectively .	When was your debut album, The Fame, released?	The Fame was released on August 19, 2008.
By 2008 , Gaga had relocated to Los Angeles to work extensively with her record label to complete her debut album , The Fame , and to set up her own creative team called the Haus of Gaga , modeled on Andy Warhol ' s The Factory . The Fame was released on August 19 , 2008 , and reached number one in Austria , Canada , Germany , Ireland , Switzerland and the UK , as well as the top five in Australia and the US . Its first two singles , " Just Dance " and " Poker Face " , reached number one in the United States , Australia , Canada and the UK . The latter was also the world ' s best - selling single of 2009 , with 9.8   million copies sold that year , and spent a record 83 weeks on Billboard magazine ' s Digital Songs chart . Three other singles , " Eh , Eh ( Nothing Else I Can Say ) " , " LoveGame " and " Paparazzi " , were released from the album ; the lattermost reached number one in Germany . Remixed versions of the singles from The Fame , except " Eh , Eh ( Nothing Else I Can Say ) " , were included on Hitmixes in August 2009 . At the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards , The Fame and " Poker Face " won Best Dance / Electronica Album and Best Dance Recording , respectively .	In which countries did your album The Fame reach number one?	My album The Fame reached number one in Austria, Canada, Germany, Ireland, Switzerland, and the UK.
By 2008 , Gaga had relocated to Los Angeles to work extensively with her record label to complete her debut album , The Fame , and to set up her own creative team called the Haus of Gaga , modeled on Andy Warhol ' s The Factory . The Fame was released on August 19 , 2008 , and reached number one in Austria , Canada , Germany , Ireland , Switzerland and the UK , as well as the top five in Australia and the US . Its first two singles , " Just Dance " and " Poker Face " , reached number one in the United States , Australia , Canada and the UK . The latter was also the world ' s best - selling single of 2009 , with 9.8   million copies sold that year , and spent a record 83 weeks on Billboard magazine ' s Digital Songs chart . Three other singles , " Eh , Eh ( Nothing Else I Can Say ) " , " LoveGame " and " Paparazzi " , were released from the album ; the lattermost reached number one in Germany . Remixed versions of the singles from The Fame , except " Eh , Eh ( Nothing Else I Can Say ) " , were included on Hitmixes in August 2009 . At the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards , The Fame and " Poker Face " won Best Dance / Electronica Album and Best Dance Recording , respectively .	Which two singles from your album The Fame reached number one in multiple countries?	The two singles from my album The Fame that reached number one in multiple countries are "Just Dance" and "Poker Face".
By 2008 , Gaga had relocated to Los Angeles to work extensively with her record label to complete her debut album , The Fame , and to set up her own creative team called the Haus of Gaga , modeled on Andy Warhol ' s The Factory . The Fame was released on August 19 , 2008 , and reached number one in Austria , Canada , Germany , Ireland , Switzerland and the UK , as well as the top five in Australia and the US . Its first two singles , " Just Dance " and " Poker Face " , reached number one in the United States , Australia , Canada and the UK . The latter was also the world ' s best - selling single of 2009 , with 9.8   million copies sold that year , and spent a record 83 weeks on Billboard magazine ' s Digital Songs chart . Three other singles , " Eh , Eh ( Nothing Else I Can Say ) " , " LoveGame " and " Paparazzi " , were released from the album ; the lattermost reached number one in Germany . Remixed versions of the singles from The Fame , except " Eh , Eh ( Nothing Else I Can Say ) " , were included on Hitmixes in August 2009 . At the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards , The Fame and " Poker Face " won Best Dance / Electronica Album and Best Dance Recording , respectively .	Which single from The Fame was your best-selling single of 2009?	The single "Poker Face" was my best-selling single of 2009.
By 2008 , Gaga had relocated to Los Angeles to work extensively with her record label to complete her debut album , The Fame , and to set up her own creative team called the Haus of Gaga , modeled on Andy Warhol ' s The Factory . The Fame was released on August 19 , 2008 , and reached number one in Austria , Canada , Germany , Ireland , Switzerland and the UK , as well as the top five in Australia and the US . Its first two singles , " Just Dance " and " Poker Face " , reached number one in the United States , Australia , Canada and the UK . The latter was also the world ' s best - selling single of 2009 , with 9.8   million copies sold that year , and spent a record 83 weeks on Billboard magazine ' s Digital Songs chart . Three other singles , " Eh , Eh ( Nothing Else I Can Say ) " , " LoveGame " and " Paparazzi " , were released from the album ; the lattermost reached number one in Germany . Remixed versions of the singles from The Fame , except " Eh , Eh ( Nothing Else I Can Say ) " , were included on Hitmixes in August 2009 . At the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards , The Fame and " Poker Face " won Best Dance / Electronica Album and Best Dance Recording , respectively .	How many copies of "Poker Face" did you sell in 2009?	"Poker Face" sold 9.8 million copies in 2009.
Gaga began work on her third studio album , Artpop , in early 2012 , during the Born This Way Ball tour ; she crafted the album to mirror " a night at the club " . In August 2013 , Gaga released the album ' s lead single " Applause " , which reached number one in Hungary , number four in the US , and number five in the UK . A lyric video for Artpop track " Aura " followed in October to accompany Robert Rodriguez ' s Machete Kills , where she plays an assassin named La Chameleon . The film received generally mixed reviews and earned less than half of its $ 33   million budget . The second Artpop single , " Do What U Want " , featured singer R . Kelly and was released later that month , topping the charts in Hungary and reaching number 13 in the US . Artpop was released on November 6 , 2013 , to mixed reviews . Helen Brown in The Daily Telegraph criticized Gaga for making another album about her fame and doubted the record ' s originality , but found it " great for dancing " . The album debuted atop the Billboard 200 chart , and sold more than 2.5   million copies worldwide as of July 2014 . " G . U . Y . " was released as the third single in March 2014 and peaked at number 76 in the US .	When did you begin work on your third studio album?	I began work on my third studio album in early 2012.
Gaga began work on her third studio album , Artpop , in early 2012 , during the Born This Way Ball tour ; she crafted the album to mirror " a night at the club " . In August 2013 , Gaga released the album ' s lead single " Applause " , which reached number one in Hungary , number four in the US , and number five in the UK . A lyric video for Artpop track " Aura " followed in October to accompany Robert Rodriguez ' s Machete Kills , where she plays an assassin named La Chameleon . The film received generally mixed reviews and earned less than half of its $ 33   million budget . The second Artpop single , " Do What U Want " , featured singer R . Kelly and was released later that month , topping the charts in Hungary and reaching number 13 in the US . Artpop was released on November 6 , 2013 , to mixed reviews . Helen Brown in The Daily Telegraph criticized Gaga for making another album about her fame and doubted the record ' s originality , but found it " great for dancing " . The album debuted atop the Billboard 200 chart , and sold more than 2.5   million copies worldwide as of July 2014 . " G . U . Y . " was released as the third single in March 2014 and peaked at number 76 in the US .	What was the lead single of your album "Artpop"?	The lead single of my album "Artpop" was "Applause".
Gaga began work on her third studio album , Artpop , in early 2012 , during the Born This Way Ball tour ; she crafted the album to mirror " a night at the club " . In August 2013 , Gaga released the album ' s lead single " Applause " , which reached number one in Hungary , number four in the US , and number five in the UK . A lyric video for Artpop track " Aura " followed in October to accompany Robert Rodriguez ' s Machete Kills , where she plays an assassin named La Chameleon . The film received generally mixed reviews and earned less than half of its $ 33   million budget . The second Artpop single , " Do What U Want " , featured singer R . Kelly and was released later that month , topping the charts in Hungary and reaching number 13 in the US . Artpop was released on November 6 , 2013 , to mixed reviews . Helen Brown in The Daily Telegraph criticized Gaga for making another album about her fame and doubted the record ' s originality , but found it " great for dancing " . The album debuted atop the Billboard 200 chart , and sold more than 2.5   million copies worldwide as of July 2014 . " G . U . Y . " was released as the third single in March 2014 and peaked at number 76 in the US .	What was the highest chart position "Applause" reached?	"Applause" reached number four in the US.
Gaga began work on her third studio album , Artpop , in early 2012 , during the Born This Way Ball tour ; she crafted the album to mirror " a night at the club " . In August 2013 , Gaga released the album ' s lead single " Applause " , which reached number one in Hungary , number four in the US , and number five in the UK . A lyric video for Artpop track " Aura " followed in October to accompany Robert Rodriguez ' s Machete Kills , where she plays an assassin named La Chameleon . The film received generally mixed reviews and earned less than half of its $ 33   million budget . The second Artpop single , " Do What U Want " , featured singer R . Kelly and was released later that month , topping the charts in Hungary and reaching number 13 in the US . Artpop was released on November 6 , 2013 , to mixed reviews . Helen Brown in The Daily Telegraph criticized Gaga for making another album about her fame and doubted the record ' s originality , but found it " great for dancing " . The album debuted atop the Billboard 200 chart , and sold more than 2.5   million copies worldwide as of July 2014 . " G . U . Y . " was released as the third single in March 2014 and peaked at number 76 in the US .	What was the name of the film that had a lyric video for your Artpop track "Aura"?	The film that had a lyric video for my Artpop track "Aura" was "Machete Kills".
Gaga began work on her third studio album , Artpop , in early 2012 , during the Born This Way Ball tour ; she crafted the album to mirror " a night at the club " . In August 2013 , Gaga released the album ' s lead single " Applause " , which reached number one in Hungary , number four in the US , and number five in the UK . A lyric video for Artpop track " Aura " followed in October to accompany Robert Rodriguez ' s Machete Kills , where she plays an assassin named La Chameleon . The film received generally mixed reviews and earned less than half of its $ 33   million budget . The second Artpop single , " Do What U Want " , featured singer R . Kelly and was released later that month , topping the charts in Hungary and reaching number 13 in the US . Artpop was released on November 6 , 2013 , to mixed reviews . Helen Brown in The Daily Telegraph criticized Gaga for making another album about her fame and doubted the record ' s originality , but found it " great for dancing " . The album debuted atop the Billboard 200 chart , and sold more than 2.5   million copies worldwide as of July 2014 . " G . U . Y . " was released as the third single in March 2014 and peaked at number 76 in the US .	How much money did the film "Machete Kills" earn compared to its budget?	The film "Machete Kills" earned less than half of its $33 million budget.
Gaga played a witch named Scathach in American Horror Story : Roanoke , the series ' sixth season , which ran from September to November 2016 . Her role in the fifth season of the show ultimately influenced her future music , prompting her to feature " the art of darkness " . In September 2016 , she released her fifth album ' s lead single , " Perfect Illusion " , which topped the charts in France and reached number 15 in the US . The album , titled Joanne , was named after Gaga ' s late aunt , who was an inspiration for the music . It was released on October 21 , 2016 , and became Gaga ' s fourth number one album on the Billboard 200 , making her the first woman to reach the US chart ' s summit four times in the 2010s . The album ' s second single , " Million Reasons " , followed the next month and reached number four in the US . She later released a piano version of the album ' s title track in 2018 , which won a Grammy for Best Pop Solo Performance . To promote the album , Gaga embarked on the three - date Dive Bar Tour .	What role did you play in American Horror Story: Roanoke?	I played a witch named Scathach.
Gaga played a witch named Scathach in American Horror Story : Roanoke , the series ' sixth season , which ran from September to November 2016 . Her role in the fifth season of the show ultimately influenced her future music , prompting her to feature " the art of darkness " . In September 2016 , she released her fifth album ' s lead single , " Perfect Illusion " , which topped the charts in France and reached number 15 in the US . The album , titled Joanne , was named after Gaga ' s late aunt , who was an inspiration for the music . It was released on October 21 , 2016 , and became Gaga ' s fourth number one album on the Billboard 200 , making her the first woman to reach the US chart ' s summit four times in the 2010s . The album ' s second single , " Million Reasons " , followed the next month and reached number four in the US . She later released a piano version of the album ' s title track in 2018 , which won a Grammy for Best Pop Solo Performance . To promote the album , Gaga embarked on the three - date Dive Bar Tour .	When did the fifth season of American Horror Story air?	The fifth season of American Horror Story aired in 2016.
Gaga played a witch named Scathach in American Horror Story : Roanoke , the series ' sixth season , which ran from September to November 2016 . Her role in the fifth season of the show ultimately influenced her future music , prompting her to feature " the art of darkness " . In September 2016 , she released her fifth album ' s lead single , " Perfect Illusion " , which topped the charts in France and reached number 15 in the US . The album , titled Joanne , was named after Gaga ' s late aunt , who was an inspiration for the music . It was released on October 21 , 2016 , and became Gaga ' s fourth number one album on the Billboard 200 , making her the first woman to reach the US chart ' s summit four times in the 2010s . The album ' s second single , " Million Reasons " , followed the next month and reached number four in the US . She later released a piano version of the album ' s title track in 2018 , which won a Grammy for Best Pop Solo Performance . To promote the album , Gaga embarked on the three - date Dive Bar Tour .	What was the name of your fifth album?	My fifth album was titled Joanne.
Gaga played a witch named Scathach in American Horror Story : Roanoke , the series ' sixth season , which ran from September to November 2016 . Her role in the fifth season of the show ultimately influenced her future music , prompting her to feature " the art of darkness " . In September 2016 , she released her fifth album ' s lead single , " Perfect Illusion " , which topped the charts in France and reached number 15 in the US . The album , titled Joanne , was named after Gaga ' s late aunt , who was an inspiration for the music . It was released on October 21 , 2016 , and became Gaga ' s fourth number one album on the Billboard 200 , making her the first woman to reach the US chart ' s summit four times in the 2010s . The album ' s second single , " Million Reasons " , followed the next month and reached number four in the US . She later released a piano version of the album ' s title track in 2018 , which won a Grammy for Best Pop Solo Performance . To promote the album , Gaga embarked on the three - date Dive Bar Tour .	What was the title of the lead single from your fifth album?	The title of the lead single from my fifth album was "Perfect Illusion".
Gaga played a witch named Scathach in American Horror Story : Roanoke , the series ' sixth season , which ran from September to November 2016 . Her role in the fifth season of the show ultimately influenced her future music , prompting her to feature " the art of darkness " . In September 2016 , she released her fifth album ' s lead single , " Perfect Illusion " , which topped the charts in France and reached number 15 in the US . The album , titled Joanne , was named after Gaga ' s late aunt , who was an inspiration for the music . It was released on October 21 , 2016 , and became Gaga ' s fourth number one album on the Billboard 200 , making her the first woman to reach the US chart ' s summit four times in the 2010s . The album ' s second single , " Million Reasons " , followed the next month and reached number four in the US . She later released a piano version of the album ' s title track in 2018 , which won a Grammy for Best Pop Solo Performance . To promote the album , Gaga embarked on the three - date Dive Bar Tour .	What Grammy did the piano version of your album's title track win?	The piano version of my album's title track won a Grammy for Best Pop Solo Performance.
In March 2018 , Gaga supported the March for Our Lives gun - control rally in Washington , D . C . , and released a cover of Elton John ' s " Your Song " for his tribute album Revamp . Later that year , she starred as struggling singer Ally in Bradley Cooper ' s musical romantic drama A Star Is Born , a remake of the 1937 film of the same name . The film follows Ally ' s relationship with singer Jackson Maine ( played by Cooper ) , which becomes strained after her career begins to overshadow his . It received acclaim from critics , with a consensus that the movie had " appealing leads , deft direction , and an affecting love story " . Cooper approached Gaga after seeing her perform at a cancer research fundraiser . An admirer of Cooper ' s work , Gaga agreed to the project due to its portrayal of addiction and depression . A Star Is Born premiered at the 2018 Venice Film Festival , and was released worldwide that October . Gaga ' s performance was acclaimed by film critics , with Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian labeling the film " outrageously watchable " and stating that " Gaga ' s ability to be part ordinary person , part extraterrestrial celebrity empress functions at the highest level " ; Stephanie Zacharek of Time magazine similarly highlighted her " knockout performance " and found her to be " charismatic " without her usual makeup , wigs and costumes . For the role , Gaga won the National Board of Review and Critics ' Choice awards for Best Actress , in addition to receiving nominations for the Academy Award , Golden Globe Award , Screen Actors Guild Award and BAFTA Award for Best Actress .	What event did you support in March 2018?	I supported the March for Our Lives gun-control rally in Washington, D.C.
In March 2018 , Gaga supported the March for Our Lives gun - control rally in Washington , D . C . , and released a cover of Elton John ' s " Your Song " for his tribute album Revamp . Later that year , she starred as struggling singer Ally in Bradley Cooper ' s musical romantic drama A Star Is Born , a remake of the 1937 film of the same name . The film follows Ally ' s relationship with singer Jackson Maine ( played by Cooper ) , which becomes strained after her career begins to overshadow his . It received acclaim from critics , with a consensus that the movie had " appealing leads , deft direction , and an affecting love story " . Cooper approached Gaga after seeing her perform at a cancer research fundraiser . An admirer of Cooper ' s work , Gaga agreed to the project due to its portrayal of addiction and depression . A Star Is Born premiered at the 2018 Venice Film Festival , and was released worldwide that October . Gaga ' s performance was acclaimed by film critics , with Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian labeling the film " outrageously watchable " and stating that " Gaga ' s ability to be part ordinary person , part extraterrestrial celebrity empress functions at the highest level " ; Stephanie Zacharek of Time magazine similarly highlighted her " knockout performance " and found her to be " charismatic " without her usual makeup , wigs and costumes . For the role , Gaga won the National Board of Review and Critics ' Choice awards for Best Actress , in addition to receiving nominations for the Academy Award , Golden Globe Award , Screen Actors Guild Award and BAFTA Award for Best Actress .	Whose tribute album did you release a cover of "Your Song" for?	I released a cover of Elton John's "Your Song" for his tribute album Revamp.
In March 2018 , Gaga supported the March for Our Lives gun - control rally in Washington , D . C . , and released a cover of Elton John ' s " Your Song " for his tribute album Revamp . Later that year , she starred as struggling singer Ally in Bradley Cooper ' s musical romantic drama A Star Is Born , a remake of the 1937 film of the same name . The film follows Ally ' s relationship with singer Jackson Maine ( played by Cooper ) , which becomes strained after her career begins to overshadow his . It received acclaim from critics , with a consensus that the movie had " appealing leads , deft direction , and an affecting love story " . Cooper approached Gaga after seeing her perform at a cancer research fundraiser . An admirer of Cooper ' s work , Gaga agreed to the project due to its portrayal of addiction and depression . A Star Is Born premiered at the 2018 Venice Film Festival , and was released worldwide that October . Gaga ' s performance was acclaimed by film critics , with Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian labeling the film " outrageously watchable " and stating that " Gaga ' s ability to be part ordinary person , part extraterrestrial celebrity empress functions at the highest level " ; Stephanie Zacharek of Time magazine similarly highlighted her " knockout performance " and found her to be " charismatic " without her usual makeup , wigs and costumes . For the role , Gaga won the National Board of Review and Critics ' Choice awards for Best Actress , in addition to receiving nominations for the Academy Award , Golden Globe Award , Screen Actors Guild Award and BAFTA Award for Best Actress .	What was the name of the movie in which you starred as Ally?	The movie in which I starred as Ally was "A Star Is Born".
In March 2018 , Gaga supported the March for Our Lives gun - control rally in Washington , D . C . , and released a cover of Elton John ' s " Your Song " for his tribute album Revamp . Later that year , she starred as struggling singer Ally in Bradley Cooper ' s musical romantic drama A Star Is Born , a remake of the 1937 film of the same name . The film follows Ally ' s relationship with singer Jackson Maine ( played by Cooper ) , which becomes strained after her career begins to overshadow his . It received acclaim from critics , with a consensus that the movie had " appealing leads , deft direction , and an affecting love story " . Cooper approached Gaga after seeing her perform at a cancer research fundraiser . An admirer of Cooper ' s work , Gaga agreed to the project due to its portrayal of addiction and depression . A Star Is Born premiered at the 2018 Venice Film Festival , and was released worldwide that October . Gaga ' s performance was acclaimed by film critics , with Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian labeling the film " outrageously watchable " and stating that " Gaga ' s ability to be part ordinary person , part extraterrestrial celebrity empress functions at the highest level " ; Stephanie Zacharek of Time magazine similarly highlighted her " knockout performance " and found her to be " charismatic " without her usual makeup , wigs and costumes . For the role , Gaga won the National Board of Review and Critics ' Choice awards for Best Actress , in addition to receiving nominations for the Academy Award , Golden Globe Award , Screen Actors Guild Award and BAFTA Award for Best Actress .	Who approached you for the project of "A Star Is Born"?	Bradley Cooper approached me for the project of "A Star Is Born" after seeing me perform at a cancer research fundraiser.
In March 2018 , Gaga supported the March for Our Lives gun - control rally in Washington , D . C . , and released a cover of Elton John ' s " Your Song " for his tribute album Revamp . Later that year , she starred as struggling singer Ally in Bradley Cooper ' s musical romantic drama A Star Is Born , a remake of the 1937 film of the same name . The film follows Ally ' s relationship with singer Jackson Maine ( played by Cooper ) , which becomes strained after her career begins to overshadow his . It received acclaim from critics , with a consensus that the movie had " appealing leads , deft direction , and an affecting love story " . Cooper approached Gaga after seeing her perform at a cancer research fundraiser . An admirer of Cooper ' s work , Gaga agreed to the project due to its portrayal of addiction and depression . A Star Is Born premiered at the 2018 Venice Film Festival , and was released worldwide that October . Gaga ' s performance was acclaimed by film critics , with Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian labeling the film " outrageously watchable " and stating that " Gaga ' s ability to be part ordinary person , part extraterrestrial celebrity empress functions at the highest level " ; Stephanie Zacharek of Time magazine similarly highlighted her " knockout performance " and found her to be " charismatic " without her usual makeup , wigs and costumes . For the role , Gaga won the National Board of Review and Critics ' Choice awards for Best Actress , in addition to receiving nominations for the Academy Award , Golden Globe Award , Screen Actors Guild Award and BAFTA Award for Best Actress .	Which film festival did "A Star Is Born" premiere at?	"A Star Is Born" premiered at the 2018 Venice Film Festival.
Gaga and Cooper co - wrote and produced most of the songs on the soundtrack for A Star Is Born , which she insisted they perform live in the film . Its lead single , " Shallow " , performed by the two , was released on September 27 , 2018 and topped the charts in various countries including Australia , the UK and the US . The soundtrack contains 34 tracks , including 17 original songs , and received generally positive reviews ; Mark Kennedy of The Washington Post called it a " five - star marvel " and Ben Beaumont - Thomas of The Guardian termed it an " instant classics full of Gaga ' s emotional might " . Commercially , the soundtrack debuted at number one in the US , making Gaga the first woman with five US number - one albums in the 2010s , and breaking her tie with Taylor Swift as the most for any female artist this decade ; Swift tied with her again in 2019 . It additionally topped the charts in Australia , Canada , Ireland , New Zealand , Switzerland and the UK . As of June 2019 , the soundtrack had sold over six million copies worldwide . The album won Gaga four Grammy Awards — Best Compilation Soundtrack for Visual Media and Best Pop Duo / Group Performance and Best Song Written for Visual Media for " Shallow " , as well as the latter category for " I ' ll Never Love Again " — and a BAFTA Award for Best Film Music . " Shallow " also won her the Academy Award , Golden Globe Award , Critics ' Choice Award , and Satellite Award for Best Original Song . Gaga gave live performances of the song at the 61st Annual Grammy Awards and the 91st Academy Awards .	Who co-wrote and produced most of the songs on the soundtrack for A Star Is Born?	You and Cooper.
Gaga and Cooper co - wrote and produced most of the songs on the soundtrack for A Star Is Born , which she insisted they perform live in the film . Its lead single , " Shallow " , performed by the two , was released on September 27 , 2018 and topped the charts in various countries including Australia , the UK and the US . The soundtrack contains 34 tracks , including 17 original songs , and received generally positive reviews ; Mark Kennedy of The Washington Post called it a " five - star marvel " and Ben Beaumont - Thomas of The Guardian termed it an " instant classics full of Gaga ' s emotional might " . Commercially , the soundtrack debuted at number one in the US , making Gaga the first woman with five US number - one albums in the 2010s , and breaking her tie with Taylor Swift as the most for any female artist this decade ; Swift tied with her again in 2019 . It additionally topped the charts in Australia , Canada , Ireland , New Zealand , Switzerland and the UK . As of June 2019 , the soundtrack had sold over six million copies worldwide . The album won Gaga four Grammy Awards — Best Compilation Soundtrack for Visual Media and Best Pop Duo / Group Performance and Best Song Written for Visual Media for " Shallow " , as well as the latter category for " I ' ll Never Love Again " — and a BAFTA Award for Best Film Music . " Shallow " also won her the Academy Award , Golden Globe Award , Critics ' Choice Award , and Satellite Award for Best Original Song . Gaga gave live performances of the song at the 61st Annual Grammy Awards and the 91st Academy Awards .	What was the lead single from your A Star Is Born soundtrack?	"Shallow".
Gaga and Cooper co - wrote and produced most of the songs on the soundtrack for A Star Is Born , which she insisted they perform live in the film . Its lead single , " Shallow " , performed by the two , was released on September 27 , 2018 and topped the charts in various countries including Australia , the UK and the US . The soundtrack contains 34 tracks , including 17 original songs , and received generally positive reviews ; Mark Kennedy of The Washington Post called it a " five - star marvel " and Ben Beaumont - Thomas of The Guardian termed it an " instant classics full of Gaga ' s emotional might " . Commercially , the soundtrack debuted at number one in the US , making Gaga the first woman with five US number - one albums in the 2010s , and breaking her tie with Taylor Swift as the most for any female artist this decade ; Swift tied with her again in 2019 . It additionally topped the charts in Australia , Canada , Ireland , New Zealand , Switzerland and the UK . As of June 2019 , the soundtrack had sold over six million copies worldwide . The album won Gaga four Grammy Awards — Best Compilation Soundtrack for Visual Media and Best Pop Duo / Group Performance and Best Song Written for Visual Media for " Shallow " , as well as the latter category for " I ' ll Never Love Again " — and a BAFTA Award for Best Film Music . " Shallow " also won her the Academy Award , Golden Globe Award , Critics ' Choice Award , and Satellite Award for Best Original Song . Gaga gave live performances of the song at the 61st Annual Grammy Awards and the 91st Academy Awards .	When was "Shallow" released?	September 27, 2018.
Gaga and Cooper co - wrote and produced most of the songs on the soundtrack for A Star Is Born , which she insisted they perform live in the film . Its lead single , " Shallow " , performed by the two , was released on September 27 , 2018 and topped the charts in various countries including Australia , the UK and the US . The soundtrack contains 34 tracks , including 17 original songs , and received generally positive reviews ; Mark Kennedy of The Washington Post called it a " five - star marvel " and Ben Beaumont - Thomas of The Guardian termed it an " instant classics full of Gaga ' s emotional might " . Commercially , the soundtrack debuted at number one in the US , making Gaga the first woman with five US number - one albums in the 2010s , and breaking her tie with Taylor Swift as the most for any female artist this decade ; Swift tied with her again in 2019 . It additionally topped the charts in Australia , Canada , Ireland , New Zealand , Switzerland and the UK . As of June 2019 , the soundtrack had sold over six million copies worldwide . The album won Gaga four Grammy Awards — Best Compilation Soundtrack for Visual Media and Best Pop Duo / Group Performance and Best Song Written for Visual Media for " Shallow " , as well as the latter category for " I ' ll Never Love Again " — and a BAFTA Award for Best Film Music . " Shallow " also won her the Academy Award , Golden Globe Award , Critics ' Choice Award , and Satellite Award for Best Original Song . Gaga gave live performances of the song at the 61st Annual Grammy Awards and the 91st Academy Awards .	How many tracks are there on the A Star Is Born soundtrack?	34 tracks.
Gaga and Cooper co - wrote and produced most of the songs on the soundtrack for A Star Is Born , which she insisted they perform live in the film . Its lead single , " Shallow " , performed by the two , was released on September 27 , 2018 and topped the charts in various countries including Australia , the UK and the US . The soundtrack contains 34 tracks , including 17 original songs , and received generally positive reviews ; Mark Kennedy of The Washington Post called it a " five - star marvel " and Ben Beaumont - Thomas of The Guardian termed it an " instant classics full of Gaga ' s emotional might " . Commercially , the soundtrack debuted at number one in the US , making Gaga the first woman with five US number - one albums in the 2010s , and breaking her tie with Taylor Swift as the most for any female artist this decade ; Swift tied with her again in 2019 . It additionally topped the charts in Australia , Canada , Ireland , New Zealand , Switzerland and the UK . As of June 2019 , the soundtrack had sold over six million copies worldwide . The album won Gaga four Grammy Awards — Best Compilation Soundtrack for Visual Media and Best Pop Duo / Group Performance and Best Song Written for Visual Media for " Shallow " , as well as the latter category for " I ' ll Never Love Again " — and a BAFTA Award for Best Film Music . " Shallow " also won her the Academy Award , Golden Globe Award , Critics ' Choice Award , and Satellite Award for Best Original Song . Gaga gave live performances of the song at the 61st Annual Grammy Awards and the 91st Academy Awards .	How many copies of the A Star Is Born soundtrack had I sold as of June 2019?	Over six million copies worldwide.
In February 2020 , Gaga began a relationship with entrepreneur Michael Polansky . Her sixth studio album , Chromatica , was released on May 29 , 2020 , to positive reviews . It debuted atop the US charts , becoming her sixth consecutive number - one album in the country , and reached the top spot in more than a dozen other territories including Australia , Canada , France , Italy and the UK . Chromatica was preceded by two singles , " Stupid Love " , on February 28 , 2020 , and " Rain on Me " , with Ariana Grande , on May 22 . The latter won the Best Pop Duo / Group Performance at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards , and debuted at number one in the US , making Gaga the third person to top the country ' s chart in the 2000s , 2010s and 2020s . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , Gaga won five awards , including the inaugural Tricon Award recognizing artists accomplished in different areas of the entertainment industry . In September 2020 , she appeared in the video campaign for Valentino ' s Voce Viva fragrance , singing a stripped - down version of Chromatica track " Sine from Above " , along with a group of models .	When did you begin a relationship with Michael Polansky?	I began a relationship with entrepreneur Michael Polansky in February 2020.
In February 2020 , Gaga began a relationship with entrepreneur Michael Polansky . Her sixth studio album , Chromatica , was released on May 29 , 2020 , to positive reviews . It debuted atop the US charts , becoming her sixth consecutive number - one album in the country , and reached the top spot in more than a dozen other territories including Australia , Canada , France , Italy and the UK . Chromatica was preceded by two singles , " Stupid Love " , on February 28 , 2020 , and " Rain on Me " , with Ariana Grande , on May 22 . The latter won the Best Pop Duo / Group Performance at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards , and debuted at number one in the US , making Gaga the third person to top the country ' s chart in the 2000s , 2010s and 2020s . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , Gaga won five awards , including the inaugural Tricon Award recognizing artists accomplished in different areas of the entertainment industry . In September 2020 , she appeared in the video campaign for Valentino ' s Voce Viva fragrance , singing a stripped - down version of Chromatica track " Sine from Above " , along with a group of models .	When was your sixth studio album, Chromatica, released?	My sixth studio album, Chromatica, was released on May 29, 2020.
In February 2020 , Gaga began a relationship with entrepreneur Michael Polansky . Her sixth studio album , Chromatica , was released on May 29 , 2020 , to positive reviews . It debuted atop the US charts , becoming her sixth consecutive number - one album in the country , and reached the top spot in more than a dozen other territories including Australia , Canada , France , Italy and the UK . Chromatica was preceded by two singles , " Stupid Love " , on February 28 , 2020 , and " Rain on Me " , with Ariana Grande , on May 22 . The latter won the Best Pop Duo / Group Performance at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards , and debuted at number one in the US , making Gaga the third person to top the country ' s chart in the 2000s , 2010s and 2020s . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , Gaga won five awards , including the inaugural Tricon Award recognizing artists accomplished in different areas of the entertainment industry . In September 2020 , she appeared in the video campaign for Valentino ' s Voce Viva fragrance , singing a stripped - down version of Chromatica track " Sine from Above " , along with a group of models .	How did my album Chromatica perform on the charts in the US?	Chromatica debuted atop the US charts, becoming my sixth consecutive number-one album in the country.
In February 2020 , Gaga began a relationship with entrepreneur Michael Polansky . Her sixth studio album , Chromatica , was released on May 29 , 2020 , to positive reviews . It debuted atop the US charts , becoming her sixth consecutive number - one album in the country , and reached the top spot in more than a dozen other territories including Australia , Canada , France , Italy and the UK . Chromatica was preceded by two singles , " Stupid Love " , on February 28 , 2020 , and " Rain on Me " , with Ariana Grande , on May 22 . The latter won the Best Pop Duo / Group Performance at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards , and debuted at number one in the US , making Gaga the third person to top the country ' s chart in the 2000s , 2010s and 2020s . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , Gaga won five awards , including the inaugural Tricon Award recognizing artists accomplished in different areas of the entertainment industry . In September 2020 , she appeared in the video campaign for Valentino ' s Voce Viva fragrance , singing a stripped - down version of Chromatica track " Sine from Above " , along with a group of models .	Which of my songs won the Best Pop Duo/Group Performance at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards?	"Rain on Me", a song by me and Ariana Grande, won the Best Pop Duo/Group Performance at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards.
In February 2020 , Gaga began a relationship with entrepreneur Michael Polansky . Her sixth studio album , Chromatica , was released on May 29 , 2020 , to positive reviews . It debuted atop the US charts , becoming her sixth consecutive number - one album in the country , and reached the top spot in more than a dozen other territories including Australia , Canada , France , Italy and the UK . Chromatica was preceded by two singles , " Stupid Love " , on February 28 , 2020 , and " Rain on Me " , with Ariana Grande , on May 22 . The latter won the Best Pop Duo / Group Performance at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards , and debuted at number one in the US , making Gaga the third person to top the country ' s chart in the 2000s , 2010s and 2020s . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , Gaga won five awards , including the inaugural Tricon Award recognizing artists accomplished in different areas of the entertainment industry . In September 2020 , she appeared in the video campaign for Valentino ' s Voce Viva fragrance , singing a stripped - down version of Chromatica track " Sine from Above " , along with a group of models .	How many awards did you win at the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards?	I won five awards at the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards.
After an appearance in the television special Friends : The Reunion , in which Gaga sang " Smelly Cat " with Lisa Kudrow , she portrayed Patrizia Reggiani , who was convicted of hiring a hitman to murder her ex - husband and former head of the Gucci fashion house Maurizio Gucci ( played by Adam Driver ) , in Ridley Scott ' s biographical crime film titled House of Gucci . For the part , Gaga learned to speak with an Italian accent . She also stayed in character for 18 months , speaking with an accent for nine months during that period . Her method acting approach took a toll on her mental wellbeing , and towards the end of filming she had to be accompanied on - set by a psychiatric nurse . The film was released on November 24 , 2021 , to mixed reviews , though critics praised Gaga ' s performance as " note - perfect " . She earned the New York Film Critics Circle Award , and nominations for the BAFTA Award , Critics ' Choice Award , Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actress . Gaga co - wrote the song " Hold My Hand " for the 2022 film Top Gun : Maverick , and also composed the score alongside Hans Zimmer and Harold Faltermeyer . She performed " Hold My Hand " live at the 95th Academy Awards , where it was nominated for Best Original Song . The track also earned Gaga her third win for Best Original Song at the Satellite Awards . In July 2022 , she embarked on The Chromatica Ball stadium tour , which had twenty dates and grossed $ 112.4 million from 834 , 000 tickets sold . By the end of the year , she became the highest grossing female artist touring in 2022 . In April 2023 , Gaga was appointed as co - chair of the President ' s Committee on the Arts and Humanities by President Joe Biden . Gaga is set to star with Joaquin Phoenix in Joker : Folie à Deux , which will be released in 2024 .	Who did you sing "Smelly Cat" with in the television special Friends: The Reunion?	I sang "Smelly Cat" with Lisa Kudrow.
After an appearance in the television special Friends : The Reunion , in which Gaga sang " Smelly Cat " with Lisa Kudrow , she portrayed Patrizia Reggiani , who was convicted of hiring a hitman to murder her ex - husband and former head of the Gucci fashion house Maurizio Gucci ( played by Adam Driver ) , in Ridley Scott ' s biographical crime film titled House of Gucci . For the part , Gaga learned to speak with an Italian accent . She also stayed in character for 18 months , speaking with an accent for nine months during that period . Her method acting approach took a toll on her mental wellbeing , and towards the end of filming she had to be accompanied on - set by a psychiatric nurse . The film was released on November 24 , 2021 , to mixed reviews , though critics praised Gaga ' s performance as " note - perfect " . She earned the New York Film Critics Circle Award , and nominations for the BAFTA Award , Critics ' Choice Award , Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actress . Gaga co - wrote the song " Hold My Hand " for the 2022 film Top Gun : Maverick , and also composed the score alongside Hans Zimmer and Harold Faltermeyer . She performed " Hold My Hand " live at the 95th Academy Awards , where it was nominated for Best Original Song . The track also earned Gaga her third win for Best Original Song at the Satellite Awards . In July 2022 , she embarked on The Chromatica Ball stadium tour , which had twenty dates and grossed $ 112.4 million from 834 , 000 tickets sold . By the end of the year , she became the highest grossing female artist touring in 2022 . In April 2023 , Gaga was appointed as co - chair of the President ' s Committee on the Arts and Humanities by President Joe Biden . Gaga is set to star with Joaquin Phoenix in Joker : Folie à Deux , which will be released in 2024 .	Who did you portray in the biographical crime film House of Gucci?	I portrayed Patrizia Reggiani.
After an appearance in the television special Friends : The Reunion , in which Gaga sang " Smelly Cat " with Lisa Kudrow , she portrayed Patrizia Reggiani , who was convicted of hiring a hitman to murder her ex - husband and former head of the Gucci fashion house Maurizio Gucci ( played by Adam Driver ) , in Ridley Scott ' s biographical crime film titled House of Gucci . For the part , Gaga learned to speak with an Italian accent . She also stayed in character for 18 months , speaking with an accent for nine months during that period . Her method acting approach took a toll on her mental wellbeing , and towards the end of filming she had to be accompanied on - set by a psychiatric nurse . The film was released on November 24 , 2021 , to mixed reviews , though critics praised Gaga ' s performance as " note - perfect " . She earned the New York Film Critics Circle Award , and nominations for the BAFTA Award , Critics ' Choice Award , Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actress . Gaga co - wrote the song " Hold My Hand " for the 2022 film Top Gun : Maverick , and also composed the score alongside Hans Zimmer and Harold Faltermeyer . She performed " Hold My Hand " live at the 95th Academy Awards , where it was nominated for Best Original Song . The track also earned Gaga her third win for Best Original Song at the Satellite Awards . In July 2022 , she embarked on The Chromatica Ball stadium tour , which had twenty dates and grossed $ 112.4 million from 834 , 000 tickets sold . By the end of the year , she became the highest grossing female artist touring in 2022 . In April 2023 , Gaga was appointed as co - chair of the President ' s Committee on the Arts and Humanities by President Joe Biden . Gaga is set to star with Joaquin Phoenix in Joker : Folie à Deux , which will be released in 2024 .	Who played Maurizio Gucci in the film House of Gucci?	Adam Driver played Maurizio Gucci.
After an appearance in the television special Friends : The Reunion , in which Gaga sang " Smelly Cat " with Lisa Kudrow , she portrayed Patrizia Reggiani , who was convicted of hiring a hitman to murder her ex - husband and former head of the Gucci fashion house Maurizio Gucci ( played by Adam Driver ) , in Ridley Scott ' s biographical crime film titled House of Gucci . For the part , Gaga learned to speak with an Italian accent . She also stayed in character for 18 months , speaking with an accent for nine months during that period . Her method acting approach took a toll on her mental wellbeing , and towards the end of filming she had to be accompanied on - set by a psychiatric nurse . The film was released on November 24 , 2021 , to mixed reviews , though critics praised Gaga ' s performance as " note - perfect " . She earned the New York Film Critics Circle Award , and nominations for the BAFTA Award , Critics ' Choice Award , Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actress . Gaga co - wrote the song " Hold My Hand " for the 2022 film Top Gun : Maverick , and also composed the score alongside Hans Zimmer and Harold Faltermeyer . She performed " Hold My Hand " live at the 95th Academy Awards , where it was nominated for Best Original Song . The track also earned Gaga her third win for Best Original Song at the Satellite Awards . In July 2022 , she embarked on The Chromatica Ball stadium tour , which had twenty dates and grossed $ 112.4 million from 834 , 000 tickets sold . By the end of the year , she became the highest grossing female artist touring in 2022 . In April 2023 , Gaga was appointed as co - chair of the President ' s Committee on the Arts and Humanities by President Joe Biden . Gaga is set to star with Joaquin Phoenix in Joker : Folie à Deux , which will be released in 2024 .	What award did you earn from the New York Film Critics Circle?	I earned the New York Film Critics Circle Award.
After an appearance in the television special Friends : The Reunion , in which Gaga sang " Smelly Cat " with Lisa Kudrow , she portrayed Patrizia Reggiani , who was convicted of hiring a hitman to murder her ex - husband and former head of the Gucci fashion house Maurizio Gucci ( played by Adam Driver ) , in Ridley Scott ' s biographical crime film titled House of Gucci . For the part , Gaga learned to speak with an Italian accent . She also stayed in character for 18 months , speaking with an accent for nine months during that period . Her method acting approach took a toll on her mental wellbeing , and towards the end of filming she had to be accompanied on - set by a psychiatric nurse . The film was released on November 24 , 2021 , to mixed reviews , though critics praised Gaga ' s performance as " note - perfect " . She earned the New York Film Critics Circle Award , and nominations for the BAFTA Award , Critics ' Choice Award , Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actress . Gaga co - wrote the song " Hold My Hand " for the 2022 film Top Gun : Maverick , and also composed the score alongside Hans Zimmer and Harold Faltermeyer . She performed " Hold My Hand " live at the 95th Academy Awards , where it was nominated for Best Original Song . The track also earned Gaga her third win for Best Original Song at the Satellite Awards . In July 2022 , she embarked on The Chromatica Ball stadium tour , which had twenty dates and grossed $ 112.4 million from 834 , 000 tickets sold . By the end of the year , she became the highest grossing female artist touring in 2022 . In April 2023 , Gaga was appointed as co - chair of the President ' s Committee on the Arts and Humanities by President Joe Biden . Gaga is set to star with Joaquin Phoenix in Joker : Folie à Deux , which will be released in 2024 .	Who did you co-write the song "Hold My Hand" for?	I co-wrote the song "Hold My Hand" for the film Top Gun: Maverick.
The themes in Artpop revolve around Gaga ' s personal views of fame , love , sex , feminism , self - empowerment , overcoming addiction , and reactions to media scrutiny . Billboard describes Artpop as " coherently channeling R & B , techno , disco and rock music " . With Cheek to Cheek , Gaga dabbled in the jazz genre . Joanne , exploring the genres of country , funk , pop , dance , rock , electronic music and folk , was influenced by her personal life . The A Star Is Born soundtrack contains elements of blues rock , country and bubblegum pop . Billboard says its lyrics are about wanting change , its struggle , love , romance , and bonding , describing the music as " timeless , emotional , gritty and earnest . They sound like songs written by artists who , quite frankly , are supremely messed up but hit to the core of the listener . " On Chromatica , Gaga returned to her dance - pop roots , and discussed her struggles with mental health . Her second album with Tony Bennett , Love for Sale , consists of a tribute to Cole Porter .	What are some of the themes explored in your album Artpop?	The themes in Artpop revolve around my personal views of fame, love, sex, feminism, self-empowerment, overcoming addiction, and reactions to media scrutiny.
The themes in Artpop revolve around Gaga ' s personal views of fame , love , sex , feminism , self - empowerment , overcoming addiction , and reactions to media scrutiny . Billboard describes Artpop as " coherently channeling R & B , techno , disco and rock music " . With Cheek to Cheek , Gaga dabbled in the jazz genre . Joanne , exploring the genres of country , funk , pop , dance , rock , electronic music and folk , was influenced by her personal life . The A Star Is Born soundtrack contains elements of blues rock , country and bubblegum pop . Billboard says its lyrics are about wanting change , its struggle , love , romance , and bonding , describing the music as " timeless , emotional , gritty and earnest . They sound like songs written by artists who , quite frankly , are supremely messed up but hit to the core of the listener . " On Chromatica , Gaga returned to her dance - pop roots , and discussed her struggles with mental health . Her second album with Tony Bennett , Love for Sale , consists of a tribute to Cole Porter .	How do you describe the musical style of Artpop?	I describe Artpop as "coherently channeling R&B, techno, disco, and rock music".
The themes in Artpop revolve around Gaga ' s personal views of fame , love , sex , feminism , self - empowerment , overcoming addiction , and reactions to media scrutiny . Billboard describes Artpop as " coherently channeling R & B , techno , disco and rock music " . With Cheek to Cheek , Gaga dabbled in the jazz genre . Joanne , exploring the genres of country , funk , pop , dance , rock , electronic music and folk , was influenced by her personal life . The A Star Is Born soundtrack contains elements of blues rock , country and bubblegum pop . Billboard says its lyrics are about wanting change , its struggle , love , romance , and bonding , describing the music as " timeless , emotional , gritty and earnest . They sound like songs written by artists who , quite frankly , are supremely messed up but hit to the core of the listener . " On Chromatica , Gaga returned to her dance - pop roots , and discussed her struggles with mental health . Her second album with Tony Bennett , Love for Sale , consists of a tribute to Cole Porter .	Which genre did you experiment with in your album Cheek to Cheek?	I dabbled in the jazz genre in my album Cheek to Cheek.
The themes in Artpop revolve around Gaga ' s personal views of fame , love , sex , feminism , self - empowerment , overcoming addiction , and reactions to media scrutiny . Billboard describes Artpop as " coherently channeling R & B , techno , disco and rock music " . With Cheek to Cheek , Gaga dabbled in the jazz genre . Joanne , exploring the genres of country , funk , pop , dance , rock , electronic music and folk , was influenced by her personal life . The A Star Is Born soundtrack contains elements of blues rock , country and bubblegum pop . Billboard says its lyrics are about wanting change , its struggle , love , romance , and bonding , describing the music as " timeless , emotional , gritty and earnest . They sound like songs written by artists who , quite frankly , are supremely messed up but hit to the core of the listener . " On Chromatica , Gaga returned to her dance - pop roots , and discussed her struggles with mental health . Her second album with Tony Bennett , Love for Sale , consists of a tribute to Cole Porter .	What genres did you explore in your album Joanne?	In my album Joanne, I explored the genres of country, funk, pop, dance, rock, electronic music, and folk, taking influence from my personal life.
The themes in Artpop revolve around Gaga ' s personal views of fame , love , sex , feminism , self - empowerment , overcoming addiction , and reactions to media scrutiny . Billboard describes Artpop as " coherently channeling R & B , techno , disco and rock music " . With Cheek to Cheek , Gaga dabbled in the jazz genre . Joanne , exploring the genres of country , funk , pop , dance , rock , electronic music and folk , was influenced by her personal life . The A Star Is Born soundtrack contains elements of blues rock , country and bubblegum pop . Billboard says its lyrics are about wanting change , its struggle , love , romance , and bonding , describing the music as " timeless , emotional , gritty and earnest . They sound like songs written by artists who , quite frankly , are supremely messed up but hit to the core of the listener . " On Chromatica , Gaga returned to her dance - pop roots , and discussed her struggles with mental health . Her second album with Tony Bennett , Love for Sale , consists of a tribute to Cole Porter .	What musical elements can be found in the A Star Is Born soundtrack?	The A Star Is Born soundtrack contains elements of blues rock, country, and bubblegum pop.
According to Kelefa Sanneh of The New Yorker , " Lady Gaga blazed a trail for truculent pop stars by treating her own celebrity as an evolving art project . " Including Born This Way as one of the 50 best female albums of all time , Rolling Stone ' s Rob Sheffield considers it " hard to remember a world where we didn ' t have Gaga , although we ' re pretty sure it was a lot more boring " . In 2015 , Time also noted that Gaga had " practically invented the current era of pop music as spectacle " . A 2017 journal published by Psychology of Aesthetics , Creativity , and the Arts studying structural patterns in melodies of earworm songs compiled lists of catchiest tracks from 3 , 000 participants , in which Gaga ' s " Bad Romance " , " Alejandro " , and " Poker Face " ranked number one , eight , and nine , respectively . In 2018 , NPR named her the second most influential female artist of the 21st century , noting her as " one of the first big artists of the ' Internet age ' " . Gaga and her work have influenced various artists including Miley Cyrus , Nicki Minaj , Ellie Goulding , Halsey , Jennifer Lopez , Beyonc é , Nick Jonas , Sam Smith , Noah Cyrus , Katherine Langford , MGMT , Allie X , Greyson Chance , Cardi B , Rina Sawayama , Blackpink , Madison Beer , Ren , Slayyyter , Bebe Rexha , Bree Runway , Celeste , Kim Petras , Jojo Siwa , Pabllo Vittar , Ava Max , Doja Cat , Chaeyoung of Twice , Kanye West , Rachel Zegler , SZA , Raye , and Grace Gaustad .	According to Kelefa Sanneh, what do you treat your own celebrity as?	I treat my own celebrity as an evolving art project.
According to Kelefa Sanneh of The New Yorker , " Lady Gaga blazed a trail for truculent pop stars by treating her own celebrity as an evolving art project . " Including Born This Way as one of the 50 best female albums of all time , Rolling Stone ' s Rob Sheffield considers it " hard to remember a world where we didn ' t have Gaga , although we ' re pretty sure it was a lot more boring " . In 2015 , Time also noted that Gaga had " practically invented the current era of pop music as spectacle " . A 2017 journal published by Psychology of Aesthetics , Creativity , and the Arts studying structural patterns in melodies of earworm songs compiled lists of catchiest tracks from 3 , 000 participants , in which Gaga ' s " Bad Romance " , " Alejandro " , and " Poker Face " ranked number one , eight , and nine , respectively . In 2018 , NPR named her the second most influential female artist of the 21st century , noting her as " one of the first big artists of the ' Internet age ' " . Gaga and her work have influenced various artists including Miley Cyrus , Nicki Minaj , Ellie Goulding , Halsey , Jennifer Lopez , Beyonc é , Nick Jonas , Sam Smith , Noah Cyrus , Katherine Langford , MGMT , Allie X , Greyson Chance , Cardi B , Rina Sawayama , Blackpink , Madison Beer , Ren , Slayyyter , Bebe Rexha , Bree Runway , Celeste , Kim Petras , Jojo Siwa , Pabllo Vittar , Ava Max , Doja Cat , Chaeyoung of Twice , Kanye West , Rachel Zegler , SZA , Raye , and Grace Gaustad .	Which album do you consider one of the 50 best female albums of all time?	I consider "Born This Way" as one of the 50 best female albums of all time.
According to Kelefa Sanneh of The New Yorker , " Lady Gaga blazed a trail for truculent pop stars by treating her own celebrity as an evolving art project . " Including Born This Way as one of the 50 best female albums of all time , Rolling Stone ' s Rob Sheffield considers it " hard to remember a world where we didn ' t have Gaga , although we ' re pretty sure it was a lot more boring " . In 2015 , Time also noted that Gaga had " practically invented the current era of pop music as spectacle " . A 2017 journal published by Psychology of Aesthetics , Creativity , and the Arts studying structural patterns in melodies of earworm songs compiled lists of catchiest tracks from 3 , 000 participants , in which Gaga ' s " Bad Romance " , " Alejandro " , and " Poker Face " ranked number one , eight , and nine , respectively . In 2018 , NPR named her the second most influential female artist of the 21st century , noting her as " one of the first big artists of the ' Internet age ' " . Gaga and her work have influenced various artists including Miley Cyrus , Nicki Minaj , Ellie Goulding , Halsey , Jennifer Lopez , Beyonc é , Nick Jonas , Sam Smith , Noah Cyrus , Katherine Langford , MGMT , Allie X , Greyson Chance , Cardi B , Rina Sawayama , Blackpink , Madison Beer , Ren , Slayyyter , Bebe Rexha , Bree Runway , Celeste , Kim Petras , Jojo Siwa , Pabllo Vittar , Ava Max , Doja Cat , Chaeyoung of Twice , Kanye West , Rachel Zegler , SZA , Raye , and Grace Gaustad .	According to Time, what did you practically invent in the current era of pop music?	According to Time, I practically invented the current era of pop music as a spectacle.
According to Kelefa Sanneh of The New Yorker , " Lady Gaga blazed a trail for truculent pop stars by treating her own celebrity as an evolving art project . " Including Born This Way as one of the 50 best female albums of all time , Rolling Stone ' s Rob Sheffield considers it " hard to remember a world where we didn ' t have Gaga , although we ' re pretty sure it was a lot more boring " . In 2015 , Time also noted that Gaga had " practically invented the current era of pop music as spectacle " . A 2017 journal published by Psychology of Aesthetics , Creativity , and the Arts studying structural patterns in melodies of earworm songs compiled lists of catchiest tracks from 3 , 000 participants , in which Gaga ' s " Bad Romance " , " Alejandro " , and " Poker Face " ranked number one , eight , and nine , respectively . In 2018 , NPR named her the second most influential female artist of the 21st century , noting her as " one of the first big artists of the ' Internet age ' " . Gaga and her work have influenced various artists including Miley Cyrus , Nicki Minaj , Ellie Goulding , Halsey , Jennifer Lopez , Beyonc é , Nick Jonas , Sam Smith , Noah Cyrus , Katherine Langford , MGMT , Allie X , Greyson Chance , Cardi B , Rina Sawayama , Blackpink , Madison Beer , Ren , Slayyyter , Bebe Rexha , Bree Runway , Celeste , Kim Petras , Jojo Siwa , Pabllo Vittar , Ava Max , Doja Cat , Chaeyoung of Twice , Kanye West , Rachel Zegler , SZA , Raye , and Grace Gaustad .	In the journal published by Psychology of Aesthetics, Creativity, and the Arts, which of your songs ranked number one, eight, and nine in terms of catchiness?	In the journal, my "Bad Romance" ranked number one, "Alejandro" ranked number eight, and "Poker Face" ranked number nine in terms of catchiness.
According to Kelefa Sanneh of The New Yorker , " Lady Gaga blazed a trail for truculent pop stars by treating her own celebrity as an evolving art project . " Including Born This Way as one of the 50 best female albums of all time , Rolling Stone ' s Rob Sheffield considers it " hard to remember a world where we didn ' t have Gaga , although we ' re pretty sure it was a lot more boring " . In 2015 , Time also noted that Gaga had " practically invented the current era of pop music as spectacle " . A 2017 journal published by Psychology of Aesthetics , Creativity , and the Arts studying structural patterns in melodies of earworm songs compiled lists of catchiest tracks from 3 , 000 participants , in which Gaga ' s " Bad Romance " , " Alejandro " , and " Poker Face " ranked number one , eight , and nine , respectively . In 2018 , NPR named her the second most influential female artist of the 21st century , noting her as " one of the first big artists of the ' Internet age ' " . Gaga and her work have influenced various artists including Miley Cyrus , Nicki Minaj , Ellie Goulding , Halsey , Jennifer Lopez , Beyonc é , Nick Jonas , Sam Smith , Noah Cyrus , Katherine Langford , MGMT , Allie X , Greyson Chance , Cardi B , Rina Sawayama , Blackpink , Madison Beer , Ren , Slayyyter , Bebe Rexha , Bree Runway , Celeste , Kim Petras , Jojo Siwa , Pabllo Vittar , Ava Max , Doja Cat , Chaeyoung of Twice , Kanye West , Rachel Zegler , SZA , Raye , and Grace Gaustad .	Who did NPR name you as in 2018?	NPR named me as the second most influential female artist of the 21st century in 2018.
A new genus of ferns , Gaga , and three species , G . germanotta , G . monstraparva and Kaikaia gaga , have been named in her honor . The name monstraparva alluded to Gaga ' s fans , known as Little Monsters , since their symbol is the outstretched " monster claw " hand , which resembles a tightly rolled young fern leaf prior to unfurling . Gaga also has an extinct mammal , Gagadon minimonstrum , and a parasitic wasp , Aleiodes gaga , named for her .	What is the new genus of ferns called?	The new genus of ferns is called Gaga.
A new genus of ferns , Gaga , and three species , G . germanotta , G . monstraparva and Kaikaia gaga , have been named in her honor . The name monstraparva alluded to Gaga ' s fans , known as Little Monsters , since their symbol is the outstretched " monster claw " hand , which resembles a tightly rolled young fern leaf prior to unfurling . Gaga also has an extinct mammal , Gagadon minimonstrum , and a parasitic wasp , Aleiodes gaga , named for her .	How many species have been named in your honor?	Three species have been named in my honor.
A new genus of ferns , Gaga , and three species , G . germanotta , G . monstraparva and Kaikaia gaga , have been named in her honor . The name monstraparva alluded to Gaga ' s fans , known as Little Monsters , since their symbol is the outstretched " monster claw " hand , which resembles a tightly rolled young fern leaf prior to unfurling . Gaga also has an extinct mammal , Gagadon minimonstrum , and a parasitic wasp , Aleiodes gaga , named for her .	What are the names of the three species?	The names of the three species are G. germanotta, G. monstraparva, and Kaikaia gaga.
A new genus of ferns , Gaga , and three species , G . germanotta , G . monstraparva and Kaikaia gaga , have been named in her honor . The name monstraparva alluded to Gaga ' s fans , known as Little Monsters , since their symbol is the outstretched " monster claw " hand , which resembles a tightly rolled young fern leaf prior to unfurling . Gaga also has an extinct mammal , Gagadon minimonstrum , and a parasitic wasp , Aleiodes gaga , named for her .	What does the name "monstraparva" allude to?	The name "monstraparva" alludes to my fans known as Little Monsters.
A new genus of ferns , Gaga , and three species , G . germanotta , G . monstraparva and Kaikaia gaga , have been named in her honor . The name monstraparva alluded to Gaga ' s fans , known as Little Monsters , since their symbol is the outstretched " monster claw " hand , which resembles a tightly rolled young fern leaf prior to unfurling . Gaga also has an extinct mammal , Gagadon minimonstrum , and a parasitic wasp , Aleiodes gaga , named for her .	What is the reason behind naming the species "monstraparva"?	The species "monstraparva" is named after my fans because their symbol is the outstretched "monster claw" hand, resembling a tightly rolled young fern leaf before unfurling.
