Mariana "Lali" Espósito (born 10 October 1991) is an Argentine singer, actress, dancer, and model. She began her career in 2003 in the children's telenovela Rincón de Luz. Espósito continued to build her acting and singing career with subsequent supporting roles in other telenovelas such as Floricienta and Chiquititas. However, it was her main role in the telenovela Casi Ángeles that really propelled her to fame, making her a household name in Latin America, the Middle East, and Europe. From 2007 to 2012, she was a part of the popular teen pop band Teen Angels, which originated from the television series Casi Ángeles. The group was commercially successful and toured throughout Argentina and countries such as Israel, Spain, Italy, and Latin America.	When did you start your career?	I started my career in 2003.
Mariana "Lali" Espósito (born 10 October 1991) is an Argentine singer, actress, dancer, and model. She began her career in 2003 in the children's telenovela Rincón de Luz. Espósito continued to build her acting and singing career with subsequent supporting roles in other telenovelas such as Floricienta and Chiquititas. However, it was her main role in the telenovela Casi Ángeles that really propelled her to fame, making her a household name in Latin America, the Middle East, and Europe. From 2007 to 2012, she was a part of the popular teen pop band Teen Angels, which originated from the television series Casi Ángeles. The group was commercially successful and toured throughout Argentina and countries such as Israel, Spain, Italy, and Latin America.	What kind of roles did you have in telenovelas?	I had supporting roles in telenovelas such as Floricienta and Chiquititas.
Mariana "Lali" Espósito (born 10 October 1991) is an Argentine singer, actress, dancer, and model. She began her career in 2003 in the children's telenovela Rincón de Luz. Espósito continued to build her acting and singing career with subsequent supporting roles in other telenovelas such as Floricienta and Chiquititas. However, it was her main role in the telenovela Casi Ángeles that really propelled her to fame, making her a household name in Latin America, the Middle East, and Europe. From 2007 to 2012, she was a part of the popular teen pop band Teen Angels, which originated from the television series Casi Ángeles. The group was commercially successful and toured throughout Argentina and countries such as Israel, Spain, Italy, and Latin America.	Which telenovela propelled you to fame?	The telenovela Casi Ángeles propelled me to fame.
Mariana "Lali" Espósito (born 10 October 1991) is an Argentine singer, actress, dancer, and model. She began her career in 2003 in the children's telenovela Rincón de Luz. Espósito continued to build her acting and singing career with subsequent supporting roles in other telenovelas such as Floricienta and Chiquititas. However, it was her main role in the telenovela Casi Ángeles that really propelled her to fame, making her a household name in Latin America, the Middle East, and Europe. From 2007 to 2012, she was a part of the popular teen pop band Teen Angels, which originated from the television series Casi Ángeles. The group was commercially successful and toured throughout Argentina and countries such as Israel, Spain, Italy, and Latin America.	What band were you a part of?	I was a part of the teen pop band Teen Angels.
Mariana "Lali" Espósito (born 10 October 1991) is an Argentine singer, actress, dancer, and model. She began her career in 2003 in the children's telenovela Rincón de Luz. Espósito continued to build her acting and singing career with subsequent supporting roles in other telenovelas such as Floricienta and Chiquititas. However, it was her main role in the telenovela Casi Ángeles that really propelled her to fame, making her a household name in Latin America, the Middle East, and Europe. From 2007 to 2012, she was a part of the popular teen pop band Teen Angels, which originated from the television series Casi Ángeles. The group was commercially successful and toured throughout Argentina and countries such as Israel, Spain, Italy, and Latin America.	In which countries did your band Teen Angels tour?	My band Teen Angels toured throughout Argentina, Israel, Spain, Italy, and Latin America.
In 2014, she signed a record deal with Sony Music Argentina and released her debut solo studio album, A Bailar, which features pop and EDM influences. The album was a commercial success, spawning several hit singles including "Asesina", "Mil Años Luz" and "Histeria." Her second album Soy (2016) spawned the singles "Soy", "Boomerang" and "Ego", both albums were certified gold in Argentina. Her third album, Brava (2018) includes hit singles like "Una Na", "Tu Novia" and "100 Grados". Her fourth studio album, Libra, was released in 2020 and includes the singles "Laligera", "Como Así" and "Lo Que Tengo Yo".	Who did you sign a record deal with in 2014?	Sony Music Argentina.
In 2014, she signed a record deal with Sony Music Argentina and released her debut solo studio album, A Bailar, which features pop and EDM influences. The album was a commercial success, spawning several hit singles including "Asesina", "Mil Años Luz" and "Histeria." Her second album Soy (2016) spawned the singles "Soy", "Boomerang" and "Ego", both albums were certified gold in Argentina. Her third album, Brava (2018) includes hit singles like "Una Na", "Tu Novia" and "100 Grados". Her fourth studio album, Libra, was released in 2020 and includes the singles "Laligera", "Como Así" and "Lo Que Tengo Yo".	What is the name of your debut solo studio album?	A Bailar.
In 2014, she signed a record deal with Sony Music Argentina and released her debut solo studio album, A Bailar, which features pop and EDM influences. The album was a commercial success, spawning several hit singles including "Asesina", "Mil Años Luz" and "Histeria." Her second album Soy (2016) spawned the singles "Soy", "Boomerang" and "Ego", both albums were certified gold in Argentina. Her third album, Brava (2018) includes hit singles like "Una Na", "Tu Novia" and "100 Grados". Her fourth studio album, Libra, was released in 2020 and includes the singles "Laligera", "Como Así" and "Lo Que Tengo Yo".	Which genres influenced your debut album?	Pop and EDM.
In 2014, she signed a record deal with Sony Music Argentina and released her debut solo studio album, A Bailar, which features pop and EDM influences. The album was a commercial success, spawning several hit singles including "Asesina", "Mil Años Luz" and "Histeria." Her second album Soy (2016) spawned the singles "Soy", "Boomerang" and "Ego", both albums were certified gold in Argentina. Her third album, Brava (2018) includes hit singles like "Una Na", "Tu Novia" and "100 Grados". Her fourth studio album, Libra, was released in 2020 and includes the singles "Laligera", "Como Así" and "Lo Que Tengo Yo".	Can you name some hit singles from your debut album?	"Asesina", "Mil Años Luz", and "Histeria."
In 2014, she signed a record deal with Sony Music Argentina and released her debut solo studio album, A Bailar, which features pop and EDM influences. The album was a commercial success, spawning several hit singles including "Asesina", "Mil Años Luz" and "Histeria." Her second album Soy (2016) spawned the singles "Soy", "Boomerang" and "Ego", both albums were certified gold in Argentina. Her third album, Brava (2018) includes hit singles like "Una Na", "Tu Novia" and "100 Grados". Her fourth studio album, Libra, was released in 2020 and includes the singles "Laligera", "Como Así" and "Lo Que Tengo Yo".	Were your second and third albums certified gold in Argentina?	Yes, both my albums were certified gold in Argentina.
Espósito's acting career has also flourished, with notable performances in telenovelas, films, and television comedies. She received critical acclaim for her portrayal of Abigail Williams in the Buenos Aires production of The Crucible and for her roles in the crime-thriller film The Accused and Netflix's action crime drama television series Sky Rojo. Throughout her career, Espósito has received numerous awards and nominations, including six Gardel Awards, five MTV Europe Music Awards, thirteen Argentina Kids' Choice Awards, one Billboard Latin Music Award, and seven MTV Millennial Awards. She has also been nominated for the Lo Nuestro Awards and the Seoul International Drama Awards. In 2015, Infobae named her one of the ten most influential women in Argentina, a testament to her impact and influence in the entertainment industry.	What are some notable performances in your acting career?	My notable performances include my portrayal of Abigail Williams in the Buenos Aires production of The Crucible, my roles in the crime-thriller film The Accused, and my role in Netflix's action crime drama television series Sky Rojo.
Espósito's acting career has also flourished, with notable performances in telenovelas, films, and television comedies. She received critical acclaim for her portrayal of Abigail Williams in the Buenos Aires production of The Crucible and for her roles in the crime-thriller film The Accused and Netflix's action crime drama television series Sky Rojo. Throughout her career, Espósito has received numerous awards and nominations, including six Gardel Awards, five MTV Europe Music Awards, thirteen Argentina Kids' Choice Awards, one Billboard Latin Music Award, and seven MTV Millennial Awards. She has also been nominated for the Lo Nuestro Awards and the Seoul International Drama Awards. In 2015, Infobae named her one of the ten most influential women in Argentina, a testament to her impact and influence in the entertainment industry.	What awards and nominations have you received throughout your career?	I have received numerous awards and nominations, including six Gardel Awards, five MTV Europe Music Awards, thirteen Argentina Kids' Choice Awards, one Billboard Latin Music Award, and seven MTV Millennial Awards. I have also been nominated for the Lo Nuestro Awards and the Seoul International Drama Awards.
Espósito's acting career has also flourished, with notable performances in telenovelas, films, and television comedies. She received critical acclaim for her portrayal of Abigail Williams in the Buenos Aires production of The Crucible and for her roles in the crime-thriller film The Accused and Netflix's action crime drama television series Sky Rojo. Throughout her career, Espósito has received numerous awards and nominations, including six Gardel Awards, five MTV Europe Music Awards, thirteen Argentina Kids' Choice Awards, one Billboard Latin Music Award, and seven MTV Millennial Awards. She has also been nominated for the Lo Nuestro Awards and the Seoul International Drama Awards. In 2015, Infobae named her one of the ten most influential women in Argentina, a testament to her impact and influence in the entertainment industry.	In what year were you named one of the ten most influential women in Argentina?	I was named one of the ten most influential women in Argentina in 2015.
Espósito's acting career has also flourished, with notable performances in telenovelas, films, and television comedies. She received critical acclaim for her portrayal of Abigail Williams in the Buenos Aires production of The Crucible and for her roles in the crime-thriller film The Accused and Netflix's action crime drama television series Sky Rojo. Throughout her career, Espósito has received numerous awards and nominations, including six Gardel Awards, five MTV Europe Music Awards, thirteen Argentina Kids' Choice Awards, one Billboard Latin Music Award, and seven MTV Millennial Awards. She has also been nominated for the Lo Nuestro Awards and the Seoul International Drama Awards. In 2015, Infobae named her one of the ten most influential women in Argentina, a testament to her impact and influence in the entertainment industry.	What is the name of the crime-thriller film you received critical acclaim for?	I received critical acclaim for my role in the crime-thriller film The Accused.
Espósito's acting career has also flourished, with notable performances in telenovelas, films, and television comedies. She received critical acclaim for her portrayal of Abigail Williams in the Buenos Aires production of The Crucible and for her roles in the crime-thriller film The Accused and Netflix's action crime drama television series Sky Rojo. Throughout her career, Espósito has received numerous awards and nominations, including six Gardel Awards, five MTV Europe Music Awards, thirteen Argentina Kids' Choice Awards, one Billboard Latin Music Award, and seven MTV Millennial Awards. She has also been nominated for the Lo Nuestro Awards and the Seoul International Drama Awards. In 2015, Infobae named her one of the ten most influential women in Argentina, a testament to her impact and influence in the entertainment industry.	What is Infobae's recognition of your influence in the entertainment industry?	Infobae named me one of the ten most influential women in Argentina, highlighting my impact and influence in the entertainment industry.
Mariana Espósito was born on 10 October 1991 in Buenos Aires to Carlos Espósito, a football coach, and Maria José Riera, who road-manages her tours. She has two older siblings, Ana Laura, a makeup artist and stylist, and Patricio Espósito, a former futsal player who played in Italy. Espósito lived in the Buenos Aires neighbourhood of Parque Patricios during her childhood and then moved to the district of Banfield, Buenos Aires. Espósito is of Italian descent through her great-grandparents.	When and where were you born?	I was born on 10 October 1991 in Buenos Aires.
Mariana Espósito was born on 10 October 1991 in Buenos Aires to Carlos Espósito, a football coach, and Maria José Riera, who road-manages her tours. She has two older siblings, Ana Laura, a makeup artist and stylist, and Patricio Espósito, a former futsal player who played in Italy. Espósito lived in the Buenos Aires neighbourhood of Parque Patricios during her childhood and then moved to the district of Banfield, Buenos Aires. Espósito is of Italian descent through her great-grandparents.	Who are your parents?	My parents are Carlos Espósito, a football coach, and Maria José Riera, who road-manages my tours.
Mariana Espósito was born on 10 October 1991 in Buenos Aires to Carlos Espósito, a football coach, and Maria José Riera, who road-manages her tours. She has two older siblings, Ana Laura, a makeup artist and stylist, and Patricio Espósito, a former futsal player who played in Italy. Espósito lived in the Buenos Aires neighbourhood of Parque Patricios during her childhood and then moved to the district of Banfield, Buenos Aires. Espósito is of Italian descent through her great-grandparents.	How many siblings do you have and what are their professions?	I have two older siblings. Ana Laura is a makeup artist and stylist, and Patricio Espósito is a former futsal player who played in Italy.
Mariana Espósito was born on 10 October 1991 in Buenos Aires to Carlos Espósito, a football coach, and Maria José Riera, who road-manages her tours. She has two older siblings, Ana Laura, a makeup artist and stylist, and Patricio Espósito, a former futsal player who played in Italy. Espósito lived in the Buenos Aires neighbourhood of Parque Patricios during her childhood and then moved to the district of Banfield, Buenos Aires. Espósito is of Italian descent through her great-grandparents.	Where did you live during your childhood?	I lived in the Buenos Aires neighbourhood of Parque Patricios during my childhood.
Mariana Espósito was born on 10 October 1991 in Buenos Aires to Carlos Espósito, a football coach, and Maria José Riera, who road-manages her tours. She has two older siblings, Ana Laura, a makeup artist and stylist, and Patricio Espósito, a former futsal player who played in Italy. Espósito lived in the Buenos Aires neighbourhood of Parque Patricios during her childhood and then moved to the district of Banfield, Buenos Aires. Espósito is of Italian descent through her great-grandparents.	What is your ethnic background?	I am of Italian descent through my great-grandparents.
Espósito made her television debut at the age of 6 on the children's program Caramelito y Vos in 1998, as a contestant impersonating Uruguayan actress and singer Natalia Oreiro. After wandering into a producer Cris Morena audition by mistake in early 2002, Espósito was cast in Morena's children television series Rincón de Luz, making her acting debut as part of the children's supporting cast, portraying Malena "Coco" Cabrera. Rincón de Luz ran on Argentina's Canal 9 and later América TV from 18 February 2003 to 18 December 2003. Espósito also made her singing debut in the Rincón de Luz soundtrack album, singing a duet with Agustín Sierra. Due to Rincón de Luz's success in Israel, Espósito was part of a stage adaptation at the Yad Eliyahu Arena in Tel Aviv, which ran for two weeks in April 2004.	When did you make your television debut?	I made my television debut at the age of 6 in 1998.
Espósito made her television debut at the age of 6 on the children's program Caramelito y Vos in 1998, as a contestant impersonating Uruguayan actress and singer Natalia Oreiro. After wandering into a producer Cris Morena audition by mistake in early 2002, Espósito was cast in Morena's children television series Rincón de Luz, making her acting debut as part of the children's supporting cast, portraying Malena "Coco" Cabrera. Rincón de Luz ran on Argentina's Canal 9 and later América TV from 18 February 2003 to 18 December 2003. Espósito also made her singing debut in the Rincón de Luz soundtrack album, singing a duet with Agustín Sierra. Due to Rincón de Luz's success in Israel, Espósito was part of a stage adaptation at the Yad Eliyahu Arena in Tel Aviv, which ran for two weeks in April 2004.	What show did you participate in as a contestant for your television debut?	I participated in the children's program Caramelito y Vos.
Espósito made her television debut at the age of 6 on the children's program Caramelito y Vos in 1998, as a contestant impersonating Uruguayan actress and singer Natalia Oreiro. After wandering into a producer Cris Morena audition by mistake in early 2002, Espósito was cast in Morena's children television series Rincón de Luz, making her acting debut as part of the children's supporting cast, portraying Malena "Coco" Cabrera. Rincón de Luz ran on Argentina's Canal 9 and later América TV from 18 February 2003 to 18 December 2003. Espósito also made her singing debut in the Rincón de Luz soundtrack album, singing a duet with Agustín Sierra. Due to Rincón de Luz's success in Israel, Espósito was part of a stage adaptation at the Yad Eliyahu Arena in Tel Aviv, which ran for two weeks in April 2004.	How did you end up being cast in Cris Morena's television series?	I ended up being cast in the television series Rincón de Luz after mistakenly wandering into Cris Morena's audition.
Espósito made her television debut at the age of 6 on the children's program Caramelito y Vos in 1998, as a contestant impersonating Uruguayan actress and singer Natalia Oreiro. After wandering into a producer Cris Morena audition by mistake in early 2002, Espósito was cast in Morena's children television series Rincón de Luz, making her acting debut as part of the children's supporting cast, portraying Malena "Coco" Cabrera. Rincón de Luz ran on Argentina's Canal 9 and later América TV from 18 February 2003 to 18 December 2003. Espósito also made her singing debut in the Rincón de Luz soundtrack album, singing a duet with Agustín Sierra. Due to Rincón de Luz's success in Israel, Espósito was part of a stage adaptation at the Yad Eliyahu Arena in Tel Aviv, which ran for two weeks in April 2004.	What role did you play in Rincón de Luz?	I played the character of Malena "Coco" Cabrera in Rincón de Luz.
Espósito made her television debut at the age of 6 on the children's program Caramelito y Vos in 1998, as a contestant impersonating Uruguayan actress and singer Natalia Oreiro. After wandering into a producer Cris Morena audition by mistake in early 2002, Espósito was cast in Morena's children television series Rincón de Luz, making her acting debut as part of the children's supporting cast, portraying Malena "Coco" Cabrera. Rincón de Luz ran on Argentina's Canal 9 and later América TV from 18 February 2003 to 18 December 2003. Espósito also made her singing debut in the Rincón de Luz soundtrack album, singing a duet with Agustín Sierra. Due to Rincón de Luz's success in Israel, Espósito was part of a stage adaptation at the Yad Eliyahu Arena in Tel Aviv, which ran for two weeks in April 2004.	When did Rincón de Luz run on television in Argentina?	Rincón de Luz ran from 18 February 2003 to 18 December 2003 on Canal 9 and later América TV.
In 2004, Espósito was cast as Roberta in the juvenile telenovela Floricienta, also created and produced by Cris Morena, which ran for two seasons on El Trece from 15 March 2004 to 2 December 2005. Floricienta was a record-smashing success in Argentina, Latin America, Israel and Europe, and has been broadcast in over 70 countries since its original run. The series helped to establish Espósito as a child actress of the likes of former Cris Morena Group stars Agustina Cherri, Marcela Klosterboer, Luisana Lopilato and Camila Bordonaba. Espósito was also part of the stage adaptation of Floricienta, ableit portraying different versions of her character, which ran for over 100 shows in 2004 and 2005 at Teatro Gran Rex, 10 shows at the Luna Park arena and 4 shows at the Vélez Sarfield Stadium, as well as a national tour in Argentina.	When did the telenovela Floricienta run?	Floricienta ran from 15 March 2004 to 2 December 2005.
In 2004, Espósito was cast as Roberta in the juvenile telenovela Floricienta, also created and produced by Cris Morena, which ran for two seasons on El Trece from 15 March 2004 to 2 December 2005. Floricienta was a record-smashing success in Argentina, Latin America, Israel and Europe, and has been broadcast in over 70 countries since its original run. The series helped to establish Espósito as a child actress of the likes of former Cris Morena Group stars Agustina Cherri, Marcela Klosterboer, Luisana Lopilato and Camila Bordonaba. Espósito was also part of the stage adaptation of Floricienta, ableit portraying different versions of her character, which ran for over 100 shows in 2004 and 2005 at Teatro Gran Rex, 10 shows at the Luna Park arena and 4 shows at the Vélez Sarfield Stadium, as well as a national tour in Argentina.	In how many countries has your show been broadcast?	My show has been broadcast in over 70 countries.
In 2004, Espósito was cast as Roberta in the juvenile telenovela Floricienta, also created and produced by Cris Morena, which ran for two seasons on El Trece from 15 March 2004 to 2 December 2005. Floricienta was a record-smashing success in Argentina, Latin America, Israel and Europe, and has been broadcast in over 70 countries since its original run. The series helped to establish Espósito as a child actress of the likes of former Cris Morena Group stars Agustina Cherri, Marcela Klosterboer, Luisana Lopilato and Camila Bordonaba. Espósito was also part of the stage adaptation of Floricienta, ableit portraying different versions of her character, which ran for over 100 shows in 2004 and 2005 at Teatro Gran Rex, 10 shows at the Luna Park arena and 4 shows at the Vélez Sarfield Stadium, as well as a national tour in Argentina.	Who were some of the other child actresses in Floricienta?	Some of the other child actresses in Floricienta were Agustina Cherri, Marcela Klosterboer, Luisana Lopilato, and Camila Bordonaba.
In 2004, Espósito was cast as Roberta in the juvenile telenovela Floricienta, also created and produced by Cris Morena, which ran for two seasons on El Trece from 15 March 2004 to 2 December 2005. Floricienta was a record-smashing success in Argentina, Latin America, Israel and Europe, and has been broadcast in over 70 countries since its original run. The series helped to establish Espósito as a child actress of the likes of former Cris Morena Group stars Agustina Cherri, Marcela Klosterboer, Luisana Lopilato and Camila Bordonaba. Espósito was also part of the stage adaptation of Floricienta, ableit portraying different versions of her character, which ran for over 100 shows in 2004 and 2005 at Teatro Gran Rex, 10 shows at the Luna Park arena and 4 shows at the Vélez Sarfield Stadium, as well as a national tour in Argentina.	Where did the stage adaptation of Floricienta take place?	The stage adaptation of Floricienta took place at Teatro Gran Rex, Luna Park arena, and Vélez Sarfield Stadium.
In 2004, Espósito was cast as Roberta in the juvenile telenovela Floricienta, also created and produced by Cris Morena, which ran for two seasons on El Trece from 15 March 2004 to 2 December 2005. Floricienta was a record-smashing success in Argentina, Latin America, Israel and Europe, and has been broadcast in over 70 countries since its original run. The series helped to establish Espósito as a child actress of the likes of former Cris Morena Group stars Agustina Cherri, Marcela Klosterboer, Luisana Lopilato and Camila Bordonaba. Espósito was also part of the stage adaptation of Floricienta, ableit portraying different versions of her character, which ran for over 100 shows in 2004 and 2005 at Teatro Gran Rex, 10 shows at the Luna Park arena and 4 shows at the Vélez Sarfield Stadium, as well as a national tour in Argentina.	How many shows did the stage adaptation of Floricienta have in 2004 and 2005?	The stage adaptation of Floricienta had over 100 shows in 2004 and 2005.
In 2006, Espósito led the children's cast in the remake of Cris Morena's highly successful children's series Chiquititas, released as Chiquititas Sin Fin, portraying Agustina Ross. Espósito also sang "Me Pasan Cosas" and "Por Una Sola Vez", two of the songs in the Chiquititas soundtrack album 24 Horas, which was one of the top ten selling albums in 2006 and participated in the stage adaptations in mid 2006 at Teatro Gran Rex.	Who did you portray in the remake of Cris Morena's children's series Chiquititas released in 2006?	I portrayed Agustina Ross in the remake of Chiquititas.
In 2007, Espósito landed her first leading role on television, as Marianella "Mar" Rinaldi in Casi Ángeles (Almost Angels), also created by Morena and produced by Cris Morena Group. It became one of the most popular adolescent television programs in Argentina, Latin America and Israel. The series lasted from 2007 to 2010 and held high viewer ratings and earning four Martín Fierro Awards for Best Juvenile Program.	When did you land your first leading role on television?	In 2007.
In 2007, Espósito landed her first leading role on television, as Marianella "Mar" Rinaldi in Casi Ángeles (Almost Angels), also created by Morena and produced by Cris Morena Group. It became one of the most popular adolescent television programs in Argentina, Latin America and Israel. The series lasted from 2007 to 2010 and held high viewer ratings and earning four Martín Fierro Awards for Best Juvenile Program.	What was the name of the television show?	Casi Ángeles (Almost Angels).
In 2007, Espósito landed her first leading role on television, as Marianella "Mar" Rinaldi in Casi Ángeles (Almost Angels), also created by Morena and produced by Cris Morena Group. It became one of the most popular adolescent television programs in Argentina, Latin America and Israel. The series lasted from 2007 to 2010 and held high viewer ratings and earning four Martín Fierro Awards for Best Juvenile Program.	Who created the television show?	Morena.
In 2007, Espósito landed her first leading role on television, as Marianella "Mar" Rinaldi in Casi Ángeles (Almost Angels), also created by Morena and produced by Cris Morena Group. It became one of the most popular adolescent television programs in Argentina, Latin America and Israel. The series lasted from 2007 to 2010 and held high viewer ratings and earning four Martín Fierro Awards for Best Juvenile Program.	Which production company produced the television show?	Cris Morena Group.
In 2007, Espósito landed her first leading role on television, as Marianella "Mar" Rinaldi in Casi Ángeles (Almost Angels), also created by Morena and produced by Cris Morena Group. It became one of the most popular adolescent television programs in Argentina, Latin America and Israel. The series lasted from 2007 to 2010 and held high viewer ratings and earning four Martín Fierro Awards for Best Juvenile Program.	How long did the series last?	From 2007 to 2010.
While acting in Casi Ángeles, Espósito became one of five members of successful pop band Teen Angels, signed to Sony BMG, along with Gastón Dalmau, Juan Pedro Lanzani, Nicolás Riera and María Eugenia Suárez. Teen Angels reached success in countries such as Argentina, Israel, Chile, Peru, Spain and Uruguay. Although Casi Ángeles ended in 2010, the band members announced they would continue working together, with Rochi Igarzábal replacing María Eugenia Suárez.	Who were the members of the pop band Teen Angels?	The members of the pop band Teen Angels were I, Gastón Dalmau, Juan Pedro Lanzani, Nicolás Riera, and María Eugenia Suárez.
While acting in Casi Ángeles, Espósito became one of five members of successful pop band Teen Angels, signed to Sony BMG, along with Gastón Dalmau, Juan Pedro Lanzani, Nicolás Riera and María Eugenia Suárez. Teen Angels reached success in countries such as Argentina, Israel, Chile, Peru, Spain and Uruguay. Although Casi Ángeles ended in 2010, the band members announced they would continue working together, with Rochi Igarzábal replacing María Eugenia Suárez.	In which countries did you achieve success?	I achieved success in countries such as Argentina, Israel, Chile, Peru, Spain, and Uruguay.
While acting in Casi Ángeles, Espósito became one of five members of successful pop band Teen Angels, signed to Sony BMG, along with Gastón Dalmau, Juan Pedro Lanzani, Nicolás Riera and María Eugenia Suárez. Teen Angels reached success in countries such as Argentina, Israel, Chile, Peru, Spain and Uruguay. Although Casi Ángeles ended in 2010, the band members announced they would continue working together, with Rochi Igarzábal replacing María Eugenia Suárez.	When did Casi Ángeles end?	Casi Ángeles ended in 2010.
While acting in Casi Ángeles, Espósito became one of five members of successful pop band Teen Angels, signed to Sony BMG, along with Gastón Dalmau, Juan Pedro Lanzani, Nicolás Riera and María Eugenia Suárez. Teen Angels reached success in countries such as Argentina, Israel, Chile, Peru, Spain and Uruguay. Although Casi Ángeles ended in 2010, the band members announced they would continue working together, with Rochi Igarzábal replacing María Eugenia Suárez.	Who replaced María Eugenia Suárez in the band?	Rochi Igarzábal replaced María Eugenia Suárez in the band.
While acting in Casi Ángeles, Espósito became one of five members of successful pop band Teen Angels, signed to Sony BMG, along with Gastón Dalmau, Juan Pedro Lanzani, Nicolás Riera and María Eugenia Suárez. Teen Angels reached success in countries such as Argentina, Israel, Chile, Peru, Spain and Uruguay. Although Casi Ángeles ended in 2010, the band members announced they would continue working together, with Rochi Igarzábal replacing María Eugenia Suárez.	Did the band members announce that they would continue working together after Casi Ángeles ended?	Yes, the band members announced that they would continue working together, with Rochi Igarzábal replacing María Eugenia Suárez.
From 2007 to 2012, Teen Angels released six studio albums, of which five were certified platinum and one was certified gold by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers. They were also spokespersons for numerous brands, such as Coca-Cola. The band won a Clarín Award, a Kids' Choice Award Argentina, two Los 40 Principales Awards, and a Quiero Award, and three nominations for Carlos Gardel Awards.	How many studio albums did you release from 2007 to 2012?	I released six studio albums from 2007 to 2012.
From 2007 to 2012, Teen Angels released six studio albums, of which five were certified platinum and one was certified gold by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers. They were also spokespersons for numerous brands, such as Coca-Cola. The band won a Clarín Award, a Kids' Choice Award Argentina, two Los 40 Principales Awards, and a Quiero Award, and three nominations for Carlos Gardel Awards.	How many of your studio albums were certified platinum?	Five of my studio albums were certified platinum.
From 2007 to 2012, Teen Angels released six studio albums, of which five were certified platinum and one was certified gold by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers. They were also spokespersons for numerous brands, such as Coca-Cola. The band won a Clarín Award, a Kids' Choice Award Argentina, two Los 40 Principales Awards, and a Quiero Award, and three nominations for Carlos Gardel Awards.	How many of my studio albums were certified gold?	One of my studio albums was certified gold.
From 2007 to 2012, Teen Angels released six studio albums, of which five were certified platinum and one was certified gold by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers. They were also spokespersons for numerous brands, such as Coca-Cola. The band won a Clarín Award, a Kids' Choice Award Argentina, two Los 40 Principales Awards, and a Quiero Award, and three nominations for Carlos Gardel Awards.	What kind of brands did you serve as spokespersons for?	I served as spokespersons for numerous brands, such as Coca-Cola.
From 2007 to 2012, Teen Angels released six studio albums, of which five were certified platinum and one was certified gold by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers. They were also spokespersons for numerous brands, such as Coca-Cola. The band won a Clarín Award, a Kids' Choice Award Argentina, two Los 40 Principales Awards, and a Quiero Award, and three nominations for Carlos Gardel Awards.	What awards did Teen Angels win?	Teen Angels won a Clarín Award, a Kids' Choice Award Argentina, two Los 40 Principales Awards, and a Quiero Award, and received three nominations for Carlos Gardel Awards.
In 2013 , Esp ó sito announced she would release her first album as a solo artist , titled A Bailar . When asked about the album ' s genre , she described it as mainly dance with hip hop influences . The album ' s lead single , " A Bailar " , was released for digital download on her website on 5 August , causing the website to crash because of a spike in traffic . On 2 September , Esp ó sito presented the music video for " A Bailar " at the prominent La Trastienda Club . " A Bailar " received 100 , 000 YouTube views on its release day , and the single entered the top 20 on iTunes Latin and iTunes Israel . It also was popular in music charts and radio channels in Latin America , Italy and Israel .	When did you announce you would release your first solo album?	In 2013.
In 2013 , Esp ó sito announced she would release her first album as a solo artist , titled A Bailar . When asked about the album ' s genre , she described it as mainly dance with hip hop influences . The album ' s lead single , " A Bailar " , was released for digital download on her website on 5 August , causing the website to crash because of a spike in traffic . On 2 September , Esp ó sito presented the music video for " A Bailar " at the prominent La Trastienda Club . " A Bailar " received 100 , 000 YouTube views on its release day , and the single entered the top 20 on iTunes Latin and iTunes Israel . It also was popular in music charts and radio channels in Latin America , Italy and Israel .	What is the title of your first solo album?	A Bailar.
In 2013 , Esp ó sito announced she would release her first album as a solo artist , titled A Bailar . When asked about the album ' s genre , she described it as mainly dance with hip hop influences . The album ' s lead single , " A Bailar " , was released for digital download on her website on 5 August , causing the website to crash because of a spike in traffic . On 2 September , Esp ó sito presented the music video for " A Bailar " at the prominent La Trastienda Club . " A Bailar " received 100 , 000 YouTube views on its release day , and the single entered the top 20 on iTunes Latin and iTunes Israel . It also was popular in music charts and radio channels in Latin America , Italy and Israel .	How would you describe the genre of your album?	I would describe it as mainly dance with hip hop influences.
In 2013 , Esp ó sito announced she would release her first album as a solo artist , titled A Bailar . When asked about the album ' s genre , she described it as mainly dance with hip hop influences . The album ' s lead single , " A Bailar " , was released for digital download on her website on 5 August , causing the website to crash because of a spike in traffic . On 2 September , Esp ó sito presented the music video for " A Bailar " at the prominent La Trastienda Club . " A Bailar " received 100 , 000 YouTube views on its release day , and the single entered the top 20 on iTunes Latin and iTunes Israel . It also was popular in music charts and radio channels in Latin America , Italy and Israel .	When was the lead single from your album released for digital download?	It was released on 5 August.
In 2013 , Esp ó sito announced she would release her first album as a solo artist , titled A Bailar . When asked about the album ' s genre , she described it as mainly dance with hip hop influences . The album ' s lead single , " A Bailar " , was released for digital download on her website on 5 August , causing the website to crash because of a spike in traffic . On 2 September , Esp ó sito presented the music video for " A Bailar " at the prominent La Trastienda Club . " A Bailar " received 100 , 000 YouTube views on its release day , and the single entered the top 20 on iTunes Latin and iTunes Israel . It also was popular in music charts and radio channels in Latin America , Italy and Israel .	Where was the music video for your lead single premiered?	The music video was premiered at La Trastienda Club.
In support of the album , Esp ó sito embarked on the A Bailar Tour of Argentina , with several later stops in Uruguay , Chile , Spain , Italy and Israel . The tour earned million in the first five shows at Teatro Opera Allianz and was later named the highest - grossing tour of 2015 in Argentina . Following the tour ' s success , more dates were added , and the tour concluded on 25 April 2016 at Menora Mivtachim Arena , Tel Aviv , after a total of 74 dates .	Where did you embark on the A Bailar Tour?	I embarked on the A Bailar Tour in Argentina.
In support of the album , Esp ó sito embarked on the A Bailar Tour of Argentina , with several later stops in Uruguay , Chile , Spain , Italy and Israel . The tour earned million in the first five shows at Teatro Opera Allianz and was later named the highest - grossing tour of 2015 in Argentina . Following the tour ' s success , more dates were added , and the tour concluded on 25 April 2016 at Menora Mivtachim Arena , Tel Aviv , after a total of 74 dates .	In which countries did you have later stops during the tour?	I had later stops in Uruguay, Chile, Spain, Italy, and Israel.
In support of the album , Esp ó sito embarked on the A Bailar Tour of Argentina , with several later stops in Uruguay , Chile , Spain , Italy and Israel . The tour earned million in the first five shows at Teatro Opera Allianz and was later named the highest - grossing tour of 2015 in Argentina . Following the tour ' s success , more dates were added , and the tour concluded on 25 April 2016 at Menora Mivtachim Arena , Tel Aviv , after a total of 74 dates .	How much did you earn in the first five shows at Teatro Opera Allianz?	I earned million in the first five shows at Teatro Opera Allianz.
In support of the album , Esp ó sito embarked on the A Bailar Tour of Argentina , with several later stops in Uruguay , Chile , Spain , Italy and Israel . The tour earned million in the first five shows at Teatro Opera Allianz and was later named the highest - grossing tour of 2015 in Argentina . Following the tour ' s success , more dates were added , and the tour concluded on 25 April 2016 at Menora Mivtachim Arena , Tel Aviv , after a total of 74 dates .	When did your tour conclude?	My tour concluded on 25 April 2016.
In support of the album , Esp ó sito embarked on the A Bailar Tour of Argentina , with several later stops in Uruguay , Chile , Spain , Italy and Israel . The tour earned million in the first five shows at Teatro Opera Allianz and was later named the highest - grossing tour of 2015 in Argentina . Following the tour ' s success , more dates were added , and the tour concluded on 25 April 2016 at Menora Mivtachim Arena , Tel Aviv , after a total of 74 dates .	How many dates in total were there during your tour?	There were a total of 74 dates during my tour.
In later 2014 , the singer signed an exclusive publishing contract with Sony Music Entertainment Argentina and released " Mil A ñ os Luz " as the third single from A Bailar . To celebrate her incorporation to Sony Music , Esp ó sito released a deluxe edition of A Bailar , which contained unpublished material including a new song , a remix , several video clips and a documentary of the tour . The album peaked at No . 3 in Uruguay and at No . 5 in Argentina , where it was certified gold a few days after its release .	When did you sign an exclusive publishing contract with Sony Music Entertainment Argentina?	In later 2014.
In later 2014 , the singer signed an exclusive publishing contract with Sony Music Entertainment Argentina and released " Mil A ñ os Luz " as the third single from A Bailar . To celebrate her incorporation to Sony Music , Esp ó sito released a deluxe edition of A Bailar , which contained unpublished material including a new song , a remix , several video clips and a documentary of the tour . The album peaked at No . 3 in Uruguay and at No . 5 in Argentina , where it was certified gold a few days after its release .	What was the third single you released from A Bailar after you signed the contract?	"Mil Años Luz".
In later 2014 , the singer signed an exclusive publishing contract with Sony Music Entertainment Argentina and released " Mil A ñ os Luz " as the third single from A Bailar . To celebrate her incorporation to Sony Music , Esp ó sito released a deluxe edition of A Bailar , which contained unpublished material including a new song , a remix , several video clips and a documentary of the tour . The album peaked at No . 3 in Uruguay and at No . 5 in Argentina , where it was certified gold a few days after its release .	How did you celebrate your incorporation to Sony Music?	I released a deluxe edition of A Bailar.
In later 2014 , the singer signed an exclusive publishing contract with Sony Music Entertainment Argentina and released " Mil A ñ os Luz " as the third single from A Bailar . To celebrate her incorporation to Sony Music , Esp ó sito released a deluxe edition of A Bailar , which contained unpublished material including a new song , a remix , several video clips and a documentary of the tour . The album peaked at No . 3 in Uruguay and at No . 5 in Argentina , where it was certified gold a few days after its release .	What did the deluxe edition of your album A Bailar contain?	It contained unpublished material, including a new song, a remix, several video clips, and a documentary of the tour.
In later 2014 , the singer signed an exclusive publishing contract with Sony Music Entertainment Argentina and released " Mil A ñ os Luz " as the third single from A Bailar . To celebrate her incorporation to Sony Music , Esp ó sito released a deluxe edition of A Bailar , which contained unpublished material including a new song , a remix , several video clips and a documentary of the tour . The album peaked at No . 3 in Uruguay and at No . 5 in Argentina , where it was certified gold a few days after its release .	In which countries did your album A Bailar peak at No. 3 and No. 5?	My album peaked at No. 3 in Uruguay and at No. 5 in Argentina.
Esp ó sito released her second studio album Soy on 20 May 2016 , with El Pa í s newspaper writing that " she takes one more step with this album , she experiments , shows herself as she is , and that is always valuable " . In an interview with Intrusos , the singer referred to the album ' s title ( Soy , English : I Am ) saying that " it is called Soy because I am sharing the truth about what I think and feel . It is super personal " . It sold more than 20 , 000 copies in Argentina in just three hours , being certified gold by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers ( CAPIF ) . The album debuted at No . 1 in Argentina , Uruguay and Israel , and at No . 5 and No . 6 in Italy and Spain , respectively . Its lead single , " Soy " , was released on 5 May and peaked at No . 5 on the Monitor Latino Argentina Top 20 chart and at No . 15 on the Ecuador Pop Songs chart . The second single , " Boomerang " , was released on 5 September 2016 . As of June 2017 , its music video has been viewed more than 17 million times . Soy was listed as one of the best albums of 2016 by Billboard Brasil along with Beyonc é ' s Lemonade , Lady Gaga ' s Joanne , J Balvin ' s Energ í a and others . In the same year , Esp ó sito was featured on Abraham Mateo ' s remix of the song " Mueve " from the re - issue of his album Are You Ready ? , on Brian Cross song " Firestarter " from his second studio album Darkness to Life and on Baby K ' s Spanish version of the international hit " Roma - Bangkok " .	When was your second studio album, Soy, released?	Soy was released on 20 May 2016.
Esp ó sito released her second studio album Soy on 20 May 2016 , with El Pa í s newspaper writing that " she takes one more step with this album , she experiments , shows herself as she is , and that is always valuable " . In an interview with Intrusos , the singer referred to the album ' s title ( Soy , English : I Am ) saying that " it is called Soy because I am sharing the truth about what I think and feel . It is super personal " . It sold more than 20 , 000 copies in Argentina in just three hours , being certified gold by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers ( CAPIF ) . The album debuted at No . 1 in Argentina , Uruguay and Israel , and at No . 5 and No . 6 in Italy and Spain , respectively . Its lead single , " Soy " , was released on 5 May and peaked at No . 5 on the Monitor Latino Argentina Top 20 chart and at No . 15 on the Ecuador Pop Songs chart . The second single , " Boomerang " , was released on 5 September 2016 . As of June 2017 , its music video has been viewed more than 17 million times . Soy was listed as one of the best albums of 2016 by Billboard Brasil along with Beyonc é ' s Lemonade , Lady Gaga ' s Joanne , J Balvin ' s Energ í a and others . In the same year , Esp ó sito was featured on Abraham Mateo ' s remix of the song " Mueve " from the re - issue of his album Are You Ready ? , on Brian Cross song " Firestarter " from his second studio album Darkness to Life and on Baby K ' s Spanish version of the international hit " Roma - Bangkok " .	How were you described by El Pa í s newspaper in relation to your album Soy?	El Pa í s newspaper described me as someone who takes one more step with this album, experiments, shows myself as I am, and that is always valuable.
Esp ó sito released her second studio album Soy on 20 May 2016 , with El Pa í s newspaper writing that " she takes one more step with this album , she experiments , shows herself as she is , and that is always valuable " . In an interview with Intrusos , the singer referred to the album ' s title ( Soy , English : I Am ) saying that " it is called Soy because I am sharing the truth about what I think and feel . It is super personal " . It sold more than 20 , 000 copies in Argentina in just three hours , being certified gold by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers ( CAPIF ) . The album debuted at No . 1 in Argentina , Uruguay and Israel , and at No . 5 and No . 6 in Italy and Spain , respectively . Its lead single , " Soy " , was released on 5 May and peaked at No . 5 on the Monitor Latino Argentina Top 20 chart and at No . 15 on the Ecuador Pop Songs chart . The second single , " Boomerang " , was released on 5 September 2016 . As of June 2017 , its music video has been viewed more than 17 million times . Soy was listed as one of the best albums of 2016 by Billboard Brasil along with Beyonc é ' s Lemonade , Lady Gaga ' s Joanne , J Balvin ' s Energ í a and others . In the same year , Esp ó sito was featured on Abraham Mateo ' s remix of the song " Mueve " from the re - issue of his album Are You Ready ? , on Brian Cross song " Firestarter " from his second studio album Darkness to Life and on Baby K ' s Spanish version of the international hit " Roma - Bangkok " .	What do you say about the title of your album Soy?	I say that the album is called Soy because I am sharing the truth about what I think and feel, and it is super personal.
Esp ó sito released her second studio album Soy on 20 May 2016 , with El Pa í s newspaper writing that " she takes one more step with this album , she experiments , shows herself as she is , and that is always valuable " . In an interview with Intrusos , the singer referred to the album ' s title ( Soy , English : I Am ) saying that " it is called Soy because I am sharing the truth about what I think and feel . It is super personal " . It sold more than 20 , 000 copies in Argentina in just three hours , being certified gold by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers ( CAPIF ) . The album debuted at No . 1 in Argentina , Uruguay and Israel , and at No . 5 and No . 6 in Italy and Spain , respectively . Its lead single , " Soy " , was released on 5 May and peaked at No . 5 on the Monitor Latino Argentina Top 20 chart and at No . 15 on the Ecuador Pop Songs chart . The second single , " Boomerang " , was released on 5 September 2016 . As of June 2017 , its music video has been viewed more than 17 million times . Soy was listed as one of the best albums of 2016 by Billboard Brasil along with Beyonc é ' s Lemonade , Lady Gaga ' s Joanne , J Balvin ' s Energ í a and others . In the same year , Esp ó sito was featured on Abraham Mateo ' s remix of the song " Mueve " from the re - issue of his album Are You Ready ? , on Brian Cross song " Firestarter " from his second studio album Darkness to Life and on Baby K ' s Spanish version of the international hit " Roma - Bangkok " .	How many copies of Soy were sold in Argentina in just three hours?	More than 20,000 copies of Soy were sold in Argentina in just three hours.
Esp ó sito released her second studio album Soy on 20 May 2016 , with El Pa í s newspaper writing that " she takes one more step with this album , she experiments , shows herself as she is , and that is always valuable " . In an interview with Intrusos , the singer referred to the album ' s title ( Soy , English : I Am ) saying that " it is called Soy because I am sharing the truth about what I think and feel . It is super personal " . It sold more than 20 , 000 copies in Argentina in just three hours , being certified gold by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers ( CAPIF ) . The album debuted at No . 1 in Argentina , Uruguay and Israel , and at No . 5 and No . 6 in Italy and Spain , respectively . Its lead single , " Soy " , was released on 5 May and peaked at No . 5 on the Monitor Latino Argentina Top 20 chart and at No . 15 on the Ecuador Pop Songs chart . The second single , " Boomerang " , was released on 5 September 2016 . As of June 2017 , its music video has been viewed more than 17 million times . Soy was listed as one of the best albums of 2016 by Billboard Brasil along with Beyonc é ' s Lemonade , Lady Gaga ' s Joanne , J Balvin ' s Energ í a and others . In the same year , Esp ó sito was featured on Abraham Mateo ' s remix of the song " Mueve " from the re - issue of his album Are You Ready ? , on Brian Cross song " Firestarter " from his second studio album Darkness to Life and on Baby K ' s Spanish version of the international hit " Roma - Bangkok " .	Where did your album Soy debut at No. 1?	My album Soy debuted at No. 1 in Argentina, Uruguay, and Israel.
In July and November , respectively , Esp ó sito released " Una Na " and " Tu Novia " as the first two singles from her upcoming third studio album . The former one rapidly reached the top of the Argentine National Songs chart . In November , the singer kicked off her second concert tour in support of Soy , titled Lali en Vivo , with two sold - out shows at the Luna Park Arena .	What were the first two singles you released?	"Una Na" and "Tu Novia" were the first two singles I released.
In July and November , respectively , Esp ó sito released " Una Na " and " Tu Novia " as the first two singles from her upcoming third studio album . The former one rapidly reached the top of the Argentine National Songs chart . In November , the singer kicked off her second concert tour in support of Soy , titled Lali en Vivo , with two sold - out shows at the Luna Park Arena .	Which of your singles reached the top of the Argentine National Songs chart?	My single "Una Na" rapidly reached the top of the Argentine National Songs chart.
In July and November , respectively , Esp ó sito released " Una Na " and " Tu Novia " as the first two singles from her upcoming third studio album . The former one rapidly reached the top of the Argentine National Songs chart . In November , the singer kicked off her second concert tour in support of Soy , titled Lali en Vivo , with two sold - out shows at the Luna Park Arena .	When did you kick off your second concert tour in support of Soy?	I kicked off my second concert tour in support of Soy in November.
In July and November , respectively , Esp ó sito released " Una Na " and " Tu Novia " as the first two singles from her upcoming third studio album . The former one rapidly reached the top of the Argentine National Songs chart . In November , the singer kicked off her second concert tour in support of Soy , titled Lali en Vivo , with two sold - out shows at the Luna Park Arena .	What is the title of your upcoming third studio album?	My upcoming third studio album does not have a title mentioned.
In July and November , respectively , Esp ó sito released " Una Na " and " Tu Novia " as the first two singles from her upcoming third studio album . The former one rapidly reached the top of the Argentine National Songs chart . In November , the singer kicked off her second concert tour in support of Soy , titled Lali en Vivo , with two sold - out shows at the Luna Park Arena .	Where were your two sold-out shows of Lali en Vivo held?	My two sold-out shows of Lali en Vivo were held at the Luna Park Arena.
From January to July , the singer continued with her Lali en Vivo tour , which visited Peru , Spain , Italy , Israel and the United States . In February , Esp ó sito was featured on Mau y Ricky and Karol G ' s remix of " Mi Mala " , with Becky G and Leslie Grace , and , in May , she teamed up with CD9 and Ana Mena for the remix of " Prohibido " . Preceded by the release of " 100 Grados " , in April , and " Besarte Mucho " , in July , the singer released her third studio album , Brava , in August 2018 . One week after , the album received a gold certification by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers for having sold ten thousand copies . Esp ó sito embarked on the Brava Tour immediately after the album release , on 23 August , with two sold - out shows at the Luna Park Arena . The album was succeeded by the release of the singles " Sin Querer Queriendo " with Mau y Ricky , and " Caliente " , with Brazilian drag queen Pabllo Vittar . The singles peaked at number 14 and 51 on the Billboard Argentina Hot 100 , respectively .	What was the name of your third studio album?	My third studio album was called "Brava".
From January to July , the singer continued with her Lali en Vivo tour , which visited Peru , Spain , Italy , Israel and the United States . In February , Esp ó sito was featured on Mau y Ricky and Karol G ' s remix of " Mi Mala " , with Becky G and Leslie Grace , and , in May , she teamed up with CD9 and Ana Mena for the remix of " Prohibido " . Preceded by the release of " 100 Grados " , in April , and " Besarte Mucho " , in July , the singer released her third studio album , Brava , in August 2018 . One week after , the album received a gold certification by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers for having sold ten thousand copies . Esp ó sito embarked on the Brava Tour immediately after the album release , on 23 August , with two sold - out shows at the Luna Park Arena . The album was succeeded by the release of the singles " Sin Querer Queriendo " with Mau y Ricky , and " Caliente " , with Brazilian drag queen Pabllo Vittar . The singles peaked at number 14 and 51 on the Billboard Argentina Hot 100 , respectively .	Which countries did your Lali en Vivo tour visit from January to July?	My Lali en Vivo tour visited Peru, Spain, Italy, Israel, and the United States.
From January to July , the singer continued with her Lali en Vivo tour , which visited Peru , Spain , Italy , Israel and the United States . In February , Esp ó sito was featured on Mau y Ricky and Karol G ' s remix of " Mi Mala " , with Becky G and Leslie Grace , and , in May , she teamed up with CD9 and Ana Mena for the remix of " Prohibido " . Preceded by the release of " 100 Grados " , in April , and " Besarte Mucho " , in July , the singer released her third studio album , Brava , in August 2018 . One week after , the album received a gold certification by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers for having sold ten thousand copies . Esp ó sito embarked on the Brava Tour immediately after the album release , on 23 August , with two sold - out shows at the Luna Park Arena . The album was succeeded by the release of the singles " Sin Querer Queriendo " with Mau y Ricky , and " Caliente " , with Brazilian drag queen Pabllo Vittar . The singles peaked at number 14 and 51 on the Billboard Argentina Hot 100 , respectively .	When was your third studio album "Brava" released?	My third studio album "Brava" was released in August 2018.
From January to July , the singer continued with her Lali en Vivo tour , which visited Peru , Spain , Italy , Israel and the United States . In February , Esp ó sito was featured on Mau y Ricky and Karol G ' s remix of " Mi Mala " , with Becky G and Leslie Grace , and , in May , she teamed up with CD9 and Ana Mena for the remix of " Prohibido " . Preceded by the release of " 100 Grados " , in April , and " Besarte Mucho " , in July , the singer released her third studio album , Brava , in August 2018 . One week after , the album received a gold certification by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers for having sold ten thousand copies . Esp ó sito embarked on the Brava Tour immediately after the album release , on 23 August , with two sold - out shows at the Luna Park Arena . The album was succeeded by the release of the singles " Sin Querer Queriendo " with Mau y Ricky , and " Caliente " , with Brazilian drag queen Pabllo Vittar . The singles peaked at number 14 and 51 on the Billboard Argentina Hot 100 , respectively .	How many copies of your album "Brava" were sold one week after its release?	One week after its release, my album "Brava" received a gold certification for having sold ten thousand copies.
From January to July , the singer continued with her Lali en Vivo tour , which visited Peru , Spain , Italy , Israel and the United States . In February , Esp ó sito was featured on Mau y Ricky and Karol G ' s remix of " Mi Mala " , with Becky G and Leslie Grace , and , in May , she teamed up with CD9 and Ana Mena for the remix of " Prohibido " . Preceded by the release of " 100 Grados " , in April , and " Besarte Mucho " , in July , the singer released her third studio album , Brava , in August 2018 . One week after , the album received a gold certification by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers for having sold ten thousand copies . Esp ó sito embarked on the Brava Tour immediately after the album release , on 23 August , with two sold - out shows at the Luna Park Arena . The album was succeeded by the release of the singles " Sin Querer Queriendo " with Mau y Ricky , and " Caliente " , with Brazilian drag queen Pabllo Vittar . The singles peaked at number 14 and 51 on the Billboard Argentina Hot 100 , respectively .	Who did you collaborate with for the remix of the song "Prohibido"?	I collaborated with CD9 and Ana Mena for the remix of the song "Prohibido".
Lali started off 2019 performing in Times Square , New York City , for Univision ' s Countdown Feliz 2019 . Early that year , the music video for " Lindo Pero Bruto " , her collaboration with Thal í a , was released . The singer received notable nominations for the Premio Lo Nuestro and the Billboard Latin Music Awards . During the first months of the year , Lali continued touring with Brava , which was certified four times platinum in Argentina . For the 21st Annual Gardel Awards , Lali won three awards , the most of the night , in the categories for Best Female Pop Album and Best Cover Design for Brava , and Song of the Year for " Sin Querer Queriendo " .	Where did you perform to start off 2019?	I performed in Times Square, New York City for Univision's Countdown Feliz 2019.
Lali started off 2019 performing in Times Square , New York City , for Univision ' s Countdown Feliz 2019 . Early that year , the music video for " Lindo Pero Bruto " , her collaboration with Thal í a , was released . The singer received notable nominations for the Premio Lo Nuestro and the Billboard Latin Music Awards . During the first months of the year , Lali continued touring with Brava , which was certified four times platinum in Argentina . For the 21st Annual Gardel Awards , Lali won three awards , the most of the night , in the categories for Best Female Pop Album and Best Cover Design for Brava , and Song of the Year for " Sin Querer Queriendo " .	Who did you collaborate with for the music video "Lindo Pero Bruto"?	I collaborated with Thalía for the music video "Lindo Pero Bruto".
Lali started off 2019 performing in Times Square , New York City , for Univision ' s Countdown Feliz 2019 . Early that year , the music video for " Lindo Pero Bruto " , her collaboration with Thal í a , was released . The singer received notable nominations for the Premio Lo Nuestro and the Billboard Latin Music Awards . During the first months of the year , Lali continued touring with Brava , which was certified four times platinum in Argentina . For the 21st Annual Gardel Awards , Lali won three awards , the most of the night , in the categories for Best Female Pop Album and Best Cover Design for Brava , and Song of the Year for " Sin Querer Queriendo " .	What notable nominations did you receive in 2019?	I received notable nominations for the Premios Lo Nuestro and the Billboard Latin Music Awards.
Lali started off 2019 performing in Times Square , New York City , for Univision ' s Countdown Feliz 2019 . Early that year , the music video for " Lindo Pero Bruto " , her collaboration with Thal í a , was released . The singer received notable nominations for the Premio Lo Nuestro and the Billboard Latin Music Awards . During the first months of the year , Lali continued touring with Brava , which was certified four times platinum in Argentina . For the 21st Annual Gardel Awards , Lali won three awards , the most of the night , in the categories for Best Female Pop Album and Best Cover Design for Brava , and Song of the Year for " Sin Querer Queriendo " .	How many times was your album "Brava" certified platinum in Argentina?	My album "Brava" was certified four times platinum in Argentina.
Lali started off 2019 performing in Times Square , New York City , for Univision ' s Countdown Feliz 2019 . Early that year , the music video for " Lindo Pero Bruto " , her collaboration with Thal í a , was released . The singer received notable nominations for the Premio Lo Nuestro and the Billboard Latin Music Awards . During the first months of the year , Lali continued touring with Brava , which was certified four times platinum in Argentina . For the 21st Annual Gardel Awards , Lali won three awards , the most of the night , in the categories for Best Female Pop Album and Best Cover Design for Brava , and Song of the Year for " Sin Querer Queriendo " .	What awards did you win at the 21st Annual Gardel Awards?	I won three awards at the 21st Annual Gardel Awards, including Best Female Pop Album, Best Cover Design for Brava, and Song of the Year for "Sin Querer Queriendo".
In the last months of 2019 , Lali took her Brava Tour to Europe , the United States and the Rock in Rio music festival in Brazil , where she also received a gold certification for " Caliente . " It was in these months that Lali officially kicked off her fourth music era : in October , she released her fourth studio album ' s lead single , " Laligera " , which peaked at number 24 on the Billboard Argentina Hot 100 ; in November , she released " Como As í " , which features boy band CNCO , with whom she co - hosted the 2019 Premios Juventud ceremony back in July .	Where did you take your Brava Tour in the last months of 2019?	I took my Brava Tour to Europe, the United States, and the Rock in Rio music festival in Brazil.
In the last months of 2019 , Lali took her Brava Tour to Europe , the United States and the Rock in Rio music festival in Brazil , where she also received a gold certification for " Caliente . " It was in these months that Lali officially kicked off her fourth music era : in October , she released her fourth studio album ' s lead single , " Laligera " , which peaked at number 24 on the Billboard Argentina Hot 100 ; in November , she released " Como As í " , which features boy band CNCO , with whom she co - hosted the 2019 Premios Juventud ceremony back in July .	What did you receive a gold certification for?	I received a gold certification for my song "Caliente".
In the last months of 2019 , Lali took her Brava Tour to Europe , the United States and the Rock in Rio music festival in Brazil , where she also received a gold certification for " Caliente . " It was in these months that Lali officially kicked off her fourth music era : in October , she released her fourth studio album ' s lead single , " Laligera " , which peaked at number 24 on the Billboard Argentina Hot 100 ; in November , she released " Como As í " , which features boy band CNCO , with whom she co - hosted the 2019 Premios Juventud ceremony back in July .	When did you officially kick off your fourth music era?	I officially kicked off my fourth music era in the last months of 2019.
In the last months of 2019 , Lali took her Brava Tour to Europe , the United States and the Rock in Rio music festival in Brazil , where she also received a gold certification for " Caliente . " It was in these months that Lali officially kicked off her fourth music era : in October , she released her fourth studio album ' s lead single , " Laligera " , which peaked at number 24 on the Billboard Argentina Hot 100 ; in November , she released " Como As í " , which features boy band CNCO , with whom she co - hosted the 2019 Premios Juventud ceremony back in July .	What is the name of your fourth studio album's lead single?	The name of my fourth studio album's lead single is "Laligera".
In the last months of 2019 , Lali took her Brava Tour to Europe , the United States and the Rock in Rio music festival in Brazil , where she also received a gold certification for " Caliente . " It was in these months that Lali officially kicked off her fourth music era : in October , she released her fourth studio album ' s lead single , " Laligera " , which peaked at number 24 on the Billboard Argentina Hot 100 ; in November , she released " Como As í " , which features boy band CNCO , with whom she co - hosted the 2019 Premios Juventud ceremony back in July .	Who did you co-host the 2019 Premios Juventud ceremony with?	I co-hosted the 2019 Premios Juventud ceremony with the boy band CNCO.
Esp ó sito has been the cover model for magazines such as Billboard , Galore , Vogue Latin America , Caras , OnMag , Las Rosas , Twees , Seventeen , Cosmopolitan , Luz , Viva , Watt , Nueva , Upss and Fack , among others .	Which magazines have you been the cover model for?	I have been the cover model for magazines such as Billboard, Galore, Vogue Latin America, Caras, OnMag, Las Rosas, Twees, Seventeen, Cosmopolitan, Luz, Viva, Watt, Nueva, Upss and Fack, among others.
Esp ó sito is part of a feminist group of Argentine actresses and singers , such as Jimena Bar ó n , Griselda Siciliani , Carla Peterson , Florencia Pe ñ a and Florencia de la V , among others . Esp ó sito has declared herself in favor of the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill in Argentina , where abortion was still illegal at the moment . The bill proposed that an abortion may be performed during the first 14 weeks of pregnancy , with no requirements other than the woman ' s desire . The bill was approved in 2020 .	Who are you?	I am a member of a feminist group of Argentine actresses and singers.
Esp ó sito is part of a feminist group of Argentine actresses and singers , such as Jimena Bar ó n , Griselda Siciliani , Carla Peterson , Florencia Pe ñ a and Florencia de la V , among others . Esp ó sito has declared herself in favor of the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill in Argentina , where abortion was still illegal at the moment . The bill proposed that an abortion may be performed during the first 14 weeks of pregnancy , with no requirements other than the woman ' s desire . The bill was approved in 2020 .	Who are some other members of the feminist group that you are a part of?	Some other members of the feminist group that I am a part of are Jimena Bar ó n, Griselda Siciliani, Carla Peterson, Florencia Pe ñ a, and Florencia de V.
Esp ó sito is part of a feminist group of Argentine actresses and singers , such as Jimena Bar ó n , Griselda Siciliani , Carla Peterson , Florencia Pe ñ a and Florencia de la V , among others . Esp ó sito has declared herself in favor of the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill in Argentina , where abortion was still illegal at the moment . The bill proposed that an abortion may be performed during the first 14 weeks of pregnancy , with no requirements other than the woman ' s desire . The bill was approved in 2020 .	What is your stance on the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill in Argentina?	I am in favor of the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill.
Esp ó sito is part of a feminist group of Argentine actresses and singers , such as Jimena Bar ó n , Griselda Siciliani , Carla Peterson , Florencia Pe ñ a and Florencia de la V , among others . Esp ó sito has declared herself in favor of the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill in Argentina , where abortion was still illegal at the moment . The bill proposed that an abortion may be performed during the first 14 weeks of pregnancy , with no requirements other than the woman ' s desire . The bill was approved in 2020 .	What does the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill propose in Argentina?	The Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill proposes that an abortion may be performed during the first 14 weeks of pregnancy, with no requirements other than the woman's desire.
Esp ó sito is part of a feminist group of Argentine actresses and singers , such as Jimena Bar ó n , Griselda Siciliani , Carla Peterson , Florencia Pe ñ a and Florencia de la V , among others . Esp ó sito has declared herself in favor of the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill in Argentina , where abortion was still illegal at the moment . The bill proposed that an abortion may be performed during the first 14 weeks of pregnancy , with no requirements other than the woman ' s desire . The bill was approved in 2020 .	When was the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill approved?	The Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill was approved in 2020.
