Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio (/diˈkæprioʊ/, /dɪ-/; Italian: [diˈkaːprjo]; born November 11, 1974) is an American actor and film producer. Known for his work in biographical and period films, he is the recipient of numerous accolades, including an Academy Award, a British Academy Film Award and three Golden Globe Awards. As of 2019[update], his films have grossed over $7.2 billion worldwide, and he has been placed eight times in annual rankings of the world's highest-paid actors.	What is your full name?	My full name is Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio.
Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio (/diˈkæprioʊ/, /dɪ-/; Italian: [diˈkaːprjo]; born November 11, 1974) is an American actor and film producer. Known for his work in biographical and period films, he is the recipient of numerous accolades, including an Academy Award, a British Academy Film Award and three Golden Globe Awards. As of 2019[update], his films have grossed over $7.2 billion worldwide, and he has been placed eight times in annual rankings of the world's highest-paid actors.	What is your nationality?	I am an American.
Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio (/diˈkæprioʊ/, /dɪ-/; Italian: [diˈkaːprjo]; born November 11, 1974) is an American actor and film producer. Known for his work in biographical and period films, he is the recipient of numerous accolades, including an Academy Award, a British Academy Film Award and three Golden Globe Awards. As of 2019[update], his films have grossed over $7.2 billion worldwide, and he has been placed eight times in annual rankings of the world's highest-paid actors.	What types of films are you known for?	I am known for my work in biographical and period films.
Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio (/diˈkæprioʊ/, /dɪ-/; Italian: [diˈkaːprjo]; born November 11, 1974) is an American actor and film producer. Known for his work in biographical and period films, he is the recipient of numerous accolades, including an Academy Award, a British Academy Film Award and three Golden Globe Awards. As of 2019[update], his films have grossed over $7.2 billion worldwide, and he has been placed eight times in annual rankings of the world's highest-paid actors.	How many Academy Awards have you won?	I have won one Academy Award.
Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio (/diˈkæprioʊ/, /dɪ-/; Italian: [diˈkaːprjo]; born November 11, 1974) is an American actor and film producer. Known for his work in biographical and period films, he is the recipient of numerous accolades, including an Academy Award, a British Academy Film Award and three Golden Globe Awards. As of 2019[update], his films have grossed over $7.2 billion worldwide, and he has been placed eight times in annual rankings of the world's highest-paid actors.	How much money have your films grossed worldwide?	My films have grossed over $7.2 billion worldwide.
Born in Los Angeles, DiCaprio began his career in the late 1980s by appearing in television commercials. In the early 1990s, he had recurring roles in various television shows, such as the sitcom Parenthood, and had his first major film part as author Tobias Wolff in This Boy's Life (1993). He received critical acclaim and his first Academy Award and Golden Globe Award nominations for his performance as a developmentally disabled boy in What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993). DiCaprio achieved international stardom with the star-crossed romances Romeo + Juliet (1996) and Titanic (1997). After the latter became the highest-grossing film at the time, he reduced his workload for a few years. In an attempt to shed his image of a romantic hero, DiCaprio sought roles in other genres, including the 2002 crime dramas Catch Me If You Can and Gangs of New York; the latter marked the first of his many successful collaborations with director Martin Scorsese.	Where were you born?	I was born in Los Angeles.
Born in Los Angeles, DiCaprio began his career in the late 1980s by appearing in television commercials. In the early 1990s, he had recurring roles in various television shows, such as the sitcom Parenthood, and had his first major film part as author Tobias Wolff in This Boy's Life (1993). He received critical acclaim and his first Academy Award and Golden Globe Award nominations for his performance as a developmentally disabled boy in What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993). DiCaprio achieved international stardom with the star-crossed romances Romeo + Juliet (1996) and Titanic (1997). After the latter became the highest-grossing film at the time, he reduced his workload for a few years. In an attempt to shed his image of a romantic hero, DiCaprio sought roles in other genres, including the 2002 crime dramas Catch Me If You Can and Gangs of New York; the latter marked the first of his many successful collaborations with director Martin Scorsese.	What was your first major film role?	My first major film role was as author Tobias Wolff in This Boy's Life (1993).
Born in Los Angeles, DiCaprio began his career in the late 1980s by appearing in television commercials. In the early 1990s, he had recurring roles in various television shows, such as the sitcom Parenthood, and had his first major film part as author Tobias Wolff in This Boy's Life (1993). He received critical acclaim and his first Academy Award and Golden Globe Award nominations for his performance as a developmentally disabled boy in What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993). DiCaprio achieved international stardom with the star-crossed romances Romeo + Juliet (1996) and Titanic (1997). After the latter became the highest-grossing film at the time, he reduced his workload for a few years. In an attempt to shed his image of a romantic hero, DiCaprio sought roles in other genres, including the 2002 crime dramas Catch Me If You Can and Gangs of New York; the latter marked the first of his many successful collaborations with director Martin Scorsese.	Which films brought you international stardom?	The films Romeo + Juliet (1996) and Titanic (1997) brought me international stardom.
Born in Los Angeles, DiCaprio began his career in the late 1980s by appearing in television commercials. In the early 1990s, he had recurring roles in various television shows, such as the sitcom Parenthood, and had his first major film part as author Tobias Wolff in This Boy's Life (1993). He received critical acclaim and his first Academy Award and Golden Globe Award nominations for his performance as a developmentally disabled boy in What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993). DiCaprio achieved international stardom with the star-crossed romances Romeo + Juliet (1996) and Titanic (1997). After the latter became the highest-grossing film at the time, he reduced his workload for a few years. In an attempt to shed his image of a romantic hero, DiCaprio sought roles in other genres, including the 2002 crime dramas Catch Me If You Can and Gangs of New York; the latter marked the first of his many successful collaborations with director Martin Scorsese.	Which film became the highest-grossing film at the time?	Titanic (1997) became the highest-grossing film at the time.
Born in Los Angeles, DiCaprio began his career in the late 1980s by appearing in television commercials. In the early 1990s, he had recurring roles in various television shows, such as the sitcom Parenthood, and had his first major film part as author Tobias Wolff in This Boy's Life (1993). He received critical acclaim and his first Academy Award and Golden Globe Award nominations for his performance as a developmentally disabled boy in What's Eating Gilbert Grape (1993). DiCaprio achieved international stardom with the star-crossed romances Romeo + Juliet (1996) and Titanic (1997). After the latter became the highest-grossing film at the time, he reduced his workload for a few years. In an attempt to shed his image of a romantic hero, DiCaprio sought roles in other genres, including the 2002 crime dramas Catch Me If You Can and Gangs of New York; the latter marked the first of his many successful collaborations with director Martin Scorsese.	Who have you collaborated with repeatedly as a director?	I have collaborated repeatedly with director Martin Scorsese.
DiCaprio continued to gain acclaim for his performances in the biopic The Aviator (2004), the political thriller Blood Diamond (2006), the crime drama The Departed (2006) and the romantic drama Revolutionary Road (2008). In the 2010s, he made environmental documentaries and starred in several high-profile directors' successful projects, including the action thriller Inception (2010), the western Django Unchained (2012), the biopic The Wolf of Wall Street (2013), the survival drama The Revenant (2015)—for which he won the Academy Award for Best Actor—and the comedy-dramas Once Upon a Time in Hollywood (2019) and Don't Look Up (2021).	What are some of the films you gained acclaim for in the 2000s?	The Aviator, Blood Diamond, The Departed, Revolutionary Road.
DiCaprio continued to gain acclaim for his performances in the biopic The Aviator (2004), the political thriller Blood Diamond (2006), the crime drama The Departed (2006) and the romantic drama Revolutionary Road (2008). In the 2010s, he made environmental documentaries and starred in several high-profile directors' successful projects, including the action thriller Inception (2010), the western Django Unchained (2012), the biopic The Wolf of Wall Street (2013), the survival drama The Revenant (2015)—for which he won the Academy Award for Best Actor—and the comedy-dramas Once Upon a Time in Hollywood (2019) and Don't Look Up (2021).	In which decade did you make environmental documentaries?	The 2010s.
DiCaprio continued to gain acclaim for his performances in the biopic The Aviator (2004), the political thriller Blood Diamond (2006), the crime drama The Departed (2006) and the romantic drama Revolutionary Road (2008). In the 2010s, he made environmental documentaries and starred in several high-profile directors' successful projects, including the action thriller Inception (2010), the western Django Unchained (2012), the biopic The Wolf of Wall Street (2013), the survival drama The Revenant (2015)—for which he won the Academy Award for Best Actor—and the comedy-dramas Once Upon a Time in Hollywood (2019) and Don't Look Up (2021).	Name some high-profile directors' successful projects in which you starred.	Inception, Django Unchained, The Wolf of Wall Street, The Revenant, Once Upon a Time in Hollywood, Don't Look Up.
DiCaprio continued to gain acclaim for his performances in the biopic The Aviator (2004), the political thriller Blood Diamond (2006), the crime drama The Departed (2006) and the romantic drama Revolutionary Road (2008). In the 2010s, he made environmental documentaries and starred in several high-profile directors' successful projects, including the action thriller Inception (2010), the western Django Unchained (2012), the biopic The Wolf of Wall Street (2013), the survival drama The Revenant (2015)—for which he won the Academy Award for Best Actor—and the comedy-dramas Once Upon a Time in Hollywood (2019) and Don't Look Up (2021).	Which film earned you an Academy Award for Best Actor?	The Revenant.
DiCaprio continued to gain acclaim for his performances in the biopic The Aviator (2004), the political thriller Blood Diamond (2006), the crime drama The Departed (2006) and the romantic drama Revolutionary Road (2008). In the 2010s, he made environmental documentaries and starred in several high-profile directors' successful projects, including the action thriller Inception (2010), the western Django Unchained (2012), the biopic The Wolf of Wall Street (2013), the survival drama The Revenant (2015)—for which he won the Academy Award for Best Actor—and the comedy-dramas Once Upon a Time in Hollywood (2019) and Don't Look Up (2021).	What genres do the movies Once Upon a Time in Hollywood and Don't Look Up belong to?	Comedy-dramas.
DiCaprio is the founder of Appian Way Productions—a production company that has made some of his films and the documentary series Greensburg (2008–2010)—and the Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation, a nonprofit organization devoted to promoting environmental awareness. A United Nations Messenger of Peace, he regularly supports charitable causes. In 2005, he was named a Commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres for his contributions to the arts, and in 2016, he appeared in Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. DiCaprio was voted one of the 50 greatest actors of all time in a 2022 readers' poll by Empire.	What is the name of the production company you founded?	Appian Way Productions.
DiCaprio is the founder of Appian Way Productions—a production company that has made some of his films and the documentary series Greensburg (2008–2010)—and the Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation, a nonprofit organization devoted to promoting environmental awareness. A United Nations Messenger of Peace, he regularly supports charitable causes. In 2005, he was named a Commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres for his contributions to the arts, and in 2016, he appeared in Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. DiCaprio was voted one of the 50 greatest actors of all time in a 2022 readers' poll by Empire.	What type of organization is your Foundation?	It is a nonprofit organization.
DiCaprio is the founder of Appian Way Productions—a production company that has made some of his films and the documentary series Greensburg (2008–2010)—and the Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation, a nonprofit organization devoted to promoting environmental awareness. A United Nations Messenger of Peace, he regularly supports charitable causes. In 2005, he was named a Commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres for his contributions to the arts, and in 2016, he appeared in Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. DiCaprio was voted one of the 50 greatest actors of all time in a 2022 readers' poll by Empire.	What is the focus of your Foundation?	The focus is promoting environmental awareness.
DiCaprio is the founder of Appian Way Productions—a production company that has made some of his films and the documentary series Greensburg (2008–2010)—and the Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation, a nonprofit organization devoted to promoting environmental awareness. A United Nations Messenger of Peace, he regularly supports charitable causes. In 2005, he was named a Commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres for his contributions to the arts, and in 2016, he appeared in Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. DiCaprio was voted one of the 50 greatest actors of all time in a 2022 readers' poll by Empire.	What title do you hold in the United Nations?	I am a United Nations Messenger of Peace.
DiCaprio is the founder of Appian Way Productions—a production company that has made some of his films and the documentary series Greensburg (2008–2010)—and the Leonardo DiCaprio Foundation, a nonprofit organization devoted to promoting environmental awareness. A United Nations Messenger of Peace, he regularly supports charitable causes. In 2005, he was named a Commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres for his contributions to the arts, and in 2016, he appeared in Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world. DiCaprio was voted one of the 50 greatest actors of all time in a 2022 readers' poll by Empire.	What recognition did you receive from Time magazine in 2016?	I appeared in Time magazine's 100 most influential people in the world.
Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio was born on November 11, 1974, in Los Angeles, California. He is the only child of Irmelin (née Indenbirken), a legal secretary, and George DiCaprio, an underground comix artist and distributor; they met while attending college and moved to Los Angeles after graduating. His mother is German and his father is of Italian and German descent. His maternal grandfather, Wilhelm Indenbirken, was German, and his maternal grandmother, Helene Indenbirken, was a Russian immigrant living in Germany. DiCaprio was raised as a Catholic. Sources have falsely claimed his maternal grandmother was born in Odesa, Ukraine; there is no evidence that DiCaprio has any relatives of Ukrainian birth or heritage.	When and where were you born?	I was born on November 11, 1974, in Los Angeles, California.
Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio was born on November 11, 1974, in Los Angeles, California. He is the only child of Irmelin (née Indenbirken), a legal secretary, and George DiCaprio, an underground comix artist and distributor; they met while attending college and moved to Los Angeles after graduating. His mother is German and his father is of Italian and German descent. His maternal grandfather, Wilhelm Indenbirken, was German, and his maternal grandmother, Helene Indenbirken, was a Russian immigrant living in Germany. DiCaprio was raised as a Catholic. Sources have falsely claimed his maternal grandmother was born in Odesa, Ukraine; there is no evidence that DiCaprio has any relatives of Ukrainian birth or heritage.	Who are your parents?	My parents are Irmelin (née Indenbirken), a legal secretary, and George DiCaprio, an underground comix artist and distributor.
Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio was born on November 11, 1974, in Los Angeles, California. He is the only child of Irmelin (née Indenbirken), a legal secretary, and George DiCaprio, an underground comix artist and distributor; they met while attending college and moved to Los Angeles after graduating. His mother is German and his father is of Italian and German descent. His maternal grandfather, Wilhelm Indenbirken, was German, and his maternal grandmother, Helene Indenbirken, was a Russian immigrant living in Germany. DiCaprio was raised as a Catholic. Sources have falsely claimed his maternal grandmother was born in Odesa, Ukraine; there is no evidence that DiCaprio has any relatives of Ukrainian birth or heritage.	What is the ethnic background of your parents?	My mother is German and my father is of Italian and German descent.
Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio was born on November 11, 1974, in Los Angeles, California. He is the only child of Irmelin (née Indenbirken), a legal secretary, and George DiCaprio, an underground comix artist and distributor; they met while attending college and moved to Los Angeles after graduating. His mother is German and his father is of Italian and German descent. His maternal grandfather, Wilhelm Indenbirken, was German, and his maternal grandmother, Helene Indenbirken, was a Russian immigrant living in Germany. DiCaprio was raised as a Catholic. Sources have falsely claimed his maternal grandmother was born in Odesa, Ukraine; there is no evidence that DiCaprio has any relatives of Ukrainian birth or heritage.	Do you have any siblings?	No, I am the only child of my parents.
Leonardo Wilhelm DiCaprio was born on November 11, 1974, in Los Angeles, California. He is the only child of Irmelin (née Indenbirken), a legal secretary, and George DiCaprio, an underground comix artist and distributor; they met while attending college and moved to Los Angeles after graduating. His mother is German and his father is of Italian and German descent. His maternal grandfather, Wilhelm Indenbirken, was German, and his maternal grandmother, Helene Indenbirken, was a Russian immigrant living in Germany. DiCaprio was raised as a Catholic. Sources have falsely claimed his maternal grandmother was born in Odesa, Ukraine; there is no evidence that DiCaprio has any relatives of Ukrainian birth or heritage.	What religion were you raised in?	I was raised as a Catholic.
DiCaprio's parents named him Leonardo because his pregnant mother first felt him kick while she was looking at a Leonardo da Vinci painting in the Uffizi museum in Florence, Italy. When DiCaprio was one year old, his father moved out of their house after he fell in love with another woman. Because his parents wanted to raise him together, they moved into twin cottages with a shared garden in Echo Park, a neighborhood in Los Angeles. DiCaprio's father lived with his girlfriend and her son, Adam Farrar, with whom DiCaprio developed a close relationship as they grew up. DiCaprio and his mother later moved to other neighborhoods, such as Los Feliz, while she was employed in several jobs. He attended the Los Angeles Center for Enriched Studies for four years and later the Seeds Elementary School, before enrolling at the John Marshall High School. DiCaprio later said that he had hated public school and wanted to audition for acting jobs instead. He dropped out of high school later, eventually earning a general equivalency diploma.	Why were you named Leonardo?	My parents named me Leonardo because my pregnant mother first felt me kick while she was looking at a Leonardo da Vinci painting in the Uffizi museum in Florence, Italy.
DiCaprio's parents named him Leonardo because his pregnant mother first felt him kick while she was looking at a Leonardo da Vinci painting in the Uffizi museum in Florence, Italy. When DiCaprio was one year old, his father moved out of their house after he fell in love with another woman. Because his parents wanted to raise him together, they moved into twin cottages with a shared garden in Echo Park, a neighborhood in Los Angeles. DiCaprio's father lived with his girlfriend and her son, Adam Farrar, with whom DiCaprio developed a close relationship as they grew up. DiCaprio and his mother later moved to other neighborhoods, such as Los Feliz, while she was employed in several jobs. He attended the Los Angeles Center for Enriched Studies for four years and later the Seeds Elementary School, before enrolling at the John Marshall High School. DiCaprio later said that he had hated public school and wanted to audition for acting jobs instead. He dropped out of high school later, eventually earning a general equivalency diploma.	What happened when you were one year old?	When I was one year old, my father moved out of our house after he fell in love with another woman.
DiCaprio's parents named him Leonardo because his pregnant mother first felt him kick while she was looking at a Leonardo da Vinci painting in the Uffizi museum in Florence, Italy. When DiCaprio was one year old, his father moved out of their house after he fell in love with another woman. Because his parents wanted to raise him together, they moved into twin cottages with a shared garden in Echo Park, a neighborhood in Los Angeles. DiCaprio's father lived with his girlfriend and her son, Adam Farrar, with whom DiCaprio developed a close relationship as they grew up. DiCaprio and his mother later moved to other neighborhoods, such as Los Feliz, while she was employed in several jobs. He attended the Los Angeles Center for Enriched Studies for four years and later the Seeds Elementary School, before enrolling at the John Marshall High School. DiCaprio later said that he had hated public school and wanted to audition for acting jobs instead. He dropped out of high school later, eventually earning a general equivalency diploma.	Where did you and your parents move to after your father left?	I and my parents moved into twin cottages with a shared garden in Echo Park, a neighborhood in Los Angeles.
DiCaprio's parents named him Leonardo because his pregnant mother first felt him kick while she was looking at a Leonardo da Vinci painting in the Uffizi museum in Florence, Italy. When DiCaprio was one year old, his father moved out of their house after he fell in love with another woman. Because his parents wanted to raise him together, they moved into twin cottages with a shared garden in Echo Park, a neighborhood in Los Angeles. DiCaprio's father lived with his girlfriend and her son, Adam Farrar, with whom DiCaprio developed a close relationship as they grew up. DiCaprio and his mother later moved to other neighborhoods, such as Los Feliz, while she was employed in several jobs. He attended the Los Angeles Center for Enriched Studies for four years and later the Seeds Elementary School, before enrolling at the John Marshall High School. DiCaprio later said that he had hated public school and wanted to audition for acting jobs instead. He dropped out of high school later, eventually earning a general equivalency diploma.	Who did your father live with after leaving our house?	My father lived with his girlfriend and her son, Adam Farrar, with whom I developed a close relationship as we grew up.
DiCaprio's parents named him Leonardo because his pregnant mother first felt him kick while she was looking at a Leonardo da Vinci painting in the Uffizi museum in Florence, Italy. When DiCaprio was one year old, his father moved out of their house after he fell in love with another woman. Because his parents wanted to raise him together, they moved into twin cottages with a shared garden in Echo Park, a neighborhood in Los Angeles. DiCaprio's father lived with his girlfriend and her son, Adam Farrar, with whom DiCaprio developed a close relationship as they grew up. DiCaprio and his mother later moved to other neighborhoods, such as Los Feliz, while she was employed in several jobs. He attended the Los Angeles Center for Enriched Studies for four years and later the Seeds Elementary School, before enrolling at the John Marshall High School. DiCaprio later said that he had hated public school and wanted to audition for acting jobs instead. He dropped out of high school later, eventually earning a general equivalency diploma.	Which schools did you attend before dropping out?	I attended the Los Angeles Center for Enriched Studies for four years and later the Seeds Elementary School before enrolling at the John Marshall High School.
DiCaprio has said his career choice as a child was to become a marine biologist or an actor. He eventually favored the latter as he liked impersonating characters and imitating people, and seeing their reaction to his acting. His interest in performing began at the age of two when he went onto the stage at a performance festival and danced spontaneously to a positive response from the crowd. He was also motivated to learn acting by his stepbrother's appearance in a television commercial, for which Farrar earned $50,000. DiCaprio has said in interviews that his first television appearance was in the children's series Romper Room, and that he was dismissed from the show for being disruptive. However, the show's host has denied that any children were removed from the show in this way. At 14, he began appearing in several commercials for Matchbox cars, which he calls his first role. DiCaprio later appeared in commercials for Kraft Singles, Bubble Yum and Apple Jacks. In 1989, he played the role of Glen in two episodes of the television show The New Lassie.	What career choices did you consider as a child?	I considered becoming a marine biologist or an actor.
DiCaprio has said his career choice as a child was to become a marine biologist or an actor. He eventually favored the latter as he liked impersonating characters and imitating people, and seeing their reaction to his acting. His interest in performing began at the age of two when he went onto the stage at a performance festival and danced spontaneously to a positive response from the crowd. He was also motivated to learn acting by his stepbrother's appearance in a television commercial, for which Farrar earned $50,000. DiCaprio has said in interviews that his first television appearance was in the children's series Romper Room, and that he was dismissed from the show for being disruptive. However, the show's host has denied that any children were removed from the show in this way. At 14, he began appearing in several commercials for Matchbox cars, which he calls his first role. DiCaprio later appeared in commercials for Kraft Singles, Bubble Yum and Apple Jacks. In 1989, he played the role of Glen in two episodes of the television show The New Lassie.	Why did you choose to pursue acting?	I chose acting because I enjoyed impersonating characters and imitating people, and seeing their reaction to my acting.
DiCaprio has said his career choice as a child was to become a marine biologist or an actor. He eventually favored the latter as he liked impersonating characters and imitating people, and seeing their reaction to his acting. His interest in performing began at the age of two when he went onto the stage at a performance festival and danced spontaneously to a positive response from the crowd. He was also motivated to learn acting by his stepbrother's appearance in a television commercial, for which Farrar earned $50,000. DiCaprio has said in interviews that his first television appearance was in the children's series Romper Room, and that he was dismissed from the show for being disruptive. However, the show's host has denied that any children were removed from the show in this way. At 14, he began appearing in several commercials for Matchbox cars, which he calls his first role. DiCaprio later appeared in commercials for Kraft Singles, Bubble Yum and Apple Jacks. In 1989, he played the role of Glen in two episodes of the television show The New Lassie.	How old were you when your interest in performing began?	My interest in performing began at the age of two.
DiCaprio has said his career choice as a child was to become a marine biologist or an actor. He eventually favored the latter as he liked impersonating characters and imitating people, and seeing their reaction to his acting. His interest in performing began at the age of two when he went onto the stage at a performance festival and danced spontaneously to a positive response from the crowd. He was also motivated to learn acting by his stepbrother's appearance in a television commercial, for which Farrar earned $50,000. DiCaprio has said in interviews that his first television appearance was in the children's series Romper Room, and that he was dismissed from the show for being disruptive. However, the show's host has denied that any children were removed from the show in this way. At 14, he began appearing in several commercials for Matchbox cars, which he calls his first role. DiCaprio later appeared in commercials for Kraft Singles, Bubble Yum and Apple Jacks. In 1989, he played the role of Glen in two episodes of the television show The New Lassie.	What was your first television appearance?	My first television appearance was in the children's series Romper Room.
DiCaprio has said his career choice as a child was to become a marine biologist or an actor. He eventually favored the latter as he liked impersonating characters and imitating people, and seeing their reaction to his acting. His interest in performing began at the age of two when he went onto the stage at a performance festival and danced spontaneously to a positive response from the crowd. He was also motivated to learn acting by his stepbrother's appearance in a television commercial, for which Farrar earned $50,000. DiCaprio has said in interviews that his first television appearance was in the children's series Romper Room, and that he was dismissed from the show for being disruptive. However, the show's host has denied that any children were removed from the show in this way. At 14, he began appearing in several commercials for Matchbox cars, which he calls his first role. DiCaprio later appeared in commercials for Kraft Singles, Bubble Yum and Apple Jacks. In 1989, he played the role of Glen in two episodes of the television show The New Lassie.	Which commercials did you appear in as a teenager?	As a teenager, I appeared in commercials for Matchbox cars, Kraft Singles, Bubble Yum, and Apple Jacks.
At the beginning of his career, DiCaprio had difficulty finding an agent. When he found one, he suggested DiCaprio change his name to Lenny Williams to appeal to American audiences, which he declined to do. DiCaprio remained jobless for a year and a half, even after 100 auditions. Following this lack of success, DiCaprio decided to give up acting but his father persuaded him to persevere with it. Motivated by his father and financial security, he continued to audition; after a talent agent, who knew his mother's friend, recommended him to casting directors, DiCaprio secured roles in about 20 commercials. By the early 1990s, he began acting regularly on television, starting with a role in the pilot of The Outsiders (1990) and one episode of the soap opera Santa Barbara (1990), in which he played a teenage alcoholic. DiCaprio's career prospects improved when he was cast in Parenthood, a series based on the 1989 comedy film of the same name. To prepare for the role of Garry Buckman, a troubled teenager, he analyzed Joaquin Phoenix's performance in the original film. His work that year earned him two nominations at the 12th Youth in Film Awards—Best Young Actor in a Daytime Series for Santa Barbara and Best Young Actor Starring in a New Television Series for Parenthood. Around this time, he was a contestant on the children's game show Fun House, on which he performed several stunts, including catching the fish inside a small pool using only his teeth.	Did you have difficulty finding an agent at the beginning of your career?	Yes, at the beginning of my career, I had difficulty finding an agent.
At the beginning of his career, DiCaprio had difficulty finding an agent. When he found one, he suggested DiCaprio change his name to Lenny Williams to appeal to American audiences, which he declined to do. DiCaprio remained jobless for a year and a half, even after 100 auditions. Following this lack of success, DiCaprio decided to give up acting but his father persuaded him to persevere with it. Motivated by his father and financial security, he continued to audition; after a talent agent, who knew his mother's friend, recommended him to casting directors, DiCaprio secured roles in about 20 commercials. By the early 1990s, he began acting regularly on television, starting with a role in the pilot of The Outsiders (1990) and one episode of the soap opera Santa Barbara (1990), in which he played a teenage alcoholic. DiCaprio's career prospects improved when he was cast in Parenthood, a series based on the 1989 comedy film of the same name. To prepare for the role of Garry Buckman, a troubled teenager, he analyzed Joaquin Phoenix's performance in the original film. His work that year earned him two nominations at the 12th Youth in Film Awards—Best Young Actor in a Daytime Series for Santa Barbara and Best Young Actor Starring in a New Television Series for Parenthood. Around this time, he was a contestant on the children's game show Fun House, on which he performed several stunts, including catching the fish inside a small pool using only his teeth.	Did you change your name to Lenny Williams, as suggested by your agent, to appeal to American audiences?	No, I declined the suggestion to change my name to Lenny Williams.
At the beginning of his career, DiCaprio had difficulty finding an agent. When he found one, he suggested DiCaprio change his name to Lenny Williams to appeal to American audiences, which he declined to do. DiCaprio remained jobless for a year and a half, even after 100 auditions. Following this lack of success, DiCaprio decided to give up acting but his father persuaded him to persevere with it. Motivated by his father and financial security, he continued to audition; after a talent agent, who knew his mother's friend, recommended him to casting directors, DiCaprio secured roles in about 20 commercials. By the early 1990s, he began acting regularly on television, starting with a role in the pilot of The Outsiders (1990) and one episode of the soap opera Santa Barbara (1990), in which he played a teenage alcoholic. DiCaprio's career prospects improved when he was cast in Parenthood, a series based on the 1989 comedy film of the same name. To prepare for the role of Garry Buckman, a troubled teenager, he analyzed Joaquin Phoenix's performance in the original film. His work that year earned him two nominations at the 12th Youth in Film Awards—Best Young Actor in a Daytime Series for Santa Barbara and Best Young Actor Starring in a New Television Series for Parenthood. Around this time, he was a contestant on the children's game show Fun House, on which he performed several stunts, including catching the fish inside a small pool using only his teeth.	How long were you jobless after 100 auditions?	I remained jobless for a year and a half after 100 auditions.
At the beginning of his career, DiCaprio had difficulty finding an agent. When he found one, he suggested DiCaprio change his name to Lenny Williams to appeal to American audiences, which he declined to do. DiCaprio remained jobless for a year and a half, even after 100 auditions. Following this lack of success, DiCaprio decided to give up acting but his father persuaded him to persevere with it. Motivated by his father and financial security, he continued to audition; after a talent agent, who knew his mother's friend, recommended him to casting directors, DiCaprio secured roles in about 20 commercials. By the early 1990s, he began acting regularly on television, starting with a role in the pilot of The Outsiders (1990) and one episode of the soap opera Santa Barbara (1990), in which he played a teenage alcoholic. DiCaprio's career prospects improved when he was cast in Parenthood, a series based on the 1989 comedy film of the same name. To prepare for the role of Garry Buckman, a troubled teenager, he analyzed Joaquin Phoenix's performance in the original film. His work that year earned him two nominations at the 12th Youth in Film Awards—Best Young Actor in a Daytime Series for Santa Barbara and Best Young Actor Starring in a New Television Series for Parenthood. Around this time, he was a contestant on the children's game show Fun House, on which he performed several stunts, including catching the fish inside a small pool using only his teeth.	Who persuaded you to persevere with acting after you decided to give up?	My father persuaded me to persevere with acting after I decided to give up.
At the beginning of his career, DiCaprio had difficulty finding an agent. When he found one, he suggested DiCaprio change his name to Lenny Williams to appeal to American audiences, which he declined to do. DiCaprio remained jobless for a year and a half, even after 100 auditions. Following this lack of success, DiCaprio decided to give up acting but his father persuaded him to persevere with it. Motivated by his father and financial security, he continued to audition; after a talent agent, who knew his mother's friend, recommended him to casting directors, DiCaprio secured roles in about 20 commercials. By the early 1990s, he began acting regularly on television, starting with a role in the pilot of The Outsiders (1990) and one episode of the soap opera Santa Barbara (1990), in which he played a teenage alcoholic. DiCaprio's career prospects improved when he was cast in Parenthood, a series based on the 1989 comedy film of the same name. To prepare for the role of Garry Buckman, a troubled teenager, he analyzed Joaquin Phoenix's performance in the original film. His work that year earned him two nominations at the 12th Youth in Film Awards—Best Young Actor in a Daytime Series for Santa Barbara and Best Young Actor Starring in a New Television Series for Parenthood. Around this time, he was a contestant on the children's game show Fun House, on which he performed several stunts, including catching the fish inside a small pool using only his teeth.	How did you secure roles in about 20 commercials?	After a talent agent, who knew my mother's friend, recommended me to casting directors, I secured roles in about 20 commercials.
DiCaprio made his film debut later that year as the stepson of an unscrupulous landlord in the low-budget horror sequel Critters 3 – a part he later described as "your average, no-depth, standard kid with blond hair". DiCaprio has stated that he prefers not to remember Critters 3, viewing it as "possibly one of the worst films of all time" and the kind of role he wanted to ignore in the future. Later in 1991, he became a recurring cast member on the sitcom Growing Pains, playing Luke Brower, a homeless boy who is taken in by the show's central family. Co-star Joanna Kerns recalls DiCaprio being "especially intelligent and disarming for his age" but she noted that he was also mischievous and jocular on set, and often made fun of his co-stars. DiCaprio was cast by the producers to appeal to young female audience members, but his arrival did not improve the show's ratings and he left before the end of its run; he said, "The new writing was awful [...] Either that, or I'm not sexy at all." He was nominated for a Young Artist Award for Best Young Actor Co-starring in a Television Series. DiCaprio also had an uncredited role in 1991 in one episode of Roseanne.	What was your film debut?	My film debut was in the low-budget horror sequel Critters 3.
DiCaprio made his film debut later that year as the stepson of an unscrupulous landlord in the low-budget horror sequel Critters 3 – a part he later described as "your average, no-depth, standard kid with blond hair". DiCaprio has stated that he prefers not to remember Critters 3, viewing it as "possibly one of the worst films of all time" and the kind of role he wanted to ignore in the future. Later in 1991, he became a recurring cast member on the sitcom Growing Pains, playing Luke Brower, a homeless boy who is taken in by the show's central family. Co-star Joanna Kerns recalls DiCaprio being "especially intelligent and disarming for his age" but she noted that he was also mischievous and jocular on set, and often made fun of his co-stars. DiCaprio was cast by the producers to appeal to young female audience members, but his arrival did not improve the show's ratings and he left before the end of its run; he said, "The new writing was awful [...] Either that, or I'm not sexy at all." He was nominated for a Young Artist Award for Best Young Actor Co-starring in a Television Series. DiCaprio also had an uncredited role in 1991 in one episode of Roseanne.	How did you describe your role in Critters 3?	I described my role in Critters 3 as "your average, no-depth, standard kid with blond hair".
DiCaprio made his film debut later that year as the stepson of an unscrupulous landlord in the low-budget horror sequel Critters 3 – a part he later described as "your average, no-depth, standard kid with blond hair". DiCaprio has stated that he prefers not to remember Critters 3, viewing it as "possibly one of the worst films of all time" and the kind of role he wanted to ignore in the future. Later in 1991, he became a recurring cast member on the sitcom Growing Pains, playing Luke Brower, a homeless boy who is taken in by the show's central family. Co-star Joanna Kerns recalls DiCaprio being "especially intelligent and disarming for his age" but she noted that he was also mischievous and jocular on set, and often made fun of his co-stars. DiCaprio was cast by the producers to appeal to young female audience members, but his arrival did not improve the show's ratings and he left before the end of its run; he said, "The new writing was awful [...] Either that, or I'm not sexy at all." He was nominated for a Young Artist Award for Best Young Actor Co-starring in a Television Series. DiCaprio also had an uncredited role in 1991 in one episode of Roseanne.	What did you think of Critters 3?	I view Critters 3 as "possibly one of the worst films of all time" and a role I wanted to ignore in the future.
DiCaprio made his film debut later that year as the stepson of an unscrupulous landlord in the low-budget horror sequel Critters 3 – a part he later described as "your average, no-depth, standard kid with blond hair". DiCaprio has stated that he prefers not to remember Critters 3, viewing it as "possibly one of the worst films of all time" and the kind of role he wanted to ignore in the future. Later in 1991, he became a recurring cast member on the sitcom Growing Pains, playing Luke Brower, a homeless boy who is taken in by the show's central family. Co-star Joanna Kerns recalls DiCaprio being "especially intelligent and disarming for his age" but she noted that he was also mischievous and jocular on set, and often made fun of his co-stars. DiCaprio was cast by the producers to appeal to young female audience members, but his arrival did not improve the show's ratings and he left before the end of its run; he said, "The new writing was awful [...] Either that, or I'm not sexy at all." He was nominated for a Young Artist Award for Best Young Actor Co-starring in a Television Series. DiCaprio also had an uncredited role in 1991 in one episode of Roseanne.	What role did you play in the sitcom Growing Pains?	In the sitcom Growing Pains, I played Luke Brower, a homeless boy who is taken in by the show's central family.
DiCaprio made his film debut later that year as the stepson of an unscrupulous landlord in the low-budget horror sequel Critters 3 – a part he later described as "your average, no-depth, standard kid with blond hair". DiCaprio has stated that he prefers not to remember Critters 3, viewing it as "possibly one of the worst films of all time" and the kind of role he wanted to ignore in the future. Later in 1991, he became a recurring cast member on the sitcom Growing Pains, playing Luke Brower, a homeless boy who is taken in by the show's central family. Co-star Joanna Kerns recalls DiCaprio being "especially intelligent and disarming for his age" but she noted that he was also mischievous and jocular on set, and often made fun of his co-stars. DiCaprio was cast by the producers to appeal to young female audience members, but his arrival did not improve the show's ratings and he left before the end of its run; he said, "The new writing was awful [...] Either that, or I'm not sexy at all." He was nominated for a Young Artist Award for Best Young Actor Co-starring in a Television Series. DiCaprio also had an uncredited role in 1991 in one episode of Roseanne.	Why were you cast in Growing Pains?	I was cast in Growing Pains to appeal to young female audience members.
In 1992, DiCaprio had a brief role in the first installment of the Poison Ivy film series, and was handpicked by Robert De Niro from a shortlist of 400 young actors to co-star with him in This Boy's Life. Adapted from the memoir by Tobias Wolff, the film focuses on the relationship between a rebellious teenager, Toby  (DiCaprio), and his mother (Ellen Barkin) and abusive stepfather (De Niro). Director Michael Caton-Jones said that DiCaprio did not know how to behave on set, leading Caton-Jones to apply a strict mentoring style, after which DiCaprio's behavior began to improve. Bilge Ebiri of Rolling Stone found that the powerful bond between Barkin and DiCaprio elevated the film, praising DiCaprio's portrayal of his character's complex growth from a rebellious teen to an independent young man.	What role did you have in the first installment of the Poison Ivy film series in 1992?	I had a brief role in the first installment of the Poison Ivy film series in 1992.
In 1992, DiCaprio had a brief role in the first installment of the Poison Ivy film series, and was handpicked by Robert De Niro from a shortlist of 400 young actors to co-star with him in This Boy's Life. Adapted from the memoir by Tobias Wolff, the film focuses on the relationship between a rebellious teenager, Toby  (DiCaprio), and his mother (Ellen Barkin) and abusive stepfather (De Niro). Director Michael Caton-Jones said that DiCaprio did not know how to behave on set, leading Caton-Jones to apply a strict mentoring style, after which DiCaprio's behavior began to improve. Bilge Ebiri of Rolling Stone found that the powerful bond between Barkin and DiCaprio elevated the film, praising DiCaprio's portrayal of his character's complex growth from a rebellious teen to an independent young man.	Who handpicked you for a co-starring role in This Boy's Life?	Robert De Niro handpicked me for a co-starring role in This Boy's Life.
In 1992, DiCaprio had a brief role in the first installment of the Poison Ivy film series, and was handpicked by Robert De Niro from a shortlist of 400 young actors to co-star with him in This Boy's Life. Adapted from the memoir by Tobias Wolff, the film focuses on the relationship between a rebellious teenager, Toby  (DiCaprio), and his mother (Ellen Barkin) and abusive stepfather (De Niro). Director Michael Caton-Jones said that DiCaprio did not know how to behave on set, leading Caton-Jones to apply a strict mentoring style, after which DiCaprio's behavior began to improve. Bilge Ebiri of Rolling Stone found that the powerful bond between Barkin and DiCaprio elevated the film, praising DiCaprio's portrayal of his character's complex growth from a rebellious teen to an independent young man.	What is the film This Boy's Life adapted from?	The film This Boy's Life is adapted from the memoir by Tobias Wolff.
In 1992, DiCaprio had a brief role in the first installment of the Poison Ivy film series, and was handpicked by Robert De Niro from a shortlist of 400 young actors to co-star with him in This Boy's Life. Adapted from the memoir by Tobias Wolff, the film focuses on the relationship between a rebellious teenager, Toby  (DiCaprio), and his mother (Ellen Barkin) and abusive stepfather (De Niro). Director Michael Caton-Jones said that DiCaprio did not know how to behave on set, leading Caton-Jones to apply a strict mentoring style, after which DiCaprio's behavior began to improve. Bilge Ebiri of Rolling Stone found that the powerful bond between Barkin and DiCaprio elevated the film, praising DiCaprio's portrayal of his character's complex growth from a rebellious teen to an independent young man.	Who does the film This Boy's Life focus on?	The film This Boy's Life focuses on the relationship between a rebellious teenager, me, and my mother (Ellen Barkin) and abusive stepfather (De Niro).
In 1992, DiCaprio had a brief role in the first installment of the Poison Ivy film series, and was handpicked by Robert De Niro from a shortlist of 400 young actors to co-star with him in This Boy's Life. Adapted from the memoir by Tobias Wolff, the film focuses on the relationship between a rebellious teenager, Toby  (DiCaprio), and his mother (Ellen Barkin) and abusive stepfather (De Niro). Director Michael Caton-Jones said that DiCaprio did not know how to behave on set, leading Caton-Jones to apply a strict mentoring style, after which DiCaprio's behavior began to improve. Bilge Ebiri of Rolling Stone found that the powerful bond between Barkin and DiCaprio elevated the film, praising DiCaprio's portrayal of his character's complex growth from a rebellious teen to an independent young man.	What improvement did your behavior show on set?	My behavior began to improve after director Michael Caton-Jones applied a strict mentoring style.
DiCaprio played the developmentally disabled brother of Johnny Depp ' s character in What ' s Eating Gilbert Grape ( 1993 ) , a comedy - drama about a dysfunctional Iowa family . Caton - Jones recommended DiCaprio to director Lasse Hallstr ö m , but he was initially skeptical , as he considered DiCaprio too good - looking for the part . Hallstr ö m cast DiCaprio after he emerged as " the most observant " auditionee . To ensure authenticity in his portrayal , DiCaprio studied similarly impaired children and their mannerisms , and Hallstr ö m allowed him to create the character using his own researched attributes . The film became a critical success . At 19 , DiCaprio earned a National Board of Review Award , as well as nominations for a Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor , making him the seventh - youngest Oscar nominee in the category . " The film ' s real show - stopping turn comes from Mr . DiCaprio , " wrote New York Times critic Janet Maslin , " who makes Arnie ' s many tics so startling and vivid that at first he is difficult to watch . The performance has a sharp , desperate intensity from beginning to end . " Caryn James , also writing for The New York Times , said of his performances in This Boy ' s Life and What ' s Eating Gilbert Grape : " He made the raw , emotional neediness of those boys completely natural and powerful . "	Who did you play in the movie "What's Eating Gilbert Grape"?	I played the developmentally disabled brother of Johnny Depp's character.
DiCaprio played the developmentally disabled brother of Johnny Depp ' s character in What ' s Eating Gilbert Grape ( 1993 ) , a comedy - drama about a dysfunctional Iowa family . Caton - Jones recommended DiCaprio to director Lasse Hallstr ö m , but he was initially skeptical , as he considered DiCaprio too good - looking for the part . Hallstr ö m cast DiCaprio after he emerged as " the most observant " auditionee . To ensure authenticity in his portrayal , DiCaprio studied similarly impaired children and their mannerisms , and Hallstr ö m allowed him to create the character using his own researched attributes . The film became a critical success . At 19 , DiCaprio earned a National Board of Review Award , as well as nominations for a Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor , making him the seventh - youngest Oscar nominee in the category . " The film ' s real show - stopping turn comes from Mr . DiCaprio , " wrote New York Times critic Janet Maslin , " who makes Arnie ' s many tics so startling and vivid that at first he is difficult to watch . The performance has a sharp , desperate intensity from beginning to end . " Caryn James , also writing for The New York Times , said of his performances in This Boy ' s Life and What ' s Eating Gilbert Grape : " He made the raw , emotional neediness of those boys completely natural and powerful . "	Who recommended you to director Lasse Hallström?	Caton-Jones.
DiCaprio played the developmentally disabled brother of Johnny Depp ' s character in What ' s Eating Gilbert Grape ( 1993 ) , a comedy - drama about a dysfunctional Iowa family . Caton - Jones recommended DiCaprio to director Lasse Hallstr ö m , but he was initially skeptical , as he considered DiCaprio too good - looking for the part . Hallstr ö m cast DiCaprio after he emerged as " the most observant " auditionee . To ensure authenticity in his portrayal , DiCaprio studied similarly impaired children and their mannerisms , and Hallstr ö m allowed him to create the character using his own researched attributes . The film became a critical success . At 19 , DiCaprio earned a National Board of Review Award , as well as nominations for a Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor , making him the seventh - youngest Oscar nominee in the category . " The film ' s real show - stopping turn comes from Mr . DiCaprio , " wrote New York Times critic Janet Maslin , " who makes Arnie ' s many tics so startling and vivid that at first he is difficult to watch . The performance has a sharp , desperate intensity from beginning to end . " Caryn James , also writing for The New York Times , said of his performances in This Boy ' s Life and What ' s Eating Gilbert Grape : " He made the raw , emotional neediness of those boys completely natural and powerful . "	Why were you initially skeptical about casting me?	I considered you too good-looking for the part.
DiCaprio played the developmentally disabled brother of Johnny Depp ' s character in What ' s Eating Gilbert Grape ( 1993 ) , a comedy - drama about a dysfunctional Iowa family . Caton - Jones recommended DiCaprio to director Lasse Hallstr ö m , but he was initially skeptical , as he considered DiCaprio too good - looking for the part . Hallstr ö m cast DiCaprio after he emerged as " the most observant " auditionee . To ensure authenticity in his portrayal , DiCaprio studied similarly impaired children and their mannerisms , and Hallstr ö m allowed him to create the character using his own researched attributes . The film became a critical success . At 19 , DiCaprio earned a National Board of Review Award , as well as nominations for a Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor , making him the seventh - youngest Oscar nominee in the category . " The film ' s real show - stopping turn comes from Mr . DiCaprio , " wrote New York Times critic Janet Maslin , " who makes Arnie ' s many tics so startling and vivid that at first he is difficult to watch . The performance has a sharp , desperate intensity from beginning to end . " Caryn James , also writing for The New York Times , said of his performances in This Boy ' s Life and What ' s Eating Gilbert Grape : " He made the raw , emotional neediness of those boys completely natural and powerful . "	What did you do to ensure authenticity in your portrayal of your character?	I studied similarly impaired children and their mannerisms.
DiCaprio played the developmentally disabled brother of Johnny Depp ' s character in What ' s Eating Gilbert Grape ( 1993 ) , a comedy - drama about a dysfunctional Iowa family . Caton - Jones recommended DiCaprio to director Lasse Hallstr ö m , but he was initially skeptical , as he considered DiCaprio too good - looking for the part . Hallstr ö m cast DiCaprio after he emerged as " the most observant " auditionee . To ensure authenticity in his portrayal , DiCaprio studied similarly impaired children and their mannerisms , and Hallstr ö m allowed him to create the character using his own researched attributes . The film became a critical success . At 19 , DiCaprio earned a National Board of Review Award , as well as nominations for a Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor , making him the seventh - youngest Oscar nominee in the category . " The film ' s real show - stopping turn comes from Mr . DiCaprio , " wrote New York Times critic Janet Maslin , " who makes Arnie ' s many tics so startling and vivid that at first he is difficult to watch . The performance has a sharp , desperate intensity from beginning to end . " Caryn James , also writing for The New York Times , said of his performances in This Boy ' s Life and What ' s Eating Gilbert Grape : " He made the raw , emotional neediness of those boys completely natural and powerful . "	What awards did you earn for your performance in "What's Eating Gilbert Grape"?	I earned a National Board of Review Award, as well as nominations for a Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.
DiCaprio turned down the role of Anakin Skywalker in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones ( 2002 ) , feeling unprepared to " to take that dive " at the time . His first film that year was the biopic Catch Me If You Can , based on the life of Frank Abagnale Jr . , who before his 19th birthday committed check fraud to make   millions in the 1960s . Directed by Steven Spielberg , the film was shot across 147   different locations in 52   days , making it " the most adventurous , super - charged movie - making " DiCaprio had experienced yet . The film received critical acclaim and with a worldwide gross of $ 355   million against a budget of $ 52   million , it became his second highest - grossing release after Titanic . Roger Ebert praised his departure from dark and troubled characters , and two Entertainment Weekly critics in 2018 called it DiCaprio ' s best role , labeling him " delightfully persuasive , deceptive , flirtatious , and sometimes tragic — and we dare you to find a better role , if you can " . DiCaprio received his third Golden Globe nomination for his performance in the film .	Who did you turn down the role of in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones?	Anakin Skywalker.
DiCaprio turned down the role of Anakin Skywalker in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones ( 2002 ) , feeling unprepared to " to take that dive " at the time . His first film that year was the biopic Catch Me If You Can , based on the life of Frank Abagnale Jr . , who before his 19th birthday committed check fraud to make   millions in the 1960s . Directed by Steven Spielberg , the film was shot across 147   different locations in 52   days , making it " the most adventurous , super - charged movie - making " DiCaprio had experienced yet . The film received critical acclaim and with a worldwide gross of $ 355   million against a budget of $ 52   million , it became his second highest - grossing release after Titanic . Roger Ebert praised his departure from dark and troubled characters , and two Entertainment Weekly critics in 2018 called it DiCaprio ' s best role , labeling him " delightfully persuasive , deceptive , flirtatious , and sometimes tragic — and we dare you to find a better role , if you can " . DiCaprio received his third Golden Globe nomination for his performance in the film .	What was your first film in 2002?	Catch Me If You Can.
DiCaprio turned down the role of Anakin Skywalker in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones ( 2002 ) , feeling unprepared to " to take that dive " at the time . His first film that year was the biopic Catch Me If You Can , based on the life of Frank Abagnale Jr . , who before his 19th birthday committed check fraud to make   millions in the 1960s . Directed by Steven Spielberg , the film was shot across 147   different locations in 52   days , making it " the most adventurous , super - charged movie - making " DiCaprio had experienced yet . The film received critical acclaim and with a worldwide gross of $ 355   million against a budget of $ 52   million , it became his second highest - grossing release after Titanic . Roger Ebert praised his departure from dark and troubled characters , and two Entertainment Weekly critics in 2018 called it DiCaprio ' s best role , labeling him " delightfully persuasive , deceptive , flirtatious , and sometimes tragic — and we dare you to find a better role , if you can " . DiCaprio received his third Golden Globe nomination for his performance in the film .	What was Catch Me If You Can based on?	The life of Frank Abagnale Jr.
DiCaprio turned down the role of Anakin Skywalker in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones ( 2002 ) , feeling unprepared to " to take that dive " at the time . His first film that year was the biopic Catch Me If You Can , based on the life of Frank Abagnale Jr . , who before his 19th birthday committed check fraud to make   millions in the 1960s . Directed by Steven Spielberg , the film was shot across 147   different locations in 52   days , making it " the most adventurous , super - charged movie - making " DiCaprio had experienced yet . The film received critical acclaim and with a worldwide gross of $ 355   million against a budget of $ 52   million , it became his second highest - grossing release after Titanic . Roger Ebert praised his departure from dark and troubled characters , and two Entertainment Weekly critics in 2018 called it DiCaprio ' s best role , labeling him " delightfully persuasive , deceptive , flirtatious , and sometimes tragic — and we dare you to find a better role , if you can " . DiCaprio received his third Golden Globe nomination for his performance in the film .	Who directed Catch Me If You Can?	Steven Spielberg.
DiCaprio turned down the role of Anakin Skywalker in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones ( 2002 ) , feeling unprepared to " to take that dive " at the time . His first film that year was the biopic Catch Me If You Can , based on the life of Frank Abagnale Jr . , who before his 19th birthday committed check fraud to make   millions in the 1960s . Directed by Steven Spielberg , the film was shot across 147   different locations in 52   days , making it " the most adventurous , super - charged movie - making " DiCaprio had experienced yet . The film received critical acclaim and with a worldwide gross of $ 355   million against a budget of $ 52   million , it became his second highest - grossing release after Titanic . Roger Ebert praised his departure from dark and troubled characters , and two Entertainment Weekly critics in 2018 called it DiCaprio ' s best role , labeling him " delightfully persuasive , deceptive , flirtatious , and sometimes tragic — and we dare you to find a better role , if you can " . DiCaprio received his third Golden Globe nomination for his performance in the film .	How many locations were used in shooting Catch Me If You Can?	147 different locations.
In 2006 , DiCaprio starred in the crime film The Departed and the political war thriller Blood Diamond . In Scorsese ' s The Departed , DiCaprio played the role of Billy Costigan , a state trooper working undercover in the Irish Mob in Boston , someone he characterizes as in a " constant 24 - hour panic attack " . DiCaprio especially liked the experience of working with co - star Jack Nicholson , describing a scene with him as " one of the most memorable moments " of his life as an actor . In preparation , he visited Boston to interact with people associated with the Irish Mob and gained 15 pounds ( 6.8   kg ) of muscle . Critically acclaimed , the film grossed $ 291   million against a budget of $ 90   million , becoming DiCaprio and Scorsese ' s highest - grossing collaboration to that point . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised DiCaprio ' s and co - star Matt Damon ' s performances as " explosive , emotionally complex " , but felt that Nicholson overshadowed the two . Despite DiCaprio ' s leading role in The Departed , the film ' s distributor Warner Bros . Pictures submitted his performance for a Best Supporting Actor nomination at the AMPAS to avoid internal conflict with his part in Blood Diamond . Instead , his co - star Mark Wahlberg was nominated , though DiCaprio earned other accolades for The Departed , including a Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actor and Best Actor nominations at the Golden Globes and BAFTA Awards .	What films did you star in 2006?	I starred in The Departed and Blood Diamond in 2006.
In 2006 , DiCaprio starred in the crime film The Departed and the political war thriller Blood Diamond . In Scorsese ' s The Departed , DiCaprio played the role of Billy Costigan , a state trooper working undercover in the Irish Mob in Boston , someone he characterizes as in a " constant 24 - hour panic attack " . DiCaprio especially liked the experience of working with co - star Jack Nicholson , describing a scene with him as " one of the most memorable moments " of his life as an actor . In preparation , he visited Boston to interact with people associated with the Irish Mob and gained 15 pounds ( 6.8   kg ) of muscle . Critically acclaimed , the film grossed $ 291   million against a budget of $ 90   million , becoming DiCaprio and Scorsese ' s highest - grossing collaboration to that point . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised DiCaprio ' s and co - star Matt Damon ' s performances as " explosive , emotionally complex " , but felt that Nicholson overshadowed the two . Despite DiCaprio ' s leading role in The Departed , the film ' s distributor Warner Bros . Pictures submitted his performance for a Best Supporting Actor nomination at the AMPAS to avoid internal conflict with his part in Blood Diamond . Instead , his co - star Mark Wahlberg was nominated , though DiCaprio earned other accolades for The Departed , including a Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actor and Best Actor nominations at the Golden Globes and BAFTA Awards .	What was your role in The Departed?	In The Departed, I played the role of Billy Costigan, a state trooper working undercover in the Irish Mob in Boston.
In 2006 , DiCaprio starred in the crime film The Departed and the political war thriller Blood Diamond . In Scorsese ' s The Departed , DiCaprio played the role of Billy Costigan , a state trooper working undercover in the Irish Mob in Boston , someone he characterizes as in a " constant 24 - hour panic attack " . DiCaprio especially liked the experience of working with co - star Jack Nicholson , describing a scene with him as " one of the most memorable moments " of his life as an actor . In preparation , he visited Boston to interact with people associated with the Irish Mob and gained 15 pounds ( 6.8   kg ) of muscle . Critically acclaimed , the film grossed $ 291   million against a budget of $ 90   million , becoming DiCaprio and Scorsese ' s highest - grossing collaboration to that point . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised DiCaprio ' s and co - star Matt Damon ' s performances as " explosive , emotionally complex " , but felt that Nicholson overshadowed the two . Despite DiCaprio ' s leading role in The Departed , the film ' s distributor Warner Bros . Pictures submitted his performance for a Best Supporting Actor nomination at the AMPAS to avoid internal conflict with his part in Blood Diamond . Instead , his co - star Mark Wahlberg was nominated , though DiCaprio earned other accolades for The Departed , including a Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actor and Best Actor nominations at the Golden Globes and BAFTA Awards .	Who did you enjoy working with in The Departed?	I particularly enjoyed working with co-star Jack Nicholson in The Departed.
In 2006 , DiCaprio starred in the crime film The Departed and the political war thriller Blood Diamond . In Scorsese ' s The Departed , DiCaprio played the role of Billy Costigan , a state trooper working undercover in the Irish Mob in Boston , someone he characterizes as in a " constant 24 - hour panic attack " . DiCaprio especially liked the experience of working with co - star Jack Nicholson , describing a scene with him as " one of the most memorable moments " of his life as an actor . In preparation , he visited Boston to interact with people associated with the Irish Mob and gained 15 pounds ( 6.8   kg ) of muscle . Critically acclaimed , the film grossed $ 291   million against a budget of $ 90   million , becoming DiCaprio and Scorsese ' s highest - grossing collaboration to that point . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised DiCaprio ' s and co - star Matt Damon ' s performances as " explosive , emotionally complex " , but felt that Nicholson overshadowed the two . Despite DiCaprio ' s leading role in The Departed , the film ' s distributor Warner Bros . Pictures submitted his performance for a Best Supporting Actor nomination at the AMPAS to avoid internal conflict with his part in Blood Diamond . Instead , his co - star Mark Wahlberg was nominated , though DiCaprio earned other accolades for The Departed , including a Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actor and Best Actor nominations at the Golden Globes and BAFTA Awards .	How did you prepare for your role in The Departed?	I visited Boston to interact with people associated with the Irish Mob and gained 15 pounds of muscle in preparation for my role in The Departed.
In 2006 , DiCaprio starred in the crime film The Departed and the political war thriller Blood Diamond . In Scorsese ' s The Departed , DiCaprio played the role of Billy Costigan , a state trooper working undercover in the Irish Mob in Boston , someone he characterizes as in a " constant 24 - hour panic attack " . DiCaprio especially liked the experience of working with co - star Jack Nicholson , describing a scene with him as " one of the most memorable moments " of his life as an actor . In preparation , he visited Boston to interact with people associated with the Irish Mob and gained 15 pounds ( 6.8   kg ) of muscle . Critically acclaimed , the film grossed $ 291   million against a budget of $ 90   million , becoming DiCaprio and Scorsese ' s highest - grossing collaboration to that point . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised DiCaprio ' s and co - star Matt Damon ' s performances as " explosive , emotionally complex " , but felt that Nicholson overshadowed the two . Despite DiCaprio ' s leading role in The Departed , the film ' s distributor Warner Bros . Pictures submitted his performance for a Best Supporting Actor nomination at the AMPAS to avoid internal conflict with his part in Blood Diamond . Instead , his co - star Mark Wahlberg was nominated , though DiCaprio earned other accolades for The Departed , including a Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actor and Best Actor nominations at the Golden Globes and BAFTA Awards .	What accolades did you earn for The Departed?	I earned a Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actor and received Best Actor nominations at the Golden Globes and BAFTA Awards for my performance in The Departed.
In 2007 , DiCaprio produced the comedy drama Gardener of Eden , which according to The Hollywood Reporter ' s Frank Scheck " lack [ ed ] the necessary dramatic urgency or black humor to connect with audiences " . Later that year , he produced , co - wrote and narrated The 11th Hour , a documentary on the state of the natural environment that won the Earthwatch Environmental Film Award in 2008 . DiCaprio ' s Appian Way produced Planet Green ' s Greensburg ( 2008 – 2010 ) , which ran for three seasons . Set in Greensburg , Kansas , it is about rebuilding the town in a sustainable way after being hit by the May 2007 EF5 tornado . Also in 2008 , DiCaprio starred in Body of Lies , a spy film based on the novel of the same name . He played one of three agents battling a terrorist organization in the Middle East . Considering the film to be a throwback to political features of the 1970s like The Parallax View ( 1974 ) and Three Days of the Condor ( 1975 ) , DiCaprio dyed his hair brown and wore brown contacts for the role . The film received mixed reviews from critics , and grossed $ 118   million against a budget of $ 67.5   million .	What award did "The 11th Hour" win?	The Earthwatch Environmental Film Award.
In 2007 , DiCaprio produced the comedy drama Gardener of Eden , which according to The Hollywood Reporter ' s Frank Scheck " lack [ ed ] the necessary dramatic urgency or black humor to connect with audiences " . Later that year , he produced , co - wrote and narrated The 11th Hour , a documentary on the state of the natural environment that won the Earthwatch Environmental Film Award in 2008 . DiCaprio ' s Appian Way produced Planet Green ' s Greensburg ( 2008 – 2010 ) , which ran for three seasons . Set in Greensburg , Kansas , it is about rebuilding the town in a sustainable way after being hit by the May 2007 EF5 tornado . Also in 2008 , DiCaprio starred in Body of Lies , a spy film based on the novel of the same name . He played one of three agents battling a terrorist organization in the Middle East . Considering the film to be a throwback to political features of the 1970s like The Parallax View ( 1974 ) and Three Days of the Condor ( 1975 ) , DiCaprio dyed his hair brown and wore brown contacts for the role . The film received mixed reviews from critics , and grossed $ 118   million against a budget of $ 67.5   million .	What TV show did your production company produce?	Planet Green's Greensburg.
In 2007 , DiCaprio produced the comedy drama Gardener of Eden , which according to The Hollywood Reporter ' s Frank Scheck " lack [ ed ] the necessary dramatic urgency or black humor to connect with audiences " . Later that year , he produced , co - wrote and narrated The 11th Hour , a documentary on the state of the natural environment that won the Earthwatch Environmental Film Award in 2008 . DiCaprio ' s Appian Way produced Planet Green ' s Greensburg ( 2008 – 2010 ) , which ran for three seasons . Set in Greensburg , Kansas , it is about rebuilding the town in a sustainable way after being hit by the May 2007 EF5 tornado . Also in 2008 , DiCaprio starred in Body of Lies , a spy film based on the novel of the same name . He played one of three agents battling a terrorist organization in the Middle East . Considering the film to be a throwback to political features of the 1970s like The Parallax View ( 1974 ) and Three Days of the Condor ( 1975 ) , DiCaprio dyed his hair brown and wore brown contacts for the role . The film received mixed reviews from critics , and grossed $ 118   million against a budget of $ 67.5   million .	Where is "Greensburg" set?	It is set in Greensburg, Kansas.
In 2007 , DiCaprio produced the comedy drama Gardener of Eden , which according to The Hollywood Reporter ' s Frank Scheck " lack [ ed ] the necessary dramatic urgency or black humor to connect with audiences " . Later that year , he produced , co - wrote and narrated The 11th Hour , a documentary on the state of the natural environment that won the Earthwatch Environmental Film Award in 2008 . DiCaprio ' s Appian Way produced Planet Green ' s Greensburg ( 2008 – 2010 ) , which ran for three seasons . Set in Greensburg , Kansas , it is about rebuilding the town in a sustainable way after being hit by the May 2007 EF5 tornado . Also in 2008 , DiCaprio starred in Body of Lies , a spy film based on the novel of the same name . He played one of three agents battling a terrorist organization in the Middle East . Considering the film to be a throwback to political features of the 1970s like The Parallax View ( 1974 ) and Three Days of the Condor ( 1975 ) , DiCaprio dyed his hair brown and wore brown contacts for the role . The film received mixed reviews from critics , and grossed $ 118   million against a budget of $ 67.5   million .	What was "Body of Lies" based on?	It was based on a novel of the same name.
In 2007 , DiCaprio produced the comedy drama Gardener of Eden , which according to The Hollywood Reporter ' s Frank Scheck " lack [ ed ] the necessary dramatic urgency or black humor to connect with audiences " . Later that year , he produced , co - wrote and narrated The 11th Hour , a documentary on the state of the natural environment that won the Earthwatch Environmental Film Award in 2008 . DiCaprio ' s Appian Way produced Planet Green ' s Greensburg ( 2008 – 2010 ) , which ran for three seasons . Set in Greensburg , Kansas , it is about rebuilding the town in a sustainable way after being hit by the May 2007 EF5 tornado . Also in 2008 , DiCaprio starred in Body of Lies , a spy film based on the novel of the same name . He played one of three agents battling a terrorist organization in the Middle East . Considering the film to be a throwback to political features of the 1970s like The Parallax View ( 1974 ) and Three Days of the Condor ( 1975 ) , DiCaprio dyed his hair brown and wore brown contacts for the role . The film received mixed reviews from critics , and grossed $ 118   million against a budget of $ 67.5   million .	How much did "Body of Lies" gross at the box office?	It grossed $118 million.
Later in 2008 , DiCaprio collaborated with Kate Winslet for the drama Revolutionary Road , directed by her then - husband Sam Mendes . As both actors had been reluctant to make romantic films similar to Titanic , it was Winslet who suggested that they both work with her on a film adaptation of the 1961 eponymous novel by Richard Yates . As she had read the script by Justin Haythe , she found that the plot had little in common with the 1997 blockbuster . Playing a couple in a failing marriage in the 1950s , DiCaprio and Winslet spent some time together in preparation , and DiCaprio felt claustrophobic on the small set they used . He saw his character as " unheroic " , " slightly cowardly " and someone " willing to be just a product of his environment " . Peter Travers liked DiCaprio ' s pairing with Winslet and his multi - layered portrayal of an overwhelmed character , and Marshall Sella of GQ called it the " most mature and memorable performance of his lifetime " . DiCaprio earned his seventh Golden Globes nomination for the film . Revolutionary Road grossed $ 75.9   million against its budget of $ 35   million . He ended the 2000s by producing director Jaume Collet - Serra ' s psychological horror thriller film Orphan ( 2009 ) , starring Vera Farmiga ( his co - star in The Departed ) , Peter Sarsgaard and Isabelle Fuhrman . Although the film received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success .	Who did you collaborate with in the drama Revolutionary Road?	I collaborated with Kate Winslet.
Later in 2008 , DiCaprio collaborated with Kate Winslet for the drama Revolutionary Road , directed by her then - husband Sam Mendes . As both actors had been reluctant to make romantic films similar to Titanic , it was Winslet who suggested that they both work with her on a film adaptation of the 1961 eponymous novel by Richard Yates . As she had read the script by Justin Haythe , she found that the plot had little in common with the 1997 blockbuster . Playing a couple in a failing marriage in the 1950s , DiCaprio and Winslet spent some time together in preparation , and DiCaprio felt claustrophobic on the small set they used . He saw his character as " unheroic " , " slightly cowardly " and someone " willing to be just a product of his environment " . Peter Travers liked DiCaprio ' s pairing with Winslet and his multi - layered portrayal of an overwhelmed character , and Marshall Sella of GQ called it the " most mature and memorable performance of his lifetime " . DiCaprio earned his seventh Golden Globes nomination for the film . Revolutionary Road grossed $ 75.9   million against its budget of $ 35   million . He ended the 2000s by producing director Jaume Collet - Serra ' s psychological horror thriller film Orphan ( 2009 ) , starring Vera Farmiga ( his co - star in The Departed ) , Peter Sarsgaard and Isabelle Fuhrman . Although the film received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success .	Who directed the film Revolutionary Road?	The film Revolutionary Road was directed by Sam Mendes.
Later in 2008 , DiCaprio collaborated with Kate Winslet for the drama Revolutionary Road , directed by her then - husband Sam Mendes . As both actors had been reluctant to make romantic films similar to Titanic , it was Winslet who suggested that they both work with her on a film adaptation of the 1961 eponymous novel by Richard Yates . As she had read the script by Justin Haythe , she found that the plot had little in common with the 1997 blockbuster . Playing a couple in a failing marriage in the 1950s , DiCaprio and Winslet spent some time together in preparation , and DiCaprio felt claustrophobic on the small set they used . He saw his character as " unheroic " , " slightly cowardly " and someone " willing to be just a product of his environment " . Peter Travers liked DiCaprio ' s pairing with Winslet and his multi - layered portrayal of an overwhelmed character , and Marshall Sella of GQ called it the " most mature and memorable performance of his lifetime " . DiCaprio earned his seventh Golden Globes nomination for the film . Revolutionary Road grossed $ 75.9   million against its budget of $ 35   million . He ended the 2000s by producing director Jaume Collet - Serra ' s psychological horror thriller film Orphan ( 2009 ) , starring Vera Farmiga ( his co - star in The Departed ) , Peter Sarsgaard and Isabelle Fuhrman . Although the film received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success .	What was the suggestion you made regarding the film adaptation?	I suggested that both Kate Winslet and I work on a film adaptation of the novel by Richard Yates.
Later in 2008 , DiCaprio collaborated with Kate Winslet for the drama Revolutionary Road , directed by her then - husband Sam Mendes . As both actors had been reluctant to make romantic films similar to Titanic , it was Winslet who suggested that they both work with her on a film adaptation of the 1961 eponymous novel by Richard Yates . As she had read the script by Justin Haythe , she found that the plot had little in common with the 1997 blockbuster . Playing a couple in a failing marriage in the 1950s , DiCaprio and Winslet spent some time together in preparation , and DiCaprio felt claustrophobic on the small set they used . He saw his character as " unheroic " , " slightly cowardly " and someone " willing to be just a product of his environment " . Peter Travers liked DiCaprio ' s pairing with Winslet and his multi - layered portrayal of an overwhelmed character , and Marshall Sella of GQ called it the " most mature and memorable performance of his lifetime " . DiCaprio earned his seventh Golden Globes nomination for the film . Revolutionary Road grossed $ 75.9   million against its budget of $ 35   million . He ended the 2000s by producing director Jaume Collet - Serra ' s psychological horror thriller film Orphan ( 2009 ) , starring Vera Farmiga ( his co - star in The Departed ) , Peter Sarsgaard and Isabelle Fuhrman . Although the film received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success .	How did you feel during the filming of Revolutionary Road?	I felt claustrophobic on the small set they used while filming Revolutionary Road.
Later in 2008 , DiCaprio collaborated with Kate Winslet for the drama Revolutionary Road , directed by her then - husband Sam Mendes . As both actors had been reluctant to make romantic films similar to Titanic , it was Winslet who suggested that they both work with her on a film adaptation of the 1961 eponymous novel by Richard Yates . As she had read the script by Justin Haythe , she found that the plot had little in common with the 1997 blockbuster . Playing a couple in a failing marriage in the 1950s , DiCaprio and Winslet spent some time together in preparation , and DiCaprio felt claustrophobic on the small set they used . He saw his character as " unheroic " , " slightly cowardly " and someone " willing to be just a product of his environment " . Peter Travers liked DiCaprio ' s pairing with Winslet and his multi - layered portrayal of an overwhelmed character , and Marshall Sella of GQ called it the " most mature and memorable performance of his lifetime " . DiCaprio earned his seventh Golden Globes nomination for the film . Revolutionary Road grossed $ 75.9   million against its budget of $ 35   million . He ended the 2000s by producing director Jaume Collet - Serra ' s psychological horror thriller film Orphan ( 2009 ) , starring Vera Farmiga ( his co - star in The Departed ) , Peter Sarsgaard and Isabelle Fuhrman . Although the film received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success .	What did Peter Travers think of your performance in Revolutionary Road?	Peter Travers liked my pairing with Winslet and my portrayal of an overwhelmed character in Revolutionary Road.
In January   2013 , DiCaprio said he would take a long break from acting to " fly around the world doing good for the environment " . That year , he had four releases as an actor and a producer . His first was in the role of millionaire Jay Gatsby in Baz Luhrmann ' s The Great Gatsby , an adaptation of F . Scott Fitzgerald ' s 1925 novel of the same name , co - starring Carey Mulligan and Tobey Maguire . DiCaprio liked the idea of playing a man who realizes his imaginations , someone he characterized as " a hopeless romantic , a completely obsessed wacko or a dangerous gangster , clinging to wealth " . The film received mixed reviews from critics , but DiCaprio ' s performance was praised and earned him the AACTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role . Critic Rafer Guzman of Newsday wrote that DiCaprio was not only " tough   [ ... ] but also vulnerable , touching , funny , a faker , a human . It ' s a tremendous , hard - won performance . " Matt Zoller Seitz of Roger Ebert ' s website described his performance as " the movie ' s greatest and simplest special effect , " and " iconic — maybe his career best " . The film grossed $ 353   million worldwide , more than three times its budget . Three films were produced by DiCaprio under Appian Way in 2013 — the ensemble crime thriller Runner Runner , which The Guardian ' s Xan Brooks described as " a lazy , trashy film that barely goes through the motions " ; the commercially failed thriller Out of the Furnace ; and the black comedy - drama The Wolf of Wall Street .	When did you decide to take a break from acting?	In January 2013.
In January   2013 , DiCaprio said he would take a long break from acting to " fly around the world doing good for the environment " . That year , he had four releases as an actor and a producer . His first was in the role of millionaire Jay Gatsby in Baz Luhrmann ' s The Great Gatsby , an adaptation of F . Scott Fitzgerald ' s 1925 novel of the same name , co - starring Carey Mulligan and Tobey Maguire . DiCaprio liked the idea of playing a man who realizes his imaginations , someone he characterized as " a hopeless romantic , a completely obsessed wacko or a dangerous gangster , clinging to wealth " . The film received mixed reviews from critics , but DiCaprio ' s performance was praised and earned him the AACTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role . Critic Rafer Guzman of Newsday wrote that DiCaprio was not only " tough   [ ... ] but also vulnerable , touching , funny , a faker , a human . It ' s a tremendous , hard - won performance . " Matt Zoller Seitz of Roger Ebert ' s website described his performance as " the movie ' s greatest and simplest special effect , " and " iconic — maybe his career best " . The film grossed $ 353   million worldwide , more than three times its budget . Three films were produced by DiCaprio under Appian Way in 2013 — the ensemble crime thriller Runner Runner , which The Guardian ' s Xan Brooks described as " a lazy , trashy film that barely goes through the motions " ; the commercially failed thriller Out of the Furnace ; and the black comedy - drama The Wolf of Wall Street .	How many releases did you have in 2013?	I had four releases as an actor and a producer.
In January   2013 , DiCaprio said he would take a long break from acting to " fly around the world doing good for the environment " . That year , he had four releases as an actor and a producer . His first was in the role of millionaire Jay Gatsby in Baz Luhrmann ' s The Great Gatsby , an adaptation of F . Scott Fitzgerald ' s 1925 novel of the same name , co - starring Carey Mulligan and Tobey Maguire . DiCaprio liked the idea of playing a man who realizes his imaginations , someone he characterized as " a hopeless romantic , a completely obsessed wacko or a dangerous gangster , clinging to wealth " . The film received mixed reviews from critics , but DiCaprio ' s performance was praised and earned him the AACTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role . Critic Rafer Guzman of Newsday wrote that DiCaprio was not only " tough   [ ... ] but also vulnerable , touching , funny , a faker , a human . It ' s a tremendous , hard - won performance . " Matt Zoller Seitz of Roger Ebert ' s website described his performance as " the movie ' s greatest and simplest special effect , " and " iconic — maybe his career best " . The film grossed $ 353   million worldwide , more than three times its budget . Three films were produced by DiCaprio under Appian Way in 2013 — the ensemble crime thriller Runner Runner , which The Guardian ' s Xan Brooks described as " a lazy , trashy film that barely goes through the motions " ; the commercially failed thriller Out of the Furnace ; and the black comedy - drama The Wolf of Wall Street .	What was your first role in 2013?	I played millionaire Jay Gatsby in Baz Luhrmann's adaptation of F. Scott Fitzgerald's novel The Great Gatsby.
In January   2013 , DiCaprio said he would take a long break from acting to " fly around the world doing good for the environment " . That year , he had four releases as an actor and a producer . His first was in the role of millionaire Jay Gatsby in Baz Luhrmann ' s The Great Gatsby , an adaptation of F . Scott Fitzgerald ' s 1925 novel of the same name , co - starring Carey Mulligan and Tobey Maguire . DiCaprio liked the idea of playing a man who realizes his imaginations , someone he characterized as " a hopeless romantic , a completely obsessed wacko or a dangerous gangster , clinging to wealth " . The film received mixed reviews from critics , but DiCaprio ' s performance was praised and earned him the AACTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role . Critic Rafer Guzman of Newsday wrote that DiCaprio was not only " tough   [ ... ] but also vulnerable , touching , funny , a faker , a human . It ' s a tremendous , hard - won performance . " Matt Zoller Seitz of Roger Ebert ' s website described his performance as " the movie ' s greatest and simplest special effect , " and " iconic — maybe his career best " . The film grossed $ 353   million worldwide , more than three times its budget . Three films were produced by DiCaprio under Appian Way in 2013 — the ensemble crime thriller Runner Runner , which The Guardian ' s Xan Brooks described as " a lazy , trashy film that barely goes through the motions " ; the commercially failed thriller Out of the Furnace ; and the black comedy - drama The Wolf of Wall Street .	What award did you win for your performance in The Great Gatsby?	I won the AACTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role.
In January   2013 , DiCaprio said he would take a long break from acting to " fly around the world doing good for the environment " . That year , he had four releases as an actor and a producer . His first was in the role of millionaire Jay Gatsby in Baz Luhrmann ' s The Great Gatsby , an adaptation of F . Scott Fitzgerald ' s 1925 novel of the same name , co - starring Carey Mulligan and Tobey Maguire . DiCaprio liked the idea of playing a man who realizes his imaginations , someone he characterized as " a hopeless romantic , a completely obsessed wacko or a dangerous gangster , clinging to wealth " . The film received mixed reviews from critics , but DiCaprio ' s performance was praised and earned him the AACTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role . Critic Rafer Guzman of Newsday wrote that DiCaprio was not only " tough   [ ... ] but also vulnerable , touching , funny , a faker , a human . It ' s a tremendous , hard - won performance . " Matt Zoller Seitz of Roger Ebert ' s website described his performance as " the movie ' s greatest and simplest special effect , " and " iconic — maybe his career best " . The film grossed $ 353   million worldwide , more than three times its budget . Three films were produced by DiCaprio under Appian Way in 2013 — the ensemble crime thriller Runner Runner , which The Guardian ' s Xan Brooks described as " a lazy , trashy film that barely goes through the motions " ; the commercially failed thriller Out of the Furnace ; and the black comedy - drama The Wolf of Wall Street .	How much money did The Great Gatsby gross worldwide?	The film grossed $353 million worldwide.
In 2015 , DiCaprio produced and played fur trapper Hugh Glass in Alejandro G . I ñ á rritu ' s survival drama The Revenant . DiCaprio found his role in the film difficult ; he had to eat a raw slab of bison ' s liver and sleep in animal carcasses . He also learned to shoot a musket , build a fire , speak two Native American languages ( Pawnee and Arikara ) and apply ancient healing techniques . Built on a budget of $ 135   million , the film earned $ 533   million worldwide . The film received positive reviews with particular praise for DiCaprio ' s acting . Mark Kermode of The Guardian wrote that DiCaprio shone with a performance that prioritizes physicality over speech , and Nick De Semlyen of Empire noted that he uplifted the film . The film earned him numerous awards , including an Academy Award , a Golden Globe , a BAFTA , a Screen Actors Guild Award and a Critic ' s Choice Award for Best Actor . For the next three years , DiCaprio narrated documentaries and served as a producer for films . In 2016 , he was an executive producer for The Ivory Game and Catching the Sun ; and produced , hosted and narrated the documentary Before the Flood about climate change . He produced the crime drama Live by Night ( 2016 ) , which received unenthusiastic reviews and failed to recoup its $ 65   million production budget . His next production ventures were in 2018 — the psychological horror Delirium and the commercially failed action – adventure Robin Hood .	What role did you play in Alejandro G. Iñárritu's film "The Revenant"?	I played the role of fur trapper Hugh Glass in "The Revenant".
In 2015 , DiCaprio produced and played fur trapper Hugh Glass in Alejandro G . I ñ á rritu ' s survival drama The Revenant . DiCaprio found his role in the film difficult ; he had to eat a raw slab of bison ' s liver and sleep in animal carcasses . He also learned to shoot a musket , build a fire , speak two Native American languages ( Pawnee and Arikara ) and apply ancient healing techniques . Built on a budget of $ 135   million , the film earned $ 533   million worldwide . The film received positive reviews with particular praise for DiCaprio ' s acting . Mark Kermode of The Guardian wrote that DiCaprio shone with a performance that prioritizes physicality over speech , and Nick De Semlyen of Empire noted that he uplifted the film . The film earned him numerous awards , including an Academy Award , a Golden Globe , a BAFTA , a Screen Actors Guild Award and a Critic ' s Choice Award for Best Actor . For the next three years , DiCaprio narrated documentaries and served as a producer for films . In 2016 , he was an executive producer for The Ivory Game and Catching the Sun ; and produced , hosted and narrated the documentary Before the Flood about climate change . He produced the crime drama Live by Night ( 2016 ) , which received unenthusiastic reviews and failed to recoup its $ 65   million production budget . His next production ventures were in 2018 — the psychological horror Delirium and the commercially failed action – adventure Robin Hood .	What difficulties did you face while filming "The Revenant"?	I had to eat a raw slab of bison's liver and sleep in animal carcasses during the filming of "The Revenant".
In 2015 , DiCaprio produced and played fur trapper Hugh Glass in Alejandro G . I ñ á rritu ' s survival drama The Revenant . DiCaprio found his role in the film difficult ; he had to eat a raw slab of bison ' s liver and sleep in animal carcasses . He also learned to shoot a musket , build a fire , speak two Native American languages ( Pawnee and Arikara ) and apply ancient healing techniques . Built on a budget of $ 135   million , the film earned $ 533   million worldwide . The film received positive reviews with particular praise for DiCaprio ' s acting . Mark Kermode of The Guardian wrote that DiCaprio shone with a performance that prioritizes physicality over speech , and Nick De Semlyen of Empire noted that he uplifted the film . The film earned him numerous awards , including an Academy Award , a Golden Globe , a BAFTA , a Screen Actors Guild Award and a Critic ' s Choice Award for Best Actor . For the next three years , DiCaprio narrated documentaries and served as a producer for films . In 2016 , he was an executive producer for The Ivory Game and Catching the Sun ; and produced , hosted and narrated the documentary Before the Flood about climate change . He produced the crime drama Live by Night ( 2016 ) , which received unenthusiastic reviews and failed to recoup its $ 65   million production budget . His next production ventures were in 2018 — the psychological horror Delirium and the commercially failed action – adventure Robin Hood .	What skills did you learn for your role in "The Revenant"?	I learned to shoot a musket, build a fire, speak two Native American languages (Pawnee and Arikara), and apply ancient healing techniques for my role in "The Revenant".
In 2015 , DiCaprio produced and played fur trapper Hugh Glass in Alejandro G . I ñ á rritu ' s survival drama The Revenant . DiCaprio found his role in the film difficult ; he had to eat a raw slab of bison ' s liver and sleep in animal carcasses . He also learned to shoot a musket , build a fire , speak two Native American languages ( Pawnee and Arikara ) and apply ancient healing techniques . Built on a budget of $ 135   million , the film earned $ 533   million worldwide . The film received positive reviews with particular praise for DiCaprio ' s acting . Mark Kermode of The Guardian wrote that DiCaprio shone with a performance that prioritizes physicality over speech , and Nick De Semlyen of Empire noted that he uplifted the film . The film earned him numerous awards , including an Academy Award , a Golden Globe , a BAFTA , a Screen Actors Guild Award and a Critic ' s Choice Award for Best Actor . For the next three years , DiCaprio narrated documentaries and served as a producer for films . In 2016 , he was an executive producer for The Ivory Game and Catching the Sun ; and produced , hosted and narrated the documentary Before the Flood about climate change . He produced the crime drama Live by Night ( 2016 ) , which received unenthusiastic reviews and failed to recoup its $ 65   million production budget . His next production ventures were in 2018 — the psychological horror Delirium and the commercially failed action – adventure Robin Hood .	How much was the budget of "The Revenant"?	The budget of "The Revenant" was $135 million.
In 2015 , DiCaprio produced and played fur trapper Hugh Glass in Alejandro G . I ñ á rritu ' s survival drama The Revenant . DiCaprio found his role in the film difficult ; he had to eat a raw slab of bison ' s liver and sleep in animal carcasses . He also learned to shoot a musket , build a fire , speak two Native American languages ( Pawnee and Arikara ) and apply ancient healing techniques . Built on a budget of $ 135   million , the film earned $ 533   million worldwide . The film received positive reviews with particular praise for DiCaprio ' s acting . Mark Kermode of The Guardian wrote that DiCaprio shone with a performance that prioritizes physicality over speech , and Nick De Semlyen of Empire noted that he uplifted the film . The film earned him numerous awards , including an Academy Award , a Golden Globe , a BAFTA , a Screen Actors Guild Award and a Critic ' s Choice Award for Best Actor . For the next three years , DiCaprio narrated documentaries and served as a producer for films . In 2016 , he was an executive producer for The Ivory Game and Catching the Sun ; and produced , hosted and narrated the documentary Before the Flood about climate change . He produced the crime drama Live by Night ( 2016 ) , which received unenthusiastic reviews and failed to recoup its $ 65   million production budget . His next production ventures were in 2018 — the psychological horror Delirium and the commercially failed action – adventure Robin Hood .	How much did "The Revenant" earn worldwide?	"The Revenant" earned $533 million worldwide.
After producing and narrating the 2019 global warming documentary Ice on Fire , DiCaprio returned to acting following a four - year break in Quentin Tarantino ' s comedy - drama Once Upon a Time in Hollywood , which traces the relationship between Rick Dalton ( DiCaprio ) , an aging television actor and his stuntman , Cliff Booth ( Brad Pitt ) . To help the film ' s financing , DiCaprio and Pitt agreed to take a pay cut , and they each received $ 10   million . DiCaprio liked working with Pitt , and Tarantino described the pair as the most exciting since Robert Redford and Paul Newman . DiCaprio was fascinated with the film ' s homage to Hollywood and focus on the friendship between his and Pitt ' s characters . He drew from real - life experience of witnessing the struggles and rejections of his actor friends in the industry . The film premiered at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival , where critics praised his and Pitt ' s performances . A writer for Business Insider called it one of the best performances of DiCaprio ' s career , and Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy particularly liked the duo ' s chemistry , believing their scenes together to be some of the film ' s strongest parts . DiCaprio received nominations for an Oscar , a Golden Globe , a BAFTA Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actor . The film earned $ 374   million against a budget of $ 90   million .	What was the name of the documentary you produced and narrated in 2019?	Ice on Fire
After producing and narrating the 2019 global warming documentary Ice on Fire , DiCaprio returned to acting following a four - year break in Quentin Tarantino ' s comedy - drama Once Upon a Time in Hollywood , which traces the relationship between Rick Dalton ( DiCaprio ) , an aging television actor and his stuntman , Cliff Booth ( Brad Pitt ) . To help the film ' s financing , DiCaprio and Pitt agreed to take a pay cut , and they each received $ 10   million . DiCaprio liked working with Pitt , and Tarantino described the pair as the most exciting since Robert Redford and Paul Newman . DiCaprio was fascinated with the film ' s homage to Hollywood and focus on the friendship between his and Pitt ' s characters . He drew from real - life experience of witnessing the struggles and rejections of his actor friends in the industry . The film premiered at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival , where critics praised his and Pitt ' s performances . A writer for Business Insider called it one of the best performances of DiCaprio ' s career , and Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy particularly liked the duo ' s chemistry , believing their scenes together to be some of the film ' s strongest parts . DiCaprio received nominations for an Oscar , a Golden Globe , a BAFTA Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actor . The film earned $ 374   million against a budget of $ 90   million .	In which movie did you return to acting after a four-year break?	Once Upon a Time in Hollywood
After producing and narrating the 2019 global warming documentary Ice on Fire , DiCaprio returned to acting following a four - year break in Quentin Tarantino ' s comedy - drama Once Upon a Time in Hollywood , which traces the relationship between Rick Dalton ( DiCaprio ) , an aging television actor and his stuntman , Cliff Booth ( Brad Pitt ) . To help the film ' s financing , DiCaprio and Pitt agreed to take a pay cut , and they each received $ 10   million . DiCaprio liked working with Pitt , and Tarantino described the pair as the most exciting since Robert Redford and Paul Newman . DiCaprio was fascinated with the film ' s homage to Hollywood and focus on the friendship between his and Pitt ' s characters . He drew from real - life experience of witnessing the struggles and rejections of his actor friends in the industry . The film premiered at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival , where critics praised his and Pitt ' s performances . A writer for Business Insider called it one of the best performances of DiCaprio ' s career , and Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy particularly liked the duo ' s chemistry , believing their scenes together to be some of the film ' s strongest parts . DiCaprio received nominations for an Oscar , a Golden Globe , a BAFTA Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actor . The film earned $ 374   million against a budget of $ 90   million .	Who was your character in Once Upon a Time in Hollywood?	Rick Dalton
After producing and narrating the 2019 global warming documentary Ice on Fire , DiCaprio returned to acting following a four - year break in Quentin Tarantino ' s comedy - drama Once Upon a Time in Hollywood , which traces the relationship between Rick Dalton ( DiCaprio ) , an aging television actor and his stuntman , Cliff Booth ( Brad Pitt ) . To help the film ' s financing , DiCaprio and Pitt agreed to take a pay cut , and they each received $ 10   million . DiCaprio liked working with Pitt , and Tarantino described the pair as the most exciting since Robert Redford and Paul Newman . DiCaprio was fascinated with the film ' s homage to Hollywood and focus on the friendship between his and Pitt ' s characters . He drew from real - life experience of witnessing the struggles and rejections of his actor friends in the industry . The film premiered at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival , where critics praised his and Pitt ' s performances . A writer for Business Insider called it one of the best performances of DiCaprio ' s career , and Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy particularly liked the duo ' s chemistry , believing their scenes together to be some of the film ' s strongest parts . DiCaprio received nominations for an Oscar , a Golden Globe , a BAFTA Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actor . The film earned $ 374   million against a budget of $ 90   million .	What was the budget and earnings of the movie Once Upon a Time in Hollywood?	Budget: $90 million
After producing and narrating the 2019 global warming documentary Ice on Fire , DiCaprio returned to acting following a four - year break in Quentin Tarantino ' s comedy - drama Once Upon a Time in Hollywood , which traces the relationship between Rick Dalton ( DiCaprio ) , an aging television actor and his stuntman , Cliff Booth ( Brad Pitt ) . To help the film ' s financing , DiCaprio and Pitt agreed to take a pay cut , and they each received $ 10   million . DiCaprio liked working with Pitt , and Tarantino described the pair as the most exciting since Robert Redford and Paul Newman . DiCaprio was fascinated with the film ' s homage to Hollywood and focus on the friendship between his and Pitt ' s characters . He drew from real - life experience of witnessing the struggles and rejections of his actor friends in the industry . The film premiered at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival , where critics praised his and Pitt ' s performances . A writer for Business Insider called it one of the best performances of DiCaprio ' s career , and Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy particularly liked the duo ' s chemistry , believing their scenes together to be some of the film ' s strongest parts . DiCaprio received nominations for an Oscar , a Golden Globe , a BAFTA Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actor . The film earned $ 374   million against a budget of $ 90   million .	What nominations did you receive for your performance in Once Upon a Time in Hollywood?	I received an Oscar, Golden Globe, BAFTA Award, and Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actor.
Early in his career , DiCaprio gained a reputation for his reckless behavior and intense partying with a group of male celebrities dubbed " the Pussy Posse " in the 1990s . In an infamous article published by New York Magazine in 1998 , journalist Nancy Jo Sales criticized the group as men whose pursuit was to " chase girls , pick fights and not tip the waitress " . During an unknown activity , DiCaprio got himself and friend Justin Herwick almost killed when his parachute failed to open , after which his instructor released an emergency core . In response , DiCaprio said he is fond of doing things that scare him . John McCain , who was a United States Senator for Arizona , called him " an androgynous wimp " . DiCaprio found people ' s perception of him exaggerated , adding , " They want you miserable , just like them . They don ' t want heroes ; what they want is to see you fall . " Steven Spielberg , who directed him in Catch Me If You Can , defended DiCaprio ' s reputation as a " party boy " , believing it is a common behavior for young people and describing him as a family - oriented person during the film ' s production . Considering DiCaprio to be conscious of his public reputation , The New York Times ' Caryn James credited him as one of the few actors to use his stardom to further social causes . Carole Cadwalladr of The Guardian said DiCaprio is " polite , charming , makes jokes , engages eye contact . And manages   [ ... ] to give almost no hint whatsoever of his actual personality . "	What did Nancy Jo Sales criticize the group for?	Nancy Jo Sales criticized the group for being men whose pursuit was to "chase girls, pick fights and not tip the waitress".
Early in his career , DiCaprio gained a reputation for his reckless behavior and intense partying with a group of male celebrities dubbed " the Pussy Posse " in the 1990s . In an infamous article published by New York Magazine in 1998 , journalist Nancy Jo Sales criticized the group as men whose pursuit was to " chase girls , pick fights and not tip the waitress " . During an unknown activity , DiCaprio got himself and friend Justin Herwick almost killed when his parachute failed to open , after which his instructor released an emergency core . In response , DiCaprio said he is fond of doing things that scare him . John McCain , who was a United States Senator for Arizona , called him " an androgynous wimp " . DiCaprio found people ' s perception of him exaggerated , adding , " They want you miserable , just like them . They don ' t want heroes ; what they want is to see you fall . " Steven Spielberg , who directed him in Catch Me If You Can , defended DiCaprio ' s reputation as a " party boy " , believing it is a common behavior for young people and describing him as a family - oriented person during the film ' s production . Considering DiCaprio to be conscious of his public reputation , The New York Times ' Caryn James credited him as one of the few actors to use his stardom to further social causes . Carole Cadwalladr of The Guardian said DiCaprio is " polite , charming , makes jokes , engages eye contact . And manages   [ ... ] to give almost no hint whatsoever of his actual personality . "	How did you and Justin Herwick almost get killed?	Justin Herwick and I almost got killed when my parachute failed to open during an unknown activity.
Early in his career , DiCaprio gained a reputation for his reckless behavior and intense partying with a group of male celebrities dubbed " the Pussy Posse " in the 1990s . In an infamous article published by New York Magazine in 1998 , journalist Nancy Jo Sales criticized the group as men whose pursuit was to " chase girls , pick fights and not tip the waitress " . During an unknown activity , DiCaprio got himself and friend Justin Herwick almost killed when his parachute failed to open , after which his instructor released an emergency core . In response , DiCaprio said he is fond of doing things that scare him . John McCain , who was a United States Senator for Arizona , called him " an androgynous wimp " . DiCaprio found people ' s perception of him exaggerated , adding , " They want you miserable , just like them . They don ' t want heroes ; what they want is to see you fall . " Steven Spielberg , who directed him in Catch Me If You Can , defended DiCaprio ' s reputation as a " party boy " , believing it is a common behavior for young people and describing him as a family - oriented person during the film ' s production . Considering DiCaprio to be conscious of his public reputation , The New York Times ' Caryn James credited him as one of the few actors to use his stardom to further social causes . Carole Cadwalladr of The Guardian said DiCaprio is " polite , charming , makes jokes , engages eye contact . And manages   [ ... ] to give almost no hint whatsoever of his actual personality . "	How did you respond to people's perception of you?	I responded by saying that people's perception of me is exaggerated and that they want me to be miserable.
Early in his career , DiCaprio gained a reputation for his reckless behavior and intense partying with a group of male celebrities dubbed " the Pussy Posse " in the 1990s . In an infamous article published by New York Magazine in 1998 , journalist Nancy Jo Sales criticized the group as men whose pursuit was to " chase girls , pick fights and not tip the waitress " . During an unknown activity , DiCaprio got himself and friend Justin Herwick almost killed when his parachute failed to open , after which his instructor released an emergency core . In response , DiCaprio said he is fond of doing things that scare him . John McCain , who was a United States Senator for Arizona , called him " an androgynous wimp " . DiCaprio found people ' s perception of him exaggerated , adding , " They want you miserable , just like them . They don ' t want heroes ; what they want is to see you fall . " Steven Spielberg , who directed him in Catch Me If You Can , defended DiCaprio ' s reputation as a " party boy " , believing it is a common behavior for young people and describing him as a family - oriented person during the film ' s production . Considering DiCaprio to be conscious of his public reputation , The New York Times ' Caryn James credited him as one of the few actors to use his stardom to further social causes . Carole Cadwalladr of The Guardian said DiCaprio is " polite , charming , makes jokes , engages eye contact . And manages   [ ... ] to give almost no hint whatsoever of his actual personality . "	How did Steven Spielberg describe you during the production of "Catch Me If You Can"?	Steven Spielberg described me as a "party boy" and a family-oriented person during the production of "Catch Me If You Can".
Early in his career , DiCaprio gained a reputation for his reckless behavior and intense partying with a group of male celebrities dubbed " the Pussy Posse " in the 1990s . In an infamous article published by New York Magazine in 1998 , journalist Nancy Jo Sales criticized the group as men whose pursuit was to " chase girls , pick fights and not tip the waitress " . During an unknown activity , DiCaprio got himself and friend Justin Herwick almost killed when his parachute failed to open , after which his instructor released an emergency core . In response , DiCaprio said he is fond of doing things that scare him . John McCain , who was a United States Senator for Arizona , called him " an androgynous wimp " . DiCaprio found people ' s perception of him exaggerated , adding , " They want you miserable , just like them . They don ' t want heroes ; what they want is to see you fall . " Steven Spielberg , who directed him in Catch Me If You Can , defended DiCaprio ' s reputation as a " party boy " , believing it is a common behavior for young people and describing him as a family - oriented person during the film ' s production . Considering DiCaprio to be conscious of his public reputation , The New York Times ' Caryn James credited him as one of the few actors to use his stardom to further social causes . Carole Cadwalladr of The Guardian said DiCaprio is " polite , charming , makes jokes , engages eye contact . And manages   [ ... ] to give almost no hint whatsoever of his actual personality . "	How did The Guardian describe your personality?	The Guardian described me as polite, charming, someone who makes jokes and engages in eye contact, but without giving any hint of my actual personality.
Several media publications , such as People , Empire and Harper ' s Bazaar , have included DiCaprio in their listings of the most attractive actors . In 1998 , he sued Playgirl magazine over plans to publish a fully nude picture of him . He has said he does not believe in focusing on appearance — as this is only temporary and can negatively affect one ' s profession in the industry — and looks for career longevity instead . In 2005 , DiCaprio was made a commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by the French Minister of Culture for his contributions to the arts . In 2016 , he was named one of the 100   most influential people in the world by Time magazine . He was included on Forbes ' annual list of the world ' s highest - paid actors in 2008 and from 2010 to 2016 with respective earnings of $ 45   million , $ 28   million , $ 77   million , $ 37   million , $ 39   million , $ 29   million and $ 27   million , topping the list in 2011 . The magazine has commended DiCaprio ' s ability to star in risky , R - rated films that become box office successes . The Hollywood Reporter listed him as one of the 100 most powerful people in entertainment from 2016 to 2019 . A writer for the same magazine credits DiCaprio as the rare actor to have a successful career " without ever having made a comic book movie , family film or pre - branded franchise . Leo is the franchise . " Stacey Wilson Hunt , analyzing his career in New York Magazine in 2016 , noted DiCaprio , unlike most of his contemporaries , had not starred in a failed film in the previous ten years . Of his success , DiCaprio says , " My attitude is the same as when I started . I feel very connected to that fifteen - year - old kid who got his first movie . "	Which media publications have included you in their listings of the most attractive actors?	People, Empire, and Harper's Bazaar.
Several media publications , such as People , Empire and Harper ' s Bazaar , have included DiCaprio in their listings of the most attractive actors . In 1998 , he sued Playgirl magazine over plans to publish a fully nude picture of him . He has said he does not believe in focusing on appearance — as this is only temporary and can negatively affect one ' s profession in the industry — and looks for career longevity instead . In 2005 , DiCaprio was made a commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by the French Minister of Culture for his contributions to the arts . In 2016 , he was named one of the 100   most influential people in the world by Time magazine . He was included on Forbes ' annual list of the world ' s highest - paid actors in 2008 and from 2010 to 2016 with respective earnings of $ 45   million , $ 28   million , $ 77   million , $ 37   million , $ 39   million , $ 29   million and $ 27   million , topping the list in 2011 . The magazine has commended DiCaprio ' s ability to star in risky , R - rated films that become box office successes . The Hollywood Reporter listed him as one of the 100 most powerful people in entertainment from 2016 to 2019 . A writer for the same magazine credits DiCaprio as the rare actor to have a successful career " without ever having made a comic book movie , family film or pre - branded franchise . Leo is the franchise . " Stacey Wilson Hunt , analyzing his career in New York Magazine in 2016 , noted DiCaprio , unlike most of his contemporaries , had not starred in a failed film in the previous ten years . Of his success , DiCaprio says , " My attitude is the same as when I started . I feel very connected to that fifteen - year - old kid who got his first movie . "	Why did you sue Playgirl magazine in 1998?	Over plans to publish a fully nude picture of me.
Several media publications , such as People , Empire and Harper ' s Bazaar , have included DiCaprio in their listings of the most attractive actors . In 1998 , he sued Playgirl magazine over plans to publish a fully nude picture of him . He has said he does not believe in focusing on appearance — as this is only temporary and can negatively affect one ' s profession in the industry — and looks for career longevity instead . In 2005 , DiCaprio was made a commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by the French Minister of Culture for his contributions to the arts . In 2016 , he was named one of the 100   most influential people in the world by Time magazine . He was included on Forbes ' annual list of the world ' s highest - paid actors in 2008 and from 2010 to 2016 with respective earnings of $ 45   million , $ 28   million , $ 77   million , $ 37   million , $ 39   million , $ 29   million and $ 27   million , topping the list in 2011 . The magazine has commended DiCaprio ' s ability to star in risky , R - rated films that become box office successes . The Hollywood Reporter listed him as one of the 100 most powerful people in entertainment from 2016 to 2019 . A writer for the same magazine credits DiCaprio as the rare actor to have a successful career " without ever having made a comic book movie , family film or pre - branded franchise . Leo is the franchise . " Stacey Wilson Hunt , analyzing his career in New York Magazine in 2016 , noted DiCaprio , unlike most of his contemporaries , had not starred in a failed film in the previous ten years . Of his success , DiCaprio says , " My attitude is the same as when I started . I feel very connected to that fifteen - year - old kid who got his first movie . "	What honor did you receive from the French Minister of Culture in 2005?	I was made a commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres.
Several media publications , such as People , Empire and Harper ' s Bazaar , have included DiCaprio in their listings of the most attractive actors . In 1998 , he sued Playgirl magazine over plans to publish a fully nude picture of him . He has said he does not believe in focusing on appearance — as this is only temporary and can negatively affect one ' s profession in the industry — and looks for career longevity instead . In 2005 , DiCaprio was made a commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by the French Minister of Culture for his contributions to the arts . In 2016 , he was named one of the 100   most influential people in the world by Time magazine . He was included on Forbes ' annual list of the world ' s highest - paid actors in 2008 and from 2010 to 2016 with respective earnings of $ 45   million , $ 28   million , $ 77   million , $ 37   million , $ 39   million , $ 29   million and $ 27   million , topping the list in 2011 . The magazine has commended DiCaprio ' s ability to star in risky , R - rated films that become box office successes . The Hollywood Reporter listed him as one of the 100 most powerful people in entertainment from 2016 to 2019 . A writer for the same magazine credits DiCaprio as the rare actor to have a successful career " without ever having made a comic book movie , family film or pre - branded franchise . Leo is the franchise . " Stacey Wilson Hunt , analyzing his career in New York Magazine in 2016 , noted DiCaprio , unlike most of his contemporaries , had not starred in a failed film in the previous ten years . Of his success , DiCaprio says , " My attitude is the same as when I started . I feel very connected to that fifteen - year - old kid who got his first movie . "	In which year were you named one of the 100 most influential people in the world by Time magazine?	2016.
Several media publications , such as People , Empire and Harper ' s Bazaar , have included DiCaprio in their listings of the most attractive actors . In 1998 , he sued Playgirl magazine over plans to publish a fully nude picture of him . He has said he does not believe in focusing on appearance — as this is only temporary and can negatively affect one ' s profession in the industry — and looks for career longevity instead . In 2005 , DiCaprio was made a commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by the French Minister of Culture for his contributions to the arts . In 2016 , he was named one of the 100   most influential people in the world by Time magazine . He was included on Forbes ' annual list of the world ' s highest - paid actors in 2008 and from 2010 to 2016 with respective earnings of $ 45   million , $ 28   million , $ 77   million , $ 37   million , $ 39   million , $ 29   million and $ 27   million , topping the list in 2011 . The magazine has commended DiCaprio ' s ability to star in risky , R - rated films that become box office successes . The Hollywood Reporter listed him as one of the 100 most powerful people in entertainment from 2016 to 2019 . A writer for the same magazine credits DiCaprio as the rare actor to have a successful career " without ever having made a comic book movie , family film or pre - branded franchise . Leo is the franchise . " Stacey Wilson Hunt , analyzing his career in New York Magazine in 2016 , noted DiCaprio , unlike most of his contemporaries , had not starred in a failed film in the previous ten years . Of his success , DiCaprio says , " My attitude is the same as when I started . I feel very connected to that fifteen - year - old kid who got his first movie . "	According to Forbes, which year did you top the list of highest-paid actors?	2011.
