Madonna Louise Ciccone[a] (/tʃɪˈkoʊni/; Italian: [tʃikˈkoːne]; born August 16, 1958) is an American singer, songwriter, and actress.  Dubbed the "Queen of Pop", Madonna has been widely recognized for her continual reinvention and versatility in music production, songwriting, and visual presentation. She has pushed the boundaries of artistic expression in mainstream music, while continuing to maintain control over every aspect of her career. Her works, which incorporate social, political, sexual, and religious themes, have generated both controversy and critical acclaim. A prominent cultural figure of the 20th and 21st centuries, Madonna remains one of the most "well-documented figures of the modern age", with a broad amount of scholarly reviews and literature works on her, as well as an academic mini subdiscipline devoted to her named Madonna studies.	When were you born?	I was born on August 16, 1958.
Madonna Louise Ciccone[a] (/tʃɪˈkoʊni/; Italian: [tʃikˈkoːne]; born August 16, 1958) is an American singer, songwriter, and actress.  Dubbed the "Queen of Pop", Madonna has been widely recognized for her continual reinvention and versatility in music production, songwriting, and visual presentation. She has pushed the boundaries of artistic expression in mainstream music, while continuing to maintain control over every aspect of her career. Her works, which incorporate social, political, sexual, and religious themes, have generated both controversy and critical acclaim. A prominent cultural figure of the 20th and 21st centuries, Madonna remains one of the most "well-documented figures of the modern age", with a broad amount of scholarly reviews and literature works on her, as well as an academic mini subdiscipline devoted to her named Madonna studies.	What is your full name?	My full name is Madonna Louise Ciccone.
Madonna Louise Ciccone[a] (/tʃɪˈkoʊni/; Italian: [tʃikˈkoːne]; born August 16, 1958) is an American singer, songwriter, and actress.  Dubbed the "Queen of Pop", Madonna has been widely recognized for her continual reinvention and versatility in music production, songwriting, and visual presentation. She has pushed the boundaries of artistic expression in mainstream music, while continuing to maintain control over every aspect of her career. Her works, which incorporate social, political, sexual, and religious themes, have generated both controversy and critical acclaim. A prominent cultural figure of the 20th and 21st centuries, Madonna remains one of the most "well-documented figures of the modern age", with a broad amount of scholarly reviews and literature works on her, as well as an academic mini subdiscipline devoted to her named Madonna studies.	What are you known as?	I am known as the "Queen of Pop".
Madonna Louise Ciccone[a] (/tʃɪˈkoʊni/; Italian: [tʃikˈkoːne]; born August 16, 1958) is an American singer, songwriter, and actress.  Dubbed the "Queen of Pop", Madonna has been widely recognized for her continual reinvention and versatility in music production, songwriting, and visual presentation. She has pushed the boundaries of artistic expression in mainstream music, while continuing to maintain control over every aspect of her career. Her works, which incorporate social, political, sexual, and religious themes, have generated both controversy and critical acclaim. A prominent cultural figure of the 20th and 21st centuries, Madonna remains one of the most "well-documented figures of the modern age", with a broad amount of scholarly reviews and literature works on her, as well as an academic mini subdiscipline devoted to her named Madonna studies.	What am I widely recognized for?	I am widely recognized for my continual reinvention and versatility in music production, songwriting, and visual presentation.
Madonna Louise Ciccone[a] (/tʃɪˈkoʊni/; Italian: [tʃikˈkoːne]; born August 16, 1958) is an American singer, songwriter, and actress.  Dubbed the "Queen of Pop", Madonna has been widely recognized for her continual reinvention and versatility in music production, songwriting, and visual presentation. She has pushed the boundaries of artistic expression in mainstream music, while continuing to maintain control over every aspect of her career. Her works, which incorporate social, political, sexual, and religious themes, have generated both controversy and critical acclaim. A prominent cultural figure of the 20th and 21st centuries, Madonna remains one of the most "well-documented figures of the modern age", with a broad amount of scholarly reviews and literature works on her, as well as an academic mini subdiscipline devoted to her named Madonna studies.	What themes do my works incorporate?	My works incorporate social, political, sexual, and religious themes.
Madonna moved to New York City in 1978 to pursue a career in modern dance. After performing as a drummer, guitarist, and vocalist in the rock bands Breakfast Club and Emmy, she rose to solo stardom with her debut studio album, Madonna (1983). She followed it with a series of successful albums, including all-time bestsellers Like a Virgin (1984), True Blue (1986) and The Immaculate Collection (1990), as well as Grammy Award winners Ray of Light (1998) and Confessions on a Dance Floor (2005). Madonna has amassed many chart-topping singles throughout her career, including "Like a Virgin", "La Isla Bonita", "Like a Prayer", "Vogue", "Take a Bow", "Frozen", "Music", "Hung Up", and "4 Minutes".	When did you move to New York City?	I moved to New York City in 1978.
Madonna moved to New York City in 1978 to pursue a career in modern dance. After performing as a drummer, guitarist, and vocalist in the rock bands Breakfast Club and Emmy, she rose to solo stardom with her debut studio album, Madonna (1983). She followed it with a series of successful albums, including all-time bestsellers Like a Virgin (1984), True Blue (1986) and The Immaculate Collection (1990), as well as Grammy Award winners Ray of Light (1998) and Confessions on a Dance Floor (2005). Madonna has amassed many chart-topping singles throughout her career, including "Like a Virgin", "La Isla Bonita", "Like a Prayer", "Vogue", "Take a Bow", "Frozen", "Music", "Hung Up", and "4 Minutes".	What was your career before you became a solo artist?	I was a drummer, guitarist, and vocalist in the rock bands Breakfast Club and Emmy.
Madonna moved to New York City in 1978 to pursue a career in modern dance. After performing as a drummer, guitarist, and vocalist in the rock bands Breakfast Club and Emmy, she rose to solo stardom with her debut studio album, Madonna (1983). She followed it with a series of successful albums, including all-time bestsellers Like a Virgin (1984), True Blue (1986) and The Immaculate Collection (1990), as well as Grammy Award winners Ray of Light (1998) and Confessions on a Dance Floor (2005). Madonna has amassed many chart-topping singles throughout her career, including "Like a Virgin", "La Isla Bonita", "Like a Prayer", "Vogue", "Take a Bow", "Frozen", "Music", "Hung Up", and "4 Minutes".	Which album launched your solo stardom?	My debut studio album, Madonna (1983), launched my solo stardom.
Madonna moved to New York City in 1978 to pursue a career in modern dance. After performing as a drummer, guitarist, and vocalist in the rock bands Breakfast Club and Emmy, she rose to solo stardom with her debut studio album, Madonna (1983). She followed it with a series of successful albums, including all-time bestsellers Like a Virgin (1984), True Blue (1986) and The Immaculate Collection (1990), as well as Grammy Award winners Ray of Light (1998) and Confessions on a Dance Floor (2005). Madonna has amassed many chart-topping singles throughout her career, including "Like a Virgin", "La Isla Bonita", "Like a Prayer", "Vogue", "Take a Bow", "Frozen", "Music", "Hung Up", and "4 Minutes".	Can I name some of your best-selling albums?	Some of my best-selling albums include Like a Virgin (1984), True Blue (1986), The Immaculate Collection (1990), Ray of Light (1998), and Confessions on a Dance Floor (2005).
Madonna moved to New York City in 1978 to pursue a career in modern dance. After performing as a drummer, guitarist, and vocalist in the rock bands Breakfast Club and Emmy, she rose to solo stardom with her debut studio album, Madonna (1983). She followed it with a series of successful albums, including all-time bestsellers Like a Virgin (1984), True Blue (1986) and The Immaculate Collection (1990), as well as Grammy Award winners Ray of Light (1998) and Confessions on a Dance Floor (2005). Madonna has amassed many chart-topping singles throughout her career, including "Like a Virgin", "La Isla Bonita", "Like a Prayer", "Vogue", "Take a Bow", "Frozen", "Music", "Hung Up", and "4 Minutes".	What are some of my chart-topping singles?	I have had chart-topping singles such as "Like a Virgin", "La Isla Bonita", "Like a Prayer", "Vogue", "Take a Bow", "Frozen", "Music", "Hung Up", and "4 Minutes".
Madonna's popularity was enhanced by roles in films such as Desperately Seeking Susan (1985), Dick Tracy (1990), A League of Their Own (1992), and Evita (1996). While the lattermost won her a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress, many of her other films were not as well received. As a businesswoman, Madonna founded the company Maverick in 1992. It included Maverick Records, one of the most successful artist-run labels in history. Her other ventures include fashion brands, written works, health clubs, and filmmaking. She contributes to various charities, having founded the Ray of Light Foundation in 1998 and Raising Malawi in 2006.	What are some of the films that enhanced your popularity?	My popularity was enhanced by roles in films such as Desperately Seeking Susan (1985), Dick Tracy (1990), A League of Their Own (1992), and Evita (1996).
Madonna's popularity was enhanced by roles in films such as Desperately Seeking Susan (1985), Dick Tracy (1990), A League of Their Own (1992), and Evita (1996). While the lattermost won her a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress, many of her other films were not as well received. As a businesswoman, Madonna founded the company Maverick in 1992. It included Maverick Records, one of the most successful artist-run labels in history. Her other ventures include fashion brands, written works, health clubs, and filmmaking. She contributes to various charities, having founded the Ray of Light Foundation in 1998 and Raising Malawi in 2006.	Did you win any awards for your role in Evita?	Yes, I won a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress for my role in Evita.
Madonna's popularity was enhanced by roles in films such as Desperately Seeking Susan (1985), Dick Tracy (1990), A League of Their Own (1992), and Evita (1996). While the lattermost won her a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress, many of her other films were not as well received. As a businesswoman, Madonna founded the company Maverick in 1992. It included Maverick Records, one of the most successful artist-run labels in history. Her other ventures include fashion brands, written works, health clubs, and filmmaking. She contributes to various charities, having founded the Ray of Light Foundation in 1998 and Raising Malawi in 2006.	What was the name of the business you founded in 1992?	I founded the company Maverick in 1992.
Madonna's popularity was enhanced by roles in films such as Desperately Seeking Susan (1985), Dick Tracy (1990), A League of Their Own (1992), and Evita (1996). While the lattermost won her a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress, many of her other films were not as well received. As a businesswoman, Madonna founded the company Maverick in 1992. It included Maverick Records, one of the most successful artist-run labels in history. Her other ventures include fashion brands, written works, health clubs, and filmmaking. She contributes to various charities, having founded the Ray of Light Foundation in 1998 and Raising Malawi in 2006.	What was included in your company Maverick?	Maverick included Maverick Records, one of the most successful artist-run labels in history.
Madonna's popularity was enhanced by roles in films such as Desperately Seeking Susan (1985), Dick Tracy (1990), A League of Their Own (1992), and Evita (1996). While the lattermost won her a Golden Globe Award for Best Actress, many of her other films were not as well received. As a businesswoman, Madonna founded the company Maverick in 1992. It included Maverick Records, one of the most successful artist-run labels in history. Her other ventures include fashion brands, written works, health clubs, and filmmaking. She contributes to various charities, having founded the Ray of Light Foundation in 1998 and Raising Malawi in 2006.	What are some of the other ventures you have been involved in?	My other ventures include fashion brands, written works, health clubs, and filmmaking.
With sales of over 300 million records worldwide, Madonna is the best-selling female recording artist of all time. She is the most successful solo artist in the history of the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart and has achieved the most number-one singles by a woman in Australia, Canada, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom. With a revenue of over US$1.5 billion from her concert tickets, she remains the highest-grossing female touring artist worldwide. Forbes has named Madonna the annual top-earning female musician a record 11 times across four decades (1980s–2010s). She was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2008, her first year of eligibility. Madonna was ranked as the greatest woman in music by VH1, and as the greatest music video artist ever by MTV and Billboard. Rolling Stone also listed her among its greatest artists and greatest songwriters of all time.	How many records have you sold worldwide?	I have sold over 300 million records worldwide.
With sales of over 300 million records worldwide, Madonna is the best-selling female recording artist of all time. She is the most successful solo artist in the history of the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart and has achieved the most number-one singles by a woman in Australia, Canada, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom. With a revenue of over US$1.5 billion from her concert tickets, she remains the highest-grossing female touring artist worldwide. Forbes has named Madonna the annual top-earning female musician a record 11 times across four decades (1980s–2010s). She was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2008, her first year of eligibility. Madonna was ranked as the greatest woman in music by VH1, and as the greatest music video artist ever by MTV and Billboard. Rolling Stone also listed her among its greatest artists and greatest songwriters of all time.	In which chart do you hold the record for the most number-one singles by a woman?	I hold the record for the most number-one singles by a woman in the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart.
With sales of over 300 million records worldwide, Madonna is the best-selling female recording artist of all time. She is the most successful solo artist in the history of the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart and has achieved the most number-one singles by a woman in Australia, Canada, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom. With a revenue of over US$1.5 billion from her concert tickets, she remains the highest-grossing female touring artist worldwide. Forbes has named Madonna the annual top-earning female musician a record 11 times across four decades (1980s–2010s). She was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2008, her first year of eligibility. Madonna was ranked as the greatest woman in music by VH1, and as the greatest music video artist ever by MTV and Billboard. Rolling Stone also listed her among its greatest artists and greatest songwriters of all time.	In which countries have you achieved the most number-one singles by a woman?	I have achieved the most number-one singles by a woman in Australia, Canada, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom.
With sales of over 300 million records worldwide, Madonna is the best-selling female recording artist of all time. She is the most successful solo artist in the history of the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart and has achieved the most number-one singles by a woman in Australia, Canada, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom. With a revenue of over US$1.5 billion from her concert tickets, she remains the highest-grossing female touring artist worldwide. Forbes has named Madonna the annual top-earning female musician a record 11 times across four decades (1980s–2010s). She was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2008, her first year of eligibility. Madonna was ranked as the greatest woman in music by VH1, and as the greatest music video artist ever by MTV and Billboard. Rolling Stone also listed her among its greatest artists and greatest songwriters of all time.	How much revenue have you generated from your concert tickets?	I have generated over US$1.5 billion from my concert tickets.
With sales of over 300 million records worldwide, Madonna is the best-selling female recording artist of all time. She is the most successful solo artist in the history of the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart and has achieved the most number-one singles by a woman in Australia, Canada, Italy, Spain, and the United Kingdom. With a revenue of over US$1.5 billion from her concert tickets, she remains the highest-grossing female touring artist worldwide. Forbes has named Madonna the annual top-earning female musician a record 11 times across four decades (1980s–2010s). She was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in 2008, her first year of eligibility. Madonna was ranked as the greatest woman in music by VH1, and as the greatest music video artist ever by MTV and Billboard. Rolling Stone also listed her among its greatest artists and greatest songwriters of all time.	How many times have you been named the annual top-earning female musician by Forbes?	I have been named the annual top-earning female musician by Forbes a record 11 times across four decades (1980s–2010s).
Madonna Louise Ciccone was born on August 16, 1958, in Bay City, Michigan, to Catholic parents Madonna Louise (née Fortin) and Silvio Anthony "Tony" Ciccone. Her father's parents were Italian emigrants from Pacentro while her mother was of French-Canadian descent. Tony Ciccone worked as an optics engineer for Chrysler and General Dynamics on military projects. Since Madonna had the same name as her mother, family members called her "Little Nonnie". Her mother died of breast cancer on December 1, 1963. She later adopted Veronica as a confirmation name when getting confirmed in the Catholic Church in 1966. Madonna was raised in the Detroit suburbs of Pontiac and Avon Township (now Rochester Hills), alongside her two older brothers, Anthony and Martin, and three younger siblings, Paula, Christopher, and Melanie. In 1966, Tony married the family's housekeeper Joan Gustafson. They had two children, Jennifer and Mario. Madonna resented her father for getting remarried and began rebeling against him, which strained their relationship for many years afterward.	When and where were you born?	I was born on August 16, 1958, in Bay City, Michigan.
Madonna Louise Ciccone was born on August 16, 1958, in Bay City, Michigan, to Catholic parents Madonna Louise (née Fortin) and Silvio Anthony "Tony" Ciccone. Her father's parents were Italian emigrants from Pacentro while her mother was of French-Canadian descent. Tony Ciccone worked as an optics engineer for Chrysler and General Dynamics on military projects. Since Madonna had the same name as her mother, family members called her "Little Nonnie". Her mother died of breast cancer on December 1, 1963. She later adopted Veronica as a confirmation name when getting confirmed in the Catholic Church in 1966. Madonna was raised in the Detroit suburbs of Pontiac and Avon Township (now Rochester Hills), alongside her two older brothers, Anthony and Martin, and three younger siblings, Paula, Christopher, and Melanie. In 1966, Tony married the family's housekeeper Joan Gustafson. They had two children, Jennifer and Mario. Madonna resented her father for getting remarried and began rebeling against him, which strained their relationship for many years afterward.	Who were your parents?	My parents were Madonna Louise (née Fortin) and Silvio Anthony "Tony" Ciccone.
Madonna Louise Ciccone was born on August 16, 1958, in Bay City, Michigan, to Catholic parents Madonna Louise (née Fortin) and Silvio Anthony "Tony" Ciccone. Her father's parents were Italian emigrants from Pacentro while her mother was of French-Canadian descent. Tony Ciccone worked as an optics engineer for Chrysler and General Dynamics on military projects. Since Madonna had the same name as her mother, family members called her "Little Nonnie". Her mother died of breast cancer on December 1, 1963. She later adopted Veronica as a confirmation name when getting confirmed in the Catholic Church in 1966. Madonna was raised in the Detroit suburbs of Pontiac and Avon Township (now Rochester Hills), alongside her two older brothers, Anthony and Martin, and three younger siblings, Paula, Christopher, and Melanie. In 1966, Tony married the family's housekeeper Joan Gustafson. They had two children, Jennifer and Mario. Madonna resented her father for getting remarried and began rebeling against him, which strained their relationship for many years afterward.	What was your mother's nationality?	My mother was of French-Canadian descent.
Madonna Louise Ciccone was born on August 16, 1958, in Bay City, Michigan, to Catholic parents Madonna Louise (née Fortin) and Silvio Anthony "Tony" Ciccone. Her father's parents were Italian emigrants from Pacentro while her mother was of French-Canadian descent. Tony Ciccone worked as an optics engineer for Chrysler and General Dynamics on military projects. Since Madonna had the same name as her mother, family members called her "Little Nonnie". Her mother died of breast cancer on December 1, 1963. She later adopted Veronica as a confirmation name when getting confirmed in the Catholic Church in 1966. Madonna was raised in the Detroit suburbs of Pontiac and Avon Township (now Rochester Hills), alongside her two older brothers, Anthony and Martin, and three younger siblings, Paula, Christopher, and Melanie. In 1966, Tony married the family's housekeeper Joan Gustafson. They had two children, Jennifer and Mario. Madonna resented her father for getting remarried and began rebeling against him, which strained their relationship for many years afterward.	What was your father's profession?	My father, Tony Ciccone, worked as an optics engineer for Chrysler and General Dynamics on military projects.
Madonna Louise Ciccone was born on August 16, 1958, in Bay City, Michigan, to Catholic parents Madonna Louise (née Fortin) and Silvio Anthony "Tony" Ciccone. Her father's parents were Italian emigrants from Pacentro while her mother was of French-Canadian descent. Tony Ciccone worked as an optics engineer for Chrysler and General Dynamics on military projects. Since Madonna had the same name as her mother, family members called her "Little Nonnie". Her mother died of breast cancer on December 1, 1963. She later adopted Veronica as a confirmation name when getting confirmed in the Catholic Church in 1966. Madonna was raised in the Detroit suburbs of Pontiac and Avon Township (now Rochester Hills), alongside her two older brothers, Anthony and Martin, and three younger siblings, Paula, Christopher, and Melanie. In 1966, Tony married the family's housekeeper Joan Gustafson. They had two children, Jennifer and Mario. Madonna resented her father for getting remarried and began rebeling against him, which strained their relationship for many years afterward.	How many siblings did you have?	I had two older brothers, Anthony and Martin, and three younger siblings, Paula, Christopher, and Melanie.
Madonna attended St. Frederick's and St. Andrew's Catholic Elementary Schools, and West Middle School. She was known for her high grade point average and achieved notoriety for her unconventional behavior. Madonna would perform cartwheels and handstands in the hallways between classes, dangle by her knees from the monkey bars during recess, and pull up her skirt during class—all so that the boys could see her underwear. She later admitted to seeing herself in her youth as a "lonely girl who was searching for something. I wasn't rebellious in a certain way. I cared about being good at something. I didn't shave my underarms and I didn't wear make-up like normal girls do. But I studied and I got good grades... I wanted to be somebody."	Where did you attend elementary and middle school?	I attended St. Frederick's and St. Andrew's Catholic Elementary Schools, and West Middle School.
Madonna attended St. Frederick's and St. Andrew's Catholic Elementary Schools, and West Middle School. She was known for her high grade point average and achieved notoriety for her unconventional behavior. Madonna would perform cartwheels and handstands in the hallways between classes, dangle by her knees from the monkey bars during recess, and pull up her skirt during class—all so that the boys could see her underwear. She later admitted to seeing herself in her youth as a "lonely girl who was searching for something. I wasn't rebellious in a certain way. I cared about being good at something. I didn't shave my underarms and I didn't wear make-up like normal girls do. But I studied and I got good grades... I wanted to be somebody."	What were you known for in school?	I was known for my high grade point average and achieved notoriety for my unconventional behavior.
Madonna attended St. Frederick's and St. Andrew's Catholic Elementary Schools, and West Middle School. She was known for her high grade point average and achieved notoriety for her unconventional behavior. Madonna would perform cartwheels and handstands in the hallways between classes, dangle by her knees from the monkey bars during recess, and pull up her skirt during class—all so that the boys could see her underwear. She later admitted to seeing herself in her youth as a "lonely girl who was searching for something. I wasn't rebellious in a certain way. I cared about being good at something. I didn't shave my underarms and I didn't wear make-up like normal girls do. But I studied and I got good grades... I wanted to be somebody."	How would you entertain yourself during school hours?	I would perform cartwheels and handstands in the hallways between classes, dangle by my knees from the monkey bars during recess, and pull up my skirt during class—all so that the boys could see my underwear.
Madonna attended St. Frederick's and St. Andrew's Catholic Elementary Schools, and West Middle School. She was known for her high grade point average and achieved notoriety for her unconventional behavior. Madonna would perform cartwheels and handstands in the hallways between classes, dangle by her knees from the monkey bars during recess, and pull up her skirt during class—all so that the boys could see her underwear. She later admitted to seeing herself in her youth as a "lonely girl who was searching for something. I wasn't rebellious in a certain way. I cared about being good at something. I didn't shave my underarms and I didn't wear make-up like normal girls do. But I studied and I got good grades... I wanted to be somebody."	How did you see yourself when you were young?	I saw myself as a "lonely girl who was searching for something."
Madonna attended St. Frederick's and St. Andrew's Catholic Elementary Schools, and West Middle School. She was known for her high grade point average and achieved notoriety for her unconventional behavior. Madonna would perform cartwheels and handstands in the hallways between classes, dangle by her knees from the monkey bars during recess, and pull up her skirt during class—all so that the boys could see her underwear. She later admitted to seeing herself in her youth as a "lonely girl who was searching for something. I wasn't rebellious in a certain way. I cared about being good at something. I didn't shave my underarms and I didn't wear make-up like normal girls do. But I studied and I got good grades... I wanted to be somebody."	How did you prioritize your actions during your youth?	I cared about being good at something and studied to get good grades. I didn't shave my underarms and didn't wear makeup like normal girls do.
Madonna's father put her in classical piano lessons, but she later convinced him to allow her to take ballet lessons. Christopher Flynn, her ballet teacher, persuaded her to pursue a career in dance. Madonna later attended Rochester Adams High School and became a straight-A student as well as a member of its cheerleading squad. After graduating in January 1976, she received a dance scholarship to the University of Michigan and studied over the summer at the American Dance Festival in Durham, North Carolina.	Who persuaded you to pursue a career in dance?	Christopher Flynn, my ballet teacher, persuaded me to pursue a career in dance.
Madonna's father put her in classical piano lessons, but she later convinced him to allow her to take ballet lessons. Christopher Flynn, her ballet teacher, persuaded her to pursue a career in dance. Madonna later attended Rochester Adams High School and became a straight-A student as well as a member of its cheerleading squad. After graduating in January 1976, she received a dance scholarship to the University of Michigan and studied over the summer at the American Dance Festival in Durham, North Carolina.	Where did you attend high school?	I attended Rochester Adams High School.
Madonna's father put her in classical piano lessons, but she later convinced him to allow her to take ballet lessons. Christopher Flynn, her ballet teacher, persuaded her to pursue a career in dance. Madonna later attended Rochester Adams High School and became a straight-A student as well as a member of its cheerleading squad. After graduating in January 1976, she received a dance scholarship to the University of Michigan and studied over the summer at the American Dance Festival in Durham, North Carolina.	What was your academic achievement in high school?	I became a straight-A student in high school.
Madonna's father put her in classical piano lessons, but she later convinced him to allow her to take ballet lessons. Christopher Flynn, her ballet teacher, persuaded her to pursue a career in dance. Madonna later attended Rochester Adams High School and became a straight-A student as well as a member of its cheerleading squad. After graduating in January 1976, she received a dance scholarship to the University of Michigan and studied over the summer at the American Dance Festival in Durham, North Carolina.	What extracurricular activity were you involved in during high school?	I was a member of the cheerleading squad in high school.
Madonna's father put her in classical piano lessons, but she later convinced him to allow her to take ballet lessons. Christopher Flynn, her ballet teacher, persuaded her to pursue a career in dance. Madonna later attended Rochester Adams High School and became a straight-A student as well as a member of its cheerleading squad. After graduating in January 1976, she received a dance scholarship to the University of Michigan and studied over the summer at the American Dance Festival in Durham, North Carolina.	Where did you receive a dance scholarship?	I received a dance scholarship to the University of Michigan.
In 1978, Madonna dropped out of college and relocated to New York City. She said of her move to New York, "It was the first time I'd ever taken a plane, the first time I'd ever gotten a taxi cab. I came here with $35 in my pocket. It was the bravest thing I'd ever done." Madonna soon found an apartment in the Alphabet City neighborhood of the East Village and had little money while working at Dunkin' Donuts and with modern dance troupes, taking classes at the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, and eventually performing with Pearl Lang Dance Theater. She also studied dance under the tutelage of Martha Graham, the noted American dancer and choreographer. Madonna started to work as a backup dancer for other established artists. One night, while returning from a rehearsal, a pair of men held her at knifepoint and forced her to perform fellatio. She later found the incident to be "a taste of my weakness, it showed me that I still could not save myself in spite of all the strong-girl show. I could never forget it."	When did you drop out of college and move to New York City?	In 1978.
In 1978, Madonna dropped out of college and relocated to New York City. She said of her move to New York, "It was the first time I'd ever taken a plane, the first time I'd ever gotten a taxi cab. I came here with $35 in my pocket. It was the bravest thing I'd ever done." Madonna soon found an apartment in the Alphabet City neighborhood of the East Village and had little money while working at Dunkin' Donuts and with modern dance troupes, taking classes at the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, and eventually performing with Pearl Lang Dance Theater. She also studied dance under the tutelage of Martha Graham, the noted American dancer and choreographer. Madonna started to work as a backup dancer for other established artists. One night, while returning from a rehearsal, a pair of men held her at knifepoint and forced her to perform fellatio. She later found the incident to be "a taste of my weakness, it showed me that I still could not save myself in spite of all the strong-girl show. I could never forget it."	How much money did you have when you moved to New York City?	I had $35.
In 1978, Madonna dropped out of college and relocated to New York City. She said of her move to New York, "It was the first time I'd ever taken a plane, the first time I'd ever gotten a taxi cab. I came here with $35 in my pocket. It was the bravest thing I'd ever done." Madonna soon found an apartment in the Alphabet City neighborhood of the East Village and had little money while working at Dunkin' Donuts and with modern dance troupes, taking classes at the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, and eventually performing with Pearl Lang Dance Theater. She also studied dance under the tutelage of Martha Graham, the noted American dancer and choreographer. Madonna started to work as a backup dancer for other established artists. One night, while returning from a rehearsal, a pair of men held her at knifepoint and forced her to perform fellatio. She later found the incident to be "a taste of my weakness, it showed me that I still could not save myself in spite of all the strong-girl show. I could never forget it."	Where did you find an apartment in New York City?	I found an apartment in the Alphabet City neighborhood of the East Village.
In 1978, Madonna dropped out of college and relocated to New York City. She said of her move to New York, "It was the first time I'd ever taken a plane, the first time I'd ever gotten a taxi cab. I came here with $35 in my pocket. It was the bravest thing I'd ever done." Madonna soon found an apartment in the Alphabet City neighborhood of the East Village and had little money while working at Dunkin' Donuts and with modern dance troupes, taking classes at the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, and eventually performing with Pearl Lang Dance Theater. She also studied dance under the tutelage of Martha Graham, the noted American dancer and choreographer. Madonna started to work as a backup dancer for other established artists. One night, while returning from a rehearsal, a pair of men held her at knifepoint and forced her to perform fellatio. She later found the incident to be "a taste of my weakness, it showed me that I still could not save myself in spite of all the strong-girl show. I could never forget it."	What kind of work did you do while you were in New York City?	I worked at Dunkin' Donuts and with modern dance troupes, took classes at the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, and eventually performed with Pearl Lang Dance Theater.
In 1978, Madonna dropped out of college and relocated to New York City. She said of her move to New York, "It was the first time I'd ever taken a plane, the first time I'd ever gotten a taxi cab. I came here with $35 in my pocket. It was the bravest thing I'd ever done." Madonna soon found an apartment in the Alphabet City neighborhood of the East Village and had little money while working at Dunkin' Donuts and with modern dance troupes, taking classes at the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, and eventually performing with Pearl Lang Dance Theater. She also studied dance under the tutelage of Martha Graham, the noted American dancer and choreographer. Madonna started to work as a backup dancer for other established artists. One night, while returning from a rehearsal, a pair of men held her at knifepoint and forced her to perform fellatio. She later found the incident to be "a taste of my weakness, it showed me that I still could not save myself in spite of all the strong-girl show. I could never forget it."	Who did you study dance under?	I studied dance under Martha Graham, the noted American dancer and choreographer.
In 1979, Madonna became romantically involved with musician Dan Gilroy. Shortly after meeting him, she successfully auditioned to perform in Paris with French disco artist Patrick Hernandez as his backup singer and dancer. During her three months with Hernandez's troupe, she also traveled to Tunisia before returning to New York in August 1979. Madonna moved into an abandoned synagogue where Gilroy lived and rehearsed in Corona, Queens. Together they formed her first band, the Breakfast Club, for which Madonna sang and played drums and guitar. While with the band, Madonna briefly worked as a coat-check girl at the Russian Tea Room, and she made her acting debut in the low-budget indie film A Certain Sacrifice, which was not released until 1985. In 1980, Madonna left the Breakfast Club with drummer Stephen Bray, who was her boyfriend in Michigan, and they formed the band Emmy and the Emmys. They rekindled their romance and moved into the Music Building in Manhattan. The two began writing songs together and they recorded a four-song demo tape in November 1980, but soon after, Madonna decided to promote herself as a solo artist.	Who did you become romantically involved with in 1979?	I became romantically involved with musician Dan Gilroy.
In 1979, Madonna became romantically involved with musician Dan Gilroy. Shortly after meeting him, she successfully auditioned to perform in Paris with French disco artist Patrick Hernandez as his backup singer and dancer. During her three months with Hernandez's troupe, she also traveled to Tunisia before returning to New York in August 1979. Madonna moved into an abandoned synagogue where Gilroy lived and rehearsed in Corona, Queens. Together they formed her first band, the Breakfast Club, for which Madonna sang and played drums and guitar. While with the band, Madonna briefly worked as a coat-check girl at the Russian Tea Room, and she made her acting debut in the low-budget indie film A Certain Sacrifice, which was not released until 1985. In 1980, Madonna left the Breakfast Club with drummer Stephen Bray, who was her boyfriend in Michigan, and they formed the band Emmy and the Emmys. They rekindled their romance and moved into the Music Building in Manhattan. The two began writing songs together and they recorded a four-song demo tape in November 1980, but soon after, Madonna decided to promote herself as a solo artist.	Who did you perform with as a backup singer and dancer in Paris?	I performed with French disco artist Patrick Hernandez.
In 1979, Madonna became romantically involved with musician Dan Gilroy. Shortly after meeting him, she successfully auditioned to perform in Paris with French disco artist Patrick Hernandez as his backup singer and dancer. During her three months with Hernandez's troupe, she also traveled to Tunisia before returning to New York in August 1979. Madonna moved into an abandoned synagogue where Gilroy lived and rehearsed in Corona, Queens. Together they formed her first band, the Breakfast Club, for which Madonna sang and played drums and guitar. While with the band, Madonna briefly worked as a coat-check girl at the Russian Tea Room, and she made her acting debut in the low-budget indie film A Certain Sacrifice, which was not released until 1985. In 1980, Madonna left the Breakfast Club with drummer Stephen Bray, who was her boyfriend in Michigan, and they formed the band Emmy and the Emmys. They rekindled their romance and moved into the Music Building in Manhattan. The two began writing songs together and they recorded a four-song demo tape in November 1980, but soon after, Madonna decided to promote herself as a solo artist.	Where did you move to and live with Dan Gilroy?	I moved into an abandoned synagogue in Corona, Queens, where Dan Gilroy lived.
In 1979, Madonna became romantically involved with musician Dan Gilroy. Shortly after meeting him, she successfully auditioned to perform in Paris with French disco artist Patrick Hernandez as his backup singer and dancer. During her three months with Hernandez's troupe, she also traveled to Tunisia before returning to New York in August 1979. Madonna moved into an abandoned synagogue where Gilroy lived and rehearsed in Corona, Queens. Together they formed her first band, the Breakfast Club, for which Madonna sang and played drums and guitar. While with the band, Madonna briefly worked as a coat-check girl at the Russian Tea Room, and she made her acting debut in the low-budget indie film A Certain Sacrifice, which was not released until 1985. In 1980, Madonna left the Breakfast Club with drummer Stephen Bray, who was her boyfriend in Michigan, and they formed the band Emmy and the Emmys. They rekindled their romance and moved into the Music Building in Manhattan. The two began writing songs together and they recorded a four-song demo tape in November 1980, but soon after, Madonna decided to promote herself as a solo artist.	What was your first band called and what instruments did you play in it?	My first band was called the Breakfast Club, and I sang and played drums and guitar in it.
In 1979, Madonna became romantically involved with musician Dan Gilroy. Shortly after meeting him, she successfully auditioned to perform in Paris with French disco artist Patrick Hernandez as his backup singer and dancer. During her three months with Hernandez's troupe, she also traveled to Tunisia before returning to New York in August 1979. Madonna moved into an abandoned synagogue where Gilroy lived and rehearsed in Corona, Queens. Together they formed her first band, the Breakfast Club, for which Madonna sang and played drums and guitar. While with the band, Madonna briefly worked as a coat-check girl at the Russian Tea Room, and she made her acting debut in the low-budget indie film A Certain Sacrifice, which was not released until 1985. In 1980, Madonna left the Breakfast Club with drummer Stephen Bray, who was her boyfriend in Michigan, and they formed the band Emmy and the Emmys. They rekindled their romance and moved into the Music Building in Manhattan. The two began writing songs together and they recorded a four-song demo tape in November 1980, but soon after, Madonna decided to promote herself as a solo artist.	Where did you briefly work while in the Breakfast Club?	I briefly worked as a coat-check girl at the Russian Tea Room.
In March 1981, Camille Barbone, who ran Gotham Records in the Music Building, signed Madonna to a contract with Gotham and worked as her manager until February 1982. Madonna frequented nightclubs to get disc jockeys to play her demo. DJ Mark Kamins at Danceteria took an interest in her music and they began dating. Kamins arranged a meeting with Madonna and Seymour Stein, the president of Sire Records, a subsidiary of Warner Bros. Records. Madonna signed a deal for a total of three singles, with an option for an album.	Who signed you to a contract with Gotham Records and worked as your manager?	Camille Barbone signed me.
In March 1981, Camille Barbone, who ran Gotham Records in the Music Building, signed Madonna to a contract with Gotham and worked as her manager until February 1982. Madonna frequented nightclubs to get disc jockeys to play her demo. DJ Mark Kamins at Danceteria took an interest in her music and they began dating. Kamins arranged a meeting with Madonna and Seymour Stein, the president of Sire Records, a subsidiary of Warner Bros. Records. Madonna signed a deal for a total of three singles, with an option for an album.	Where did you frequently go to get disc jockeys to play your demo?	Nightclubs
In March 1981, Camille Barbone, who ran Gotham Records in the Music Building, signed Madonna to a contract with Gotham and worked as her manager until February 1982. Madonna frequented nightclubs to get disc jockeys to play her demo. DJ Mark Kamins at Danceteria took an interest in her music and they began dating. Kamins arranged a meeting with Madonna and Seymour Stein, the president of Sire Records, a subsidiary of Warner Bros. Records. Madonna signed a deal for a total of three singles, with an option for an album.	Which DJ took an interest in your music and began dating you?	Mark Kamins
In March 1981, Camille Barbone, who ran Gotham Records in the Music Building, signed Madonna to a contract with Gotham and worked as her manager until February 1982. Madonna frequented nightclubs to get disc jockeys to play her demo. DJ Mark Kamins at Danceteria took an interest in her music and they began dating. Kamins arranged a meeting with Madonna and Seymour Stein, the president of Sire Records, a subsidiary of Warner Bros. Records. Madonna signed a deal for a total of three singles, with an option for an album.	Who did Mark Kamins arrange a meeting with for you?	Seymour Stein
In March 1981, Camille Barbone, who ran Gotham Records in the Music Building, signed Madonna to a contract with Gotham and worked as her manager until February 1982. Madonna frequented nightclubs to get disc jockeys to play her demo. DJ Mark Kamins at Danceteria took an interest in her music and they began dating. Kamins arranged a meeting with Madonna and Seymour Stein, the president of Sire Records, a subsidiary of Warner Bros. Records. Madonna signed a deal for a total of three singles, with an option for an album.	What record label did you sign a deal with for three singles, with an option for an album?	Sire Records, a subsidiary of Warner Bros. Records
Following the success of the singles , Warner hired Reggie Lucas to produce her self - titled debut album , Madonna . However , Madonna was dissatisfied with the completed tracks and disagreed with Lucas ' production techniques , so she decided to seek additional help . She asked John " Jellybean " Benitez , the resident DJ at Fun House , to help finish the album ' s production and a romance ensued . Benitez remixed most of the tracks and produced " Holiday " , which was her first international top - ten song . The album was released in July 1983 , and peaked at number eight on the Billboard 200 . It yielded two top - ten singles on the Billboard Hot 100 , " Borderline " and " Lucky Star " . In the fall of 1983 , Madonna ' s new manager , Freddy DeMann , secured a meeting for her with film producer Jon Peters , who asked her to play the part of a club singer in the romantic drama Vision Quest .	Who did you hire to produce your self-titled debut album?	Reggie Lucas
Following the success of the singles , Warner hired Reggie Lucas to produce her self - titled debut album , Madonna . However , Madonna was dissatisfied with the completed tracks and disagreed with Lucas ' production techniques , so she decided to seek additional help . She asked John " Jellybean " Benitez , the resident DJ at Fun House , to help finish the album ' s production and a romance ensued . Benitez remixed most of the tracks and produced " Holiday " , which was her first international top - ten song . The album was released in July 1983 , and peaked at number eight on the Billboard 200 . It yielded two top - ten singles on the Billboard Hot 100 , " Borderline " and " Lucky Star " . In the fall of 1983 , Madonna ' s new manager , Freddy DeMann , secured a meeting for her with film producer Jon Peters , who asked her to play the part of a club singer in the romantic drama Vision Quest .	Why were you dissatisfied with the completed tracks?	I disagreed with Lucas' production techniques
Following the success of the singles , Warner hired Reggie Lucas to produce her self - titled debut album , Madonna . However , Madonna was dissatisfied with the completed tracks and disagreed with Lucas ' production techniques , so she decided to seek additional help . She asked John " Jellybean " Benitez , the resident DJ at Fun House , to help finish the album ' s production and a romance ensued . Benitez remixed most of the tracks and produced " Holiday " , which was her first international top - ten song . The album was released in July 1983 , and peaked at number eight on the Billboard 200 . It yielded two top - ten singles on the Billboard Hot 100 , " Borderline " and " Lucky Star " . In the fall of 1983 , Madonna ' s new manager , Freddy DeMann , secured a meeting for her with film producer Jon Peters , who asked her to play the part of a club singer in the romantic drama Vision Quest .	Who did you ask to help finish the album's production?	John "Jellybean" Benitez
Following the success of the singles , Warner hired Reggie Lucas to produce her self - titled debut album , Madonna . However , Madonna was dissatisfied with the completed tracks and disagreed with Lucas ' production techniques , so she decided to seek additional help . She asked John " Jellybean " Benitez , the resident DJ at Fun House , to help finish the album ' s production and a romance ensued . Benitez remixed most of the tracks and produced " Holiday " , which was her first international top - ten song . The album was released in July 1983 , and peaked at number eight on the Billboard 200 . It yielded two top - ten singles on the Billboard Hot 100 , " Borderline " and " Lucky Star " . In the fall of 1983 , Madonna ' s new manager , Freddy DeMann , secured a meeting for her with film producer Jon Peters , who asked her to play the part of a club singer in the romantic drama Vision Quest .	What was the first international top-ten song from your debut album?	"Holiday"
Following the success of the singles , Warner hired Reggie Lucas to produce her self - titled debut album , Madonna . However , Madonna was dissatisfied with the completed tracks and disagreed with Lucas ' production techniques , so she decided to seek additional help . She asked John " Jellybean " Benitez , the resident DJ at Fun House , to help finish the album ' s production and a romance ensued . Benitez remixed most of the tracks and produced " Holiday " , which was her first international top - ten song . The album was released in July 1983 , and peaked at number eight on the Billboard 200 . It yielded two top - ten singles on the Billboard Hot 100 , " Borderline " and " Lucky Star " . In the fall of 1983 , Madonna ' s new manager , Freddy DeMann , secured a meeting for her with film producer Jon Peters , who asked her to play the part of a club singer in the romantic drama Vision Quest .	Who secured a meeting for you with film producer Jon Peters?	Freddy DeMann
Beginning in April 1985 , Madonna embarked on her first concert tour in North America , the Virgin Tour , with the Beastie Boys as her opening act . The tour saw the peak of Madonna wannabe phenomenon , with many female attendees dressing like her . At that time , she released two more hits , " Angel " and " Dress You Up " , making all four singles from the album peak inside the top five on the Hot 100 chart . In July , Penthouse and Playboy magazines published a number of nude photos of Madonna , taken when she moonlighted as an art model in 1978 . She had posed for the photographs because she needed money at the time , and was paid as little as $ 25 a session . The publication of the photos caused a media uproar , but Madonna remained " unapologetic and defiant " . The photographs were ultimately sold for up to $ 100 , 000 . She referred to these events at the 1985 outdoor Live Aid charity concert , saying that she would not take her jacket off because " [ the media ] might hold it against me ten years from now . "	When did you embark on your first concert tour in North America?	I embarked on my first concert tour in North America in April 1985.
Beginning in April 1985 , Madonna embarked on her first concert tour in North America , the Virgin Tour , with the Beastie Boys as her opening act . The tour saw the peak of Madonna wannabe phenomenon , with many female attendees dressing like her . At that time , she released two more hits , " Angel " and " Dress You Up " , making all four singles from the album peak inside the top five on the Hot 100 chart . In July , Penthouse and Playboy magazines published a number of nude photos of Madonna , taken when she moonlighted as an art model in 1978 . She had posed for the photographs because she needed money at the time , and was paid as little as $ 25 a session . The publication of the photos caused a media uproar , but Madonna remained " unapologetic and defiant " . The photographs were ultimately sold for up to $ 100 , 000 . She referred to these events at the 1985 outdoor Live Aid charity concert , saying that she would not take her jacket off because " [ the media ] might hold it against me ten years from now . "	Who was the opening act for your Virgin Tour?	The Beastie Boys were the opening act for my Virgin Tour.
Beginning in April 1985 , Madonna embarked on her first concert tour in North America , the Virgin Tour , with the Beastie Boys as her opening act . The tour saw the peak of Madonna wannabe phenomenon , with many female attendees dressing like her . At that time , she released two more hits , " Angel " and " Dress You Up " , making all four singles from the album peak inside the top five on the Hot 100 chart . In July , Penthouse and Playboy magazines published a number of nude photos of Madonna , taken when she moonlighted as an art model in 1978 . She had posed for the photographs because she needed money at the time , and was paid as little as $ 25 a session . The publication of the photos caused a media uproar , but Madonna remained " unapologetic and defiant " . The photographs were ultimately sold for up to $ 100 , 000 . She referred to these events at the 1985 outdoor Live Aid charity concert , saying that she would not take her jacket off because " [ the media ] might hold it against me ten years from now . "	What phenomenon reached its peak during your Virgin Tour?	The Madonna wannabe phenomenon reached its peak during my Virgin Tour, with many female attendees dressing like me.
Beginning in April 1985 , Madonna embarked on her first concert tour in North America , the Virgin Tour , with the Beastie Boys as her opening act . The tour saw the peak of Madonna wannabe phenomenon , with many female attendees dressing like her . At that time , she released two more hits , " Angel " and " Dress You Up " , making all four singles from the album peak inside the top five on the Hot 100 chart . In July , Penthouse and Playboy magazines published a number of nude photos of Madonna , taken when she moonlighted as an art model in 1978 . She had posed for the photographs because she needed money at the time , and was paid as little as $ 25 a session . The publication of the photos caused a media uproar , but Madonna remained " unapologetic and defiant " . The photographs were ultimately sold for up to $ 100 , 000 . She referred to these events at the 1985 outdoor Live Aid charity concert , saying that she would not take her jacket off because " [ the media ] might hold it against me ten years from now . "	How many singles from your album peaked inside the top five on the Hot 100 chart?	All four singles from my album peaked inside the top five on the Hot 100 chart.
Beginning in April 1985 , Madonna embarked on her first concert tour in North America , the Virgin Tour , with the Beastie Boys as her opening act . The tour saw the peak of Madonna wannabe phenomenon , with many female attendees dressing like her . At that time , she released two more hits , " Angel " and " Dress You Up " , making all four singles from the album peak inside the top five on the Hot 100 chart . In July , Penthouse and Playboy magazines published a number of nude photos of Madonna , taken when she moonlighted as an art model in 1978 . She had posed for the photographs because she needed money at the time , and was paid as little as $ 25 a session . The publication of the photos caused a media uproar , but Madonna remained " unapologetic and defiant " . The photographs were ultimately sold for up to $ 100 , 000 . She referred to these events at the 1985 outdoor Live Aid charity concert , saying that she would not take her jacket off because " [ the media ] might hold it against me ten years from now . "	Why did you pose for nude photos in 1978?	I posed for nude photos in 1978 because I needed money at the time and was paid as little as $25 a session.
The Immaculate Collection , Madonna ' s first greatest - hits compilation album , was released in November 1990 . It included two new songs , " Justify My Love " and " Rescue Me " . The album was certified diamond by RIAA and sold over 30   million copies worldwide , becoming the best - selling compilation album by a solo artist in history . " Justify My Love " reached number one in the U . S . becoming her ninth number - one on the Hot 100 . Her then - boyfriend model Tony Ward co - starred in the music video , which featured scenes of sadomasochism , bondage , same - sex kissing , and brief nudity . The video was deemed too sexually explicit for MTV and was banned from the network . Her first documentary film , Truth or Dare ( known as In Bed with Madonna outside North America ) , was released in May 1991 . Chronicling her Blond Ambition World Tour , it became the highest - grossing documentary of all time ( surpassed eleven years later by Michael Moore ' s Bowling for Columbine ) .	When was your first greatest-hits compilation album, The Immaculate Collection, released?	The Immaculate Collection was released in November 1990.
The Immaculate Collection , Madonna ' s first greatest - hits compilation album , was released in November 1990 . It included two new songs , " Justify My Love " and " Rescue Me " . The album was certified diamond by RIAA and sold over 30   million copies worldwide , becoming the best - selling compilation album by a solo artist in history . " Justify My Love " reached number one in the U . S . becoming her ninth number - one on the Hot 100 . Her then - boyfriend model Tony Ward co - starred in the music video , which featured scenes of sadomasochism , bondage , same - sex kissing , and brief nudity . The video was deemed too sexually explicit for MTV and was banned from the network . Her first documentary film , Truth or Dare ( known as In Bed with Madonna outside North America ) , was released in May 1991 . Chronicling her Blond Ambition World Tour , it became the highest - grossing documentary of all time ( surpassed eleven years later by Michael Moore ' s Bowling for Columbine ) .	How many new songs were included in my album The Immaculate Collection?	My album The Immaculate Collection included two new songs: "Justify My Love" and "Rescue Me".
The Immaculate Collection , Madonna ' s first greatest - hits compilation album , was released in November 1990 . It included two new songs , " Justify My Love " and " Rescue Me " . The album was certified diamond by RIAA and sold over 30   million copies worldwide , becoming the best - selling compilation album by a solo artist in history . " Justify My Love " reached number one in the U . S . becoming her ninth number - one on the Hot 100 . Her then - boyfriend model Tony Ward co - starred in the music video , which featured scenes of sadomasochism , bondage , same - sex kissing , and brief nudity . The video was deemed too sexually explicit for MTV and was banned from the network . Her first documentary film , Truth or Dare ( known as In Bed with Madonna outside North America ) , was released in May 1991 . Chronicling her Blond Ambition World Tour , it became the highest - grossing documentary of all time ( surpassed eleven years later by Michael Moore ' s Bowling for Columbine ) .	How many copies of The Immaculate Collection did you sell worldwide?	The Immaculate Collection sold over 30 million copies worldwide.
The Immaculate Collection , Madonna ' s first greatest - hits compilation album , was released in November 1990 . It included two new songs , " Justify My Love " and " Rescue Me " . The album was certified diamond by RIAA and sold over 30   million copies worldwide , becoming the best - selling compilation album by a solo artist in history . " Justify My Love " reached number one in the U . S . becoming her ninth number - one on the Hot 100 . Her then - boyfriend model Tony Ward co - starred in the music video , which featured scenes of sadomasochism , bondage , same - sex kissing , and brief nudity . The video was deemed too sexually explicit for MTV and was banned from the network . Her first documentary film , Truth or Dare ( known as In Bed with Madonna outside North America ) , was released in May 1991 . Chronicling her Blond Ambition World Tour , it became the highest - grossing documentary of all time ( surpassed eleven years later by Michael Moore ' s Bowling for Columbine ) .	Which song from The Immaculate Collection reached number one in the U.S.?	"Justify My Love" reached number one in the U.S., becoming my ninth number-one on the Hot 100.
The Immaculate Collection , Madonna ' s first greatest - hits compilation album , was released in November 1990 . It included two new songs , " Justify My Love " and " Rescue Me " . The album was certified diamond by RIAA and sold over 30   million copies worldwide , becoming the best - selling compilation album by a solo artist in history . " Justify My Love " reached number one in the U . S . becoming her ninth number - one on the Hot 100 . Her then - boyfriend model Tony Ward co - starred in the music video , which featured scenes of sadomasochism , bondage , same - sex kissing , and brief nudity . The video was deemed too sexually explicit for MTV and was banned from the network . Her first documentary film , Truth or Dare ( known as In Bed with Madonna outside North America ) , was released in May 1991 . Chronicling her Blond Ambition World Tour , it became the highest - grossing documentary of all time ( surpassed eleven years later by Michael Moore ' s Bowling for Columbine ) .	What scenes were featured in the music video for "Justify My Love"?	The music video for "Justify My Love" featured scenes of sadomasochism, bondage, same-sex kissing, and brief nudity.
In October 1992 , Madonna simultaneously released her fifth studio album , Erotica , and her coffee table book , Sex . Consisting of sexually provocative and explicit images , photographed by Steven Meisel , the book received strong negative reaction from the media and the general public , but sold 1.5   million copies at $ 50 each in a matter of days . The widespread backlash overshadowed Erotica , which ended up as her lowest selling album at the time . Despite positive reviews , it became her first studio album since her debut album not to score any chart - topper in the U . S . The album entered the Billboard 200 at number two and yielded the Hot 100 top - ten hits " Erotica " and " Deeper and Deeper " . Madonna continued her provocative imagery in the 1993 erotic thriller , Body of Evidence , a film which contained scenes of sadomasochism and bondage . It was poorly received by critics . She also starred in the film Dangerous Game , which was released straight to video in North America . The New York Times described the film as " angry and painful , and the pain feels real . "	When did you release your fifth studio album and coffee table book?	In October 1992.
In October 1992 , Madonna simultaneously released her fifth studio album , Erotica , and her coffee table book , Sex . Consisting of sexually provocative and explicit images , photographed by Steven Meisel , the book received strong negative reaction from the media and the general public , but sold 1.5   million copies at $ 50 each in a matter of days . The widespread backlash overshadowed Erotica , which ended up as her lowest selling album at the time . Despite positive reviews , it became her first studio album since her debut album not to score any chart - topper in the U . S . The album entered the Billboard 200 at number two and yielded the Hot 100 top - ten hits " Erotica " and " Deeper and Deeper " . Madonna continued her provocative imagery in the 1993 erotic thriller , Body of Evidence , a film which contained scenes of sadomasochism and bondage . It was poorly received by critics . She also starred in the film Dangerous Game , which was released straight to video in North America . The New York Times described the film as " angry and painful , and the pain feels real . "	What kind of images did your coffee table book, "Sex", contain?	Sexually provocative and explicit images.
In October 1992 , Madonna simultaneously released her fifth studio album , Erotica , and her coffee table book , Sex . Consisting of sexually provocative and explicit images , photographed by Steven Meisel , the book received strong negative reaction from the media and the general public , but sold 1.5   million copies at $ 50 each in a matter of days . The widespread backlash overshadowed Erotica , which ended up as her lowest selling album at the time . Despite positive reviews , it became her first studio album since her debut album not to score any chart - topper in the U . S . The album entered the Billboard 200 at number two and yielded the Hot 100 top - ten hits " Erotica " and " Deeper and Deeper " . Madonna continued her provocative imagery in the 1993 erotic thriller , Body of Evidence , a film which contained scenes of sadomasochism and bondage . It was poorly received by critics . She also starred in the film Dangerous Game , which was released straight to video in North America . The New York Times described the film as " angry and painful , and the pain feels real . "	How many copies of your book "Sex" were sold and at what price?	1.5 million copies were sold at $50 each.
In October 1992 , Madonna simultaneously released her fifth studio album , Erotica , and her coffee table book , Sex . Consisting of sexually provocative and explicit images , photographed by Steven Meisel , the book received strong negative reaction from the media and the general public , but sold 1.5   million copies at $ 50 each in a matter of days . The widespread backlash overshadowed Erotica , which ended up as her lowest selling album at the time . Despite positive reviews , it became her first studio album since her debut album not to score any chart - topper in the U . S . The album entered the Billboard 200 at number two and yielded the Hot 100 top - ten hits " Erotica " and " Deeper and Deeper " . Madonna continued her provocative imagery in the 1993 erotic thriller , Body of Evidence , a film which contained scenes of sadomasochism and bondage . It was poorly received by critics . She also starred in the film Dangerous Game , which was released straight to video in North America . The New York Times described the film as " angry and painful , and the pain feels real . "	What was the reaction from the media and general public towards your book "Sex"?	The book received strong negative reaction.
In October 1992 , Madonna simultaneously released her fifth studio album , Erotica , and her coffee table book , Sex . Consisting of sexually provocative and explicit images , photographed by Steven Meisel , the book received strong negative reaction from the media and the general public , but sold 1.5   million copies at $ 50 each in a matter of days . The widespread backlash overshadowed Erotica , which ended up as her lowest selling album at the time . Despite positive reviews , it became her first studio album since her debut album not to score any chart - topper in the U . S . The album entered the Billboard 200 at number two and yielded the Hot 100 top - ten hits " Erotica " and " Deeper and Deeper " . Madonna continued her provocative imagery in the 1993 erotic thriller , Body of Evidence , a film which contained scenes of sadomasochism and bondage . It was poorly received by critics . She also starred in the film Dangerous Game , which was released straight to video in North America . The New York Times described the film as " angry and painful , and the pain feels real . "	How did the negative reaction towards your book "Sex" affect your album "Erotica"?	The widespread backlash overshadowed "Erotica", which ended up as my lowest selling album at the time.
Biographer J . Randy Taraborrelli described her ballad " I ' ll Remember " ( 1994 ) as an attempt to tone down her provocative image . The song was recorded for Alek Keshishian ' s 1994 film With Honors . She made a subdued appearance with Letterman at an awards show and appeared on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno after realizing that she needed to change her musical direction in order to sustain her popularity . With her sixth studio album , Bedtime Stories ( 1994 ) , Madonna employed a softer image to try to improve the public perception . The album debuted at number three on the Billboard 200 and generated two U . S . top - five hits , " Secret " and " Take a Bow " , the latter topping the Hot 100 for seven weeks , the longest period of any Madonna single . Something to Remember , a collection of ballads , was released in November 1995 . The album featured three new songs : " You ' ll See " , " One More Chance " , and a cover of Marvin Gaye ' s " I Want You " . An enthusiastic collector of modern art , Madonna sponsored the first major retrospective of Tina Modotti ' s work at the Philadelphia Museum of Art in 1995 . The following year , she sponsored an exhibition of Basquiat ' s paintings at the Serpentine Gallery in London . The following year , she sponsored artist Cindy Sherman ' s retrospective at the MoMA in New York .	What was your ballad "I'll Remember" recorded for?	The song was recorded for Alek Keshishian's 1994 film "With Honors".
Biographer J . Randy Taraborrelli described her ballad " I ' ll Remember " ( 1994 ) as an attempt to tone down her provocative image . The song was recorded for Alek Keshishian ' s 1994 film With Honors . She made a subdued appearance with Letterman at an awards show and appeared on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno after realizing that she needed to change her musical direction in order to sustain her popularity . With her sixth studio album , Bedtime Stories ( 1994 ) , Madonna employed a softer image to try to improve the public perception . The album debuted at number three on the Billboard 200 and generated two U . S . top - five hits , " Secret " and " Take a Bow " , the latter topping the Hot 100 for seven weeks , the longest period of any Madonna single . Something to Remember , a collection of ballads , was released in November 1995 . The album featured three new songs : " You ' ll See " , " One More Chance " , and a cover of Marvin Gaye ' s " I Want You " . An enthusiastic collector of modern art , Madonna sponsored the first major retrospective of Tina Modotti ' s work at the Philadelphia Museum of Art in 1995 . The following year , she sponsored an exhibition of Basquiat ' s paintings at the Serpentine Gallery in London . The following year , she sponsored artist Cindy Sherman ' s retrospective at the MoMA in New York .	Which late night talk shows did you appear on after realizing you needed to change your musical direction?	I appeared on "The Tonight Show with Jay Leno" and made a subdued appearance with Letterman at an awards show.
Biographer J . Randy Taraborrelli described her ballad " I ' ll Remember " ( 1994 ) as an attempt to tone down her provocative image . The song was recorded for Alek Keshishian ' s 1994 film With Honors . She made a subdued appearance with Letterman at an awards show and appeared on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno after realizing that she needed to change her musical direction in order to sustain her popularity . With her sixth studio album , Bedtime Stories ( 1994 ) , Madonna employed a softer image to try to improve the public perception . The album debuted at number three on the Billboard 200 and generated two U . S . top - five hits , " Secret " and " Take a Bow " , the latter topping the Hot 100 for seven weeks , the longest period of any Madonna single . Something to Remember , a collection of ballads , was released in November 1995 . The album featured three new songs : " You ' ll See " , " One More Chance " , and a cover of Marvin Gaye ' s " I Want You " . An enthusiastic collector of modern art , Madonna sponsored the first major retrospective of Tina Modotti ' s work at the Philadelphia Museum of Art in 1995 . The following year , she sponsored an exhibition of Basquiat ' s paintings at the Serpentine Gallery in London . The following year , she sponsored artist Cindy Sherman ' s retrospective at the MoMA in New York .	How did you try to improve your public perception with your sixth studio album "Bedtime Stories"?	I employed a softer image with my album "Bedtime Stories" in an attempt to improve my public perception.
Biographer J . Randy Taraborrelli described her ballad " I ' ll Remember " ( 1994 ) as an attempt to tone down her provocative image . The song was recorded for Alek Keshishian ' s 1994 film With Honors . She made a subdued appearance with Letterman at an awards show and appeared on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno after realizing that she needed to change her musical direction in order to sustain her popularity . With her sixth studio album , Bedtime Stories ( 1994 ) , Madonna employed a softer image to try to improve the public perception . The album debuted at number three on the Billboard 200 and generated two U . S . top - five hits , " Secret " and " Take a Bow " , the latter topping the Hot 100 for seven weeks , the longest period of any Madonna single . Something to Remember , a collection of ballads , was released in November 1995 . The album featured three new songs : " You ' ll See " , " One More Chance " , and a cover of Marvin Gaye ' s " I Want You " . An enthusiastic collector of modern art , Madonna sponsored the first major retrospective of Tina Modotti ' s work at the Philadelphia Museum of Art in 1995 . The following year , she sponsored an exhibition of Basquiat ' s paintings at the Serpentine Gallery in London . The following year , she sponsored artist Cindy Sherman ' s retrospective at the MoMA in New York .	How did your album "Bedtime Stories" perform on the Billboard 200?	The album debuted at number three on the Billboard 200.
Biographer J . Randy Taraborrelli described her ballad " I ' ll Remember " ( 1994 ) as an attempt to tone down her provocative image . The song was recorded for Alek Keshishian ' s 1994 film With Honors . She made a subdued appearance with Letterman at an awards show and appeared on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno after realizing that she needed to change her musical direction in order to sustain her popularity . With her sixth studio album , Bedtime Stories ( 1994 ) , Madonna employed a softer image to try to improve the public perception . The album debuted at number three on the Billboard 200 and generated two U . S . top - five hits , " Secret " and " Take a Bow " , the latter topping the Hot 100 for seven weeks , the longest period of any Madonna single . Something to Remember , a collection of ballads , was released in November 1995 . The album featured three new songs : " You ' ll See " , " One More Chance " , and a cover of Marvin Gaye ' s " I Want You " . An enthusiastic collector of modern art , Madonna sponsored the first major retrospective of Tina Modotti ' s work at the Philadelphia Museum of Art in 1995 . The following year , she sponsored an exhibition of Basquiat ' s paintings at the Serpentine Gallery in London . The following year , she sponsored artist Cindy Sherman ' s retrospective at the MoMA in New York .	Which of your singles topped the Hot 100 for the longest period of time?	My single "Take a Bow" topped the Hot 100 for seven weeks, the longest period of any of my singles.
Madonna released her eighth studio album , Music , in September 2000 . It featured elements from the electronica - inspired Ray of Light era , and like its predecessor , received acclaim from critics . Collaborating with French producer Mirwais Ahmadza ï , Madonna commented : " I love to work with the weirdos that no one knows about — the people who have raw talent and who are making music unlike anyone else out there . Music is the future of sound . " Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic felt that " Music blows by in a kaleidoscopic rush of color , technique , style and substance . It has so many depth and layers that it ' s easily as self - aware and earnest as Ray of Light . " The album took the number - one position in more than 20 countries worldwide and sold four million copies in the first ten days . In the U . S . , Music debuted at the top , and became her first number - one album in eleven years since Like a Prayer . It produced three singles : the Hot 100 number - one " Music " , " Don ' t Tell Me " , and " What It Feels Like for a Girl " . The music video of " What It Feels Like for a Girl " depicted Madonna committing acts of crime and vandalism , and was banned by MTV and VH1 .	When did you release your eighth studio album?	I released my eighth studio album, Music, in September 2000.
Madonna released her eighth studio album , Music , in September 2000 . It featured elements from the electronica - inspired Ray of Light era , and like its predecessor , received acclaim from critics . Collaborating with French producer Mirwais Ahmadza ï , Madonna commented : " I love to work with the weirdos that no one knows about — the people who have raw talent and who are making music unlike anyone else out there . Music is the future of sound . " Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic felt that " Music blows by in a kaleidoscopic rush of color , technique , style and substance . It has so many depth and layers that it ' s easily as self - aware and earnest as Ray of Light . " The album took the number - one position in more than 20 countries worldwide and sold four million copies in the first ten days . In the U . S . , Music debuted at the top , and became her first number - one album in eleven years since Like a Prayer . It produced three singles : the Hot 100 number - one " Music " , " Don ' t Tell Me " , and " What It Feels Like for a Girl " . The music video of " What It Feels Like for a Girl " depicted Madonna committing acts of crime and vandalism , and was banned by MTV and VH1 .	Who did you collaborate with on the album?	I collaborated with French producer Mirwais Ahmadzaï on the album.
Madonna released her eighth studio album , Music , in September 2000 . It featured elements from the electronica - inspired Ray of Light era , and like its predecessor , received acclaim from critics . Collaborating with French producer Mirwais Ahmadza ï , Madonna commented : " I love to work with the weirdos that no one knows about — the people who have raw talent and who are making music unlike anyone else out there . Music is the future of sound . " Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic felt that " Music blows by in a kaleidoscopic rush of color , technique , style and substance . It has so many depth and layers that it ' s easily as self - aware and earnest as Ray of Light . " The album took the number - one position in more than 20 countries worldwide and sold four million copies in the first ten days . In the U . S . , Music debuted at the top , and became her first number - one album in eleven years since Like a Prayer . It produced three singles : the Hot 100 number - one " Music " , " Don ' t Tell Me " , and " What It Feels Like for a Girl " . The music video of " What It Feels Like for a Girl " depicted Madonna committing acts of crime and vandalism , and was banned by MTV and VH1 .	How was your album Music received by critics?	My album Music received acclaim from critics.
Madonna released her eighth studio album , Music , in September 2000 . It featured elements from the electronica - inspired Ray of Light era , and like its predecessor , received acclaim from critics . Collaborating with French producer Mirwais Ahmadza ï , Madonna commented : " I love to work with the weirdos that no one knows about — the people who have raw talent and who are making music unlike anyone else out there . Music is the future of sound . " Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic felt that " Music blows by in a kaleidoscopic rush of color , technique , style and substance . It has so many depth and layers that it ' s easily as self - aware and earnest as Ray of Light . " The album took the number - one position in more than 20 countries worldwide and sold four million copies in the first ten days . In the U . S . , Music debuted at the top , and became her first number - one album in eleven years since Like a Prayer . It produced three singles : the Hot 100 number - one " Music " , " Don ' t Tell Me " , and " What It Feels Like for a Girl " . The music video of " What It Feels Like for a Girl " depicted Madonna committing acts of crime and vandalism , and was banned by MTV and VH1 .	How many copies of Music were sold in the first ten days?	Four million copies of Music were sold in the first ten days.
Madonna released her eighth studio album , Music , in September 2000 . It featured elements from the electronica - inspired Ray of Light era , and like its predecessor , received acclaim from critics . Collaborating with French producer Mirwais Ahmadza ï , Madonna commented : " I love to work with the weirdos that no one knows about — the people who have raw talent and who are making music unlike anyone else out there . Music is the future of sound . " Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic felt that " Music blows by in a kaleidoscopic rush of color , technique , style and substance . It has so many depth and layers that it ' s easily as self - aware and earnest as Ray of Light . " The album took the number - one position in more than 20 countries worldwide and sold four million copies in the first ten days . In the U . S . , Music debuted at the top , and became her first number - one album in eleven years since Like a Prayer . It produced three singles : the Hot 100 number - one " Music " , " Don ' t Tell Me " , and " What It Feels Like for a Girl " . The music video of " What It Feels Like for a Girl " depicted Madonna committing acts of crime and vandalism , and was banned by MTV and VH1 .	Which three songs were you release as singles from the album?	The three singles I released from the album were "Music", "Don't Tell Me", and "What It Feels Like for a Girl".
While living in Lisbon , Madonna met Dino D ' Santiago , who introduced her to many local musicians playing fado , morna , and samba music . They regularly invited her to their " living room sessions " , thus she was inspired to make her 14th studio album , Madame X . Madonna produced the album with several musicians , primarily her longtime collaborator Mirwais and Mike Dean . The album was critically well received , with NME deeming it " bold , bizarre , self - referential and unlike anything Madonna has ever done before . " Released in June 2019 , Madame X debuted atop the Billboard 200 , becoming her ninth number - one album there . All four of its singles — " Medell í n " , " Crave " , " I Rise " , and " I Don ' t Search I Find " — topped the Billboard Dance Club Songs chart , extending her record for most number - one entries on the chart .	Who introduced you to local musicians playing fado, morna, and samba music in Lisbon?	Dino D' Santiago introduced me.
While living in Lisbon , Madonna met Dino D ' Santiago , who introduced her to many local musicians playing fado , morna , and samba music . They regularly invited her to their " living room sessions " , thus she was inspired to make her 14th studio album , Madame X . Madonna produced the album with several musicians , primarily her longtime collaborator Mirwais and Mike Dean . The album was critically well received , with NME deeming it " bold , bizarre , self - referential and unlike anything Madonna has ever done before . " Released in June 2019 , Madame X debuted atop the Billboard 200 , becoming her ninth number - one album there . All four of its singles — " Medell í n " , " Crave " , " I Rise " , and " I Don ' t Search I Find " — topped the Billboard Dance Club Songs chart , extending her record for most number - one entries on the chart .	What inspired you to make your 14th studio album, Madame X?	The "living room sessions" with local musicians in Lisbon inspired me.
While living in Lisbon , Madonna met Dino D ' Santiago , who introduced her to many local musicians playing fado , morna , and samba music . They regularly invited her to their " living room sessions " , thus she was inspired to make her 14th studio album , Madame X . Madonna produced the album with several musicians , primarily her longtime collaborator Mirwais and Mike Dean . The album was critically well received , with NME deeming it " bold , bizarre , self - referential and unlike anything Madonna has ever done before . " Released in June 2019 , Madame X debuted atop the Billboard 200 , becoming her ninth number - one album there . All four of its singles — " Medell í n " , " Crave " , " I Rise " , and " I Don ' t Search I Find " — topped the Billboard Dance Club Songs chart , extending her record for most number - one entries on the chart .	Who were the primary musicians you collaborated with to produce the album?	Mirwais and Mike Dean
While living in Lisbon , Madonna met Dino D ' Santiago , who introduced her to many local musicians playing fado , morna , and samba music . They regularly invited her to their " living room sessions " , thus she was inspired to make her 14th studio album , Madame X . Madonna produced the album with several musicians , primarily her longtime collaborator Mirwais and Mike Dean . The album was critically well received , with NME deeming it " bold , bizarre , self - referential and unlike anything Madonna has ever done before . " Released in June 2019 , Madame X debuted atop the Billboard 200 , becoming her ninth number - one album there . All four of its singles — " Medell í n " , " Crave " , " I Rise " , and " I Don ' t Search I Find " — topped the Billboard Dance Club Songs chart , extending her record for most number - one entries on the chart .	When was Madame X released?	June 2019
While living in Lisbon , Madonna met Dino D ' Santiago , who introduced her to many local musicians playing fado , morna , and samba music . They regularly invited her to their " living room sessions " , thus she was inspired to make her 14th studio album , Madame X . Madonna produced the album with several musicians , primarily her longtime collaborator Mirwais and Mike Dean . The album was critically well received , with NME deeming it " bold , bizarre , self - referential and unlike anything Madonna has ever done before . " Released in June 2019 , Madame X debuted atop the Billboard 200 , becoming her ninth number - one album there . All four of its singles — " Medell í n " , " Crave " , " I Rise " , and " I Don ' t Search I Find " — topped the Billboard Dance Club Songs chart , extending her record for most number - one entries on the chart .	How did your album Madame X perform on the Billboard charts?	It debuted atop the Billboard 200 and all four of its singles topped the Billboard Dance Club Songs chart.
During her childhood , Madonna was inspired by actors , later saying , " I loved Carole Lombard and Judy Holliday and Marilyn Monroe . They were all incredibly funny , and they were silly and sweet and they were girls and   they were feminine and sexy . I just saw myself in them , my funniness and my need to boss people around and at the same time be taken care of . My girlishness . My knowingness and my innocence . Both . " Her " Material Girl " music video recreated Monroe ' s look in the song " Diamonds Are a Girl ' s Best Friend " , from the film Gentlemen Prefer Blondes ( 1953 ) . She studied the screwball comedies of the 1930s , particularly those of Lombard , in preparation for the film Who ' s That Girl . The video for " Express Yourself " ( 1989 ) was inspired by Fritz Lang ' s silent film Metropolis ( 1927 ) . The video for " Vogue " recreated the style of Hollywood glamour photographs , in particular those by Horst P . Horst , and imitated the poses of Marlene Dietrich , Carole Lombard , and Rita Hayworth , while the lyrics referred to many of the stars who had inspired her , including Bette Davis , described by Madonna as an idol .	Who were your childhood inspirations?	Carole Lombard, Judy Holliday, Marilyn Monroe
During her childhood , Madonna was inspired by actors , later saying , " I loved Carole Lombard and Judy Holliday and Marilyn Monroe . They were all incredibly funny , and they were silly and sweet and they were girls and   they were feminine and sexy . I just saw myself in them , my funniness and my need to boss people around and at the same time be taken care of . My girlishness . My knowingness and my innocence . Both . " Her " Material Girl " music video recreated Monroe ' s look in the song " Diamonds Are a Girl ' s Best Friend " , from the film Gentlemen Prefer Blondes ( 1953 ) . She studied the screwball comedies of the 1930s , particularly those of Lombard , in preparation for the film Who ' s That Girl . The video for " Express Yourself " ( 1989 ) was inspired by Fritz Lang ' s silent film Metropolis ( 1927 ) . The video for " Vogue " recreated the style of Hollywood glamour photographs , in particular those by Horst P . Horst , and imitated the poses of Marlene Dietrich , Carole Lombard , and Rita Hayworth , while the lyrics referred to many of the stars who had inspired her , including Bette Davis , described by Madonna as an idol .	Which song's music video recreated Marilyn Monroe's look from the film "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes"?	"Material Girl"
During her childhood , Madonna was inspired by actors , later saying , " I loved Carole Lombard and Judy Holliday and Marilyn Monroe . They were all incredibly funny , and they were silly and sweet and they were girls and   they were feminine and sexy . I just saw myself in them , my funniness and my need to boss people around and at the same time be taken care of . My girlishness . My knowingness and my innocence . Both . " Her " Material Girl " music video recreated Monroe ' s look in the song " Diamonds Are a Girl ' s Best Friend " , from the film Gentlemen Prefer Blondes ( 1953 ) . She studied the screwball comedies of the 1930s , particularly those of Lombard , in preparation for the film Who ' s That Girl . The video for " Express Yourself " ( 1989 ) was inspired by Fritz Lang ' s silent film Metropolis ( 1927 ) . The video for " Vogue " recreated the style of Hollywood glamour photographs , in particular those by Horst P . Horst , and imitated the poses of Marlene Dietrich , Carole Lombard , and Rita Hayworth , while the lyrics referred to many of the stars who had inspired her , including Bette Davis , described by Madonna as an idol .	Which films did you study for your role in "Who's That Girl"?	Screwball comedies of the 1930s, particularly those of Carole Lombard
During her childhood , Madonna was inspired by actors , later saying , " I loved Carole Lombard and Judy Holliday and Marilyn Monroe . They were all incredibly funny , and they were silly and sweet and they were girls and   they were feminine and sexy . I just saw myself in them , my funniness and my need to boss people around and at the same time be taken care of . My girlishness . My knowingness and my innocence . Both . " Her " Material Girl " music video recreated Monroe ' s look in the song " Diamonds Are a Girl ' s Best Friend " , from the film Gentlemen Prefer Blondes ( 1953 ) . She studied the screwball comedies of the 1930s , particularly those of Lombard , in preparation for the film Who ' s That Girl . The video for " Express Yourself " ( 1989 ) was inspired by Fritz Lang ' s silent film Metropolis ( 1927 ) . The video for " Vogue " recreated the style of Hollywood glamour photographs , in particular those by Horst P . Horst , and imitated the poses of Marlene Dietrich , Carole Lombard , and Rita Hayworth , while the lyrics referred to many of the stars who had inspired her , including Bette Davis , described by Madonna as an idol .	Which silent film inspired your "Express Yourself" music video?	"Metropolis" by Fritz Lang
During her childhood , Madonna was inspired by actors , later saying , " I loved Carole Lombard and Judy Holliday and Marilyn Monroe . They were all incredibly funny , and they were silly and sweet and they were girls and   they were feminine and sexy . I just saw myself in them , my funniness and my need to boss people around and at the same time be taken care of . My girlishness . My knowingness and my innocence . Both . " Her " Material Girl " music video recreated Monroe ' s look in the song " Diamonds Are a Girl ' s Best Friend " , from the film Gentlemen Prefer Blondes ( 1953 ) . She studied the screwball comedies of the 1930s , particularly those of Lombard , in preparation for the film Who ' s That Girl . The video for " Express Yourself " ( 1989 ) was inspired by Fritz Lang ' s silent film Metropolis ( 1927 ) . The video for " Vogue " recreated the style of Hollywood glamour photographs , in particular those by Horst P . Horst , and imitated the poses of Marlene Dietrich , Carole Lombard , and Rita Hayworth , while the lyrics referred to many of the stars who had inspired her , including Bette Davis , described by Madonna as an idol .	Whose style and poses did you imitate in the music video for "Vogue"?	Marlene Dietrich, Carole Lombard, and Rita Hayworth
Possessing a mezzo - soprano vocal range , Madonna has always been self - conscious about her voice . Mark Bego , author of Madonna : Blonde Ambition , called her " the perfect vocalist for lighter - than - air songs " , despite not being a " heavyweight talent " . According to Tony Sclafani from MSNBC , " Madonna ' s vocals are the key to her rock roots . Pop vocalists usually sing songs ' straight ' , but Madonna employs subtext , irony , aggression and all sorts of vocal idiosyncrasies in the ways John Lennon and Bob Dylan did . " Madonna used a bright , girlish vocal timbre in her early albums which became pass é in her later works . The change was deliberate since she was constantly reminded of how the critics had once labeled her as " Minnie Mouse on helium " . During the filming of Evita ( 1996 ) , Madonna had to take vocal lessons , which increased her range further . Of this experience she commented , " I studied with a vocal coach for Evita and I realized there was a whole piece of my voice I wasn ' t using . Before , I just believed I had a really limited range and was going to make the most of it . "	What is your vocal range?	I possess a mezzo-soprano vocal range.
Possessing a mezzo - soprano vocal range , Madonna has always been self - conscious about her voice . Mark Bego , author of Madonna : Blonde Ambition , called her " the perfect vocalist for lighter - than - air songs " , despite not being a " heavyweight talent " . According to Tony Sclafani from MSNBC , " Madonna ' s vocals are the key to her rock roots . Pop vocalists usually sing songs ' straight ' , but Madonna employs subtext , irony , aggression and all sorts of vocal idiosyncrasies in the ways John Lennon and Bob Dylan did . " Madonna used a bright , girlish vocal timbre in her early albums which became pass é in her later works . The change was deliberate since she was constantly reminded of how the critics had once labeled her as " Minnie Mouse on helium " . During the filming of Evita ( 1996 ) , Madonna had to take vocal lessons , which increased her range further . Of this experience she commented , " I studied with a vocal coach for Evita and I realized there was a whole piece of my voice I wasn ' t using . Before , I just believed I had a really limited range and was going to make the most of it . "	How is your vocal ability described by Mark Bego?	Mark Bego describes me as the perfect vocalist for lighter-than-air songs, but not a heavyweight talent.
Possessing a mezzo - soprano vocal range , Madonna has always been self - conscious about her voice . Mark Bego , author of Madonna : Blonde Ambition , called her " the perfect vocalist for lighter - than - air songs " , despite not being a " heavyweight talent " . According to Tony Sclafani from MSNBC , " Madonna ' s vocals are the key to her rock roots . Pop vocalists usually sing songs ' straight ' , but Madonna employs subtext , irony , aggression and all sorts of vocal idiosyncrasies in the ways John Lennon and Bob Dylan did . " Madonna used a bright , girlish vocal timbre in her early albums which became pass é in her later works . The change was deliberate since she was constantly reminded of how the critics had once labeled her as " Minnie Mouse on helium " . During the filming of Evita ( 1996 ) , Madonna had to take vocal lessons , which increased her range further . Of this experience she commented , " I studied with a vocal coach for Evita and I realized there was a whole piece of my voice I wasn ' t using . Before , I just believed I had a really limited range and was going to make the most of it . "	How do you use your vocals compared to other pop vocalists?	I employ subtext, irony, aggression, and vocal idiosyncrasies in the ways John Lennon and Bob Dylan did, unlike most pop vocalists who sing songs straight.
Possessing a mezzo - soprano vocal range , Madonna has always been self - conscious about her voice . Mark Bego , author of Madonna : Blonde Ambition , called her " the perfect vocalist for lighter - than - air songs " , despite not being a " heavyweight talent " . According to Tony Sclafani from MSNBC , " Madonna ' s vocals are the key to her rock roots . Pop vocalists usually sing songs ' straight ' , but Madonna employs subtext , irony , aggression and all sorts of vocal idiosyncrasies in the ways John Lennon and Bob Dylan did . " Madonna used a bright , girlish vocal timbre in her early albums which became pass é in her later works . The change was deliberate since she was constantly reminded of how the critics had once labeled her as " Minnie Mouse on helium " . During the filming of Evita ( 1996 ) , Madonna had to take vocal lessons , which increased her range further . Of this experience she commented , " I studied with a vocal coach for Evita and I realized there was a whole piece of my voice I wasn ' t using . Before , I just believed I had a really limited range and was going to make the most of it . "	Why did you deliberately change your vocal timbre in your later works?	I changed my vocal timbre in my later works because I was constantly reminded of how critics had once labeled me as "Minnie Mouse on helium".
Possessing a mezzo - soprano vocal range , Madonna has always been self - conscious about her voice . Mark Bego , author of Madonna : Blonde Ambition , called her " the perfect vocalist for lighter - than - air songs " , despite not being a " heavyweight talent " . According to Tony Sclafani from MSNBC , " Madonna ' s vocals are the key to her rock roots . Pop vocalists usually sing songs ' straight ' , but Madonna employs subtext , irony , aggression and all sorts of vocal idiosyncrasies in the ways John Lennon and Bob Dylan did . " Madonna used a bright , girlish vocal timbre in her early albums which became pass é in her later works . The change was deliberate since she was constantly reminded of how the critics had once labeled her as " Minnie Mouse on helium " . During the filming of Evita ( 1996 ) , Madonna had to take vocal lessons , which increased her range further . Of this experience she commented , " I studied with a vocal coach for Evita and I realized there was a whole piece of my voice I wasn ' t using . Before , I just believed I had a really limited range and was going to make the most of it . "	How did your vocal range improve during the filming of Evita?	My vocal range increased during the filming of Evita because I had to take vocal lessons, which helped me discover a whole new piece of my voice I wasn't using before.
Madonna has built a legacy that transcends music and has been studied by sociologists , historians , and other scholars , contributing to the rise of Madonna studies , a subfield of American cultural studies . According to Rodrigo Fres á n , " saying that Madonna is just a pop star is as inappropriate as saying that Coca - Cola is just a soda . Madonna is one of the classic symbols of Made in USA . " Rolling Stone Spain wrote , " She became the first master of viral pop in history , years before the internet was massively used . Madonna was everywhere ; in the almighty music television channels , ' radio formulas ' , magazine covers and even in bookstores . A pop dialectic , never seen since the Beatles ' s reign , which allowed her to keep on the edge of trend and commerciality . " William Langley from The Daily Telegraph felt that " Madonna has changed the world ' s social history , has done more things as more different people than anyone else is ever likely to . " Professor Diane Pecknold noted that " nearly any poll of the biggest , greatest , or best in popular culture includes [ Madonna ' s ] name " . In 2012 , VH1 ranked Madonna as the greatest woman in music .	What is your impact beyond music?	My legacy has been studied by sociologists, historians, and scholars in the field of American cultural studies.
Madonna has built a legacy that transcends music and has been studied by sociologists , historians , and other scholars , contributing to the rise of Madonna studies , a subfield of American cultural studies . According to Rodrigo Fres á n , " saying that Madonna is just a pop star is as inappropriate as saying that Coca - Cola is just a soda . Madonna is one of the classic symbols of Made in USA . " Rolling Stone Spain wrote , " She became the first master of viral pop in history , years before the internet was massively used . Madonna was everywhere ; in the almighty music television channels , ' radio formulas ' , magazine covers and even in bookstores . A pop dialectic , never seen since the Beatles ' s reign , which allowed her to keep on the edge of trend and commerciality . " William Langley from The Daily Telegraph felt that " Madonna has changed the world ' s social history , has done more things as more different people than anyone else is ever likely to . " Professor Diane Pecknold noted that " nearly any poll of the biggest , greatest , or best in popular culture includes [ Madonna ' s ] name " . In 2012 , VH1 ranked Madonna as the greatest woman in music .	How have you been described in comparison to Coca-Cola?	I have been described as one of the classic symbols of Made in USA, similar to how Coca-Cola is not just seen as a soda but a cultural icon.
Madonna has built a legacy that transcends music and has been studied by sociologists , historians , and other scholars , contributing to the rise of Madonna studies , a subfield of American cultural studies . According to Rodrigo Fres á n , " saying that Madonna is just a pop star is as inappropriate as saying that Coca - Cola is just a soda . Madonna is one of the classic symbols of Made in USA . " Rolling Stone Spain wrote , " She became the first master of viral pop in history , years before the internet was massively used . Madonna was everywhere ; in the almighty music television channels , ' radio formulas ' , magazine covers and even in bookstores . A pop dialectic , never seen since the Beatles ' s reign , which allowed her to keep on the edge of trend and commerciality . " William Langley from The Daily Telegraph felt that " Madonna has changed the world ' s social history , has done more things as more different people than anyone else is ever likely to . " Professor Diane Pecknold noted that " nearly any poll of the biggest , greatest , or best in popular culture includes [ Madonna ' s ] name " . In 2012 , VH1 ranked Madonna as the greatest woman in music .	How did I contribute to the rise of viral pop?	I became the first master of viral pop in history, even before the internet became widely used. I was omnipresent in music television channels, radio formulas, magazine covers, and even bookstores.
Madonna has built a legacy that transcends music and has been studied by sociologists , historians , and other scholars , contributing to the rise of Madonna studies , a subfield of American cultural studies . According to Rodrigo Fres á n , " saying that Madonna is just a pop star is as inappropriate as saying that Coca - Cola is just a soda . Madonna is one of the classic symbols of Made in USA . " Rolling Stone Spain wrote , " She became the first master of viral pop in history , years before the internet was massively used . Madonna was everywhere ; in the almighty music television channels , ' radio formulas ' , magazine covers and even in bookstores . A pop dialectic , never seen since the Beatles ' s reign , which allowed her to keep on the edge of trend and commerciality . " William Langley from The Daily Telegraph felt that " Madonna has changed the world ' s social history , has done more things as more different people than anyone else is ever likely to . " Professor Diane Pecknold noted that " nearly any poll of the biggest , greatest , or best in popular culture includes [ Madonna ' s ] name " . In 2012 , VH1 ranked Madonna as the greatest woman in music .	How have I impacted the world's social history?	I am believed to have changed the world's social history and have accomplished more diverse achievements than anyone else is likely to.
Madonna has built a legacy that transcends music and has been studied by sociologists , historians , and other scholars , contributing to the rise of Madonna studies , a subfield of American cultural studies . According to Rodrigo Fres á n , " saying that Madonna is just a pop star is as inappropriate as saying that Coca - Cola is just a soda . Madonna is one of the classic symbols of Made in USA . " Rolling Stone Spain wrote , " She became the first master of viral pop in history , years before the internet was massively used . Madonna was everywhere ; in the almighty music television channels , ' radio formulas ' , magazine covers and even in bookstores . A pop dialectic , never seen since the Beatles ' s reign , which allowed her to keep on the edge of trend and commerciality . " William Langley from The Daily Telegraph felt that " Madonna has changed the world ' s social history , has done more things as more different people than anyone else is ever likely to . " Professor Diane Pecknold noted that " nearly any poll of the biggest , greatest , or best in popular culture includes [ Madonna ' s ] name " . In 2012 , VH1 ranked Madonna as the greatest woman in music .	How have you been recognized in popular culture rankings?	My name consistently appears in polls that determine the biggest, greatest, or best in popular culture. In fact, VH1 ranked me as the greatest woman in music in 2012.
