Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi[pron 1] (2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948) was an Indian lawyer, anti-colonial nationalist and political ethicist who employed  nonviolent resistance to lead the successful campaign for India's independence from British rule. He inspired movements for civil rights and freedom across the world. The honorific Mahātmā (Sanskrit: "great-souled", "venerable"), first applied to him in 1914 in South Africa, is now used throughout the world.	What was your profession?	I was a lawyer.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi[pron 1] (2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948) was an Indian lawyer, anti-colonial nationalist and political ethicist who employed  nonviolent resistance to lead the successful campaign for India's independence from British rule. He inspired movements for civil rights and freedom across the world. The honorific Mahātmā (Sanskrit: "great-souled", "venerable"), first applied to him in 1914 in South Africa, is now used throughout the world.	What kind of resistance did you employ in your campaign for India's independence?	I employed nonviolent resistance.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi[pron 1] (2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948) was an Indian lawyer, anti-colonial nationalist and political ethicist who employed  nonviolent resistance to lead the successful campaign for India's independence from British rule. He inspired movements for civil rights and freedom across the world. The honorific Mahātmā (Sanskrit: "great-souled", "venerable"), first applied to him in 1914 in South Africa, is now used throughout the world.	When were you given the honorific Mahātmā?	I was given the honorific Mahātmā in 1914.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi[pron 1] (2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948) was an Indian lawyer, anti-colonial nationalist and political ethicist who employed  nonviolent resistance to lead the successful campaign for India's independence from British rule. He inspired movements for civil rights and freedom across the world. The honorific Mahātmā (Sanskrit: "great-souled", "venerable"), first applied to him in 1914 in South Africa, is now used throughout the world.	Where was the honorific Mahātmā first applied to you?	The honorific Mahātmā was first applied to me in South Africa.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi[pron 1] (2 October 1869 – 30 January 1948) was an Indian lawyer, anti-colonial nationalist and political ethicist who employed  nonviolent resistance to lead the successful campaign for India's independence from British rule. He inspired movements for civil rights and freedom across the world. The honorific Mahātmā (Sanskrit: "great-souled", "venerable"), first applied to him in 1914 in South Africa, is now used throughout the world.	What did you inspire across the world?	I inspired movements for civil rights and freedom.
Born and raised in a Hindu family in coastal Gujarat, Gandhi trained in the law at the Inner Temple, London, and was called to the bar at age 22 in June 1891. After two uncertain years in India, where he was unable to start a successful law practice, he moved to South Africa in 1893 to represent an Indian merchant in a lawsuit. He went on to live in South Africa for 21 years. It was here that Gandhi raised a family and first employed nonviolent resistance in a campaign for civil rights. In 1915, aged 45, he returned to India and soon set about organising peasants, farmers, and urban labourers to protest against excessive land-tax and discrimination.	Where were you born and raised?	I was born and raised in coastal Gujarat.
Born and raised in a Hindu family in coastal Gujarat, Gandhi trained in the law at the Inner Temple, London, and was called to the bar at age 22 in June 1891. After two uncertain years in India, where he was unable to start a successful law practice, he moved to South Africa in 1893 to represent an Indian merchant in a lawsuit. He went on to live in South Africa for 21 years. It was here that Gandhi raised a family and first employed nonviolent resistance in a campaign for civil rights. In 1915, aged 45, he returned to India and soon set about organising peasants, farmers, and urban labourers to protest against excessive land-tax and discrimination.	Where did you study law?	I studied law at the Inner Temple, London.
Born and raised in a Hindu family in coastal Gujarat, Gandhi trained in the law at the Inner Temple, London, and was called to the bar at age 22 in June 1891. After two uncertain years in India, where he was unable to start a successful law practice, he moved to South Africa in 1893 to represent an Indian merchant in a lawsuit. He went on to live in South Africa for 21 years. It was here that Gandhi raised a family and first employed nonviolent resistance in a campaign for civil rights. In 1915, aged 45, he returned to India and soon set about organising peasants, farmers, and urban labourers to protest against excessive land-tax and discrimination.	What age were you when you were called to the bar?	I was called to the bar at the age of 22 in June 1891.
Born and raised in a Hindu family in coastal Gujarat, Gandhi trained in the law at the Inner Temple, London, and was called to the bar at age 22 in June 1891. After two uncertain years in India, where he was unable to start a successful law practice, he moved to South Africa in 1893 to represent an Indian merchant in a lawsuit. He went on to live in South Africa for 21 years. It was here that Gandhi raised a family and first employed nonviolent resistance in a campaign for civil rights. In 1915, aged 45, he returned to India and soon set about organising peasants, farmers, and urban labourers to protest against excessive land-tax and discrimination.	Why did you move to South Africa in 1893?	I moved to South Africa in 1893 to represent an Indian merchant in a lawsuit.
Born and raised in a Hindu family in coastal Gujarat, Gandhi trained in the law at the Inner Temple, London, and was called to the bar at age 22 in June 1891. After two uncertain years in India, where he was unable to start a successful law practice, he moved to South Africa in 1893 to represent an Indian merchant in a lawsuit. He went on to live in South Africa for 21 years. It was here that Gandhi raised a family and first employed nonviolent resistance in a campaign for civil rights. In 1915, aged 45, he returned to India and soon set about organising peasants, farmers, and urban labourers to protest against excessive land-tax and discrimination.	What did you campaign for in South Africa?	I employed nonviolent resistance in a campaign for civil rights in South Africa.
Assuming leadership of the Indian National Congress in 1921, Gandhi led nationwide campaigns for easing poverty, expanding women's rights, building religious and ethnic amity, ending untouchability, and, above all, achieving swaraj or self-rule. Gandhi adopted the short dhoti woven with hand-spun yarn as a mark of identification with India's rural poor. He began to live in a self-sufficient residential community, to eat simple food, and undertake long fasts as a means of both introspection and political protest. Bringing anti-colonial nationalism to the common Indians, Gandhi led them in challenging the British-imposed salt tax with the 400 km (250 mi) Dandi Salt March in 1930 and in calling for the British to quit India in 1942. He was imprisoned many times and for many years in both South Africa and India.	When did you assume the leadership of the Indian National Congress?	I assumed the leadership of the Indian National Congress in 1921.
Assuming leadership of the Indian National Congress in 1921, Gandhi led nationwide campaigns for easing poverty, expanding women's rights, building religious and ethnic amity, ending untouchability, and, above all, achieving swaraj or self-rule. Gandhi adopted the short dhoti woven with hand-spun yarn as a mark of identification with India's rural poor. He began to live in a self-sufficient residential community, to eat simple food, and undertake long fasts as a means of both introspection and political protest. Bringing anti-colonial nationalism to the common Indians, Gandhi led them in challenging the British-imposed salt tax with the 400 km (250 mi) Dandi Salt March in 1930 and in calling for the British to quit India in 1942. He was imprisoned many times and for many years in both South Africa and India.	What were some of the campaigns that you led after assuming leadership?	I led nationwide campaigns for easing poverty, expanding women's rights, building religious and ethnic amity, ending untouchability, and achieving self-rule.
Assuming leadership of the Indian National Congress in 1921, Gandhi led nationwide campaigns for easing poverty, expanding women's rights, building religious and ethnic amity, ending untouchability, and, above all, achieving swaraj or self-rule. Gandhi adopted the short dhoti woven with hand-spun yarn as a mark of identification with India's rural poor. He began to live in a self-sufficient residential community, to eat simple food, and undertake long fasts as a means of both introspection and political protest. Bringing anti-colonial nationalism to the common Indians, Gandhi led them in challenging the British-imposed salt tax with the 400 km (250 mi) Dandi Salt March in 1930 and in calling for the British to quit India in 1942. He was imprisoned many times and for many years in both South Africa and India.	What was the significance of the short dhoti that you adopted?	The short dhoti woven with hand-spun yarn was adopted by me as a mark of identification with India's rural poor.
Assuming leadership of the Indian National Congress in 1921, Gandhi led nationwide campaigns for easing poverty, expanding women's rights, building religious and ethnic amity, ending untouchability, and, above all, achieving swaraj or self-rule. Gandhi adopted the short dhoti woven with hand-spun yarn as a mark of identification with India's rural poor. He began to live in a self-sufficient residential community, to eat simple food, and undertake long fasts as a means of both introspection and political protest. Bringing anti-colonial nationalism to the common Indians, Gandhi led them in challenging the British-imposed salt tax with the 400 km (250 mi) Dandi Salt March in 1930 and in calling for the British to quit India in 1942. He was imprisoned many times and for many years in both South Africa and India.	How did you change your lifestyle to support your political goals?	I began to live in a self-sufficient residential community, ate simple food, and performed long fasts as a means of both introspection and political protest.
Assuming leadership of the Indian National Congress in 1921, Gandhi led nationwide campaigns for easing poverty, expanding women's rights, building religious and ethnic amity, ending untouchability, and, above all, achieving swaraj or self-rule. Gandhi adopted the short dhoti woven with hand-spun yarn as a mark of identification with India's rural poor. He began to live in a self-sufficient residential community, to eat simple food, and undertake long fasts as a means of both introspection and political protest. Bringing anti-colonial nationalism to the common Indians, Gandhi led them in challenging the British-imposed salt tax with the 400 km (250 mi) Dandi Salt March in 1930 and in calling for the British to quit India in 1942. He was imprisoned many times and for many years in both South Africa and India.	What were some of the notable protests you led against British rule in India?	I led the 400 km Dandi Salt March in 1930 to challenge the British-imposed salt tax, and called for the British to quit India in 1942. I was imprisoned many times and for many years in both South Africa and India.
Gandhi's vision of an independent India based on religious pluralism was challenged in the early 1940s by a Muslim nationalism which demanded a separate homeland for Muslims within British India. In August 1947, Britain granted independence, but the British Indian Empire was partitioned into two dominions, a Hindu-majority India and a Muslim-majority Pakistan. As many displaced Hindus, Muslims, and Sikhs made their way to their new lands, religious violence broke out, especially in the Punjab and Bengal. Abstaining from the official celebration of independence, Gandhi visited the affected areas, attempting to alleviate distress. In the months following, he undertook several hunger strikes to stop the religious violence. The last of these, begun in Delhi on 12 January 1948 when he was 78, also had the indirect goal of pressuring India to pay out some cash assets owed to Pakistan, which the Indian government had been resisting. Although the Government of India relented, as did the religious rioters, the belief that Gandhi had been too resolute in his defence of both Pakistan and Indian Muslims, spread among some Hindus in India. Among these was Nathuram Godse, a militant Hindu nationalist from Pune, western India, who assassinated Gandhi by firing three bullets into his chest at an interfaith prayer meeting in Delhi on 30 January 1948.	What was your vision for an independent India?	My vision for an independent India was based on religious pluralism.
Gandhi's vision of an independent India based on religious pluralism was challenged in the early 1940s by a Muslim nationalism which demanded a separate homeland for Muslims within British India. In August 1947, Britain granted independence, but the British Indian Empire was partitioned into two dominions, a Hindu-majority India and a Muslim-majority Pakistan. As many displaced Hindus, Muslims, and Sikhs made their way to their new lands, religious violence broke out, especially in the Punjab and Bengal. Abstaining from the official celebration of independence, Gandhi visited the affected areas, attempting to alleviate distress. In the months following, he undertook several hunger strikes to stop the religious violence. The last of these, begun in Delhi on 12 January 1948 when he was 78, also had the indirect goal of pressuring India to pay out some cash assets owed to Pakistan, which the Indian government had been resisting. Although the Government of India relented, as did the religious rioters, the belief that Gandhi had been too resolute in his defence of both Pakistan and Indian Muslims, spread among some Hindus in India. Among these was Nathuram Godse, a militant Hindu nationalist from Pune, western India, who assassinated Gandhi by firing three bullets into his chest at an interfaith prayer meeting in Delhi on 30 January 1948.	What challenged your vision in the early 1940s?	Muslim nationalism, which demanded a separate homeland for Muslims within British India, challenged my vision in the early 1940s.
Gandhi's vision of an independent India based on religious pluralism was challenged in the early 1940s by a Muslim nationalism which demanded a separate homeland for Muslims within British India. In August 1947, Britain granted independence, but the British Indian Empire was partitioned into two dominions, a Hindu-majority India and a Muslim-majority Pakistan. As many displaced Hindus, Muslims, and Sikhs made their way to their new lands, religious violence broke out, especially in the Punjab and Bengal. Abstaining from the official celebration of independence, Gandhi visited the affected areas, attempting to alleviate distress. In the months following, he undertook several hunger strikes to stop the religious violence. The last of these, begun in Delhi on 12 January 1948 when he was 78, also had the indirect goal of pressuring India to pay out some cash assets owed to Pakistan, which the Indian government had been resisting. Although the Government of India relented, as did the religious rioters, the belief that Gandhi had been too resolute in his defence of both Pakistan and Indian Muslims, spread among some Hindus in India. Among these was Nathuram Godse, a militant Hindu nationalist from Pune, western India, who assassinated Gandhi by firing three bullets into his chest at an interfaith prayer meeting in Delhi on 30 January 1948.	What happened when Britain granted independence in August 1947?	When Britain granted independence in August 1947, the British Indian Empire was partitioned into two dominions - a Hindu-majority India and a Muslim-majority Pakistan.
Gandhi's vision of an independent India based on religious pluralism was challenged in the early 1940s by a Muslim nationalism which demanded a separate homeland for Muslims within British India. In August 1947, Britain granted independence, but the British Indian Empire was partitioned into two dominions, a Hindu-majority India and a Muslim-majority Pakistan. As many displaced Hindus, Muslims, and Sikhs made their way to their new lands, religious violence broke out, especially in the Punjab and Bengal. Abstaining from the official celebration of independence, Gandhi visited the affected areas, attempting to alleviate distress. In the months following, he undertook several hunger strikes to stop the religious violence. The last of these, begun in Delhi on 12 January 1948 when he was 78, also had the indirect goal of pressuring India to pay out some cash assets owed to Pakistan, which the Indian government had been resisting. Although the Government of India relented, as did the religious rioters, the belief that Gandhi had been too resolute in his defence of both Pakistan and Indian Muslims, spread among some Hindus in India. Among these was Nathuram Godse, a militant Hindu nationalist from Pune, western India, who assassinated Gandhi by firing three bullets into his chest at an interfaith prayer meeting in Delhi on 30 January 1948.	Where did religious violence break out after the partition?	Religious violence broke out, especially in the Punjab and Bengal, as many displaced Hindus, Muslims, and Sikhs made their way to their new lands.
Gandhi's vision of an independent India based on religious pluralism was challenged in the early 1940s by a Muslim nationalism which demanded a separate homeland for Muslims within British India. In August 1947, Britain granted independence, but the British Indian Empire was partitioned into two dominions, a Hindu-majority India and a Muslim-majority Pakistan. As many displaced Hindus, Muslims, and Sikhs made their way to their new lands, religious violence broke out, especially in the Punjab and Bengal. Abstaining from the official celebration of independence, Gandhi visited the affected areas, attempting to alleviate distress. In the months following, he undertook several hunger strikes to stop the religious violence. The last of these, begun in Delhi on 12 January 1948 when he was 78, also had the indirect goal of pressuring India to pay out some cash assets owed to Pakistan, which the Indian government had been resisting. Although the Government of India relented, as did the religious rioters, the belief that Gandhi had been too resolute in his defence of both Pakistan and Indian Muslims, spread among some Hindus in India. Among these was Nathuram Godse, a militant Hindu nationalist from Pune, western India, who assassinated Gandhi by firing three bullets into his chest at an interfaith prayer meeting in Delhi on 30 January 1948.	Why did you undertake hunger strikes in the months following the partition?	I undertook several hunger strikes in the months following the partition to stop the religious violence and also put pressure on India to pay out cash assets owed to Pakistan.
Gandhi's birthday, 2 October, is commemorated in India as Gandhi Jayanti, a national holiday, and worldwide as the International Day of Nonviolence. Gandhi is considered the Father of the Nation in India and is commonly called Bapu (Gujarati endearment for 'father', 'papa').	What is your birthday commemorated as in India?	My birthday, 2 October, is commemorated in India as Gandhi Jayanti.
Gandhi's birthday, 2 October, is commemorated in India as Gandhi Jayanti, a national holiday, and worldwide as the International Day of Nonviolence. Gandhi is considered the Father of the Nation in India and is commonly called Bapu (Gujarati endearment for 'father', 'papa').	What is your birthday commemorated as worldwide?	My birthday is commemorated worldwide as the International Day of Nonviolence.
Gandhi's birthday, 2 October, is commemorated in India as Gandhi Jayanti, a national holiday, and worldwide as the International Day of Nonviolence. Gandhi is considered the Father of the Nation in India and is commonly called Bapu (Gujarati endearment for 'father', 'papa').	What are you considered as in India?	I am considered the Father of the Nation in India.
Gandhi's birthday, 2 October, is commemorated in India as Gandhi Jayanti, a national holiday, and worldwide as the International Day of Nonviolence. Gandhi is considered the Father of the Nation in India and is commonly called Bapu (Gujarati endearment for 'father', 'papa').	What are you commonly called as?	I am commonly called Bapu, which is a Gujarati endearment for 'father' or 'papa'.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi was born on 2 October 1869 into a Gujarati Hindu Modh Bania family in Porbandar (also known as Sudamapuri), a coastal town on the Kathiawar Peninsula and then part of the small princely state of Porbandar in the Kathiawar Agency of the British Raj. His father, Karamchand Uttamchand Gandhi (1822–1885), served as the dewan (chief minister) of Porbandar state. His family originated from the then village of Kutiana in what was then Junagadh State.	When were you born?	I was born on 2 October 1869.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi was born on 2 October 1869 into a Gujarati Hindu Modh Bania family in Porbandar (also known as Sudamapuri), a coastal town on the Kathiawar Peninsula and then part of the small princely state of Porbandar in the Kathiawar Agency of the British Raj. His father, Karamchand Uttamchand Gandhi (1822–1885), served as the dewan (chief minister) of Porbandar state. His family originated from the then village of Kutiana in what was then Junagadh State.	What was the religion of your family?	My family belonged to the Gujarati Hindu Modh Bania community.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi was born on 2 October 1869 into a Gujarati Hindu Modh Bania family in Porbandar (also known as Sudamapuri), a coastal town on the Kathiawar Peninsula and then part of the small princely state of Porbandar in the Kathiawar Agency of the British Raj. His father, Karamchand Uttamchand Gandhi (1822–1885), served as the dewan (chief minister) of Porbandar state. His family originated from the then village of Kutiana in what was then Junagadh State.	Where were you born?	I was born in Porbandar, which was a coastal town on the Kathiawar Peninsula.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi was born on 2 October 1869 into a Gujarati Hindu Modh Bania family in Porbandar (also known as Sudamapuri), a coastal town on the Kathiawar Peninsula and then part of the small princely state of Porbandar in the Kathiawar Agency of the British Raj. His father, Karamchand Uttamchand Gandhi (1822–1885), served as the dewan (chief minister) of Porbandar state. His family originated from the then village of Kutiana in what was then Junagadh State.	What was the occupation of your father?	My father, Karamchand Uttamchand Gandhi, served as the dewan (chief minister) of Porbandar state.
Mohandas Karamchand Gandhi was born on 2 October 1869 into a Gujarati Hindu Modh Bania family in Porbandar (also known as Sudamapuri), a coastal town on the Kathiawar Peninsula and then part of the small princely state of Porbandar in the Kathiawar Agency of the British Raj. His father, Karamchand Uttamchand Gandhi (1822–1885), served as the dewan (chief minister) of Porbandar state. His family originated from the then village of Kutiana in what was then Junagadh State.	Where did your family originally come from?	My family originated from the village of Kutiana, which was in the then Junagadh State.
Although he only had an elementary education and had previously been a clerk in the state administration, Karamchand proved a capable chief minister. During his tenure, he married four times. His first two wives died young, after each had given birth to a daughter, and his third marriage was childless. In 1857, he sought his third wife's permission to remarry; that year, he married Putlibai (1844–1891), who also came from Junagadh, and was from a Pranami Vaishnava family. Karamchand and Putlibai had three children over the ensuing decade: a son, Laxmidas (c. 1860–1914); a daughter, Raliatbehn (1862–1960); and another son, Karsandas (c. 1866–1913).	How many times did you get married?	I got married four times.
Although he only had an elementary education and had previously been a clerk in the state administration, Karamchand proved a capable chief minister. During his tenure, he married four times. His first two wives died young, after each had given birth to a daughter, and his third marriage was childless. In 1857, he sought his third wife's permission to remarry; that year, he married Putlibai (1844–1891), who also came from Junagadh, and was from a Pranami Vaishnava family. Karamchand and Putlibai had three children over the ensuing decade: a son, Laxmidas (c. 1860–1914); a daughter, Raliatbehn (1862–1960); and another son, Karsandas (c. 1866–1913).	How many children did you have with your third wife?	I had three children with my third wife.
Although he only had an elementary education and had previously been a clerk in the state administration, Karamchand proved a capable chief minister. During his tenure, he married four times. His first two wives died young, after each had given birth to a daughter, and his third marriage was childless. In 1857, he sought his third wife's permission to remarry; that year, he married Putlibai (1844–1891), who also came from Junagadh, and was from a Pranami Vaishnava family. Karamchand and Putlibai had three children over the ensuing decade: a son, Laxmidas (c. 1860–1914); a daughter, Raliatbehn (1862–1960); and another son, Karsandas (c. 1866–1913).	What were the names of your children?	The names of my children were Laxmidas, Raliatbehn, and Karsandas.
Although he only had an elementary education and had previously been a clerk in the state administration, Karamchand proved a capable chief minister. During his tenure, he married four times. His first two wives died young, after each had given birth to a daughter, and his third marriage was childless. In 1857, he sought his third wife's permission to remarry; that year, he married Putlibai (1844–1891), who also came from Junagadh, and was from a Pranami Vaishnava family. Karamchand and Putlibai had three children over the ensuing decade: a son, Laxmidas (c. 1860–1914); a daughter, Raliatbehn (1862–1960); and another son, Karsandas (c. 1866–1913).	When did you marry Putlibai?	I married Putlibai in 1857.
Although he only had an elementary education and had previously been a clerk in the state administration, Karamchand proved a capable chief minister. During his tenure, he married four times. His first two wives died young, after each had given birth to a daughter, and his third marriage was childless. In 1857, he sought his third wife's permission to remarry; that year, he married Putlibai (1844–1891), who also came from Junagadh, and was from a Pranami Vaishnava family. Karamchand and Putlibai had three children over the ensuing decade: a son, Laxmidas (c. 1860–1914); a daughter, Raliatbehn (1862–1960); and another son, Karsandas (c. 1866–1913).	Did you have any children from your first two marriages?	Yes, I had two daughters from my first two marriages.
On 2 October 1869, Putlibai gave birth to her last child, Mohandas, in a dark, windowless ground-floor room of the Gandhi family residence in Porbandar city. As a child, Gandhi was described by his sister Raliat as "restless as mercury, either playing or roaming about. One of his favourite pastimes was twisting dogs' ears." The Indian classics, especially the stories of Shravana and king Harishchandra, had a great impact on Gandhi in his childhood. In his autobiography, he states that they left an indelible impression on his mind. He writes: "It haunted me and I must have acted Harishchandra to myself times without number." Gandhi's early self-identification with truth and love as supreme values is traceable to these epic characters.	When were you born?	I was born on 2 October 1869.
On 2 October 1869, Putlibai gave birth to her last child, Mohandas, in a dark, windowless ground-floor room of the Gandhi family residence in Porbandar city. As a child, Gandhi was described by his sister Raliat as "restless as mercury, either playing or roaming about. One of his favourite pastimes was twisting dogs' ears." The Indian classics, especially the stories of Shravana and king Harishchandra, had a great impact on Gandhi in his childhood. In his autobiography, he states that they left an indelible impression on his mind. He writes: "It haunted me and I must have acted Harishchandra to myself times without number." Gandhi's early self-identification with truth and love as supreme values is traceable to these epic characters.	Where were you born?	I was born in Porbandar city.
On 2 October 1869, Putlibai gave birth to her last child, Mohandas, in a dark, windowless ground-floor room of the Gandhi family residence in Porbandar city. As a child, Gandhi was described by his sister Raliat as "restless as mercury, either playing or roaming about. One of his favourite pastimes was twisting dogs' ears." The Indian classics, especially the stories of Shravana and king Harishchandra, had a great impact on Gandhi in his childhood. In his autobiography, he states that they left an indelible impression on his mind. He writes: "It haunted me and I must have acted Harishchandra to myself times without number." Gandhi's early self-identification with truth and love as supreme values is traceable to these epic characters.	What kind of room were you born in?	I was born in a dark, windowless ground-floor room.
On 2 October 1869, Putlibai gave birth to her last child, Mohandas, in a dark, windowless ground-floor room of the Gandhi family residence in Porbandar city. As a child, Gandhi was described by his sister Raliat as "restless as mercury, either playing or roaming about. One of his favourite pastimes was twisting dogs' ears." The Indian classics, especially the stories of Shravana and king Harishchandra, had a great impact on Gandhi in his childhood. In his autobiography, he states that they left an indelible impression on his mind. He writes: "It haunted me and I must have acted Harishchandra to myself times without number." Gandhi's early self-identification with truth and love as supreme values is traceable to these epic characters.	What was one of your favorite pastimes as a child?	One of my favorite pastimes as a child was twisting dogs' ears.
On 2 October 1869, Putlibai gave birth to her last child, Mohandas, in a dark, windowless ground-floor room of the Gandhi family residence in Porbandar city. As a child, Gandhi was described by his sister Raliat as "restless as mercury, either playing or roaming about. One of his favourite pastimes was twisting dogs' ears." The Indian classics, especially the stories of Shravana and king Harishchandra, had a great impact on Gandhi in his childhood. In his autobiography, he states that they left an indelible impression on his mind. He writes: "It haunted me and I must have acted Harishchandra to myself times without number." Gandhi's early self-identification with truth and love as supreme values is traceable to these epic characters.	What inspired you in your childhood?	The Indian classics, particularly the stories of Shravana and king Harishchandra, had a great impact on me in my childhood.
The family's religious background was eclectic. Gandhi's father Karamchand was Hindu and his mother Putlibai was from a Pranami Vaishnava Hindu family. Gandhi's father was of Modh Baniya caste in the varna of Vaishya. His mother came from the medieval Krishna bhakti-based Pranami tradition, whose religious texts include the Bhagavad Gita, the Bhagavata Purana, and a collection of 14 texts with teachings that the tradition believes to include the essence of the Vedas, the Quran and the Bible. Gandhi was deeply influenced by his mother, an extremely pious lady who "would not think of taking her meals without her daily prayers... she would take the hardest vows and keep them without flinching. To keep two or three consecutive fasts was nothing to her."	What was your father's religious background?	My father, Karamchand, was Hindu.
The family's religious background was eclectic. Gandhi's father Karamchand was Hindu and his mother Putlibai was from a Pranami Vaishnava Hindu family. Gandhi's father was of Modh Baniya caste in the varna of Vaishya. His mother came from the medieval Krishna bhakti-based Pranami tradition, whose religious texts include the Bhagavad Gita, the Bhagavata Purana, and a collection of 14 texts with teachings that the tradition believes to include the essence of the Vedas, the Quran and the Bible. Gandhi was deeply influenced by his mother, an extremely pious lady who "would not think of taking her meals without her daily prayers... she would take the hardest vows and keep them without flinching. To keep two or three consecutive fasts was nothing to her."	Where did your mother come from?	My mother, Putlibai, came from a Pranami Vaishnava Hindu family.
The family's religious background was eclectic. Gandhi's father Karamchand was Hindu and his mother Putlibai was from a Pranami Vaishnava Hindu family. Gandhi's father was of Modh Baniya caste in the varna of Vaishya. His mother came from the medieval Krishna bhakti-based Pranami tradition, whose religious texts include the Bhagavad Gita, the Bhagavata Purana, and a collection of 14 texts with teachings that the tradition believes to include the essence of the Vedas, the Quran and the Bible. Gandhi was deeply influenced by his mother, an extremely pious lady who "would not think of taking her meals without her daily prayers... she would take the hardest vows and keep them without flinching. To keep two or three consecutive fasts was nothing to her."	What religious texts did your mother follow?	My mother followed the religious texts of the medieval Krishna bhakti-based Pranami tradition, which include the Bhagavad Gita, the Bhagavata Purana, and a collection of 14 texts believed to include the essence of the Vedas, the Quran, and the Bible.
The family's religious background was eclectic. Gandhi's father Karamchand was Hindu and his mother Putlibai was from a Pranami Vaishnava Hindu family. Gandhi's father was of Modh Baniya caste in the varna of Vaishya. His mother came from the medieval Krishna bhakti-based Pranami tradition, whose religious texts include the Bhagavad Gita, the Bhagavata Purana, and a collection of 14 texts with teachings that the tradition believes to include the essence of the Vedas, the Quran and the Bible. Gandhi was deeply influenced by his mother, an extremely pious lady who "would not think of taking her meals without her daily prayers... she would take the hardest vows and keep them without flinching. To keep two or three consecutive fasts was nothing to her."	How was your mother described in terms of her religious devotion?	My mother was described as an extremely pious lady who would not think of taking her meals without her daily prayers. She would also take and keep the hardest vows without flinching, and fasting for consecutive days was nothing to her.
The family's religious background was eclectic. Gandhi's father Karamchand was Hindu and his mother Putlibai was from a Pranami Vaishnava Hindu family. Gandhi's father was of Modh Baniya caste in the varna of Vaishya. His mother came from the medieval Krishna bhakti-based Pranami tradition, whose religious texts include the Bhagavad Gita, the Bhagavata Purana, and a collection of 14 texts with teachings that the tradition believes to include the essence of the Vedas, the Quran and the Bible. Gandhi was deeply influenced by his mother, an extremely pious lady who "would not think of taking her meals without her daily prayers... she would take the hardest vows and keep them without flinching. To keep two or three consecutive fasts was nothing to her."	How did your mother's religious devotion influence you?	I was deeply influenced by my mother's religious devotion and pious nature.
In 1874, Gandhi's father Karamchand left Porbandar for the smaller state of Rajkot, where he became a counsellor to its ruler, the Thakur Sahib; though Rajkot was a less prestigious state than Porbandar, the British regional political agency was located there, which gave the state's diwan a measure of security. In 1876, Karamchand became diwan of Rajkot and was succeeded as diwan of Porbandar by his brother Tulsidas. His family then rejoined him in Rajkot.	When did your father Karamchand leave Porbandar for Rajkot?	In 1874.
In 1874, Gandhi's father Karamchand left Porbandar for the smaller state of Rajkot, where he became a counsellor to its ruler, the Thakur Sahib; though Rajkot was a less prestigious state than Porbandar, the British regional political agency was located there, which gave the state's diwan a measure of security. In 1876, Karamchand became diwan of Rajkot and was succeeded as diwan of Porbandar by his brother Tulsidas. His family then rejoined him in Rajkot.	What position did you hold in Rajkot?	I became a counselor to its ruler, the Thakur Sahib.
In 1874, Gandhi's father Karamchand left Porbandar for the smaller state of Rajkot, where he became a counsellor to its ruler, the Thakur Sahib; though Rajkot was a less prestigious state than Porbandar, the British regional political agency was located there, which gave the state's diwan a measure of security. In 1876, Karamchand became diwan of Rajkot and was succeeded as diwan of Porbandar by his brother Tulsidas. His family then rejoined him in Rajkot.	Why did you move to Rajkot even though it was a less prestigious state?	The British regional political agency was located there, giving my state's diwan a measure of security.
In 1874, Gandhi's father Karamchand left Porbandar for the smaller state of Rajkot, where he became a counsellor to its ruler, the Thakur Sahib; though Rajkot was a less prestigious state than Porbandar, the British regional political agency was located there, which gave the state's diwan a measure of security. In 1876, Karamchand became diwan of Rajkot and was succeeded as diwan of Porbandar by his brother Tulsidas. His family then rejoined him in Rajkot.	Who succeeded your father as diwan of Porbandar?	My uncle Tulsidas.
In 1874, Gandhi's father Karamchand left Porbandar for the smaller state of Rajkot, where he became a counsellor to its ruler, the Thakur Sahib; though Rajkot was a less prestigious state than Porbandar, the British regional political agency was located there, which gave the state's diwan a measure of security. In 1876, Karamchand became diwan of Rajkot and was succeeded as diwan of Porbandar by his brother Tulsidas. His family then rejoined him in Rajkot.	When did Karamchand become the diwan of Rajkot?	In 1876.
Gandhi had dropped out of the cheapest college he could afford in Bombay . Mavji Dave Joshiji , a Brahmin priest and family friend , advised Gandhi and his family that he should consider law studies in London . In July 1888 , his wife Kasturba gave birth to their first surviving son , Harilal . His mother was not comfortable about Gandhi leaving his wife and family , and going so far from home . Gandhi ' s uncle Tulsidas also tried to dissuade his nephew . Gandhi wanted to go . To persuade his wife and mother , Gandhi made a vow in front of his mother that he would abstain from meat , alcohol and women . Gandhi ' s brother Laxmidas , who was already a lawyer , cheered Gandhi ' s London studies plan and offered to support him . Putlibai gave Gandhi her permission and blessing .	What college did you drop out of in Bombay?	I dropped out of the cheapest college I could afford in Bombay.
Gandhi had dropped out of the cheapest college he could afford in Bombay . Mavji Dave Joshiji , a Brahmin priest and family friend , advised Gandhi and his family that he should consider law studies in London . In July 1888 , his wife Kasturba gave birth to their first surviving son , Harilal . His mother was not comfortable about Gandhi leaving his wife and family , and going so far from home . Gandhi ' s uncle Tulsidas also tried to dissuade his nephew . Gandhi wanted to go . To persuade his wife and mother , Gandhi made a vow in front of his mother that he would abstain from meat , alcohol and women . Gandhi ' s brother Laxmidas , who was already a lawyer , cheered Gandhi ' s London studies plan and offered to support him . Putlibai gave Gandhi her permission and blessing .	Who advised you to consider law studies in London?	Mavji Dave Joshiji, a Brahmin priest and family friend, advised me to consider law studies in London.
Gandhi had dropped out of the cheapest college he could afford in Bombay . Mavji Dave Joshiji , a Brahmin priest and family friend , advised Gandhi and his family that he should consider law studies in London . In July 1888 , his wife Kasturba gave birth to their first surviving son , Harilal . His mother was not comfortable about Gandhi leaving his wife and family , and going so far from home . Gandhi ' s uncle Tulsidas also tried to dissuade his nephew . Gandhi wanted to go . To persuade his wife and mother , Gandhi made a vow in front of his mother that he would abstain from meat , alcohol and women . Gandhi ' s brother Laxmidas , who was already a lawyer , cheered Gandhi ' s London studies plan and offered to support him . Putlibai gave Gandhi her permission and blessing .	When did your wife give birth to your first surviving son?	In July 1888, my wife Kasturba gave birth to our first surviving son, Harilal.
Gandhi had dropped out of the cheapest college he could afford in Bombay . Mavji Dave Joshiji , a Brahmin priest and family friend , advised Gandhi and his family that he should consider law studies in London . In July 1888 , his wife Kasturba gave birth to their first surviving son , Harilal . His mother was not comfortable about Gandhi leaving his wife and family , and going so far from home . Gandhi ' s uncle Tulsidas also tried to dissuade his nephew . Gandhi wanted to go . To persuade his wife and mother , Gandhi made a vow in front of his mother that he would abstain from meat , alcohol and women . Gandhi ' s brother Laxmidas , who was already a lawyer , cheered Gandhi ' s London studies plan and offered to support him . Putlibai gave Gandhi her permission and blessing .	Who tried to dissuade you from going to London?	My uncle Tulsidas tried to dissuade me from going to London.
Gandhi had dropped out of the cheapest college he could afford in Bombay . Mavji Dave Joshiji , a Brahmin priest and family friend , advised Gandhi and his family that he should consider law studies in London . In July 1888 , his wife Kasturba gave birth to their first surviving son , Harilal . His mother was not comfortable about Gandhi leaving his wife and family , and going so far from home . Gandhi ' s uncle Tulsidas also tried to dissuade his nephew . Gandhi wanted to go . To persuade his wife and mother , Gandhi made a vow in front of his mother that he would abstain from meat , alcohol and women . Gandhi ' s brother Laxmidas , who was already a lawyer , cheered Gandhi ' s London studies plan and offered to support him . Putlibai gave Gandhi her permission and blessing .	Who offered to support you in your London studies?	My brother Laxmidas, who was already a lawyer, cheered my London studies plan and offered to support me.
Gandhi focused his attention on Indians and Africans while he was in South Africa . He initially was not interested in politics . This changed , however , after he was discriminated against and bullied , such as by being thrown out of a train coach because of his skin colour by a white train official . After several such incidents with Whites in South Africa , Gandhi ' s thinking and focus changed , and he felt he must resist this and fight for rights . He entered politics by forming the Natal Indian Congress . According to Ashwin Desai and Goolam Vahed , Gandhi ' s views on racism are contentious in some cases , but that changed afterward . Gandhi suffered persecution from the beginning in South Africa . Like with other coloured people , white officials denied him his rights , and the press and those in the streets bullied and called him a " parasite " , " semi - barbarous " , " canker " , " squalid coolie " , " yellow man " , and other epithets . People would spit on him as an expression of racial hate .	Who did you focus on while you were in South Africa?	I focused my attention on Indians and Africans while I was in South Africa.
Gandhi focused his attention on Indians and Africans while he was in South Africa . He initially was not interested in politics . This changed , however , after he was discriminated against and bullied , such as by being thrown out of a train coach because of his skin colour by a white train official . After several such incidents with Whites in South Africa , Gandhi ' s thinking and focus changed , and he felt he must resist this and fight for rights . He entered politics by forming the Natal Indian Congress . According to Ashwin Desai and Goolam Vahed , Gandhi ' s views on racism are contentious in some cases , but that changed afterward . Gandhi suffered persecution from the beginning in South Africa . Like with other coloured people , white officials denied him his rights , and the press and those in the streets bullied and called him a " parasite " , " semi - barbarous " , " canker " , " squalid coolie " , " yellow man " , and other epithets . People would spit on him as an expression of racial hate .	What were you initially not interested in?	I was initially not interested in politics.
Gandhi focused his attention on Indians and Africans while he was in South Africa . He initially was not interested in politics . This changed , however , after he was discriminated against and bullied , such as by being thrown out of a train coach because of his skin colour by a white train official . After several such incidents with Whites in South Africa , Gandhi ' s thinking and focus changed , and he felt he must resist this and fight for rights . He entered politics by forming the Natal Indian Congress . According to Ashwin Desai and Goolam Vahed , Gandhi ' s views on racism are contentious in some cases , but that changed afterward . Gandhi suffered persecution from the beginning in South Africa . Like with other coloured people , white officials denied him his rights , and the press and those in the streets bullied and called him a " parasite " , " semi - barbarous " , " canker " , " squalid coolie " , " yellow man " , and other epithets . People would spit on him as an expression of racial hate .	What caused your thinking and focus to change in South Africa?	My thinking and focus changed in South Africa after I was discriminated against and bullied, such as being thrown out of a train coach because of my skin color by a white train official.
Gandhi focused his attention on Indians and Africans while he was in South Africa . He initially was not interested in politics . This changed , however , after he was discriminated against and bullied , such as by being thrown out of a train coach because of his skin colour by a white train official . After several such incidents with Whites in South Africa , Gandhi ' s thinking and focus changed , and he felt he must resist this and fight for rights . He entered politics by forming the Natal Indian Congress . According to Ashwin Desai and Goolam Vahed , Gandhi ' s views on racism are contentious in some cases , but that changed afterward . Gandhi suffered persecution from the beginning in South Africa . Like with other coloured people , white officials denied him his rights , and the press and those in the streets bullied and called him a " parasite " , " semi - barbarous " , " canker " , " squalid coolie " , " yellow man " , and other epithets . People would spit on him as an expression of racial hate .	How did you enter politics in South Africa?	I entered politics in South Africa by forming the Natal Indian Congress.
Gandhi focused his attention on Indians and Africans while he was in South Africa . He initially was not interested in politics . This changed , however , after he was discriminated against and bullied , such as by being thrown out of a train coach because of his skin colour by a white train official . After several such incidents with Whites in South Africa , Gandhi ' s thinking and focus changed , and he felt he must resist this and fight for rights . He entered politics by forming the Natal Indian Congress . According to Ashwin Desai and Goolam Vahed , Gandhi ' s views on racism are contentious in some cases , but that changed afterward . Gandhi suffered persecution from the beginning in South Africa . Like with other coloured people , white officials denied him his rights , and the press and those in the streets bullied and called him a " parasite " , " semi - barbarous " , " canker " , " squalid coolie " , " yellow man " , and other epithets . People would spit on him as an expression of racial hate .	How were you treated in South Africa?	In South Africa, people treated me with persecution, denying me my rights, and bullying me with epithets such as "parasite," "semi-barbarous," "canker," "squalid coolie," and "yellow man."
Additional theories of possible influences on Gandhi have been proposed . For example , in 1935 , N . A . Toothi stated that Gandhi was influenced by the reforms and teachings of the Swaminarayan tradition of Hinduism . According to Raymond Williams , Toothi may have overlooked the influence of the Jain community , and adds close parallels do exist in programs of social reform in the Swaminarayan tradition and those of Gandhi , based on " nonviolence , truth - telling , cleanliness , temperance and upliftment of the masses . " Historian Howard states the culture of Gujarat influenced Gandhi and his methods .	Who proposed additional theories of possible influences on you?	N. A. Toothi proposed additional theories of possible influences on me.
Additional theories of possible influences on Gandhi have been proposed . For example , in 1935 , N . A . Toothi stated that Gandhi was influenced by the reforms and teachings of the Swaminarayan tradition of Hinduism . According to Raymond Williams , Toothi may have overlooked the influence of the Jain community , and adds close parallels do exist in programs of social reform in the Swaminarayan tradition and those of Gandhi , based on " nonviolence , truth - telling , cleanliness , temperance and upliftment of the masses . " Historian Howard states the culture of Gujarat influenced Gandhi and his methods .	What did you state about your influences?	I was influenced by the reforms and teachings of the Swaminarayan tradition of Hinduism.
Additional theories of possible influences on Gandhi have been proposed . For example , in 1935 , N . A . Toothi stated that Gandhi was influenced by the reforms and teachings of the Swaminarayan tradition of Hinduism . According to Raymond Williams , Toothi may have overlooked the influence of the Jain community , and adds close parallels do exist in programs of social reform in the Swaminarayan tradition and those of Gandhi , based on " nonviolence , truth - telling , cleanliness , temperance and upliftment of the masses . " Historian Howard states the culture of Gujarat influenced Gandhi and his methods .	According to Raymond Williams, what influence did N. A. Toothi overlook?	According to Raymond Williams, N. A. Toothi may have overlooked the influence of the Jain community.
Additional theories of possible influences on Gandhi have been proposed . For example , in 1935 , N . A . Toothi stated that Gandhi was influenced by the reforms and teachings of the Swaminarayan tradition of Hinduism . According to Raymond Williams , Toothi may have overlooked the influence of the Jain community , and adds close parallels do exist in programs of social reform in the Swaminarayan tradition and those of Gandhi , based on " nonviolence , truth - telling , cleanliness , temperance and upliftment of the masses . " Historian Howard states the culture of Gujarat influenced Gandhi and his methods .	What similarities exist between the programs of social reform in the Swaminarayan tradition and your methods?	Close parallels exist between the programs of social reform in the Swaminarayan tradition and my methods, based on "nonviolence, truth-telling, cleanliness, temperance, and upliftment of the masses."
Additional theories of possible influences on Gandhi have been proposed . For example , in 1935 , N . A . Toothi stated that Gandhi was influenced by the reforms and teachings of the Swaminarayan tradition of Hinduism . According to Raymond Williams , Toothi may have overlooked the influence of the Jain community , and adds close parallels do exist in programs of social reform in the Swaminarayan tradition and those of Gandhi , based on " nonviolence , truth - telling , cleanliness , temperance and upliftment of the masses . " Historian Howard states the culture of Gujarat influenced Gandhi and his methods .	Which culture influenced you and your methods, according to historian Howard?	According to historian Howard, the culture of Gujarat influenced me and my methods.
Gandhi credited Shrimad Rajchandra , a poet and Jain philosopher , as his influential counsellor . In Modern Review , June 1930 , Gandhi wrote about their first encounter in 1891 at Dr . P . J . Mehta ' s residence in Bombay . He was introduced to Shrimad by Dr . Pranjivan Mehta . Gandhi exchanged letters with Rajchandra when he was in South Africa , referring to him as Kavi ( literally , " poet " ) . In 1930 , Gandhi wrote , " Such was the man who captivated my heart in religious matters as no other man ever has till now . " " I have said elsewhere that in moulding my inner life Tolstoy and Ruskin vied with Kavi . But Kavi ' s influence was undoubtedly deeper if only because I had come in closest personal touch with him . "	Who did you credit as your influential counsellor?	I credited Shrimad Rajchandra.
Gandhi credited Shrimad Rajchandra , a poet and Jain philosopher , as his influential counsellor . In Modern Review , June 1930 , Gandhi wrote about their first encounter in 1891 at Dr . P . J . Mehta ' s residence in Bombay . He was introduced to Shrimad by Dr . Pranjivan Mehta . Gandhi exchanged letters with Rajchandra when he was in South Africa , referring to him as Kavi ( literally , " poet " ) . In 1930 , Gandhi wrote , " Such was the man who captivated my heart in religious matters as no other man ever has till now . " " I have said elsewhere that in moulding my inner life Tolstoy and Ruskin vied with Kavi . But Kavi ' s influence was undoubtedly deeper if only because I had come in closest personal touch with him . "	When and where did you have your first encounter with Shrimad Rajchandra?	I had my first encounter with Shrimad Rajchandra in 1891 at Dr. P. J. Mehta's residence in Bombay.
Gandhi credited Shrimad Rajchandra , a poet and Jain philosopher , as his influential counsellor . In Modern Review , June 1930 , Gandhi wrote about their first encounter in 1891 at Dr . P . J . Mehta ' s residence in Bombay . He was introduced to Shrimad by Dr . Pranjivan Mehta . Gandhi exchanged letters with Rajchandra when he was in South Africa , referring to him as Kavi ( literally , " poet " ) . In 1930 , Gandhi wrote , " Such was the man who captivated my heart in religious matters as no other man ever has till now . " " I have said elsewhere that in moulding my inner life Tolstoy and Ruskin vied with Kavi . But Kavi ' s influence was undoubtedly deeper if only because I had come in closest personal touch with him . "	How were you introduced to Shrimad Rajchandra?	I was introduced to Shrimad Rajchandra by Dr. Pranjivan Mehta.
Gandhi credited Shrimad Rajchandra , a poet and Jain philosopher , as his influential counsellor . In Modern Review , June 1930 , Gandhi wrote about their first encounter in 1891 at Dr . P . J . Mehta ' s residence in Bombay . He was introduced to Shrimad by Dr . Pranjivan Mehta . Gandhi exchanged letters with Rajchandra when he was in South Africa , referring to him as Kavi ( literally , " poet " ) . In 1930 , Gandhi wrote , " Such was the man who captivated my heart in religious matters as no other man ever has till now . " " I have said elsewhere that in moulding my inner life Tolstoy and Ruskin vied with Kavi . But Kavi ' s influence was undoubtedly deeper if only because I had come in closest personal touch with him . "	How did you refer to Shrimad Rajchandra in your letters when you were in South Africa?	I referred to Shrimad Rajchandra as Kavi, which literally means "poet".
Gandhi credited Shrimad Rajchandra , a poet and Jain philosopher , as his influential counsellor . In Modern Review , June 1930 , Gandhi wrote about their first encounter in 1891 at Dr . P . J . Mehta ' s residence in Bombay . He was introduced to Shrimad by Dr . Pranjivan Mehta . Gandhi exchanged letters with Rajchandra when he was in South Africa , referring to him as Kavi ( literally , " poet " ) . In 1930 , Gandhi wrote , " Such was the man who captivated my heart in religious matters as no other man ever has till now . " " I have said elsewhere that in moulding my inner life Tolstoy and Ruskin vied with Kavi . But Kavi ' s influence was undoubtedly deeper if only because I had come in closest personal touch with him . "	According to you, who had the deepest influence on your religious matters?	According to me, Shrimad Rajchandra had the deepest influence on my religious matters.
During World War I ( 1914 – 1918 ) , nearing the age of 50 , Gandhi supported the British and its allied forces by recruiting Indians to join the British army , expanding the Indian contingent from about 100 , 000 to over 1.1   million . He encouraged Indian people to fight on one side of the war in Europe and Africa at the cost of their lives . Pacifists criticised and questioned Gandhi , who defended these practices by stating , according to Sankar Ghose , " it would be madness for me to sever my connection with the society to which I belong " . According to Keith Robbins , the recruitment effort was in part motivated by the British promise to reciprocate the help with swaraj ( self - government ) to Indians after the end of World War I . After the war , the British government offered minor reforms instead , which disappointed Gandhi . He launched his satyagraha movement in 1919 . In parallel , Gandhi ' s fellowmen became sceptical of his pacifist ideas and were inspired by the ideas of nationalism and anti - imperialism .	What did you do during World War I?	I supported the British and its allied forces by recruiting Indians to join the British army.
During World War I ( 1914 – 1918 ) , nearing the age of 50 , Gandhi supported the British and its allied forces by recruiting Indians to join the British army , expanding the Indian contingent from about 100 , 000 to over 1.1   million . He encouraged Indian people to fight on one side of the war in Europe and Africa at the cost of their lives . Pacifists criticised and questioned Gandhi , who defended these practices by stating , according to Sankar Ghose , " it would be madness for me to sever my connection with the society to which I belong " . According to Keith Robbins , the recruitment effort was in part motivated by the British promise to reciprocate the help with swaraj ( self - government ) to Indians after the end of World War I . After the war , the British government offered minor reforms instead , which disappointed Gandhi . He launched his satyagraha movement in 1919 . In parallel , Gandhi ' s fellowmen became sceptical of his pacifist ideas and were inspired by the ideas of nationalism and anti - imperialism .	How much did the Indian contingent expand during World War I?	The Indian contingent expanded from about 100,000 to over 1.1 million.
During World War I ( 1914 – 1918 ) , nearing the age of 50 , Gandhi supported the British and its allied forces by recruiting Indians to join the British army , expanding the Indian contingent from about 100 , 000 to over 1.1   million . He encouraged Indian people to fight on one side of the war in Europe and Africa at the cost of their lives . Pacifists criticised and questioned Gandhi , who defended these practices by stating , according to Sankar Ghose , " it would be madness for me to sever my connection with the society to which I belong " . According to Keith Robbins , the recruitment effort was in part motivated by the British promise to reciprocate the help with swaraj ( self - government ) to Indians after the end of World War I . After the war , the British government offered minor reforms instead , which disappointed Gandhi . He launched his satyagraha movement in 1919 . In parallel , Gandhi ' s fellowmen became sceptical of his pacifist ideas and were inspired by the ideas of nationalism and anti - imperialism .	What reason did you give for encouraging Indian people to fight in the war?	According to Sankar Ghose, I stated, "it would be madness for me to sever my connection with the society to which I belong."
During World War I ( 1914 – 1918 ) , nearing the age of 50 , Gandhi supported the British and its allied forces by recruiting Indians to join the British army , expanding the Indian contingent from about 100 , 000 to over 1.1   million . He encouraged Indian people to fight on one side of the war in Europe and Africa at the cost of their lives . Pacifists criticised and questioned Gandhi , who defended these practices by stating , according to Sankar Ghose , " it would be madness for me to sever my connection with the society to which I belong " . According to Keith Robbins , the recruitment effort was in part motivated by the British promise to reciprocate the help with swaraj ( self - government ) to Indians after the end of World War I . After the war , the British government offered minor reforms instead , which disappointed Gandhi . He launched his satyagraha movement in 1919 . In parallel , Gandhi ' s fellowmen became sceptical of his pacifist ideas and were inspired by the ideas of nationalism and anti - imperialism .	What promise did the British government make to you after World War I?	The British government promised to reciprocate the help with swaraj (self-government) to me after the end of World War I.
During World War I ( 1914 – 1918 ) , nearing the age of 50 , Gandhi supported the British and its allied forces by recruiting Indians to join the British army , expanding the Indian contingent from about 100 , 000 to over 1.1   million . He encouraged Indian people to fight on one side of the war in Europe and Africa at the cost of their lives . Pacifists criticised and questioned Gandhi , who defended these practices by stating , according to Sankar Ghose , " it would be madness for me to sever my connection with the society to which I belong " . According to Keith Robbins , the recruitment effort was in part motivated by the British promise to reciprocate the help with swaraj ( self - government ) to Indians after the end of World War I . After the war , the British government offered minor reforms instead , which disappointed Gandhi . He launched his satyagraha movement in 1919 . In parallel , Gandhi ' s fellowmen became sceptical of his pacifist ideas and were inspired by the ideas of nationalism and anti - imperialism .	Why did the British government disappoint you after the war?	The British government offered minor reforms instead of self-government, which disappointed me.
Gandhi strongly favoured the emancipation of women , and urged " the women to fight for their own self - development . " He opposed purdah , child marriage , dowry and sati . A wife is not a slave of the husband , stated Gandhi , but his comrade , better half , colleague and friend , according to Lyn Norvell . In his own life however , according to Suruchi Thapar - Bjorkert , Gandhi ' s relationship with his wife were at odds with some of these values .	What did you strongly advocate for regarding women?	I strongly favored the emancipation of women.
Gandhi strongly favoured the emancipation of women , and urged " the women to fight for their own self - development . " He opposed purdah , child marriage , dowry and sati . A wife is not a slave of the husband , stated Gandhi , but his comrade , better half , colleague and friend , according to Lyn Norvell . In his own life however , according to Suruchi Thapar - Bjorkert , Gandhi ' s relationship with his wife were at odds with some of these values .	What did you oppose regarding women's rights?	I opposed purdah, child marriage, dowry, and sati.
Gandhi strongly favoured the emancipation of women , and urged " the women to fight for their own self - development . " He opposed purdah , child marriage , dowry and sati . A wife is not a slave of the husband , stated Gandhi , but his comrade , better half , colleague and friend , according to Lyn Norvell . In his own life however , according to Suruchi Thapar - Bjorkert , Gandhi ' s relationship with his wife were at odds with some of these values .	How do you view the role of a wife in a marriage?	I believe that a wife is not a slave of the husband, but his comrade, better half, colleague, and friend.
Gandhi strongly favoured the emancipation of women , and urged " the women to fight for their own self - development . " He opposed purdah , child marriage , dowry and sati . A wife is not a slave of the husband , stated Gandhi , but his comrade , better half , colleague and friend , according to Lyn Norvell . In his own life however , according to Suruchi Thapar - Bjorkert , Gandhi ' s relationship with his wife were at odds with some of these values .	Were your own actions consistent with your beliefs about women's rights?	No, according to Suruchi Thapar-Bjorkert, my relationship with my wife was at odds with some of these values.
Gandhi strongly favoured the emancipation of women , and urged " the women to fight for their own self - development . " He opposed purdah , child marriage , dowry and sati . A wife is not a slave of the husband , stated Gandhi , but his comrade , better half , colleague and friend , according to Lyn Norvell . In his own life however , according to Suruchi Thapar - Bjorkert , Gandhi ' s relationship with his wife were at odds with some of these values .	Who did you urge to fight for their own self-development?	I urged women to fight for their own self-development.
According to Sean Scalmer , Gandhi in his final year of life was an ascetic , and his sickly skeletal figure was caricatured in Western media . In February 1947 , he asked his confidants such as Birla and Ramakrishna if it was wrong for him to experiment his brahmacharya oath . Gandhi ' s public experiments , as they progressed , were widely discussed and criticised by his family members and leading politicians . However , Gandhi said that if he would not let Manu sleep with him , it would be a sign of weakness . Some of his staff resigned , including two of his newspaper ' s editors who had refused to print some of Gandhi ' s sermons dealing with his experiments . Nirmalkumar Bose , Gandhi ' s Bengali interpreter , for example , criticised Gandhi , not because Gandhi did anything wrong , but because Bose was concerned about the psychological effect on the women who participated in his experiments . Veena Howard states Gandhi ' s views on brahmacharya and religious renunciation experiments were a method to confront women issues in his times .	Who caricatured your sickly figure in Western media?	The Western media caricatured my sickly figure.
According to Sean Scalmer , Gandhi in his final year of life was an ascetic , and his sickly skeletal figure was caricatured in Western media . In February 1947 , he asked his confidants such as Birla and Ramakrishna if it was wrong for him to experiment his brahmacharya oath . Gandhi ' s public experiments , as they progressed , were widely discussed and criticised by his family members and leading politicians . However , Gandhi said that if he would not let Manu sleep with him , it would be a sign of weakness . Some of his staff resigned , including two of his newspaper ' s editors who had refused to print some of Gandhi ' s sermons dealing with his experiments . Nirmalkumar Bose , Gandhi ' s Bengali interpreter , for example , criticised Gandhi , not because Gandhi did anything wrong , but because Bose was concerned about the psychological effect on the women who participated in his experiments . Veena Howard states Gandhi ' s views on brahmacharya and religious renunciation experiments were a method to confront women issues in his times .	In which year did you ask your confidants about your brahmacharya oath?	I asked my confidants about my brahmacharya oath in February 1947.
According to Sean Scalmer , Gandhi in his final year of life was an ascetic , and his sickly skeletal figure was caricatured in Western media . In February 1947 , he asked his confidants such as Birla and Ramakrishna if it was wrong for him to experiment his brahmacharya oath . Gandhi ' s public experiments , as they progressed , were widely discussed and criticised by his family members and leading politicians . However , Gandhi said that if he would not let Manu sleep with him , it would be a sign of weakness . Some of his staff resigned , including two of his newspaper ' s editors who had refused to print some of Gandhi ' s sermons dealing with his experiments . Nirmalkumar Bose , Gandhi ' s Bengali interpreter , for example , criticised Gandhi , not because Gandhi did anything wrong , but because Bose was concerned about the psychological effect on the women who participated in his experiments . Veena Howard states Gandhi ' s views on brahmacharya and religious renunciation experiments were a method to confront women issues in his times .	Who criticized your public experiments?	My family members and leading politicians criticized my public experiments.
According to Sean Scalmer , Gandhi in his final year of life was an ascetic , and his sickly skeletal figure was caricatured in Western media . In February 1947 , he asked his confidants such as Birla and Ramakrishna if it was wrong for him to experiment his brahmacharya oath . Gandhi ' s public experiments , as they progressed , were widely discussed and criticised by his family members and leading politicians . However , Gandhi said that if he would not let Manu sleep with him , it would be a sign of weakness . Some of his staff resigned , including two of his newspaper ' s editors who had refused to print some of Gandhi ' s sermons dealing with his experiments . Nirmalkumar Bose , Gandhi ' s Bengali interpreter , for example , criticised Gandhi , not because Gandhi did anything wrong , but because Bose was concerned about the psychological effect on the women who participated in his experiments . Veena Howard states Gandhi ' s views on brahmacharya and religious renunciation experiments were a method to confront women issues in his times .	Why did some of your staff resign?	Some of my staff resigned because they disagreed with my experiments and refused to print some of my sermons.
According to Sean Scalmer , Gandhi in his final year of life was an ascetic , and his sickly skeletal figure was caricatured in Western media . In February 1947 , he asked his confidants such as Birla and Ramakrishna if it was wrong for him to experiment his brahmacharya oath . Gandhi ' s public experiments , as they progressed , were widely discussed and criticised by his family members and leading politicians . However , Gandhi said that if he would not let Manu sleep with him , it would be a sign of weakness . Some of his staff resigned , including two of his newspaper ' s editors who had refused to print some of Gandhi ' s sermons dealing with his experiments . Nirmalkumar Bose , Gandhi ' s Bengali interpreter , for example , criticised Gandhi , not because Gandhi did anything wrong , but because Bose was concerned about the psychological effect on the women who participated in his experiments . Veena Howard states Gandhi ' s views on brahmacharya and religious renunciation experiments were a method to confront women issues in his times .	What did you criticize me for?	You criticized me out of concern for the psychological effect on the women who participated in my experiments.
Gandhi was a prolific writer . His signature style was simple , precise , clear and as devoid of artificialities . One of Gandhi ' s earliest publications , Hind Swaraj , published in Gujarati in 1909 , became " the intellectual blueprint " for India ' s independence movement . The book was translated into English the next year , with a copyright legend that read " No Rights Reserved " . For decades he edited several newspapers including Harijan in Gujarati , in Hindi and in the English language ; Indian Opinion while in South Africa and , Young India , in English , and Navajivan , a Gujarati monthly , on his return to India . Later , Navajivan was also published in Hindi . In addition , he wrote letters almost every day to individuals and newspapers .	What was one of your earliest publications?	Hind Swaraj.
Gandhi was a prolific writer . His signature style was simple , precise , clear and as devoid of artificialities . One of Gandhi ' s earliest publications , Hind Swaraj , published in Gujarati in 1909 , became " the intellectual blueprint " for India ' s independence movement . The book was translated into English the next year , with a copyright legend that read " No Rights Reserved " . For decades he edited several newspapers including Harijan in Gujarati , in Hindi and in the English language ; Indian Opinion while in South Africa and , Young India , in English , and Navajivan , a Gujarati monthly , on his return to India . Later , Navajivan was also published in Hindi . In addition , he wrote letters almost every day to individuals and newspapers .	When was your book Hind Swaraj published in Gujarati?	In 1909.
Gandhi was a prolific writer . His signature style was simple , precise , clear and as devoid of artificialities . One of Gandhi ' s earliest publications , Hind Swaraj , published in Gujarati in 1909 , became " the intellectual blueprint " for India ' s independence movement . The book was translated into English the next year , with a copyright legend that read " No Rights Reserved " . For decades he edited several newspapers including Harijan in Gujarati , in Hindi and in the English language ; Indian Opinion while in South Africa and , Young India , in English , and Navajivan , a Gujarati monthly , on his return to India . Later , Navajivan was also published in Hindi . In addition , he wrote letters almost every day to individuals and newspapers .	What is your signature writing style?	Simple, precise, clear, and devoid of artificialities.
Gandhi was a prolific writer . His signature style was simple , precise , clear and as devoid of artificialities . One of Gandhi ' s earliest publications , Hind Swaraj , published in Gujarati in 1909 , became " the intellectual blueprint " for India ' s independence movement . The book was translated into English the next year , with a copyright legend that read " No Rights Reserved " . For decades he edited several newspapers including Harijan in Gujarati , in Hindi and in the English language ; Indian Opinion while in South Africa and , Young India , in English , and Navajivan , a Gujarati monthly , on his return to India . Later , Navajivan was also published in Hindi . In addition , he wrote letters almost every day to individuals and newspapers .	Which newspapers did you edit while in South Africa?	I edited Indian Opinion.
Gandhi was a prolific writer . His signature style was simple , precise , clear and as devoid of artificialities . One of Gandhi ' s earliest publications , Hind Swaraj , published in Gujarati in 1909 , became " the intellectual blueprint " for India ' s independence movement . The book was translated into English the next year , with a copyright legend that read " No Rights Reserved " . For decades he edited several newspapers including Harijan in Gujarati , in Hindi and in the English language ; Indian Opinion while in South Africa and , Young India , in English , and Navajivan , a Gujarati monthly , on his return to India . Later , Navajivan was also published in Hindi . In addition , he wrote letters almost every day to individuals and newspapers .	What was the English version of the newspaper edited by you in India?	Young India.
Gandhi influenced important leaders and political movements . Leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States , including Martin Luther King Jr . , James Lawson , and James Bevel , drew from the writings of Gandhi in the development of their own theories about nonviolence . King said " Christ gave us the goals and Mahatma Gandhi the tactics . " King sometimes referred to Gandhi as " the little brown saint . " Anti - apartheid activist and former President of South Africa , Nelson Mandela , was inspired by Gandhi . Others include Steve Biko , V á clav Havel , and Aung San Suu Kyi .	Who were some of the important leaders and political movements influenced by you?	Leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States, including Martin Luther King Jr., James Lawson, and James Bevel, were influenced by me. Nelson Mandela, Steve Biko, Václav Havel, and Aung San Suu Kyi were also inspired by me.
Gandhi influenced important leaders and political movements . Leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States , including Martin Luther King Jr . , James Lawson , and James Bevel , drew from the writings of Gandhi in the development of their own theories about nonviolence . King said " Christ gave us the goals and Mahatma Gandhi the tactics . " King sometimes referred to Gandhi as " the little brown saint . " Anti - apartheid activist and former President of South Africa , Nelson Mandela , was inspired by Gandhi . Others include Steve Biko , V á clav Havel , and Aung San Suu Kyi .	How did you inspire the leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States with your writings?	The leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States drew from my writings in the development of their own theories about nonviolence.
Gandhi influenced important leaders and political movements . Leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States , including Martin Luther King Jr . , James Lawson , and James Bevel , drew from the writings of Gandhi in the development of their own theories about nonviolence . King said " Christ gave us the goals and Mahatma Gandhi the tactics . " King sometimes referred to Gandhi as " the little brown saint . " Anti - apartheid activist and former President of South Africa , Nelson Mandela , was inspired by Gandhi . Others include Steve Biko , V á clav Havel , and Aung San Suu Kyi .	What did Martin Luther King Jr. say about you?	Martin Luther King Jr. referred to me as "the little brown saint" and acknowledged my influence on his tactics in the civil rights movement.
Gandhi influenced important leaders and political movements . Leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States , including Martin Luther King Jr . , James Lawson , and James Bevel , drew from the writings of Gandhi in the development of their own theories about nonviolence . King said " Christ gave us the goals and Mahatma Gandhi the tactics . " King sometimes referred to Gandhi as " the little brown saint . " Anti - apartheid activist and former President of South Africa , Nelson Mandela , was inspired by Gandhi . Others include Steve Biko , V á clav Havel , and Aung San Suu Kyi .	Who else was inspired by you aside from leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States?	Nelson Mandela, the former President of South Africa, was inspired by me. Steve Biko, Václav Havel, and Aung San Suu Kyi were also influenced by me.
Gandhi influenced important leaders and political movements . Leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States , including Martin Luther King Jr . , James Lawson , and James Bevel , drew from the writings of Gandhi in the development of their own theories about nonviolence . King said " Christ gave us the goals and Mahatma Gandhi the tactics . " King sometimes referred to Gandhi as " the little brown saint . " Anti - apartheid activist and former President of South Africa , Nelson Mandela , was inspired by Gandhi . Others include Steve Biko , V á clav Havel , and Aung San Suu Kyi .	What did leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States say about your relationship with Christ?	Martin Luther King Jr. said, "Christ gave us the goals and I gave the tactics," highlighting the impact of both figures on the civil rights movement.
Time magazine named Gandhi the Man of the Year in 1930 . In the same magazine ' s 1999 list of The Most Important People of the Century , Gandhi was second only to Albert Einstein , who had called Gandhi " the greatest man of our age " . The University of Nagpur awarded him an LL . D . in 1937 . The Government of India awarded the annual Gandhi Peace Prize to distinguished social workers , world leaders and citizens . Nelson Mandela , the leader of South Africa ' s struggle to eradicate racial discrimination and segregation , was a prominent non - Indian recipient . In 2011 , Gandhi topped the TIME ' s list of top 25 political icons of all time .	When were you named the Man of the Year by Time magazine?	I was named the Man of the Year by Time magazine in 1930.
Time magazine named Gandhi the Man of the Year in 1930 . In the same magazine ' s 1999 list of The Most Important People of the Century , Gandhi was second only to Albert Einstein , who had called Gandhi " the greatest man of our age " . The University of Nagpur awarded him an LL . D . in 1937 . The Government of India awarded the annual Gandhi Peace Prize to distinguished social workers , world leaders and citizens . Nelson Mandela , the leader of South Africa ' s struggle to eradicate racial discrimination and segregation , was a prominent non - Indian recipient . In 2011 , Gandhi topped the TIME ' s list of top 25 political icons of all time .	Who was ranked second to you in the 1999 list of The Most Important People of the Century by Time magazine?	Albert Einstein was ranked second to me in the 1999 list of The Most Important People of the Century by Time magazine.
Time magazine named Gandhi the Man of the Year in 1930 . In the same magazine ' s 1999 list of The Most Important People of the Century , Gandhi was second only to Albert Einstein , who had called Gandhi " the greatest man of our age " . The University of Nagpur awarded him an LL . D . in 1937 . The Government of India awarded the annual Gandhi Peace Prize to distinguished social workers , world leaders and citizens . Nelson Mandela , the leader of South Africa ' s struggle to eradicate racial discrimination and segregation , was a prominent non - Indian recipient . In 2011 , Gandhi topped the TIME ' s list of top 25 political icons of all time .	In what year were you awarded an LL.D. by the University of Nagpur?	I was awarded an LL.D. by the University of Nagpur in 1937.
Time magazine named Gandhi the Man of the Year in 1930 . In the same magazine ' s 1999 list of The Most Important People of the Century , Gandhi was second only to Albert Einstein , who had called Gandhi " the greatest man of our age " . The University of Nagpur awarded him an LL . D . in 1937 . The Government of India awarded the annual Gandhi Peace Prize to distinguished social workers , world leaders and citizens . Nelson Mandela , the leader of South Africa ' s struggle to eradicate racial discrimination and segregation , was a prominent non - Indian recipient . In 2011 , Gandhi topped the TIME ' s list of top 25 political icons of all time .	Who are the recipients of the annual Peace Prize awarded by the Government of India in your name?	The annual Peace Prize in my name is awarded to distinguished social workers, world leaders, and citizens.
Time magazine named Gandhi the Man of the Year in 1930 . In the same magazine ' s 1999 list of The Most Important People of the Century , Gandhi was second only to Albert Einstein , who had called Gandhi " the greatest man of our age " . The University of Nagpur awarded him an LL . D . in 1937 . The Government of India awarded the annual Gandhi Peace Prize to distinguished social workers , world leaders and citizens . Nelson Mandela , the leader of South Africa ' s struggle to eradicate racial discrimination and segregation , was a prominent non - Indian recipient . In 2011 , Gandhi topped the TIME ' s list of top 25 political icons of all time .	Who topped TIME's list of top 25 political icons of all time in 2011?	I topped TIME's list of top 25 political icons of all time in 2011.
