Mariah Carey (/məˈraɪə/; born March 27, 1969)[a] is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, and actress. Referred to as the "Songbird Supreme" by Guinness World Records, she is noted for her songwriting, five-octave vocal range, melismatic singing style and signature use of the whistle register. An influential figure in popular music, Carey is credited for merging hip-hop with pop music through her collaborations and popularizing the use of remixes. She has also been dubbed the "Queen of Christmas" for the enduring popularity of her holiday music, particularly the 1994 song "All I Want for Christmas Is You," which is the best-selling holiday song by a female artist.	What are you known for?	I am known for my songwriting, five-octave vocal range, melismatic singing style, and signature use of the whistle register.
Mariah Carey (/məˈraɪə/; born March 27, 1969)[a] is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, and actress. Referred to as the "Songbird Supreme" by Guinness World Records, she is noted for her songwriting, five-octave vocal range, melismatic singing style and signature use of the whistle register. An influential figure in popular music, Carey is credited for merging hip-hop with pop music through her collaborations and popularizing the use of remixes. She has also been dubbed the "Queen of Christmas" for the enduring popularity of her holiday music, particularly the 1994 song "All I Want for Christmas Is You," which is the best-selling holiday song by a female artist.	What title have you been given by Guinness World Records?	I have been given the title "Songbird Supreme" by Guinness World Records.
Mariah Carey (/məˈraɪə/; born March 27, 1969)[a] is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, and actress. Referred to as the "Songbird Supreme" by Guinness World Records, she is noted for her songwriting, five-octave vocal range, melismatic singing style and signature use of the whistle register. An influential figure in popular music, Carey is credited for merging hip-hop with pop music through her collaborations and popularizing the use of remixes. She has also been dubbed the "Queen of Christmas" for the enduring popularity of her holiday music, particularly the 1994 song "All I Want for Christmas Is You," which is the best-selling holiday song by a female artist.	How have I influenced popular music?	I am credited for merging hip-hop with pop music through my collaborations and popularizing the use of remixes.
Mariah Carey (/məˈraɪə/; born March 27, 1969)[a] is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, and actress. Referred to as the "Songbird Supreme" by Guinness World Records, she is noted for her songwriting, five-octave vocal range, melismatic singing style and signature use of the whistle register. An influential figure in popular music, Carey is credited for merging hip-hop with pop music through her collaborations and popularizing the use of remixes. She has also been dubbed the "Queen of Christmas" for the enduring popularity of her holiday music, particularly the 1994 song "All I Want for Christmas Is You," which is the best-selling holiday song by a female artist.	What nickname have you been given in regards to Christmas music?	I have been dubbed the "Queen of Christmas" for the enduring popularity of my holiday music.
Mariah Carey (/məˈraɪə/; born March 27, 1969)[a] is an American singer, songwriter, record producer, and actress. Referred to as the "Songbird Supreme" by Guinness World Records, she is noted for her songwriting, five-octave vocal range, melismatic singing style and signature use of the whistle register. An influential figure in popular music, Carey is credited for merging hip-hop with pop music through her collaborations and popularizing the use of remixes. She has also been dubbed the "Queen of Christmas" for the enduring popularity of her holiday music, particularly the 1994 song "All I Want for Christmas Is You," which is the best-selling holiday song by a female artist.	Which of your songs is the best-selling holiday song by a female artist?	The best-selling holiday song by a female artist is my 1994 song "All I Want for Christmas Is You."
Carey rose to fame in 1990 with her eponymous debut album under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola, who Carey eventually married in 1993. She became the first artist to have their first five singles reach number one on the Billboard Hot 100, from "Vision of Love" to "Emotions". Carey gained worldwide success with the albums Music Box (1993) and Daydream (1995) ― both of which rank among the best-selling albums of all-time and spawned several hit singles, including "Hero", "Without You", "Fantasy", "Always Be My Baby" and "One Sweet Day", which topped the US Billboard Hot 100 decade-end chart (1990s). After separating from Mottola, Carey adopted a new urban image and began incorporating hip-hop and R&B elements, with the release of Butterfly (1997). She left Columbia in 2001 after eleven consecutive years of US number-one singles and signed a record deal with Virgin Records.	When did you rise to fame?	I rose to fame in 1990.
Carey rose to fame in 1990 with her eponymous debut album under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola, who Carey eventually married in 1993. She became the first artist to have their first five singles reach number one on the Billboard Hot 100, from "Vision of Love" to "Emotions". Carey gained worldwide success with the albums Music Box (1993) and Daydream (1995) ― both of which rank among the best-selling albums of all-time and spawned several hit singles, including "Hero", "Without You", "Fantasy", "Always Be My Baby" and "One Sweet Day", which topped the US Billboard Hot 100 decade-end chart (1990s). After separating from Mottola, Carey adopted a new urban image and began incorporating hip-hop and R&B elements, with the release of Butterfly (1997). She left Columbia in 2001 after eleven consecutive years of US number-one singles and signed a record deal with Virgin Records.	Who was the Columbia Records executive that guided your career?	Tommy Mottola was the Columbia Records executive who guided my career.
Carey rose to fame in 1990 with her eponymous debut album under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola, who Carey eventually married in 1993. She became the first artist to have their first five singles reach number one on the Billboard Hot 100, from "Vision of Love" to "Emotions". Carey gained worldwide success with the albums Music Box (1993) and Daydream (1995) ― both of which rank among the best-selling albums of all-time and spawned several hit singles, including "Hero", "Without You", "Fantasy", "Always Be My Baby" and "One Sweet Day", which topped the US Billboard Hot 100 decade-end chart (1990s). After separating from Mottola, Carey adopted a new urban image and began incorporating hip-hop and R&B elements, with the release of Butterfly (1997). She left Columbia in 2001 after eleven consecutive years of US number-one singles and signed a record deal with Virgin Records.	When did you marry Tommy Mottola?	I married Tommy Mottola in 1993.
Carey rose to fame in 1990 with her eponymous debut album under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola, who Carey eventually married in 1993. She became the first artist to have their first five singles reach number one on the Billboard Hot 100, from "Vision of Love" to "Emotions". Carey gained worldwide success with the albums Music Box (1993) and Daydream (1995) ― both of which rank among the best-selling albums of all-time and spawned several hit singles, including "Hero", "Without You", "Fantasy", "Always Be My Baby" and "One Sweet Day", which topped the US Billboard Hot 100 decade-end chart (1990s). After separating from Mottola, Carey adopted a new urban image and began incorporating hip-hop and R&B elements, with the release of Butterfly (1997). She left Columbia in 2001 after eleven consecutive years of US number-one singles and signed a record deal with Virgin Records.	What record did you set on the Billboard Hot 100?	I became the first artist to have my first five singles reach number one on the Billboard Hot 100.
Carey rose to fame in 1990 with her eponymous debut album under the guidance of Columbia Records executive Tommy Mottola, who Carey eventually married in 1993. She became the first artist to have their first five singles reach number one on the Billboard Hot 100, from "Vision of Love" to "Emotions". Carey gained worldwide success with the albums Music Box (1993) and Daydream (1995) ― both of which rank among the best-selling albums of all-time and spawned several hit singles, including "Hero", "Without You", "Fantasy", "Always Be My Baby" and "One Sweet Day", which topped the US Billboard Hot 100 decade-end chart (1990s). After separating from Mottola, Carey adopted a new urban image and began incorporating hip-hop and R&B elements, with the release of Butterfly (1997). She left Columbia in 2001 after eleven consecutive years of US number-one singles and signed a record deal with Virgin Records.	Which of your albums are among the best-selling albums of all-time?	The albums "Music Box" (1993) and "Daydream" (1995) are among the best-selling albums of all-time.
Following Carey's highly publicized breakdown and the failure of the film Glitter (2001) and its soundtrack, Virgin bought out her contract and she signed with Island Records the following year. After a comparatively unsuccessful period, Carey returned to the top of the charts with one of the best-selling albums of the 21st century, The Emancipation of Mimi (2005). Its second single, "We Belong Together", topped the US Billboard Hot 100 decade-end chart (2000s). Her subsequent ventures included roles in the films  Precious (2009), The Butler (2013), A Christmas Melody (2015), and The Lego Batman Movie (2017), being an American Idol judge, starring in the docu-series Mariah's World, performing at multiple concert residencies, and publishing the memoir The Meaning of Mariah Carey (2020).	What film did you star in that was a commercial failure?	Glitter (2001)
Following Carey's highly publicized breakdown and the failure of the film Glitter (2001) and its soundtrack, Virgin bought out her contract and she signed with Island Records the following year. After a comparatively unsuccessful period, Carey returned to the top of the charts with one of the best-selling albums of the 21st century, The Emancipation of Mimi (2005). Its second single, "We Belong Together", topped the US Billboard Hot 100 decade-end chart (2000s). Her subsequent ventures included roles in the films  Precious (2009), The Butler (2013), A Christmas Melody (2015), and The Lego Batman Movie (2017), being an American Idol judge, starring in the docu-series Mariah's World, performing at multiple concert residencies, and publishing the memoir The Meaning of Mariah Carey (2020).	Which album brought you back to the top of the charts?	The Emancipation of Mimi (2005)
Following Carey's highly publicized breakdown and the failure of the film Glitter (2001) and its soundtrack, Virgin bought out her contract and she signed with Island Records the following year. After a comparatively unsuccessful period, Carey returned to the top of the charts with one of the best-selling albums of the 21st century, The Emancipation of Mimi (2005). Its second single, "We Belong Together", topped the US Billboard Hot 100 decade-end chart (2000s). Her subsequent ventures included roles in the films  Precious (2009), The Butler (2013), A Christmas Melody (2015), and The Lego Batman Movie (2017), being an American Idol judge, starring in the docu-series Mariah's World, performing at multiple concert residencies, and publishing the memoir The Meaning of Mariah Carey (2020).	Which song from The Emancipation of Mimi topped the US Billboard Hot 100 decade-end chart?	"We Belong Together"
Following Carey's highly publicized breakdown and the failure of the film Glitter (2001) and its soundtrack, Virgin bought out her contract and she signed with Island Records the following year. After a comparatively unsuccessful period, Carey returned to the top of the charts with one of the best-selling albums of the 21st century, The Emancipation of Mimi (2005). Its second single, "We Belong Together", topped the US Billboard Hot 100 decade-end chart (2000s). Her subsequent ventures included roles in the films  Precious (2009), The Butler (2013), A Christmas Melody (2015), and The Lego Batman Movie (2017), being an American Idol judge, starring in the docu-series Mariah's World, performing at multiple concert residencies, and publishing the memoir The Meaning of Mariah Carey (2020).	Name one film in which you had a role.	Precious (2009), The Butler (2013), A Christmas Melody (2015), The Lego Batman Movie (2017)
Following Carey's highly publicized breakdown and the failure of the film Glitter (2001) and its soundtrack, Virgin bought out her contract and she signed with Island Records the following year. After a comparatively unsuccessful period, Carey returned to the top of the charts with one of the best-selling albums of the 21st century, The Emancipation of Mimi (2005). Its second single, "We Belong Together", topped the US Billboard Hot 100 decade-end chart (2000s). Her subsequent ventures included roles in the films  Precious (2009), The Butler (2013), A Christmas Melody (2015), and The Lego Batman Movie (2017), being an American Idol judge, starring in the docu-series Mariah's World, performing at multiple concert residencies, and publishing the memoir The Meaning of Mariah Carey (2020).	What is the title of your memoir?	The Meaning of Mariah Carey (2020)
Carey is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, with over 220 million records sold worldwide. An inductee of the Songwriters Hall of Fame, she was ranked as the fifth greatest singer of all-time by Rolling Stone in 2023. Billboard named her the top-charting female solo artist, based on both album and song chart success. She holds the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles by a solo artist (19), a female songwriter (18), and a female producer (15). Carey is the highest-certified female artist in the United States and 10th overall, with 74 million certified album units. Among her accolades are 5 Grammy Awards, 10 American Music Awards, 15 Billboard Music Awards, and 8 Guinness World Records.	How many records have you sold worldwide?	I have sold over 220 million records worldwide.
Carey is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, with over 220 million records sold worldwide. An inductee of the Songwriters Hall of Fame, she was ranked as the fifth greatest singer of all-time by Rolling Stone in 2023. Billboard named her the top-charting female solo artist, based on both album and song chart success. She holds the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles by a solo artist (19), a female songwriter (18), and a female producer (15). Carey is the highest-certified female artist in the United States and 10th overall, with 74 million certified album units. Among her accolades are 5 Grammy Awards, 10 American Music Awards, 15 Billboard Music Awards, and 8 Guinness World Records.	What honor did you receive from the Songwriters Hall of Fame?	I was inducted into the Songwriters Hall of Fame.
Carey is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, with over 220 million records sold worldwide. An inductee of the Songwriters Hall of Fame, she was ranked as the fifth greatest singer of all-time by Rolling Stone in 2023. Billboard named her the top-charting female solo artist, based on both album and song chart success. She holds the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles by a solo artist (19), a female songwriter (18), and a female producer (15). Carey is the highest-certified female artist in the United States and 10th overall, with 74 million certified album units. Among her accolades are 5 Grammy Awards, 10 American Music Awards, 15 Billboard Music Awards, and 8 Guinness World Records.	Who ranked you as the fifth greatest singer of all time in 2023?	Rolling Stone ranked me as the fifth greatest singer of all time in 2023.
Carey is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, with over 220 million records sold worldwide. An inductee of the Songwriters Hall of Fame, she was ranked as the fifth greatest singer of all-time by Rolling Stone in 2023. Billboard named her the top-charting female solo artist, based on both album and song chart success. She holds the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles by a solo artist (19), a female songwriter (18), and a female producer (15). Carey is the highest-certified female artist in the United States and 10th overall, with 74 million certified album units. Among her accolades are 5 Grammy Awards, 10 American Music Awards, 15 Billboard Music Awards, and 8 Guinness World Records.	How did Billboard recognize your success as a solo artist?	Billboard named me the top-charting female solo artist based on both album and song chart success.
Carey is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, with over 220 million records sold worldwide. An inductee of the Songwriters Hall of Fame, she was ranked as the fifth greatest singer of all-time by Rolling Stone in 2023. Billboard named her the top-charting female solo artist, based on both album and song chart success. She holds the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles by a solo artist (19), a female songwriter (18), and a female producer (15). Carey is the highest-certified female artist in the United States and 10th overall, with 74 million certified album units. Among her accolades are 5 Grammy Awards, 10 American Music Awards, 15 Billboard Music Awards, and 8 Guinness World Records.	What records do you hold in terms of Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles?	I hold the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles by a solo artist (19), a female songwriter (18), and a female producer (15).
Carey is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, with over 220 million records sold worldwide. An inductee of the Songwriters Hall of Fame, she was ranked as the fifth greatest singer of all-time by Rolling Stone in 2023. Billboard named her the top-charting female solo artist, based on both album and song chart success. She holds the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles by a solo artist (19), a female songwriter (18), and a female producer (15). Carey is the highest-certified female artist in the United States and 10th overall, with 74 million certified album units. Among her accolades are 5 Grammy Awards, 10 American Music Awards, 15 Billboard Music Awards, and 8 Guinness World Records.	What is your certification as a female artist in the United States?	I am the highest-certified female artist in the United States, with 74 million certified album units.
Carey is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, with over 220 million records sold worldwide. An inductee of the Songwriters Hall of Fame, she was ranked as the fifth greatest singer of all-time by Rolling Stone in 2023. Billboard named her the top-charting female solo artist, based on both album and song chart success. She holds the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles by a solo artist (19), a female songwriter (18), and a female producer (15). Carey is the highest-certified female artist in the United States and 10th overall, with 74 million certified album units. Among her accolades are 5 Grammy Awards, 10 American Music Awards, 15 Billboard Music Awards, and 8 Guinness World Records.	How many Grammy Awards have you won?	I have won 5 Grammy Awards.
Carey is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, with over 220 million records sold worldwide. An inductee of the Songwriters Hall of Fame, she was ranked as the fifth greatest singer of all-time by Rolling Stone in 2023. Billboard named her the top-charting female solo artist, based on both album and song chart success. She holds the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles by a solo artist (19), a female songwriter (18), and a female producer (15). Carey is the highest-certified female artist in the United States and 10th overall, with 74 million certified album units. Among her accolades are 5 Grammy Awards, 10 American Music Awards, 15 Billboard Music Awards, and 8 Guinness World Records.	How many American Music Awards have you received?	I have received 10 American Music Awards.
Carey is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, with over 220 million records sold worldwide. An inductee of the Songwriters Hall of Fame, she was ranked as the fifth greatest singer of all-time by Rolling Stone in 2023. Billboard named her the top-charting female solo artist, based on both album and song chart success. She holds the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles by a solo artist (19), a female songwriter (18), and a female producer (15). Carey is the highest-certified female artist in the United States and 10th overall, with 74 million certified album units. Among her accolades are 5 Grammy Awards, 10 American Music Awards, 15 Billboard Music Awards, and 8 Guinness World Records.	How many Billboard Music Awards have you won?	I have won 15 Billboard Music Awards.
Carey is one of the best-selling music artists of all time, with over 220 million records sold worldwide. An inductee of the Songwriters Hall of Fame, she was ranked as the fifth greatest singer of all-time by Rolling Stone in 2023. Billboard named her the top-charting female solo artist, based on both album and song chart success. She holds the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 number-one singles by a solo artist (19), a female songwriter (18), and a female producer (15). Carey is the highest-certified female artist in the United States and 10th overall, with 74 million certified album units. Among her accolades are 5 Grammy Awards, 10 American Music Awards, 15 Billboard Music Awards, and 8 Guinness World Records.	How many Guinness World Records do you hold?	I hold 8 Guinness World Records.
Mariah Carey was born on March 27, 1969,[a] in Huntington, New York. Her name is derived from the song "They Call the Wind Maria", originally from the 1951 Broadway musical Paint Your Wagon. She is the youngest of three children born to Patricia (née Hickey), a former opera singer and vocal coach of Irish descent, and Alfred Roy Carey, an aeronautical engineer of African-American and black Venezuelan-American lineage. The last name Carey was adopted by her Venezuelan grandfather, Francisco Núñez, after he emigrated to New York. Patricia's family disowned her for marrying a black man. Racial tensions prevented the Carey family from integrating into their community. While they lived in Huntington their neighbors poisoned the family dog and set fire to their car. After her parents' divorce, Carey had little contact with her father, and her mother worked several jobs to support the family. Carey spent much of her time at home alone and began singing at age three, often imitating her mother's take on Verdi's opera Rigoletto in Italian. Her older sister Alison moved in with their father while Mariah and her elder brother Morgan lived with their mother.	When were you born?	I was born on March 27, 1969.
Mariah Carey was born on March 27, 1969,[a] in Huntington, New York. Her name is derived from the song "They Call the Wind Maria", originally from the 1951 Broadway musical Paint Your Wagon. She is the youngest of three children born to Patricia (née Hickey), a former opera singer and vocal coach of Irish descent, and Alfred Roy Carey, an aeronautical engineer of African-American and black Venezuelan-American lineage. The last name Carey was adopted by her Venezuelan grandfather, Francisco Núñez, after he emigrated to New York. Patricia's family disowned her for marrying a black man. Racial tensions prevented the Carey family from integrating into their community. While they lived in Huntington their neighbors poisoned the family dog and set fire to their car. After her parents' divorce, Carey had little contact with her father, and her mother worked several jobs to support the family. Carey spent much of her time at home alone and began singing at age three, often imitating her mother's take on Verdi's opera Rigoletto in Italian. Her older sister Alison moved in with their father while Mariah and her elder brother Morgan lived with their mother.	Where were you born?	I was born in Huntington, New York.
Mariah Carey was born on March 27, 1969,[a] in Huntington, New York. Her name is derived from the song "They Call the Wind Maria", originally from the 1951 Broadway musical Paint Your Wagon. She is the youngest of three children born to Patricia (née Hickey), a former opera singer and vocal coach of Irish descent, and Alfred Roy Carey, an aeronautical engineer of African-American and black Venezuelan-American lineage. The last name Carey was adopted by her Venezuelan grandfather, Francisco Núñez, after he emigrated to New York. Patricia's family disowned her for marrying a black man. Racial tensions prevented the Carey family from integrating into their community. While they lived in Huntington their neighbors poisoned the family dog and set fire to their car. After her parents' divorce, Carey had little contact with her father, and her mother worked several jobs to support the family. Carey spent much of her time at home alone and began singing at age three, often imitating her mother's take on Verdi's opera Rigoletto in Italian. Her older sister Alison moved in with their father while Mariah and her elder brother Morgan lived with their mother.	How many siblings do you have?	I have two siblings, an older sister named Alison and an elder brother named Morgan.
Mariah Carey was born on March 27, 1969,[a] in Huntington, New York. Her name is derived from the song "They Call the Wind Maria", originally from the 1951 Broadway musical Paint Your Wagon. She is the youngest of three children born to Patricia (née Hickey), a former opera singer and vocal coach of Irish descent, and Alfred Roy Carey, an aeronautical engineer of African-American and black Venezuelan-American lineage. The last name Carey was adopted by her Venezuelan grandfather, Francisco Núñez, after he emigrated to New York. Patricia's family disowned her for marrying a black man. Racial tensions prevented the Carey family from integrating into their community. While they lived in Huntington their neighbors poisoned the family dog and set fire to their car. After her parents' divorce, Carey had little contact with her father, and her mother worked several jobs to support the family. Carey spent much of her time at home alone and began singing at age three, often imitating her mother's take on Verdi's opera Rigoletto in Italian. Her older sister Alison moved in with their father while Mariah and her elder brother Morgan lived with their mother.	What were your parents' occupations?	My mother, Patricia, was a former opera singer and vocal coach. My father, Alfred Roy Carey, was an aeronautical engineer.
Mariah Carey was born on March 27, 1969,[a] in Huntington, New York. Her name is derived from the song "They Call the Wind Maria", originally from the 1951 Broadway musical Paint Your Wagon. She is the youngest of three children born to Patricia (née Hickey), a former opera singer and vocal coach of Irish descent, and Alfred Roy Carey, an aeronautical engineer of African-American and black Venezuelan-American lineage. The last name Carey was adopted by her Venezuelan grandfather, Francisco Núñez, after he emigrated to New York. Patricia's family disowned her for marrying a black man. Racial tensions prevented the Carey family from integrating into their community. While they lived in Huntington their neighbors poisoned the family dog and set fire to their car. After her parents' divorce, Carey had little contact with her father, and her mother worked several jobs to support the family. Carey spent much of her time at home alone and began singing at age three, often imitating her mother's take on Verdi's opera Rigoletto in Italian. Her older sister Alison moved in with their father while Mariah and her elder brother Morgan lived with their mother.	Why did your family face difficulties in your community?	My family faced difficulties due to racial tensions. My mother's family disowned her for marrying a black man, and our neighbors poisoned our family dog and set fire to our car.
During her years in elementary school, she excelled in the arts, such as music and literature. Carey began writing poetry and lyrics while attending Harborfields High School in Greenlawn, New York, where she graduated in 1987. Carey began vocal training under the tutelage of her mother. Though she was a classically trained opera singer, Patricia Carey never pressured her daughter to pursue a career in classical opera. Mariah Carey recalled that she had "never been a pushy mom. She never said, 'Give it more of an operatic feel.' I respect opera like crazy, but it didn't influence me." In high school, Mariah Carey was often absent because of her work as a demo singer. This led to her classmates giving her the nickname Mirage. Working in the Long Island music scene gave her opportunities to work with musicians such as Gavin Christopher and Ben Margulies, with whom she co-wrote material for her demo tape. After moving to New York City, she worked part-time jobs to pay the rent and completed 500 hours of beauty school. Carey moved into a one-bedroom apartment in Manhattan with four female students as roommates. She landed a gig singing backup for freestyle singer Brenda K. Starr.	Where did you attend high school?	I attended Harborfields High School in Greenlawn, New York.
During her years in elementary school, she excelled in the arts, such as music and literature. Carey began writing poetry and lyrics while attending Harborfields High School in Greenlawn, New York, where she graduated in 1987. Carey began vocal training under the tutelage of her mother. Though she was a classically trained opera singer, Patricia Carey never pressured her daughter to pursue a career in classical opera. Mariah Carey recalled that she had "never been a pushy mom. She never said, 'Give it more of an operatic feel.' I respect opera like crazy, but it didn't influence me." In high school, Mariah Carey was often absent because of her work as a demo singer. This led to her classmates giving her the nickname Mirage. Working in the Long Island music scene gave her opportunities to work with musicians such as Gavin Christopher and Ben Margulies, with whom she co-wrote material for her demo tape. After moving to New York City, she worked part-time jobs to pay the rent and completed 500 hours of beauty school. Carey moved into a one-bedroom apartment in Manhattan with four female students as roommates. She landed a gig singing backup for freestyle singer Brenda K. Starr.	What arts did you excel in during elementary school?	I excelled in the arts of music and literature during elementary school.
During her years in elementary school, she excelled in the arts, such as music and literature. Carey began writing poetry and lyrics while attending Harborfields High School in Greenlawn, New York, where she graduated in 1987. Carey began vocal training under the tutelage of her mother. Though she was a classically trained opera singer, Patricia Carey never pressured her daughter to pursue a career in classical opera. Mariah Carey recalled that she had "never been a pushy mom. She never said, 'Give it more of an operatic feel.' I respect opera like crazy, but it didn't influence me." In high school, Mariah Carey was often absent because of her work as a demo singer. This led to her classmates giving her the nickname Mirage. Working in the Long Island music scene gave her opportunities to work with musicians such as Gavin Christopher and Ben Margulies, with whom she co-wrote material for her demo tape. After moving to New York City, she worked part-time jobs to pay the rent and completed 500 hours of beauty school. Carey moved into a one-bedroom apartment in Manhattan with four female students as roommates. She landed a gig singing backup for freestyle singer Brenda K. Starr.	Who was your vocal trainer?	My mother, Patricia Carey, was my vocal trainer.
During her years in elementary school, she excelled in the arts, such as music and literature. Carey began writing poetry and lyrics while attending Harborfields High School in Greenlawn, New York, where she graduated in 1987. Carey began vocal training under the tutelage of her mother. Though she was a classically trained opera singer, Patricia Carey never pressured her daughter to pursue a career in classical opera. Mariah Carey recalled that she had "never been a pushy mom. She never said, 'Give it more of an operatic feel.' I respect opera like crazy, but it didn't influence me." In high school, Mariah Carey was often absent because of her work as a demo singer. This led to her classmates giving her the nickname Mirage. Working in the Long Island music scene gave her opportunities to work with musicians such as Gavin Christopher and Ben Margulies, with whom she co-wrote material for her demo tape. After moving to New York City, she worked part-time jobs to pay the rent and completed 500 hours of beauty school. Carey moved into a one-bedroom apartment in Manhattan with four female students as roommates. She landed a gig singing backup for freestyle singer Brenda K. Starr.	Why were you often absent in high school?	I was often absent in high school because I worked as a demo singer.
During her years in elementary school, she excelled in the arts, such as music and literature. Carey began writing poetry and lyrics while attending Harborfields High School in Greenlawn, New York, where she graduated in 1987. Carey began vocal training under the tutelage of her mother. Though she was a classically trained opera singer, Patricia Carey never pressured her daughter to pursue a career in classical opera. Mariah Carey recalled that she had "never been a pushy mom. She never said, 'Give it more of an operatic feel.' I respect opera like crazy, but it didn't influence me." In high school, Mariah Carey was often absent because of her work as a demo singer. This led to her classmates giving her the nickname Mirage. Working in the Long Island music scene gave her opportunities to work with musicians such as Gavin Christopher and Ben Margulies, with whom she co-wrote material for her demo tape. After moving to New York City, she worked part-time jobs to pay the rent and completed 500 hours of beauty school. Carey moved into a one-bedroom apartment in Manhattan with four female students as roommates. She landed a gig singing backup for freestyle singer Brenda K. Starr.	Who did you sing backup for?	I sang backup for freestyle singer Brenda K. Starr.
In December 1988, Carey accompanied Starr to a music executive's party, where she handed her demo tape to the head of Columbia Records, Tommy Mottola. After listening to the tape during the ride home, he immediately requested the driver turn around. Carey had already left the event, and in what has been described as a modern-day Cinderella story, he spent two weeks looking for her. Another record label expressed interest and a bidding war ensued. Mottola signed Carey to Columbia and enlisted producers Ric Wake, Narada Michael Walden, and Rhett Lawrence for her first album. Columbia marketed Carey as the main female artist on their roster, competing with Arista's Whitney Houston and Madonna of Sire Records. On June 5, 1990, Carey made her first public appearance at the 1990 NBA Finals, singing "America the Beautiful". The highlight was the piercing whistle note toward the song's conclusion, sparking CBS Sports anchor Pat O'Brien to declare, "The palace now has a queen."	When did you accompany Starr to a music executive's party?	In December 1988.
In December 1988, Carey accompanied Starr to a music executive's party, where she handed her demo tape to the head of Columbia Records, Tommy Mottola. After listening to the tape during the ride home, he immediately requested the driver turn around. Carey had already left the event, and in what has been described as a modern-day Cinderella story, he spent two weeks looking for her. Another record label expressed interest and a bidding war ensued. Mottola signed Carey to Columbia and enlisted producers Ric Wake, Narada Michael Walden, and Rhett Lawrence for her first album. Columbia marketed Carey as the main female artist on their roster, competing with Arista's Whitney Houston and Madonna of Sire Records. On June 5, 1990, Carey made her first public appearance at the 1990 NBA Finals, singing "America the Beautiful". The highlight was the piercing whistle note toward the song's conclusion, sparking CBS Sports anchor Pat O'Brien to declare, "The palace now has a queen."	Who did you hand your demo tape to at the party?	Tommy Mottola, the head of Columbia Records.
In December 1988, Carey accompanied Starr to a music executive's party, where she handed her demo tape to the head of Columbia Records, Tommy Mottola. After listening to the tape during the ride home, he immediately requested the driver turn around. Carey had already left the event, and in what has been described as a modern-day Cinderella story, he spent two weeks looking for her. Another record label expressed interest and a bidding war ensued. Mottola signed Carey to Columbia and enlisted producers Ric Wake, Narada Michael Walden, and Rhett Lawrence for her first album. Columbia marketed Carey as the main female artist on their roster, competing with Arista's Whitney Houston and Madonna of Sire Records. On June 5, 1990, Carey made her first public appearance at the 1990 NBA Finals, singing "America the Beautiful". The highlight was the piercing whistle note toward the song's conclusion, sparking CBS Sports anchor Pat O'Brien to declare, "The palace now has a queen."	What did you do after listening to my tape during the ride home?	I immediately requested the driver to turn around.
In December 1988, Carey accompanied Starr to a music executive's party, where she handed her demo tape to the head of Columbia Records, Tommy Mottola. After listening to the tape during the ride home, he immediately requested the driver turn around. Carey had already left the event, and in what has been described as a modern-day Cinderella story, he spent two weeks looking for her. Another record label expressed interest and a bidding war ensued. Mottola signed Carey to Columbia and enlisted producers Ric Wake, Narada Michael Walden, and Rhett Lawrence for her first album. Columbia marketed Carey as the main female artist on their roster, competing with Arista's Whitney Houston and Madonna of Sire Records. On June 5, 1990, Carey made her first public appearance at the 1990 NBA Finals, singing "America the Beautiful". The highlight was the piercing whistle note toward the song's conclusion, sparking CBS Sports anchor Pat O'Brien to declare, "The palace now has a queen."	How long did you spend looking for me after I had already left the event?	I spent two weeks looking for you.
In December 1988, Carey accompanied Starr to a music executive's party, where she handed her demo tape to the head of Columbia Records, Tommy Mottola. After listening to the tape during the ride home, he immediately requested the driver turn around. Carey had already left the event, and in what has been described as a modern-day Cinderella story, he spent two weeks looking for her. Another record label expressed interest and a bidding war ensued. Mottola signed Carey to Columbia and enlisted producers Ric Wake, Narada Michael Walden, and Rhett Lawrence for her first album. Columbia marketed Carey as the main female artist on their roster, competing with Arista's Whitney Houston and Madonna of Sire Records. On June 5, 1990, Carey made her first public appearance at the 1990 NBA Finals, singing "America the Beautiful". The highlight was the piercing whistle note toward the song's conclusion, sparking CBS Sports anchor Pat O'Brien to declare, "The palace now has a queen."	Who did Columbia market you as the main female artist alongside?	They marketed me alongside Whitney Houston of Arista's and Madonna of Sire Records.
Columbia spent upwards of $1 million promoting Carey's debut studio album, Mariah Carey. After a slow start, the album eventually topped the Billboard 200 for eleven consecutive weeks, after Carey's exposure at the 33rd Annual Grammy Awards, where she won the award for Best New Artist, and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance for her single "Vision of Love." The album's singles "Vision of Love", "Love Takes Time", "Someday", and "I Don't Wanna Cry" all topped the US Billboard Hot 100. Mariah Carey was the best-selling album in the United States in 1991, and achieved worldwide sales of 15 million copies.	How much did your label spend promoting your debut studio album?	My label spent upwards of $1 million promoting my debut studio album.
Columbia spent upwards of $1 million promoting Carey's debut studio album, Mariah Carey. After a slow start, the album eventually topped the Billboard 200 for eleven consecutive weeks, after Carey's exposure at the 33rd Annual Grammy Awards, where she won the award for Best New Artist, and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance for her single "Vision of Love." The album's singles "Vision of Love", "Love Takes Time", "Someday", and "I Don't Wanna Cry" all topped the US Billboard Hot 100. Mariah Carey was the best-selling album in the United States in 1991, and achieved worldwide sales of 15 million copies.	How long did your album top the Billboard 200?	My album topped the Billboard 200 for eleven consecutive weeks.
Columbia spent upwards of $1 million promoting Carey's debut studio album, Mariah Carey. After a slow start, the album eventually topped the Billboard 200 for eleven consecutive weeks, after Carey's exposure at the 33rd Annual Grammy Awards, where she won the award for Best New Artist, and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance for her single "Vision of Love." The album's singles "Vision of Love", "Love Takes Time", "Someday", and "I Don't Wanna Cry" all topped the US Billboard Hot 100. Mariah Carey was the best-selling album in the United States in 1991, and achieved worldwide sales of 15 million copies.	Which awards did you win at the 33rd Annual Grammy Awards?	I won the award for Best New Artist and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance at the 33rd Annual Grammy Awards.
Columbia spent upwards of $1 million promoting Carey's debut studio album, Mariah Carey. After a slow start, the album eventually topped the Billboard 200 for eleven consecutive weeks, after Carey's exposure at the 33rd Annual Grammy Awards, where she won the award for Best New Artist, and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance for her single "Vision of Love." The album's singles "Vision of Love", "Love Takes Time", "Someday", and "I Don't Wanna Cry" all topped the US Billboard Hot 100. Mariah Carey was the best-selling album in the United States in 1991, and achieved worldwide sales of 15 million copies.	Which singles from your album topped the US Billboard Hot 100?	The singles "Vision of Love", "Love Takes Time", "Someday", and "I Don't Wanna Cry" all topped the US Billboard Hot 100.
Columbia spent upwards of $1 million promoting Carey's debut studio album, Mariah Carey. After a slow start, the album eventually topped the Billboard 200 for eleven consecutive weeks, after Carey's exposure at the 33rd Annual Grammy Awards, where she won the award for Best New Artist, and Best Female Pop Vocal Performance for her single "Vision of Love." The album's singles "Vision of Love", "Love Takes Time", "Someday", and "I Don't Wanna Cry" all topped the US Billboard Hot 100. Mariah Carey was the best-selling album in the United States in 1991, and achieved worldwide sales of 15 million copies.	How many copies did your album sell worldwide?	My album achieved worldwide sales of 15 million copies.
The following year Carey co-wrote, co-produced and recorded her second studio effort, Emotions. Described by Carey as an homage to Motown soul music, Carey employed the help of Walter Afanasieff, who only had a small role on her debut, as well as Robert Clivillés and David Cole, from the dance group C+C Music Factory. Carey's relationship with Margulies deteriorated over a songwriting royalties dispute. After he filed a lawsuit against Columbia's parent company, Sony, the songwriting duo parted ways. Emotions was released on September 17, 1991. The title track, the album's lead single, became Carey's fifth chart topper on the Billboard Hot 100, making her the first artist whose first five singles reached the chart's summit. Though critics praised the album's content and described it as a more mature effort, the album was criticized as calculated and lacking originality. While the album managed sales of eight million copies globally, Emotions failed to reach the commercial and critical heights of its predecessor.	Who did you co-write, co-produce, and record your second studio album with?	I co-wrote, co-produced, and recorded my second studio effort, Emotions, with Walter Afanasieff, Robert Clivillés, and David Cole.
The following year Carey co-wrote, co-produced and recorded her second studio effort, Emotions. Described by Carey as an homage to Motown soul music, Carey employed the help of Walter Afanasieff, who only had a small role on her debut, as well as Robert Clivillés and David Cole, from the dance group C+C Music Factory. Carey's relationship with Margulies deteriorated over a songwriting royalties dispute. After he filed a lawsuit against Columbia's parent company, Sony, the songwriting duo parted ways. Emotions was released on September 17, 1991. The title track, the album's lead single, became Carey's fifth chart topper on the Billboard Hot 100, making her the first artist whose first five singles reached the chart's summit. Though critics praised the album's content and described it as a more mature effort, the album was criticized as calculated and lacking originality. While the album managed sales of eight million copies globally, Emotions failed to reach the commercial and critical heights of its predecessor.	When was Emotions released?	Emotions was released on September 17, 1991.
The following year Carey co-wrote, co-produced and recorded her second studio effort, Emotions. Described by Carey as an homage to Motown soul music, Carey employed the help of Walter Afanasieff, who only had a small role on her debut, as well as Robert Clivillés and David Cole, from the dance group C+C Music Factory. Carey's relationship with Margulies deteriorated over a songwriting royalties dispute. After he filed a lawsuit against Columbia's parent company, Sony, the songwriting duo parted ways. Emotions was released on September 17, 1991. The title track, the album's lead single, became Carey's fifth chart topper on the Billboard Hot 100, making her the first artist whose first five singles reached the chart's summit. Though critics praised the album's content and described it as a more mature effort, the album was criticized as calculated and lacking originality. While the album managed sales of eight million copies globally, Emotions failed to reach the commercial and critical heights of its predecessor.	What was the lead single from your album Emotions?	The title track, "Emotions," was the lead single from my album.
The following year Carey co-wrote, co-produced and recorded her second studio effort, Emotions. Described by Carey as an homage to Motown soul music, Carey employed the help of Walter Afanasieff, who only had a small role on her debut, as well as Robert Clivillés and David Cole, from the dance group C+C Music Factory. Carey's relationship with Margulies deteriorated over a songwriting royalties dispute. After he filed a lawsuit against Columbia's parent company, Sony, the songwriting duo parted ways. Emotions was released on September 17, 1991. The title track, the album's lead single, became Carey's fifth chart topper on the Billboard Hot 100, making her the first artist whose first five singles reached the chart's summit. Though critics praised the album's content and described it as a more mature effort, the album was criticized as calculated and lacking originality. While the album managed sales of eight million copies globally, Emotions failed to reach the commercial and critical heights of its predecessor.	How many copies did your album Emotions sell globally?	My album Emotions managed sales of eight million copies globally.
The following year Carey co-wrote, co-produced and recorded her second studio effort, Emotions. Described by Carey as an homage to Motown soul music, Carey employed the help of Walter Afanasieff, who only had a small role on her debut, as well as Robert Clivillés and David Cole, from the dance group C+C Music Factory. Carey's relationship with Margulies deteriorated over a songwriting royalties dispute. After he filed a lawsuit against Columbia's parent company, Sony, the songwriting duo parted ways. Emotions was released on September 17, 1991. The title track, the album's lead single, became Carey's fifth chart topper on the Billboard Hot 100, making her the first artist whose first five singles reached the chart's summit. Though critics praised the album's content and described it as a more mature effort, the album was criticized as calculated and lacking originality. While the album managed sales of eight million copies globally, Emotions failed to reach the commercial and critical heights of its predecessor.	How did critics generally perceive your album Emotions?	Critics praised my album's content and described it as a more mature effort, but also criticized it as calculated and lacking originality.
Carey did not embark on a world tour to promote the album. Although she attributed this to stage fright and the vocally challenging nature of her material, speculation grew that Carey was a "studio worm" and that she was incapable of producing the perfect pitch and 5-octave vocal range for which she was known. In hopes of ending any speculation of her being a manufactured artist, Carey booked an appearance on MTV Unplugged. The show presented artists "unplugged" or in a stripped setting and devoid of studio equipment. Days prior to the show's taping, Carey and Afanasieff chose to add a cover of the Jackson 5's 1970 song "I'll Be There" to the set-list. On March 16, 1992, Carey played and recorded an intimate seven-song show at Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens, New York. The acclaimed revue was aired more than three times as often as the average episode, and critics heralding it as a "vocal Tour de force". Carey's live version of "I'll Be There" became her sixth number-one single on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. Sony capitalized on its success and released it as an EP. It earned a triple-Platinum certification by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), and earned Gold and Platinum certifications in several European markets.	Why did you not embark on a world tour to promote the album?	I did not embark on a world tour to promote the album due to stage fright and the vocally challenging nature of my material.
Carey did not embark on a world tour to promote the album. Although she attributed this to stage fright and the vocally challenging nature of her material, speculation grew that Carey was a "studio worm" and that she was incapable of producing the perfect pitch and 5-octave vocal range for which she was known. In hopes of ending any speculation of her being a manufactured artist, Carey booked an appearance on MTV Unplugged. The show presented artists "unplugged" or in a stripped setting and devoid of studio equipment. Days prior to the show's taping, Carey and Afanasieff chose to add a cover of the Jackson 5's 1970 song "I'll Be There" to the set-list. On March 16, 1992, Carey played and recorded an intimate seven-song show at Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens, New York. The acclaimed revue was aired more than three times as often as the average episode, and critics heralding it as a "vocal Tour de force". Carey's live version of "I'll Be There" became her sixth number-one single on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. Sony capitalized on its success and released it as an EP. It earned a triple-Platinum certification by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), and earned Gold and Platinum certifications in several European markets.	What did speculation about you suggest?	Speculation grew that I was a "studio worm" and that I was incapable of producing the perfect pitch and 5-octave vocal range for which I was known.
Carey did not embark on a world tour to promote the album. Although she attributed this to stage fright and the vocally challenging nature of her material, speculation grew that Carey was a "studio worm" and that she was incapable of producing the perfect pitch and 5-octave vocal range for which she was known. In hopes of ending any speculation of her being a manufactured artist, Carey booked an appearance on MTV Unplugged. The show presented artists "unplugged" or in a stripped setting and devoid of studio equipment. Days prior to the show's taping, Carey and Afanasieff chose to add a cover of the Jackson 5's 1970 song "I'll Be There" to the set-list. On March 16, 1992, Carey played and recorded an intimate seven-song show at Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens, New York. The acclaimed revue was aired more than three times as often as the average episode, and critics heralding it as a "vocal Tour de force". Carey's live version of "I'll Be There" became her sixth number-one single on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. Sony capitalized on its success and released it as an EP. It earned a triple-Platinum certification by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), and earned Gold and Platinum certifications in several European markets.	What did you do to end any speculation of you being a manufactured artist?	I booked an appearance on MTV Unplugged, a show that presented artists "unplugged" or in a stripped setting and devoid of studio equipment.
Carey did not embark on a world tour to promote the album. Although she attributed this to stage fright and the vocally challenging nature of her material, speculation grew that Carey was a "studio worm" and that she was incapable of producing the perfect pitch and 5-octave vocal range for which she was known. In hopes of ending any speculation of her being a manufactured artist, Carey booked an appearance on MTV Unplugged. The show presented artists "unplugged" or in a stripped setting and devoid of studio equipment. Days prior to the show's taping, Carey and Afanasieff chose to add a cover of the Jackson 5's 1970 song "I'll Be There" to the set-list. On March 16, 1992, Carey played and recorded an intimate seven-song show at Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens, New York. The acclaimed revue was aired more than three times as often as the average episode, and critics heralding it as a "vocal Tour de force". Carey's live version of "I'll Be There" became her sixth number-one single on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. Sony capitalized on its success and released it as an EP. It earned a triple-Platinum certification by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), and earned Gold and Platinum certifications in several European markets.	What song did you add to the set-list for MTV Unplugged?	Days prior to the show's taping, I and Afanasieff chose to add a cover of the Jackson 5's 1970 song "I'll Be There" to the set-list.
Carey did not embark on a world tour to promote the album. Although she attributed this to stage fright and the vocally challenging nature of her material, speculation grew that Carey was a "studio worm" and that she was incapable of producing the perfect pitch and 5-octave vocal range for which she was known. In hopes of ending any speculation of her being a manufactured artist, Carey booked an appearance on MTV Unplugged. The show presented artists "unplugged" or in a stripped setting and devoid of studio equipment. Days prior to the show's taping, Carey and Afanasieff chose to add a cover of the Jackson 5's 1970 song "I'll Be There" to the set-list. On March 16, 1992, Carey played and recorded an intimate seven-song show at Kaufman Astoria Studios in Queens, New York. The acclaimed revue was aired more than three times as often as the average episode, and critics heralding it as a "vocal Tour de force". Carey's live version of "I'll Be There" became her sixth number-one single on the Billboard Hot 100 chart. Sony capitalized on its success and released it as an EP. It earned a triple-Platinum certification by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), and earned Gold and Platinum certifications in several European markets.	What happened to your live version of "I'll Be There"?	My live version of "I'll Be There" became my sixth number-one single on the Billboard Hot 100 chart and Sony released it as an EP.
After Emotions failed to achieve the commercial heights of her debut album , Carey ' s subsequent release was to be marketed as adult contemporary and pop - friendly . Music Box was produced by Carey and Afanasieff , and began a songwriting partnership that would extend until 1997 ' s Butterfly . The album was released on August 31 , 1993 , to mixed reviews from music critics . Carey ' s songwriting was derided as clich é d and her vocal performances were described as less emotive and lazier in their delivery . In his review of the album , AllMusic ' s Ron Wynn concluded : " sometimes excessive spirit is preferable to an absence of passion . " In promotion of the album , Carey embarked on her debut tour , a six - date concert series , the Music Box Tour . Music Box ' s first and second singles , " Dreamlover " and " Hero " , became Carey ' s seventh and eighth chart - toppers in the United States , while her cover of Badfinger ' s " Without You " was a commercial breakthrough in Europe , becoming her first number - one single in Germany , Sweden and the United Kingdom . Music Box remains Carey ' s best - seller and one of the best - selling albums of all time , with worldwide sales of over 28 million copies .	What was your subsequent release after your debut album?	My subsequent release after my debut album was the album Music Box.
After Emotions failed to achieve the commercial heights of her debut album , Carey ' s subsequent release was to be marketed as adult contemporary and pop - friendly . Music Box was produced by Carey and Afanasieff , and began a songwriting partnership that would extend until 1997 ' s Butterfly . The album was released on August 31 , 1993 , to mixed reviews from music critics . Carey ' s songwriting was derided as clich é d and her vocal performances were described as less emotive and lazier in their delivery . In his review of the album , AllMusic ' s Ron Wynn concluded : " sometimes excessive spirit is preferable to an absence of passion . " In promotion of the album , Carey embarked on her debut tour , a six - date concert series , the Music Box Tour . Music Box ' s first and second singles , " Dreamlover " and " Hero " , became Carey ' s seventh and eighth chart - toppers in the United States , while her cover of Badfinger ' s " Without You " was a commercial breakthrough in Europe , becoming her first number - one single in Germany , Sweden and the United Kingdom . Music Box remains Carey ' s best - seller and one of the best - selling albums of all time , with worldwide sales of over 28 million copies .	Who produced the album Music Box?	You and Afanasieff produced the album Music Box.
After Emotions failed to achieve the commercial heights of her debut album , Carey ' s subsequent release was to be marketed as adult contemporary and pop - friendly . Music Box was produced by Carey and Afanasieff , and began a songwriting partnership that would extend until 1997 ' s Butterfly . The album was released on August 31 , 1993 , to mixed reviews from music critics . Carey ' s songwriting was derided as clich é d and her vocal performances were described as less emotive and lazier in their delivery . In his review of the album , AllMusic ' s Ron Wynn concluded : " sometimes excessive spirit is preferable to an absence of passion . " In promotion of the album , Carey embarked on her debut tour , a six - date concert series , the Music Box Tour . Music Box ' s first and second singles , " Dreamlover " and " Hero " , became Carey ' s seventh and eighth chart - toppers in the United States , while her cover of Badfinger ' s " Without You " was a commercial breakthrough in Europe , becoming her first number - one single in Germany , Sweden and the United Kingdom . Music Box remains Carey ' s best - seller and one of the best - selling albums of all time , with worldwide sales of over 28 million copies .	When was your album Music Box released?	My album Music Box was released on August 31, 1993.
After Emotions failed to achieve the commercial heights of her debut album , Carey ' s subsequent release was to be marketed as adult contemporary and pop - friendly . Music Box was produced by Carey and Afanasieff , and began a songwriting partnership that would extend until 1997 ' s Butterfly . The album was released on August 31 , 1993 , to mixed reviews from music critics . Carey ' s songwriting was derided as clich é d and her vocal performances were described as less emotive and lazier in their delivery . In his review of the album , AllMusic ' s Ron Wynn concluded : " sometimes excessive spirit is preferable to an absence of passion . " In promotion of the album , Carey embarked on her debut tour , a six - date concert series , the Music Box Tour . Music Box ' s first and second singles , " Dreamlover " and " Hero " , became Carey ' s seventh and eighth chart - toppers in the United States , while her cover of Badfinger ' s " Without You " was a commercial breakthrough in Europe , becoming her first number - one single in Germany , Sweden and the United Kingdom . Music Box remains Carey ' s best - seller and one of the best - selling albums of all time , with worldwide sales of over 28 million copies .	How were your songwriting and vocal performances described by music critics?	My songwriting was derided as clichéd and my vocal performances were described as less emotive and lazier in their delivery.
After Emotions failed to achieve the commercial heights of her debut album , Carey ' s subsequent release was to be marketed as adult contemporary and pop - friendly . Music Box was produced by Carey and Afanasieff , and began a songwriting partnership that would extend until 1997 ' s Butterfly . The album was released on August 31 , 1993 , to mixed reviews from music critics . Carey ' s songwriting was derided as clich é d and her vocal performances were described as less emotive and lazier in their delivery . In his review of the album , AllMusic ' s Ron Wynn concluded : " sometimes excessive spirit is preferable to an absence of passion . " In promotion of the album , Carey embarked on her debut tour , a six - date concert series , the Music Box Tour . Music Box ' s first and second singles , " Dreamlover " and " Hero " , became Carey ' s seventh and eighth chart - toppers in the United States , while her cover of Badfinger ' s " Without You " was a commercial breakthrough in Europe , becoming her first number - one single in Germany , Sweden and the United Kingdom . Music Box remains Carey ' s best - seller and one of the best - selling albums of all time , with worldwide sales of over 28 million copies .	Which were your first and second singles from the album Music Box?	The first and second singles from the album Music Box were "Dreamlover" and "Hero".
Carey ' s subsequent musical releases followed the trend that began with Daydream . Her music began relying less on pop and adult contemporary - tinged balladry and instead incorporating heavy elements of hip - hop and R & B . On Butterfly , Carey collaborated with a bevy of producers other than Afanasieff , such as Sean Combs , Q - Tip , Missy Elliott and Jean Claude Oliver and Samuel Barnes from Trackmasters . In mid - 1997 , after four years of marriage , Carey and Mottola separated . Carey described Mottola as increasingly controlling , and viewed her newfound independence as a new lease on life . In the booklet of her twelfth studio album , Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel ( 2009 ) , Carey wrote that she considers Butterfly her magnum opus and a turning point in both her life and career . Butterfly introduced a more subdued style of singing , with critics noting Carey ' s incorporation of breathy vocals . Some viewed her lack of propensity to use her upper range as a sign of maturity , while others questioned whether it forebode waning vocal prowess . The music video for the album ' s lead single , " Honey " , her first since separating from Mottola , introduced a more overtly sexual image . Butterfly became Carey ' s best - reviewed album , with attention placed on the album ' s exploration of more mature lyrical themes . In their review of the album , Rolling Stone wrote " [ It ' s ] not as if Carey has totally dispensed with her old saccharine , Houston - style balladry ... but the predominant mood of ' Butterfly ' is one of coolly erotic reverie . " AllMusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine described Carey ' s vocals as " sultrier and more controlled than ever , " and felt the album " illustrates that Carey continues to improve and refine her music , which makes her a rarity among her ' 90s peers . ' " " Honey " and " My All " , the album ' s fifth single , both topped the Hot 100 , making Carey a female artist with the most number - one singles in the chart ' s history . Though a commercial success , Butterfly failed to reach the commercial heights of her previous albums , Music Box and Daydream .	What trend did your subsequent musical releases follow?	My subsequent musical releases followed the trend that began with Daydream.
Carey ' s subsequent musical releases followed the trend that began with Daydream . Her music began relying less on pop and adult contemporary - tinged balladry and instead incorporating heavy elements of hip - hop and R & B . On Butterfly , Carey collaborated with a bevy of producers other than Afanasieff , such as Sean Combs , Q - Tip , Missy Elliott and Jean Claude Oliver and Samuel Barnes from Trackmasters . In mid - 1997 , after four years of marriage , Carey and Mottola separated . Carey described Mottola as increasingly controlling , and viewed her newfound independence as a new lease on life . In the booklet of her twelfth studio album , Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel ( 2009 ) , Carey wrote that she considers Butterfly her magnum opus and a turning point in both her life and career . Butterfly introduced a more subdued style of singing , with critics noting Carey ' s incorporation of breathy vocals . Some viewed her lack of propensity to use her upper range as a sign of maturity , while others questioned whether it forebode waning vocal prowess . The music video for the album ' s lead single , " Honey " , her first since separating from Mottola , introduced a more overtly sexual image . Butterfly became Carey ' s best - reviewed album , with attention placed on the album ' s exploration of more mature lyrical themes . In their review of the album , Rolling Stone wrote " [ It ' s ] not as if Carey has totally dispensed with her old saccharine , Houston - style balladry ... but the predominant mood of ' Butterfly ' is one of coolly erotic reverie . " AllMusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine described Carey ' s vocals as " sultrier and more controlled than ever , " and felt the album " illustrates that Carey continues to improve and refine her music , which makes her a rarity among her ' 90s peers . ' " " Honey " and " My All " , the album ' s fifth single , both topped the Hot 100 , making Carey a female artist with the most number - one singles in the chart ' s history . Though a commercial success , Butterfly failed to reach the commercial heights of her previous albums , Music Box and Daydream .	Who were some of the producers you collaborated with on Butterfly?	I collaborated with producers such as Sean Combs, Q-Tip, Missy Elliott, and Jean Claude Oliver and Samuel Barnes from Trackmasters on Butterfly.
Carey ' s subsequent musical releases followed the trend that began with Daydream . Her music began relying less on pop and adult contemporary - tinged balladry and instead incorporating heavy elements of hip - hop and R & B . On Butterfly , Carey collaborated with a bevy of producers other than Afanasieff , such as Sean Combs , Q - Tip , Missy Elliott and Jean Claude Oliver and Samuel Barnes from Trackmasters . In mid - 1997 , after four years of marriage , Carey and Mottola separated . Carey described Mottola as increasingly controlling , and viewed her newfound independence as a new lease on life . In the booklet of her twelfth studio album , Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel ( 2009 ) , Carey wrote that she considers Butterfly her magnum opus and a turning point in both her life and career . Butterfly introduced a more subdued style of singing , with critics noting Carey ' s incorporation of breathy vocals . Some viewed her lack of propensity to use her upper range as a sign of maturity , while others questioned whether it forebode waning vocal prowess . The music video for the album ' s lead single , " Honey " , her first since separating from Mottola , introduced a more overtly sexual image . Butterfly became Carey ' s best - reviewed album , with attention placed on the album ' s exploration of more mature lyrical themes . In their review of the album , Rolling Stone wrote " [ It ' s ] not as if Carey has totally dispensed with her old saccharine , Houston - style balladry ... but the predominant mood of ' Butterfly ' is one of coolly erotic reverie . " AllMusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine described Carey ' s vocals as " sultrier and more controlled than ever , " and felt the album " illustrates that Carey continues to improve and refine her music , which makes her a rarity among her ' 90s peers . ' " " Honey " and " My All " , the album ' s fifth single , both topped the Hot 100 , making Carey a female artist with the most number - one singles in the chart ' s history . Though a commercial success , Butterfly failed to reach the commercial heights of her previous albums , Music Box and Daydream .	When did you and Mottola separate?	We separated in mid-1997.
Carey ' s subsequent musical releases followed the trend that began with Daydream . Her music began relying less on pop and adult contemporary - tinged balladry and instead incorporating heavy elements of hip - hop and R & B . On Butterfly , Carey collaborated with a bevy of producers other than Afanasieff , such as Sean Combs , Q - Tip , Missy Elliott and Jean Claude Oliver and Samuel Barnes from Trackmasters . In mid - 1997 , after four years of marriage , Carey and Mottola separated . Carey described Mottola as increasingly controlling , and viewed her newfound independence as a new lease on life . In the booklet of her twelfth studio album , Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel ( 2009 ) , Carey wrote that she considers Butterfly her magnum opus and a turning point in both her life and career . Butterfly introduced a more subdued style of singing , with critics noting Carey ' s incorporation of breathy vocals . Some viewed her lack of propensity to use her upper range as a sign of maturity , while others questioned whether it forebode waning vocal prowess . The music video for the album ' s lead single , " Honey " , her first since separating from Mottola , introduced a more overtly sexual image . Butterfly became Carey ' s best - reviewed album , with attention placed on the album ' s exploration of more mature lyrical themes . In their review of the album , Rolling Stone wrote " [ It ' s ] not as if Carey has totally dispensed with her old saccharine , Houston - style balladry ... but the predominant mood of ' Butterfly ' is one of coolly erotic reverie . " AllMusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine described Carey ' s vocals as " sultrier and more controlled than ever , " and felt the album " illustrates that Carey continues to improve and refine her music , which makes her a rarity among her ' 90s peers . ' " " Honey " and " My All " , the album ' s fifth single , both topped the Hot 100 , making Carey a female artist with the most number - one singles in the chart ' s history . Though a commercial success , Butterfly failed to reach the commercial heights of her previous albums , Music Box and Daydream .	How did you describe Mottola?	I described Mottola as increasingly controlling.
Carey ' s subsequent musical releases followed the trend that began with Daydream . Her music began relying less on pop and adult contemporary - tinged balladry and instead incorporating heavy elements of hip - hop and R & B . On Butterfly , Carey collaborated with a bevy of producers other than Afanasieff , such as Sean Combs , Q - Tip , Missy Elliott and Jean Claude Oliver and Samuel Barnes from Trackmasters . In mid - 1997 , after four years of marriage , Carey and Mottola separated . Carey described Mottola as increasingly controlling , and viewed her newfound independence as a new lease on life . In the booklet of her twelfth studio album , Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel ( 2009 ) , Carey wrote that she considers Butterfly her magnum opus and a turning point in both her life and career . Butterfly introduced a more subdued style of singing , with critics noting Carey ' s incorporation of breathy vocals . Some viewed her lack of propensity to use her upper range as a sign of maturity , while others questioned whether it forebode waning vocal prowess . The music video for the album ' s lead single , " Honey " , her first since separating from Mottola , introduced a more overtly sexual image . Butterfly became Carey ' s best - reviewed album , with attention placed on the album ' s exploration of more mature lyrical themes . In their review of the album , Rolling Stone wrote " [ It ' s ] not as if Carey has totally dispensed with her old saccharine , Houston - style balladry ... but the predominant mood of ' Butterfly ' is one of coolly erotic reverie . " AllMusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine described Carey ' s vocals as " sultrier and more controlled than ever , " and felt the album " illustrates that Carey continues to improve and refine her music , which makes her a rarity among her ' 90s peers . ' " " Honey " and " My All " , the album ' s fifth single , both topped the Hot 100 , making Carey a female artist with the most number - one singles in the chart ' s history . Though a commercial success , Butterfly failed to reach the commercial heights of her previous albums , Music Box and Daydream .	Which album do you consider your magnum opus and a turning point in your life and career?	I consider Butterfly my magnum opus and a turning point in both my life and career.
In December 2002 , Carey released her ninth studio album , Charmbracelet , which she said marked " a new lease on life " for her . Sales of Charmbracelet were moderate and the quality of Carey ' s vocals came under criticism . Joan Anderson from The Boston Globe declared the album " the worst of her career , and revealed a voice [ that is ] no longer capable of either gravity - defying gymnastics or soft coos " , while AllMusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine wrote , " Mariah ' s voice is shot , sounding in tatters throughout the record . She can no longer coo or softly croon nor can she perform her trademark gravity - defying vocal runs . " To support the album , Carey embarked on the Charmbracelet World Tour , spanning North America and East Asia over three months . The United States shows were booked in theaters . She described the show as " much more intimate so you ' ll feel like you had an experience . You experience a night with me . " While smaller venues were booked throughout the tour ' s stateside leg , Carey performed in stadiums in Asia and Europe , playing for a crowd of over 35 , 000 in Manila , 50 , 000 in Malaysia , and to over 70 , 000 people in China . In the United Kingdom , it was her first tour to feature shows outside London , booking arena stops in Glasgow , Birmingham and Manchester . The tour garnered generally positive reviews , with many praising the production and the quality of Carey ' s vocals .	When did you release your ninth studio album Charmbracelet?	In December 2002.
In December 2002 , Carey released her ninth studio album , Charmbracelet , which she said marked " a new lease on life " for her . Sales of Charmbracelet were moderate and the quality of Carey ' s vocals came under criticism . Joan Anderson from The Boston Globe declared the album " the worst of her career , and revealed a voice [ that is ] no longer capable of either gravity - defying gymnastics or soft coos " , while AllMusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine wrote , " Mariah ' s voice is shot , sounding in tatters throughout the record . She can no longer coo or softly croon nor can she perform her trademark gravity - defying vocal runs . " To support the album , Carey embarked on the Charmbracelet World Tour , spanning North America and East Asia over three months . The United States shows were booked in theaters . She described the show as " much more intimate so you ' ll feel like you had an experience . You experience a night with me . " While smaller venues were booked throughout the tour ' s stateside leg , Carey performed in stadiums in Asia and Europe , playing for a crowd of over 35 , 000 in Manila , 50 , 000 in Malaysia , and to over 70 , 000 people in China . In the United Kingdom , it was her first tour to feature shows outside London , booking arena stops in Glasgow , Birmingham and Manchester . The tour garnered generally positive reviews , with many praising the production and the quality of Carey ' s vocals .	How were the sales of your album Charmbracelet?	The sales of my album Charmbracelet were moderate.
In December 2002 , Carey released her ninth studio album , Charmbracelet , which she said marked " a new lease on life " for her . Sales of Charmbracelet were moderate and the quality of Carey ' s vocals came under criticism . Joan Anderson from The Boston Globe declared the album " the worst of her career , and revealed a voice [ that is ] no longer capable of either gravity - defying gymnastics or soft coos " , while AllMusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine wrote , " Mariah ' s voice is shot , sounding in tatters throughout the record . She can no longer coo or softly croon nor can she perform her trademark gravity - defying vocal runs . " To support the album , Carey embarked on the Charmbracelet World Tour , spanning North America and East Asia over three months . The United States shows were booked in theaters . She described the show as " much more intimate so you ' ll feel like you had an experience . You experience a night with me . " While smaller venues were booked throughout the tour ' s stateside leg , Carey performed in stadiums in Asia and Europe , playing for a crowd of over 35 , 000 in Manila , 50 , 000 in Malaysia , and to over 70 , 000 people in China . In the United Kingdom , it was her first tour to feature shows outside London , booking arena stops in Glasgow , Birmingham and Manchester . The tour garnered generally positive reviews , with many praising the production and the quality of Carey ' s vocals .	What kind of criticism did your vocals receive for the album?	My vocals came under criticism for being in tatters and no longer capable of gravity-defying gymnastics or soft coos.
In December 2002 , Carey released her ninth studio album , Charmbracelet , which she said marked " a new lease on life " for her . Sales of Charmbracelet were moderate and the quality of Carey ' s vocals came under criticism . Joan Anderson from The Boston Globe declared the album " the worst of her career , and revealed a voice [ that is ] no longer capable of either gravity - defying gymnastics or soft coos " , while AllMusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine wrote , " Mariah ' s voice is shot , sounding in tatters throughout the record . She can no longer coo or softly croon nor can she perform her trademark gravity - defying vocal runs . " To support the album , Carey embarked on the Charmbracelet World Tour , spanning North America and East Asia over three months . The United States shows were booked in theaters . She described the show as " much more intimate so you ' ll feel like you had an experience . You experience a night with me . " While smaller venues were booked throughout the tour ' s stateside leg , Carey performed in stadiums in Asia and Europe , playing for a crowd of over 35 , 000 in Manila , 50 , 000 in Malaysia , and to over 70 , 000 people in China . In the United Kingdom , it was her first tour to feature shows outside London , booking arena stops in Glasgow , Birmingham and Manchester . The tour garnered generally positive reviews , with many praising the production and the quality of Carey ' s vocals .	Where did you embark on the Charmbracelet World Tour?	I embarked on the Charmbracelet World Tour spanning North America and East Asia.
In December 2002 , Carey released her ninth studio album , Charmbracelet , which she said marked " a new lease on life " for her . Sales of Charmbracelet were moderate and the quality of Carey ' s vocals came under criticism . Joan Anderson from The Boston Globe declared the album " the worst of her career , and revealed a voice [ that is ] no longer capable of either gravity - defying gymnastics or soft coos " , while AllMusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine wrote , " Mariah ' s voice is shot , sounding in tatters throughout the record . She can no longer coo or softly croon nor can she perform her trademark gravity - defying vocal runs . " To support the album , Carey embarked on the Charmbracelet World Tour , spanning North America and East Asia over three months . The United States shows were booked in theaters . She described the show as " much more intimate so you ' ll feel like you had an experience . You experience a night with me . " While smaller venues were booked throughout the tour ' s stateside leg , Carey performed in stadiums in Asia and Europe , playing for a crowd of over 35 , 000 in Manila , 50 , 000 in Malaysia , and to over 70 , 000 people in China . In the United Kingdom , it was her first tour to feature shows outside London , booking arena stops in Glasgow , Birmingham and Manchester . The tour garnered generally positive reviews , with many praising the production and the quality of Carey ' s vocals .	How were the reviews for your tour?	The tour garnered generally positive reviews, with many praising the production and the quality of my vocals.
Carey ' s tenth studio album , The Emancipation of Mimi , was produced with the Neptunes , Kanye West and Carey ' s longtime collaborator , Jermaine Dupri . She described the album as " very much like a party record ... the process of putting on makeup and getting ready to go out ... I wanted to make a record that was reflective of that . " The Emancipation of Mimi topped the charts in the United States , becoming Carey ' s fifth number - one album and first since Butterfly ( 1997 ) , and was warmly accepted by critics . Caroline Sullivan of The Guardian defined it as " cool , focused and urban [ ... some of ] the first Mariah Carey tunes in years which I wouldn ' t have to be paid to listen to again , " while USA Today ' s Elysa Gardner wrote , " The [ songs ] truly reflect the renewed confidence of a songbird who has taken her shots and kept on flying . " The album ' s second single , " We Belong Together " , became a " career re - defining " song for Carey , after a relatively unsuccessful period and a point when many critics had considered her career over . Music critics heralded the song as her " return to form , " as well as the " return of The Voice , " while many felt it would revive " faith " in Carey ' s potential as a balladeer . " We Belong Together " broke several records in the United States and became Carey ' s sixteenth chart topper on the Billboard Hot 100 . After staying at number one for fourteen non - consecutive weeks , the song became the second longest running number one song in US chart history , behind Carey ' s 1996 collaboration with Boyz II Men , " One Sweet Day " . Billboard listed it as the " song of the decade " and the ninth most popular song of all time . The song broke several airplay records , and according to Nielsen BDS , and gathered both the largest one - day and one - week audiences in history .	Who produced your tenth studio album, The Emancipation of Mimi?	The Neptunes, Kanye West, and Jermaine Dupri.
Carey ' s tenth studio album , The Emancipation of Mimi , was produced with the Neptunes , Kanye West and Carey ' s longtime collaborator , Jermaine Dupri . She described the album as " very much like a party record ... the process of putting on makeup and getting ready to go out ... I wanted to make a record that was reflective of that . " The Emancipation of Mimi topped the charts in the United States , becoming Carey ' s fifth number - one album and first since Butterfly ( 1997 ) , and was warmly accepted by critics . Caroline Sullivan of The Guardian defined it as " cool , focused and urban [ ... some of ] the first Mariah Carey tunes in years which I wouldn ' t have to be paid to listen to again , " while USA Today ' s Elysa Gardner wrote , " The [ songs ] truly reflect the renewed confidence of a songbird who has taken her shots and kept on flying . " The album ' s second single , " We Belong Together " , became a " career re - defining " song for Carey , after a relatively unsuccessful period and a point when many critics had considered her career over . Music critics heralded the song as her " return to form , " as well as the " return of The Voice , " while many felt it would revive " faith " in Carey ' s potential as a balladeer . " We Belong Together " broke several records in the United States and became Carey ' s sixteenth chart topper on the Billboard Hot 100 . After staying at number one for fourteen non - consecutive weeks , the song became the second longest running number one song in US chart history , behind Carey ' s 1996 collaboration with Boyz II Men , " One Sweet Day " . Billboard listed it as the " song of the decade " and the ninth most popular song of all time . The song broke several airplay records , and according to Nielsen BDS , and gathered both the largest one - day and one - week audiences in history .	How did you describe the album?	I described it as "very much like a party record...the process of putting on makeup and getting ready to go out...I wanted to make a record that was reflective of that."
Carey ' s tenth studio album , The Emancipation of Mimi , was produced with the Neptunes , Kanye West and Carey ' s longtime collaborator , Jermaine Dupri . She described the album as " very much like a party record ... the process of putting on makeup and getting ready to go out ... I wanted to make a record that was reflective of that . " The Emancipation of Mimi topped the charts in the United States , becoming Carey ' s fifth number - one album and first since Butterfly ( 1997 ) , and was warmly accepted by critics . Caroline Sullivan of The Guardian defined it as " cool , focused and urban [ ... some of ] the first Mariah Carey tunes in years which I wouldn ' t have to be paid to listen to again , " while USA Today ' s Elysa Gardner wrote , " The [ songs ] truly reflect the renewed confidence of a songbird who has taken her shots and kept on flying . " The album ' s second single , " We Belong Together " , became a " career re - defining " song for Carey , after a relatively unsuccessful period and a point when many critics had considered her career over . Music critics heralded the song as her " return to form , " as well as the " return of The Voice , " while many felt it would revive " faith " in Carey ' s potential as a balladeer . " We Belong Together " broke several records in the United States and became Carey ' s sixteenth chart topper on the Billboard Hot 100 . After staying at number one for fourteen non - consecutive weeks , the song became the second longest running number one song in US chart history , behind Carey ' s 1996 collaboration with Boyz II Men , " One Sweet Day " . Billboard listed it as the " song of the decade " and the ninth most popular song of all time . The song broke several airplay records , and according to Nielsen BDS , and gathered both the largest one - day and one - week audiences in history .	Which album did The Emancipation of Mimi top the charts in your country?	It topped the charts in my country, becoming my fifth number-one album and first since Butterfly (1997).
Carey ' s tenth studio album , The Emancipation of Mimi , was produced with the Neptunes , Kanye West and Carey ' s longtime collaborator , Jermaine Dupri . She described the album as " very much like a party record ... the process of putting on makeup and getting ready to go out ... I wanted to make a record that was reflective of that . " The Emancipation of Mimi topped the charts in the United States , becoming Carey ' s fifth number - one album and first since Butterfly ( 1997 ) , and was warmly accepted by critics . Caroline Sullivan of The Guardian defined it as " cool , focused and urban [ ... some of ] the first Mariah Carey tunes in years which I wouldn ' t have to be paid to listen to again , " while USA Today ' s Elysa Gardner wrote , " The [ songs ] truly reflect the renewed confidence of a songbird who has taken her shots and kept on flying . " The album ' s second single , " We Belong Together " , became a " career re - defining " song for Carey , after a relatively unsuccessful period and a point when many critics had considered her career over . Music critics heralded the song as her " return to form , " as well as the " return of The Voice , " while many felt it would revive " faith " in Carey ' s potential as a balladeer . " We Belong Together " broke several records in the United States and became Carey ' s sixteenth chart topper on the Billboard Hot 100 . After staying at number one for fourteen non - consecutive weeks , the song became the second longest running number one song in US chart history , behind Carey ' s 1996 collaboration with Boyz II Men , " One Sweet Day " . Billboard listed it as the " song of the decade " and the ninth most popular song of all time . The song broke several airplay records , and according to Nielsen BDS , and gathered both the largest one - day and one - week audiences in history .	How was your album received by critics?	It was warmly accepted by critics. Caroline Sullivan of The Guardian defined it as "cool, focused, and urban [some of] the first of my tunes in years which I wouldn't have to be paid to listen to again," while USA Today's Elysa Gardner wrote, "The [songs] truly reflect my renewed confidence as a songbird who has taken her shots and kept on flying."
Carey ' s tenth studio album , The Emancipation of Mimi , was produced with the Neptunes , Kanye West and Carey ' s longtime collaborator , Jermaine Dupri . She described the album as " very much like a party record ... the process of putting on makeup and getting ready to go out ... I wanted to make a record that was reflective of that . " The Emancipation of Mimi topped the charts in the United States , becoming Carey ' s fifth number - one album and first since Butterfly ( 1997 ) , and was warmly accepted by critics . Caroline Sullivan of The Guardian defined it as " cool , focused and urban [ ... some of ] the first Mariah Carey tunes in years which I wouldn ' t have to be paid to listen to again , " while USA Today ' s Elysa Gardner wrote , " The [ songs ] truly reflect the renewed confidence of a songbird who has taken her shots and kept on flying . " The album ' s second single , " We Belong Together " , became a " career re - defining " song for Carey , after a relatively unsuccessful period and a point when many critics had considered her career over . Music critics heralded the song as her " return to form , " as well as the " return of The Voice , " while many felt it would revive " faith " in Carey ' s potential as a balladeer . " We Belong Together " broke several records in the United States and became Carey ' s sixteenth chart topper on the Billboard Hot 100 . After staying at number one for fourteen non - consecutive weeks , the song became the second longest running number one song in US chart history , behind Carey ' s 1996 collaboration with Boyz II Men , " One Sweet Day " . Billboard listed it as the " song of the decade " and the ninth most popular song of all time . The song broke several airplay records , and according to Nielsen BDS , and gathered both the largest one - day and one - week audiences in history .	Which song from the album became a "career re-defining" song for you?	The song "We Belong Together" became a "career re-defining" song for me.
On February 3 , 2017 , Carey released the single " I Don ' t " featuring YG . Later that month , she voiced the Mayor of Gotham City in the animated film The Lego Batman Movie . In July 2017 , Carey made a cameo in the comedy film Girls Trip , starring Queen Latifah , Jada Pinkett Smith , Regina Hall , and Tiffany Haddish . The same month , Carey embarked on a tour with Lionel Richie , titled , All the Hits Tour . Carey was also featured in the official remix for French Montana ' s single " Unforgettable " , alongside Swae Lee . In October 2017 , she released a new soundtrack single , " The Star " , for the movie of the same name . The song was nominated for the Best Original Song at the 75th Golden Globe Awards . Carey also developed an animated Christmas film , Mariah Carey ' s All I Want For Christmas Is You , for which she recorded an original song called " Lil ' Snowman . " The film was released direct - to - video on November 14 , 2017 . On December 31 , 2017 , Carey returned to perform on Dick Clark ' s New Year ' s Rockin ' Eve after the technical difficulties that hindered her previous performance , in what The New York Times described as a " made - for - television act of pop culture redemption " .	When was your single "I Don't" featuring YG released?	On February 3, 2017.
On February 3 , 2017 , Carey released the single " I Don ' t " featuring YG . Later that month , she voiced the Mayor of Gotham City in the animated film The Lego Batman Movie . In July 2017 , Carey made a cameo in the comedy film Girls Trip , starring Queen Latifah , Jada Pinkett Smith , Regina Hall , and Tiffany Haddish . The same month , Carey embarked on a tour with Lionel Richie , titled , All the Hits Tour . Carey was also featured in the official remix for French Montana ' s single " Unforgettable " , alongside Swae Lee . In October 2017 , she released a new soundtrack single , " The Star " , for the movie of the same name . The song was nominated for the Best Original Song at the 75th Golden Globe Awards . Carey also developed an animated Christmas film , Mariah Carey ' s All I Want For Christmas Is You , for which she recorded an original song called " Lil ' Snowman . " The film was released direct - to - video on November 14 , 2017 . On December 31 , 2017 , Carey returned to perform on Dick Clark ' s New Year ' s Rockin ' Eve after the technical difficulties that hindered her previous performance , in what The New York Times described as a " made - for - television act of pop culture redemption " .	In which film did you voice the Mayor of Gotham City?	The Lego Batman Movie.
On February 3 , 2017 , Carey released the single " I Don ' t " featuring YG . Later that month , she voiced the Mayor of Gotham City in the animated film The Lego Batman Movie . In July 2017 , Carey made a cameo in the comedy film Girls Trip , starring Queen Latifah , Jada Pinkett Smith , Regina Hall , and Tiffany Haddish . The same month , Carey embarked on a tour with Lionel Richie , titled , All the Hits Tour . Carey was also featured in the official remix for French Montana ' s single " Unforgettable " , alongside Swae Lee . In October 2017 , she released a new soundtrack single , " The Star " , for the movie of the same name . The song was nominated for the Best Original Song at the 75th Golden Globe Awards . Carey also developed an animated Christmas film , Mariah Carey ' s All I Want For Christmas Is You , for which she recorded an original song called " Lil ' Snowman . " The film was released direct - to - video on November 14 , 2017 . On December 31 , 2017 , Carey returned to perform on Dick Clark ' s New Year ' s Rockin ' Eve after the technical difficulties that hindered her previous performance , in what The New York Times described as a " made - for - television act of pop culture redemption " .	In which comedy film did you make a cameo appearance?	Girls Trip.
On February 3 , 2017 , Carey released the single " I Don ' t " featuring YG . Later that month , she voiced the Mayor of Gotham City in the animated film The Lego Batman Movie . In July 2017 , Carey made a cameo in the comedy film Girls Trip , starring Queen Latifah , Jada Pinkett Smith , Regina Hall , and Tiffany Haddish . The same month , Carey embarked on a tour with Lionel Richie , titled , All the Hits Tour . Carey was also featured in the official remix for French Montana ' s single " Unforgettable " , alongside Swae Lee . In October 2017 , she released a new soundtrack single , " The Star " , for the movie of the same name . The song was nominated for the Best Original Song at the 75th Golden Globe Awards . Carey also developed an animated Christmas film , Mariah Carey ' s All I Want For Christmas Is You , for which she recorded an original song called " Lil ' Snowman . " The film was released direct - to - video on November 14 , 2017 . On December 31 , 2017 , Carey returned to perform on Dick Clark ' s New Year ' s Rockin ' Eve after the technical difficulties that hindered her previous performance , in what The New York Times described as a " made - for - television act of pop culture redemption " .	Who did you go on a tour with in July 2017?	Lionel Richie.
On February 3 , 2017 , Carey released the single " I Don ' t " featuring YG . Later that month , she voiced the Mayor of Gotham City in the animated film The Lego Batman Movie . In July 2017 , Carey made a cameo in the comedy film Girls Trip , starring Queen Latifah , Jada Pinkett Smith , Regina Hall , and Tiffany Haddish . The same month , Carey embarked on a tour with Lionel Richie , titled , All the Hits Tour . Carey was also featured in the official remix for French Montana ' s single " Unforgettable " , alongside Swae Lee . In October 2017 , she released a new soundtrack single , " The Star " , for the movie of the same name . The song was nominated for the Best Original Song at the 75th Golden Globe Awards . Carey also developed an animated Christmas film , Mariah Carey ' s All I Want For Christmas Is You , for which she recorded an original song called " Lil ' Snowman . " The film was released direct - to - video on November 14 , 2017 . On December 31 , 2017 , Carey returned to perform on Dick Clark ' s New Year ' s Rockin ' Eve after the technical difficulties that hindered her previous performance , in what The New York Times described as a " made - for - television act of pop culture redemption " .	What was the name of the soundtrack single you released in October 2017?	"The Star".
On January 12 , 2022 , Carey announced a children ' s picture book titled The Christmas Princess , co - written with Michaela Angela Davis and illustrated by Fuuji Takashi ; it was released in November that year . In March , Carey was featured alongside DJ Khaled on the remix of rapper Latto ' s single " Big Energy " , taken from her sophomore album , 777 . The remix interpolates Carey ' s 1995 single " Fantasy " . It peaked at number 6 on the ARIA Charts and was certified triple Platinum in Australia . It also charted at number 21 on the UK Official Singles Chart and was certified Gold by the British Phonographic Industry ( BPI ) . In April , an online MasterClass course based on singing , in which Carey served as a vocal coach , was released . A re - recorded version of Carey ' s 1998 single , " The Roof " , featuring Brandy Norwood and subtitled " ( When I Feel The Need ) " , was made available exclusively to Masterclass subscribers . Later that month , Number 1 ' s was released on vinyl as a Record Store Day exclusive and re - entered the top 20 of the Billboard 200 . In June , Carey performed the remix of " Big Energy " with Latto at the BET Awards 2022 ; she made a surprise appearance during the latter ' s set .	What is the title of your children's picture book?	The Christmas Princess
On January 12 , 2022 , Carey announced a children ' s picture book titled The Christmas Princess , co - written with Michaela Angela Davis and illustrated by Fuuji Takashi ; it was released in November that year . In March , Carey was featured alongside DJ Khaled on the remix of rapper Latto ' s single " Big Energy " , taken from her sophomore album , 777 . The remix interpolates Carey ' s 1995 single " Fantasy " . It peaked at number 6 on the ARIA Charts and was certified triple Platinum in Australia . It also charted at number 21 on the UK Official Singles Chart and was certified Gold by the British Phonographic Industry ( BPI ) . In April , an online MasterClass course based on singing , in which Carey served as a vocal coach , was released . A re - recorded version of Carey ' s 1998 single , " The Roof " , featuring Brandy Norwood and subtitled " ( When I Feel The Need ) " , was made available exclusively to Masterclass subscribers . Later that month , Number 1 ' s was released on vinyl as a Record Store Day exclusive and re - entered the top 20 of the Billboard 200 . In June , Carey performed the remix of " Big Energy " with Latto at the BET Awards 2022 ; she made a surprise appearance during the latter ' s set .	Who did you co-write the children's picture book with?	Michaela Angela Davis
On January 12 , 2022 , Carey announced a children ' s picture book titled The Christmas Princess , co - written with Michaela Angela Davis and illustrated by Fuuji Takashi ; it was released in November that year . In March , Carey was featured alongside DJ Khaled on the remix of rapper Latto ' s single " Big Energy " , taken from her sophomore album , 777 . The remix interpolates Carey ' s 1995 single " Fantasy " . It peaked at number 6 on the ARIA Charts and was certified triple Platinum in Australia . It also charted at number 21 on the UK Official Singles Chart and was certified Gold by the British Phonographic Industry ( BPI ) . In April , an online MasterClass course based on singing , in which Carey served as a vocal coach , was released . A re - recorded version of Carey ' s 1998 single , " The Roof " , featuring Brandy Norwood and subtitled " ( When I Feel The Need ) " , was made available exclusively to Masterclass subscribers . Later that month , Number 1 ' s was released on vinyl as a Record Store Day exclusive and re - entered the top 20 of the Billboard 200 . In June , Carey performed the remix of " Big Energy " with Latto at the BET Awards 2022 ; she made a surprise appearance during the latter ' s set .	Who illustrated your children's picture book?	Fuuji Takashi
On January 12 , 2022 , Carey announced a children ' s picture book titled The Christmas Princess , co - written with Michaela Angela Davis and illustrated by Fuuji Takashi ; it was released in November that year . In March , Carey was featured alongside DJ Khaled on the remix of rapper Latto ' s single " Big Energy " , taken from her sophomore album , 777 . The remix interpolates Carey ' s 1995 single " Fantasy " . It peaked at number 6 on the ARIA Charts and was certified triple Platinum in Australia . It also charted at number 21 on the UK Official Singles Chart and was certified Gold by the British Phonographic Industry ( BPI ) . In April , an online MasterClass course based on singing , in which Carey served as a vocal coach , was released . A re - recorded version of Carey ' s 1998 single , " The Roof " , featuring Brandy Norwood and subtitled " ( When I Feel The Need ) " , was made available exclusively to Masterclass subscribers . Later that month , Number 1 ' s was released on vinyl as a Record Store Day exclusive and re - entered the top 20 of the Billboard 200 . In June , Carey performed the remix of " Big Energy " with Latto at the BET Awards 2022 ; she made a surprise appearance during the latter ' s set .	When was your children's picture book released?	In November of that year
On January 12 , 2022 , Carey announced a children ' s picture book titled The Christmas Princess , co - written with Michaela Angela Davis and illustrated by Fuuji Takashi ; it was released in November that year . In March , Carey was featured alongside DJ Khaled on the remix of rapper Latto ' s single " Big Energy " , taken from her sophomore album , 777 . The remix interpolates Carey ' s 1995 single " Fantasy " . It peaked at number 6 on the ARIA Charts and was certified triple Platinum in Australia . It also charted at number 21 on the UK Official Singles Chart and was certified Gold by the British Phonographic Industry ( BPI ) . In April , an online MasterClass course based on singing , in which Carey served as a vocal coach , was released . A re - recorded version of Carey ' s 1998 single , " The Roof " , featuring Brandy Norwood and subtitled " ( When I Feel The Need ) " , was made available exclusively to Masterclass subscribers . Later that month , Number 1 ' s was released on vinyl as a Record Store Day exclusive and re - entered the top 20 of the Billboard 200 . In June , Carey performed the remix of " Big Energy " with Latto at the BET Awards 2022 ; she made a surprise appearance during the latter ' s set .	Which rapper's single did you feature on alongside DJ Khaled?	Latto
Love is the subject of the majority of Carey ' s lyrics , although she has written about themes such as loss , sex , race , abuse and spirituality . She has said that much of her work is partly autobiographical , but Time magazine ' s Christopher John Farley wrote : " If only Mariah Carey ' s music had the drama of her life . Her songs are often sugary and artificial — NutraSweet soul . But her life has passion and conflict , " applying it to the first stages of her career . He commented that as her albums progressed , so too her songwriting and music blossomed into more mature and meaningful material . Jim Faber of the New York Daily News , made similar comments , " For Carey , vocalizing is all about the performance , not the emotions that inspired it . Singing , to her , represents a physical challenge , not an emotional unburdening . " While reviewing Music Box , Stephen Holden from Rolling Stone commented that Carey sang with " sustained passion , " while Arion Berger of Entertainment Weekly wrote that during some vocal moments , Carey becomes " too overwhelmed to put her passion into words . " In 2001 , The Village Voice wrote that " Carey ' s Strawberry Shortcake soul still provides the template with which teen - pop cuties draw curlicues around those centerless [ Diane ] Warren ballads . "	What is the subject of the majority of your lyrics?	Love is the subject of the majority of my lyrics.
Love is the subject of the majority of Carey ' s lyrics , although she has written about themes such as loss , sex , race , abuse and spirituality . She has said that much of her work is partly autobiographical , but Time magazine ' s Christopher John Farley wrote : " If only Mariah Carey ' s music had the drama of her life . Her songs are often sugary and artificial — NutraSweet soul . But her life has passion and conflict , " applying it to the first stages of her career . He commented that as her albums progressed , so too her songwriting and music blossomed into more mature and meaningful material . Jim Faber of the New York Daily News , made similar comments , " For Carey , vocalizing is all about the performance , not the emotions that inspired it . Singing , to her , represents a physical challenge , not an emotional unburdening . " While reviewing Music Box , Stephen Holden from Rolling Stone commented that Carey sang with " sustained passion , " while Arion Berger of Entertainment Weekly wrote that during some vocal moments , Carey becomes " too overwhelmed to put her passion into words . " In 2001 , The Village Voice wrote that " Carey ' s Strawberry Shortcake soul still provides the template with which teen - pop cuties draw curlicues around those centerless [ Diane ] Warren ballads . "	Besides love, what other themes have you written about in your songs?	I have written about themes such as loss, sex, race, abuse, and spirituality.
Love is the subject of the majority of Carey ' s lyrics , although she has written about themes such as loss , sex , race , abuse and spirituality . She has said that much of her work is partly autobiographical , but Time magazine ' s Christopher John Farley wrote : " If only Mariah Carey ' s music had the drama of her life . Her songs are often sugary and artificial — NutraSweet soul . But her life has passion and conflict , " applying it to the first stages of her career . He commented that as her albums progressed , so too her songwriting and music blossomed into more mature and meaningful material . Jim Faber of the New York Daily News , made similar comments , " For Carey , vocalizing is all about the performance , not the emotions that inspired it . Singing , to her , represents a physical challenge , not an emotional unburdening . " While reviewing Music Box , Stephen Holden from Rolling Stone commented that Carey sang with " sustained passion , " while Arion Berger of Entertainment Weekly wrote that during some vocal moments , Carey becomes " too overwhelmed to put her passion into words . " In 2001 , The Village Voice wrote that " Carey ' s Strawberry Shortcake soul still provides the template with which teen - pop cuties draw curlicues around those centerless [ Diane ] Warren ballads . "	How do you describe your work?	I have described much of my work as partly autobiographical.
Love is the subject of the majority of Carey ' s lyrics , although she has written about themes such as loss , sex , race , abuse and spirituality . She has said that much of her work is partly autobiographical , but Time magazine ' s Christopher John Farley wrote : " If only Mariah Carey ' s music had the drama of her life . Her songs are often sugary and artificial — NutraSweet soul . But her life has passion and conflict , " applying it to the first stages of her career . He commented that as her albums progressed , so too her songwriting and music blossomed into more mature and meaningful material . Jim Faber of the New York Daily News , made similar comments , " For Carey , vocalizing is all about the performance , not the emotions that inspired it . Singing , to her , represents a physical challenge , not an emotional unburdening . " While reviewing Music Box , Stephen Holden from Rolling Stone commented that Carey sang with " sustained passion , " while Arion Berger of Entertainment Weekly wrote that during some vocal moments , Carey becomes " too overwhelmed to put her passion into words . " In 2001 , The Village Voice wrote that " Carey ' s Strawberry Shortcake soul still provides the template with which teen - pop cuties draw curlicues around those centerless [ Diane ] Warren ballads . "	What did Christopher John Farley of Time magazine say about your music?	Christopher John Farley wrote that my music lacks the drama of my life and is often sugary and artificial.
Love is the subject of the majority of Carey ' s lyrics , although she has written about themes such as loss , sex , race , abuse and spirituality . She has said that much of her work is partly autobiographical , but Time magazine ' s Christopher John Farley wrote : " If only Mariah Carey ' s music had the drama of her life . Her songs are often sugary and artificial — NutraSweet soul . But her life has passion and conflict , " applying it to the first stages of her career . He commented that as her albums progressed , so too her songwriting and music blossomed into more mature and meaningful material . Jim Faber of the New York Daily News , made similar comments , " For Carey , vocalizing is all about the performance , not the emotions that inspired it . Singing , to her , represents a physical challenge , not an emotional unburdening . " While reviewing Music Box , Stephen Holden from Rolling Stone commented that Carey sang with " sustained passion , " while Arion Berger of Entertainment Weekly wrote that during some vocal moments , Carey becomes " too overwhelmed to put her passion into words . " In 2001 , The Village Voice wrote that " Carey ' s Strawberry Shortcake soul still provides the template with which teen - pop cuties draw curlicues around those centerless [ Diane ] Warren ballads . "	According to Jim Faber of the New York Daily News, what is singing all about for you?	Jim Faber commented that for me, singing is all about the performance and not about the emotions that inspired it.
Carey ' s enduring popularity as a musician has received extensive recognition , with Anne Branigin from The Root commenting : " There ' s longevity , then there ' s Mariah Carey " . When reviewing her fifteenth studio album , Caution , Eddino Hadi wrote , " In the last three decades since she made her debut , many female pop stars have scaled the heights that Carey has reached but very , very few have matched her longevity " . She is the first artist to reach number - one on the Billboard Hot 100 in the physical , digital and streaming eras . Carey ' s music has been recorded , performed or sampled by a variety of artists such as Aretha Franklin , Patti LaBelle , Dolly Parton , Luciano Pavarotti , Red Hot Chili Peppers , Shania Twain , Michael Ball , Ariana Grande , Bryson Tiller , Drake , Fifth Harmony , and Sigala . The 2019 film Always Be My Maybe was a play - on - words of Carey ' s 1996 single " Always Be My Baby " , which was used as the movie ' s theme song .	Who commented on your enduring popularity as a musician?	Anne Branigin from The Root commented on my enduring popularity as a musician.
Carey ' s enduring popularity as a musician has received extensive recognition , with Anne Branigin from The Root commenting : " There ' s longevity , then there ' s Mariah Carey " . When reviewing her fifteenth studio album , Caution , Eddino Hadi wrote , " In the last three decades since she made her debut , many female pop stars have scaled the heights that Carey has reached but very , very few have matched her longevity " . She is the first artist to reach number - one on the Billboard Hot 100 in the physical , digital and streaming eras . Carey ' s music has been recorded , performed or sampled by a variety of artists such as Aretha Franklin , Patti LaBelle , Dolly Parton , Luciano Pavarotti , Red Hot Chili Peppers , Shania Twain , Michael Ball , Ariana Grande , Bryson Tiller , Drake , Fifth Harmony , and Sigala . The 2019 film Always Be My Maybe was a play - on - words of Carey ' s 1996 single " Always Be My Baby " , which was used as the movie ' s theme song .	What did Eddino Hadi write about your longevity?	Eddino Hadi wrote that many female pop stars have reached the heights that I have, but very few have matched my longevity.
Carey ' s enduring popularity as a musician has received extensive recognition , with Anne Branigin from The Root commenting : " There ' s longevity , then there ' s Mariah Carey " . When reviewing her fifteenth studio album , Caution , Eddino Hadi wrote , " In the last three decades since she made her debut , many female pop stars have scaled the heights that Carey has reached but very , very few have matched her longevity " . She is the first artist to reach number - one on the Billboard Hot 100 in the physical , digital and streaming eras . Carey ' s music has been recorded , performed or sampled by a variety of artists such as Aretha Franklin , Patti LaBelle , Dolly Parton , Luciano Pavarotti , Red Hot Chili Peppers , Shania Twain , Michael Ball , Ariana Grande , Bryson Tiller , Drake , Fifth Harmony , and Sigala . The 2019 film Always Be My Maybe was a play - on - words of Carey ' s 1996 single " Always Be My Baby " , which was used as the movie ' s theme song .	In which eras did you reach number-one on the Billboard Hot 100?	I reached number-one on the Billboard Hot 100 in the physical, digital, and streaming eras.
Carey ' s enduring popularity as a musician has received extensive recognition , with Anne Branigin from The Root commenting : " There ' s longevity , then there ' s Mariah Carey " . When reviewing her fifteenth studio album , Caution , Eddino Hadi wrote , " In the last three decades since she made her debut , many female pop stars have scaled the heights that Carey has reached but very , very few have matched her longevity " . She is the first artist to reach number - one on the Billboard Hot 100 in the physical , digital and streaming eras . Carey ' s music has been recorded , performed or sampled by a variety of artists such as Aretha Franklin , Patti LaBelle , Dolly Parton , Luciano Pavarotti , Red Hot Chili Peppers , Shania Twain , Michael Ball , Ariana Grande , Bryson Tiller , Drake , Fifth Harmony , and Sigala . The 2019 film Always Be My Maybe was a play - on - words of Carey ' s 1996 single " Always Be My Baby " , which was used as the movie ' s theme song .	Which artists have recorded, performed, or sampled your music?	Artists such as Aretha Franklin, Patti LaBelle, Dolly Parton, Luciano Pavarotti, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Shania Twain, Michael Ball, Ariana Grande, Bryson Tiller, Drake, Fifth Harmony, and Sigala have recorded, performed, or sampled my music.
Carey ' s enduring popularity as a musician has received extensive recognition , with Anne Branigin from The Root commenting : " There ' s longevity , then there ' s Mariah Carey " . When reviewing her fifteenth studio album , Caution , Eddino Hadi wrote , " In the last three decades since she made her debut , many female pop stars have scaled the heights that Carey has reached but very , very few have matched her longevity " . She is the first artist to reach number - one on the Billboard Hot 100 in the physical , digital and streaming eras . Carey ' s music has been recorded , performed or sampled by a variety of artists such as Aretha Franklin , Patti LaBelle , Dolly Parton , Luciano Pavarotti , Red Hot Chili Peppers , Shania Twain , Michael Ball , Ariana Grande , Bryson Tiller , Drake , Fifth Harmony , and Sigala . The 2019 film Always Be My Maybe was a play - on - words of Carey ' s 1996 single " Always Be My Baby " , which was used as the movie ' s theme song .	Which 1996 single of yours was used as the theme song for the 2019 film Always Be My Maybe?	My 1996 single "Always Be My Baby" was used as the theme song for the 2019 film Always Be My Maybe.
The impact of Carey ' s artistry has helped popularize rappers as a featured act in pop music through her post - 1995 songs . She has been called the " Queen of Remixes " by multiple media sources , with MTV writer , Princess Gabbara , noting that it is " no secret that [ Carey ] goes to great lengths to deliver a spectacular remix , often re - recording vocals , penning new lyrics , shooting new music videos , and recording different versions to satisfy pop , R & B , hip - hop , and EDM audiences " . Speaking to Billboard in 2019 for a profile of Carey ' s career , David Morales , who first collaborated with Carey on the Def Club Mix of her 1993 single " Dreamlover " , commented on Carey ' s revolutionary role in the popularization of remixes : " Mariah opened up a whole other door , and not many people at that time were capable of that . When other big artists saw what I did with Mariah , they wanted that . She ' s how I got into the studio with Toni Braxton , Aretha Franklin , Seal and Donna Summer . "	Who have they called the "Queen of Remixes"?	I have been called the "Queen of Remixes".
The impact of Carey ' s artistry has helped popularize rappers as a featured act in pop music through her post - 1995 songs . She has been called the " Queen of Remixes " by multiple media sources , with MTV writer , Princess Gabbara , noting that it is " no secret that [ Carey ] goes to great lengths to deliver a spectacular remix , often re - recording vocals , penning new lyrics , shooting new music videos , and recording different versions to satisfy pop , R & B , hip - hop , and EDM audiences " . Speaking to Billboard in 2019 for a profile of Carey ' s career , David Morales , who first collaborated with Carey on the Def Club Mix of her 1993 single " Dreamlover " , commented on Carey ' s revolutionary role in the popularization of remixes : " Mariah opened up a whole other door , and not many people at that time were capable of that . When other big artists saw what I did with Mariah , they wanted that . She ' s how I got into the studio with Toni Braxton , Aretha Franklin , Seal and Donna Summer . "	What have you done to deliver a spectacular remix?	I go to great lengths to deliver a spectacular remix by often re-recording vocals, penning new lyrics, shooting new music videos, and recording different versions.
The impact of Carey ' s artistry has helped popularize rappers as a featured act in pop music through her post - 1995 songs . She has been called the " Queen of Remixes " by multiple media sources , with MTV writer , Princess Gabbara , noting that it is " no secret that [ Carey ] goes to great lengths to deliver a spectacular remix , often re - recording vocals , penning new lyrics , shooting new music videos , and recording different versions to satisfy pop , R & B , hip - hop , and EDM audiences " . Speaking to Billboard in 2019 for a profile of Carey ' s career , David Morales , who first collaborated with Carey on the Def Club Mix of her 1993 single " Dreamlover " , commented on Carey ' s revolutionary role in the popularization of remixes : " Mariah opened up a whole other door , and not many people at that time were capable of that . When other big artists saw what I did with Mariah , they wanted that . She ' s how I got into the studio with Toni Braxton , Aretha Franklin , Seal and Donna Summer . "	According to Princess Gabbara, why do you go to great lengths to deliver a spectacular remix?	According to Princess Gabbara, I go to great lengths to deliver a spectacular remix to satisfy pop, R&B, hip-hop, and EDM audiences.
The impact of Carey ' s artistry has helped popularize rappers as a featured act in pop music through her post - 1995 songs . She has been called the " Queen of Remixes " by multiple media sources , with MTV writer , Princess Gabbara , noting that it is " no secret that [ Carey ] goes to great lengths to deliver a spectacular remix , often re - recording vocals , penning new lyrics , shooting new music videos , and recording different versions to satisfy pop , R & B , hip - hop , and EDM audiences " . Speaking to Billboard in 2019 for a profile of Carey ' s career , David Morales , who first collaborated with Carey on the Def Club Mix of her 1993 single " Dreamlover " , commented on Carey ' s revolutionary role in the popularization of remixes : " Mariah opened up a whole other door , and not many people at that time were capable of that . When other big artists saw what I did with Mariah , they wanted that . She ' s how I got into the studio with Toni Braxton , Aretha Franklin , Seal and Donna Summer . "	Who commented on your revolutionary role in the popularization of remixes?	David Morales commented on my revolutionary role in the popularization of remixes.
The impact of Carey ' s artistry has helped popularize rappers as a featured act in pop music through her post - 1995 songs . She has been called the " Queen of Remixes " by multiple media sources , with MTV writer , Princess Gabbara , noting that it is " no secret that [ Carey ] goes to great lengths to deliver a spectacular remix , often re - recording vocals , penning new lyrics , shooting new music videos , and recording different versions to satisfy pop , R & B , hip - hop , and EDM audiences " . Speaking to Billboard in 2019 for a profile of Carey ' s career , David Morales , who first collaborated with Carey on the Def Club Mix of her 1993 single " Dreamlover " , commented on Carey ' s revolutionary role in the popularization of remixes : " Mariah opened up a whole other door , and not many people at that time were capable of that . When other big artists saw what I did with Mariah , they wanted that . She ' s how I got into the studio with Toni Braxton , Aretha Franklin , Seal and Donna Summer . "	Who did you collaborate with on the Def Club Mix of your 1993 single "Dreamlover"?	I collaborated with David Morales on the Def Club Mix of my 1993 single "Dreamlover".
Multiple media sources referred to Carey as the " Queen of Melisma " . According to Rolling Stone , " Her mastery of melisma , the fluttering strings of notes that decorate songs like " Vision of Love " , inspired the entire American Idol vocal school , for better or worse , and virtually every other female R & B singer since the Nineties . " Chart historian Tom Breihan chose " Vision of Love " as one of the chapters in his book The Number Ones : Twenty Chart - Topping Hits That Reveal the History of Pop Music , stating that the song " set the stage for a whole decade of showy , pyrotechnic ' 90s R & B vocals . Carey created an environment where her disciples could flourish , and she did it by constructing " Vision Of Love " as a showcase for her voice " . In 2008 , Jody Rosen of Slate wrote of Carey ' s influence in modern music , calling her the most influential vocal stylist of the last two decades , the person who made rococo melismatic singing . Rosen further exemplified Carey ' s influence by drawing a parallel with American Idol , which to her , " often played out as a clash of melisma - mad Mariah wannabes . And , today , nearly 20 years after Carey ' s debut , major labels continue to bet the farm on young stars such as the winner of Britain ' s X Factor show , Leona Lewis , with her Generation Next gloss on Mariah ' s big voice and big hair . " New York Magazine ' s editor Roger Deckker further commented that " Whitney Houston may have introduced melisma ( the vocally acrobatic style of lending a word an extra syllable or twenty ) to the charts , but it was Mariah — with her jaw - dropping range — who made it into America ' s default sound . " Deckker also added that " Every time you turn on American Idol , you are watching her children . " As Professor Katherine L . Meizel said in her book , The Mediation of Identity Politics in American Idol , " Carey ' s influence ( is ) in the emulation of melisma or her singing amongst the wannabe ' s , it ' s also her persona , her diva , her stardom which inspires them ... a pre - fame conic look . " With her ability to do runs , scats , and incredible control using whistle register , Mariah Carey is credited for popularizing this technique in mainstream music , making her name synonymous with the term .	What title have media sources referred to you as?	The "Queen of Melisma".
Multiple media sources referred to Carey as the " Queen of Melisma " . According to Rolling Stone , " Her mastery of melisma , the fluttering strings of notes that decorate songs like " Vision of Love " , inspired the entire American Idol vocal school , for better or worse , and virtually every other female R & B singer since the Nineties . " Chart historian Tom Breihan chose " Vision of Love " as one of the chapters in his book The Number Ones : Twenty Chart - Topping Hits That Reveal the History of Pop Music , stating that the song " set the stage for a whole decade of showy , pyrotechnic ' 90s R & B vocals . Carey created an environment where her disciples could flourish , and she did it by constructing " Vision Of Love " as a showcase for her voice " . In 2008 , Jody Rosen of Slate wrote of Carey ' s influence in modern music , calling her the most influential vocal stylist of the last two decades , the person who made rococo melismatic singing . Rosen further exemplified Carey ' s influence by drawing a parallel with American Idol , which to her , " often played out as a clash of melisma - mad Mariah wannabes . And , today , nearly 20 years after Carey ' s debut , major labels continue to bet the farm on young stars such as the winner of Britain ' s X Factor show , Leona Lewis , with her Generation Next gloss on Mariah ' s big voice and big hair . " New York Magazine ' s editor Roger Deckker further commented that " Whitney Houston may have introduced melisma ( the vocally acrobatic style of lending a word an extra syllable or twenty ) to the charts , but it was Mariah — with her jaw - dropping range — who made it into America ' s default sound . " Deckker also added that " Every time you turn on American Idol , you are watching her children . " As Professor Katherine L . Meizel said in her book , The Mediation of Identity Politics in American Idol , " Carey ' s influence ( is ) in the emulation of melisma or her singing amongst the wannabe ' s , it ' s also her persona , her diva , her stardom which inspires them ... a pre - fame conic look . " With her ability to do runs , scats , and incredible control using whistle register , Mariah Carey is credited for popularizing this technique in mainstream music , making her name synonymous with the term .	Who did your mastery of melisma inspire?	The entire American Idol vocal school and virtually every other female R&B singer since the Nineties.
Multiple media sources referred to Carey as the " Queen of Melisma " . According to Rolling Stone , " Her mastery of melisma , the fluttering strings of notes that decorate songs like " Vision of Love " , inspired the entire American Idol vocal school , for better or worse , and virtually every other female R & B singer since the Nineties . " Chart historian Tom Breihan chose " Vision of Love " as one of the chapters in his book The Number Ones : Twenty Chart - Topping Hits That Reveal the History of Pop Music , stating that the song " set the stage for a whole decade of showy , pyrotechnic ' 90s R & B vocals . Carey created an environment where her disciples could flourish , and she did it by constructing " Vision Of Love " as a showcase for her voice " . In 2008 , Jody Rosen of Slate wrote of Carey ' s influence in modern music , calling her the most influential vocal stylist of the last two decades , the person who made rococo melismatic singing . Rosen further exemplified Carey ' s influence by drawing a parallel with American Idol , which to her , " often played out as a clash of melisma - mad Mariah wannabes . And , today , nearly 20 years after Carey ' s debut , major labels continue to bet the farm on young stars such as the winner of Britain ' s X Factor show , Leona Lewis , with her Generation Next gloss on Mariah ' s big voice and big hair . " New York Magazine ' s editor Roger Deckker further commented that " Whitney Houston may have introduced melisma ( the vocally acrobatic style of lending a word an extra syllable or twenty ) to the charts , but it was Mariah — with her jaw - dropping range — who made it into America ' s default sound . " Deckker also added that " Every time you turn on American Idol , you are watching her children . " As Professor Katherine L . Meizel said in her book , The Mediation of Identity Politics in American Idol , " Carey ' s influence ( is ) in the emulation of melisma or her singing amongst the wannabe ' s , it ' s also her persona , her diva , her stardom which inspires them ... a pre - fame conic look . " With her ability to do runs , scats , and incredible control using whistle register , Mariah Carey is credited for popularizing this technique in mainstream music , making her name synonymous with the term .	Which song did you choose as one of the chapters in your book?	"Vision of Love".
Multiple media sources referred to Carey as the " Queen of Melisma " . According to Rolling Stone , " Her mastery of melisma , the fluttering strings of notes that decorate songs like " Vision of Love " , inspired the entire American Idol vocal school , for better or worse , and virtually every other female R & B singer since the Nineties . " Chart historian Tom Breihan chose " Vision of Love " as one of the chapters in his book The Number Ones : Twenty Chart - Topping Hits That Reveal the History of Pop Music , stating that the song " set the stage for a whole decade of showy , pyrotechnic ' 90s R & B vocals . Carey created an environment where her disciples could flourish , and she did it by constructing " Vision Of Love " as a showcase for her voice " . In 2008 , Jody Rosen of Slate wrote of Carey ' s influence in modern music , calling her the most influential vocal stylist of the last two decades , the person who made rococo melismatic singing . Rosen further exemplified Carey ' s influence by drawing a parallel with American Idol , which to her , " often played out as a clash of melisma - mad Mariah wannabes . And , today , nearly 20 years after Carey ' s debut , major labels continue to bet the farm on young stars such as the winner of Britain ' s X Factor show , Leona Lewis , with her Generation Next gloss on Mariah ' s big voice and big hair . " New York Magazine ' s editor Roger Deckker further commented that " Whitney Houston may have introduced melisma ( the vocally acrobatic style of lending a word an extra syllable or twenty ) to the charts , but it was Mariah — with her jaw - dropping range — who made it into America ' s default sound . " Deckker also added that " Every time you turn on American Idol , you are watching her children . " As Professor Katherine L . Meizel said in her book , The Mediation of Identity Politics in American Idol , " Carey ' s influence ( is ) in the emulation of melisma or her singing amongst the wannabe ' s , it ' s also her persona , her diva , her stardom which inspires them ... a pre - fame conic look . " With her ability to do runs , scats , and incredible control using whistle register , Mariah Carey is credited for popularizing this technique in mainstream music , making her name synonymous with the term .	How did you construct "Vision Of Love"?	As a showcase for my voice.
Multiple media sources referred to Carey as the " Queen of Melisma " . According to Rolling Stone , " Her mastery of melisma , the fluttering strings of notes that decorate songs like " Vision of Love " , inspired the entire American Idol vocal school , for better or worse , and virtually every other female R & B singer since the Nineties . " Chart historian Tom Breihan chose " Vision of Love " as one of the chapters in his book The Number Ones : Twenty Chart - Topping Hits That Reveal the History of Pop Music , stating that the song " set the stage for a whole decade of showy , pyrotechnic ' 90s R & B vocals . Carey created an environment where her disciples could flourish , and she did it by constructing " Vision Of Love " as a showcase for her voice " . In 2008 , Jody Rosen of Slate wrote of Carey ' s influence in modern music , calling her the most influential vocal stylist of the last two decades , the person who made rococo melismatic singing . Rosen further exemplified Carey ' s influence by drawing a parallel with American Idol , which to her , " often played out as a clash of melisma - mad Mariah wannabes . And , today , nearly 20 years after Carey ' s debut , major labels continue to bet the farm on young stars such as the winner of Britain ' s X Factor show , Leona Lewis , with her Generation Next gloss on Mariah ' s big voice and big hair . " New York Magazine ' s editor Roger Deckker further commented that " Whitney Houston may have introduced melisma ( the vocally acrobatic style of lending a word an extra syllable or twenty ) to the charts , but it was Mariah — with her jaw - dropping range — who made it into America ' s default sound . " Deckker also added that " Every time you turn on American Idol , you are watching her children . " As Professor Katherine L . Meizel said in her book , The Mediation of Identity Politics in American Idol , " Carey ' s influence ( is ) in the emulation of melisma or her singing amongst the wannabe ' s , it ' s also her persona , her diva , her stardom which inspires them ... a pre - fame conic look . " With her ability to do runs , scats , and incredible control using whistle register , Mariah Carey is credited for popularizing this technique in mainstream music , making her name synonymous with the term .	According to Jody Rosen, who am I, the most influential vocal stylist of the last two decades?	I am.
