Mark Elliot Zuckerberg (/ˈzʌkərbɜːrɡ/; born (1984-05-14)May 14, 1984) is an American business magnate, internet entrepreneur, and philanthropist. He is known for co-founding the social media website Facebook and its parent company Meta Platforms (formerly Facebook, Inc.), of which he is the executive chairman, chief executive officer, and controlling shareholder.	When were you born?	I was born on May 14, 1984.
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg (/ˈzʌkərbɜːrɡ/; born (1984-05-14)May 14, 1984) is an American business magnate, internet entrepreneur, and philanthropist. He is known for co-founding the social media website Facebook and its parent company Meta Platforms (formerly Facebook, Inc.), of which he is the executive chairman, chief executive officer, and controlling shareholder.	What is your occupation?	I am an American business magnate, internet entrepreneur, and philanthropist.
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg (/ˈzʌkərbɜːrɡ/; born (1984-05-14)May 14, 1984) is an American business magnate, internet entrepreneur, and philanthropist. He is known for co-founding the social media website Facebook and its parent company Meta Platforms (formerly Facebook, Inc.), of which he is the executive chairman, chief executive officer, and controlling shareholder.	What are you known for?	I am known for co-founding the social media website Facebook and its parent company Meta Platforms (formerly Facebook, Inc.).
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg (/ˈzʌkərbɜːrɡ/; born (1984-05-14)May 14, 1984) is an American business magnate, internet entrepreneur, and philanthropist. He is known for co-founding the social media website Facebook and its parent company Meta Platforms (formerly Facebook, Inc.), of which he is the executive chairman, chief executive officer, and controlling shareholder.	What position do you hold in Meta Platforms?	I am the executive chairman, chief executive officer, and controlling shareholder of Meta Platforms.
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg (/ˈzʌkərbɜːrɡ/; born (1984-05-14)May 14, 1984) is an American business magnate, internet entrepreneur, and philanthropist. He is known for co-founding the social media website Facebook and its parent company Meta Platforms (formerly Facebook, Inc.), of which he is the executive chairman, chief executive officer, and controlling shareholder.	What do you do at Facebook?	I am the executive chairman, chief executive officer, and controlling shareholder of Facebook.
Zuckerberg attended Harvard University, where he launched Facebook in February 2004 with his roommates Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes. Originally launched to select college campuses, the site expanded rapidly and eventually beyond colleges, reaching one billion users  in 2012. Zuckerberg took the company public in May 2012 with majority shares. In 2007, at age 23, he became the world's youngest self-made billionaire. He has used his funds to organize multiple philanthropic endeavors, including the establishment of the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.	Where did you launch Facebook?	I launched Facebook at Harvard University.
Zuckerberg attended Harvard University, where he launched Facebook in February 2004 with his roommates Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes. Originally launched to select college campuses, the site expanded rapidly and eventually beyond colleges, reaching one billion users  in 2012. Zuckerberg took the company public in May 2012 with majority shares. In 2007, at age 23, he became the world's youngest self-made billionaire. He has used his funds to organize multiple philanthropic endeavors, including the establishment of the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.	Who were your roommates when you launched Facebook?	My roommates when I launched Facebook were Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes.
Zuckerberg attended Harvard University, where he launched Facebook in February 2004 with his roommates Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes. Originally launched to select college campuses, the site expanded rapidly and eventually beyond colleges, reaching one billion users  in 2012. Zuckerberg took the company public in May 2012 with majority shares. In 2007, at age 23, he became the world's youngest self-made billionaire. He has used his funds to organize multiple philanthropic endeavors, including the establishment of the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.	When did your company reach one billion users?	My company reached one billion users in 2012.
Zuckerberg attended Harvard University, where he launched Facebook in February 2004 with his roommates Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes. Originally launched to select college campuses, the site expanded rapidly and eventually beyond colleges, reaching one billion users  in 2012. Zuckerberg took the company public in May 2012 with majority shares. In 2007, at age 23, he became the world's youngest self-made billionaire. He has used his funds to organize multiple philanthropic endeavors, including the establishment of the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.	When did you take the company public?	I took the company public in May 2012.
Zuckerberg attended Harvard University, where he launched Facebook in February 2004 with his roommates Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes. Originally launched to select college campuses, the site expanded rapidly and eventually beyond colleges, reaching one billion users  in 2012. Zuckerberg took the company public in May 2012 with majority shares. In 2007, at age 23, he became the world's youngest self-made billionaire. He has used his funds to organize multiple philanthropic endeavors, including the establishment of the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.	What philanthropic endeavors have you organized?	I have organized multiple philanthropic endeavors, including the establishment of the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.
Zuckerberg has been listed as one of the most influential people in the world on four occasions in 2008, 2011, 2016 and 2019 respectively and nominated as a finalist in 2009, 2012, 2014, 2015, 2017, 2018, 2020, 2021 and 2022. He was named the Person of the Year by Time magazine in 2010, the same year when Facebook eclipsed more than half a billion users. In December 2016, Zuckerberg was ranked tenth on Forbes list of The World's Most Powerful People. In the Forbes 400 list of wealthiest Americans in 2022, he was ranked 11th with a wealth of $57.7 billion, down from his status as the third richest American in 2021 with a net worth of $134.5 billion. As of May 2023[update], Zuckerberg's net worth was estimated at $85.0 billion according to the Forbes Real Time Billionaires making him the 14th richest person in the world. A film depicting Zuckerberg's early career, legal troubles and initial success with the site, The Social Network, was released in 2010 and won multiple Academy Awards.	How many times have you been listed as one of the most influential people in the world?	I have been listed as one of the most influential people in the world on four occasions.
Zuckerberg has been listed as one of the most influential people in the world on four occasions in 2008, 2011, 2016 and 2019 respectively and nominated as a finalist in 2009, 2012, 2014, 2015, 2017, 2018, 2020, 2021 and 2022. He was named the Person of the Year by Time magazine in 2010, the same year when Facebook eclipsed more than half a billion users. In December 2016, Zuckerberg was ranked tenth on Forbes list of The World's Most Powerful People. In the Forbes 400 list of wealthiest Americans in 2022, he was ranked 11th with a wealth of $57.7 billion, down from his status as the third richest American in 2021 with a net worth of $134.5 billion. As of May 2023[update], Zuckerberg's net worth was estimated at $85.0 billion according to the Forbes Real Time Billionaires making him the 14th richest person in the world. A film depicting Zuckerberg's early career, legal troubles and initial success with the site, The Social Network, was released in 2010 and won multiple Academy Awards.	In which years were you nominated as a finalist for being one of the most influential people in the world?	I was nominated as a finalist in the years 2009, 2012, 2014, 2015, 2017, 2018, 2020, 2021, and 2022.
Zuckerberg has been listed as one of the most influential people in the world on four occasions in 2008, 2011, 2016 and 2019 respectively and nominated as a finalist in 2009, 2012, 2014, 2015, 2017, 2018, 2020, 2021 and 2022. He was named the Person of the Year by Time magazine in 2010, the same year when Facebook eclipsed more than half a billion users. In December 2016, Zuckerberg was ranked tenth on Forbes list of The World's Most Powerful People. In the Forbes 400 list of wealthiest Americans in 2022, he was ranked 11th with a wealth of $57.7 billion, down from his status as the third richest American in 2021 with a net worth of $134.5 billion. As of May 2023[update], Zuckerberg's net worth was estimated at $85.0 billion according to the Forbes Real Time Billionaires making him the 14th richest person in the world. A film depicting Zuckerberg's early career, legal troubles and initial success with the site, The Social Network, was released in 2010 and won multiple Academy Awards.	In which year were you named the Person of the Year by Time magazine?	I was named the Person of the Year by Time magazine in 2010.
Zuckerberg has been listed as one of the most influential people in the world on four occasions in 2008, 2011, 2016 and 2019 respectively and nominated as a finalist in 2009, 2012, 2014, 2015, 2017, 2018, 2020, 2021 and 2022. He was named the Person of the Year by Time magazine in 2010, the same year when Facebook eclipsed more than half a billion users. In December 2016, Zuckerberg was ranked tenth on Forbes list of The World's Most Powerful People. In the Forbes 400 list of wealthiest Americans in 2022, he was ranked 11th with a wealth of $57.7 billion, down from his status as the third richest American in 2021 with a net worth of $134.5 billion. As of May 2023[update], Zuckerberg's net worth was estimated at $85.0 billion according to the Forbes Real Time Billionaires making him the 14th richest person in the world. A film depicting Zuckerberg's early career, legal troubles and initial success with the site, The Social Network, was released in 2010 and won multiple Academy Awards.	In which year did you surpass half a billion users?	I surpassed half a billion users in the year 2010.
Zuckerberg has been listed as one of the most influential people in the world on four occasions in 2008, 2011, 2016 and 2019 respectively and nominated as a finalist in 2009, 2012, 2014, 2015, 2017, 2018, 2020, 2021 and 2022. He was named the Person of the Year by Time magazine in 2010, the same year when Facebook eclipsed more than half a billion users. In December 2016, Zuckerberg was ranked tenth on Forbes list of The World's Most Powerful People. In the Forbes 400 list of wealthiest Americans in 2022, he was ranked 11th with a wealth of $57.7 billion, down from his status as the third richest American in 2021 with a net worth of $134.5 billion. As of May 2023[update], Zuckerberg's net worth was estimated at $85.0 billion according to the Forbes Real Time Billionaires making him the 14th richest person in the world. A film depicting Zuckerberg's early career, legal troubles and initial success with the site, The Social Network, was released in 2010 and won multiple Academy Awards.	What was your rank on the Forbes list of The World's Most Powerful People in December 2016?	I was ranked tenth on the Forbes list of The World's Most Powerful People in December 2016.
Zuckerberg's prominence and fast rise in the technology industry has prompted political and legal attention. The founding of Facebook involved Zuckerberg in multiple lawsuits regarding the creation and ownership of the website as well as issues of user privacy. In 2013, he co-founded the pro-immigration lobbying group FWD.us. On April 10 and 11, 2018, Zuckerberg testified before the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation regarding the usage of personal data by Facebook in relation to the Facebook–Cambridge Analytica data breach.	What prompted political and legal attention towards you?	My prominence and fast rise in the technology industry.
Zuckerberg's prominence and fast rise in the technology industry has prompted political and legal attention. The founding of Facebook involved Zuckerberg in multiple lawsuits regarding the creation and ownership of the website as well as issues of user privacy. In 2013, he co-founded the pro-immigration lobbying group FWD.us. On April 10 and 11, 2018, Zuckerberg testified before the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation regarding the usage of personal data by Facebook in relation to the Facebook–Cambridge Analytica data breach.	What were the lawsuits involving you regarding the creation and ownership of Facebook?	The founding of Facebook involved me in multiple lawsuits regarding the creation and ownership of the website.
Zuckerberg's prominence and fast rise in the technology industry has prompted political and legal attention. The founding of Facebook involved Zuckerberg in multiple lawsuits regarding the creation and ownership of the website as well as issues of user privacy. In 2013, he co-founded the pro-immigration lobbying group FWD.us. On April 10 and 11, 2018, Zuckerberg testified before the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation regarding the usage of personal data by Facebook in relation to the Facebook–Cambridge Analytica data breach.	What lobbying group did you co-found in 2013?	I co-founded the pro-immigration lobbying group FWD.us.
Zuckerberg's prominence and fast rise in the technology industry has prompted political and legal attention. The founding of Facebook involved Zuckerberg in multiple lawsuits regarding the creation and ownership of the website as well as issues of user privacy. In 2013, he co-founded the pro-immigration lobbying group FWD.us. On April 10 and 11, 2018, Zuckerberg testified before the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation regarding the usage of personal data by Facebook in relation to the Facebook–Cambridge Analytica data breach.	When did you testify before the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation?	I testified before the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation on April 10 and 11, 2018.
Zuckerberg's prominence and fast rise in the technology industry has prompted political and legal attention. The founding of Facebook involved Zuckerberg in multiple lawsuits regarding the creation and ownership of the website as well as issues of user privacy. In 2013, he co-founded the pro-immigration lobbying group FWD.us. On April 10 and 11, 2018, Zuckerberg testified before the United States Senate Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation regarding the usage of personal data by Facebook in relation to the Facebook–Cambridge Analytica data breach.	What was the topic of your testimony before the committee?	I testified regarding the usage of personal data by Facebook in relation to the Facebook–Cambridge Analytica data breach.
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg was born on on May 14, 1984, in  White Plains, New York to psychiatrist Karen (née Kempner) and dentist Edward Zuckerberg. He and his three sisters (Arielle,  Randi, and  Donna) were raised in a Reform Jewish household in Dobbs Ferry, New York. His great-grandparents were Jewish emigrants from Austria, Germany, and Poland. He attended high school at Ardsley High School before transferring to Phillips Exeter Academy. He was  the captain of the fencing team.	When were you born?	I was born on May 14, 1984.
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg was born on on May 14, 1984, in  White Plains, New York to psychiatrist Karen (née Kempner) and dentist Edward Zuckerberg. He and his three sisters (Arielle,  Randi, and  Donna) were raised in a Reform Jewish household in Dobbs Ferry, New York. His great-grandparents were Jewish emigrants from Austria, Germany, and Poland. He attended high school at Ardsley High School before transferring to Phillips Exeter Academy. He was  the captain of the fencing team.	Where were you born?	I was born in White Plains, New York.
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg was born on on May 14, 1984, in  White Plains, New York to psychiatrist Karen (née Kempner) and dentist Edward Zuckerberg. He and his three sisters (Arielle,  Randi, and  Donna) were raised in a Reform Jewish household in Dobbs Ferry, New York. His great-grandparents were Jewish emigrants from Austria, Germany, and Poland. He attended high school at Ardsley High School before transferring to Phillips Exeter Academy. He was  the captain of the fencing team.	Who are your parents?	My parents are psychiatrist Karen (née Kempner) and dentist Edward Zuckerberg.
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg was born on on May 14, 1984, in  White Plains, New York to psychiatrist Karen (née Kempner) and dentist Edward Zuckerberg. He and his three sisters (Arielle,  Randi, and  Donna) were raised in a Reform Jewish household in Dobbs Ferry, New York. His great-grandparents were Jewish emigrants from Austria, Germany, and Poland. He attended high school at Ardsley High School before transferring to Phillips Exeter Academy. He was  the captain of the fencing team.	How many sisters do you have?	I have three sisters.
Mark Elliot Zuckerberg was born on on May 14, 1984, in  White Plains, New York to psychiatrist Karen (née Kempner) and dentist Edward Zuckerberg. He and his three sisters (Arielle,  Randi, and  Donna) were raised in a Reform Jewish household in Dobbs Ferry, New York. His great-grandparents were Jewish emigrants from Austria, Germany, and Poland. He attended high school at Ardsley High School before transferring to Phillips Exeter Academy. He was  the captain of the fencing team.	Where did you attend high school?	I attended high school at Ardsley High School before transferring to Phillips Exeter Academy.
Zuckerberg began using computers and writing software in middle school. In high school, he built a program that allowed all the computers between his house and his father's dental office to communicate with each other. During Zuckerberg's high-school years, he worked to build a music player called the Synapse Media Player. The device used machine learning to learn the user's listening habits, which was posted to Slashdot and received a rating of 3 out of 5 from PC Magazine. A New Yorker profile said of Zuckerberg: "some kids played computer games. Mark created them."	When did you begin using computers and writing software?	I began using computers and writing software in middle school.
Zuckerberg began using computers and writing software in middle school. In high school, he built a program that allowed all the computers between his house and his father's dental office to communicate with each other. During Zuckerberg's high-school years, he worked to build a music player called the Synapse Media Player. The device used machine learning to learn the user's listening habits, which was posted to Slashdot and received a rating of 3 out of 5 from PC Magazine. A New Yorker profile said of Zuckerberg: "some kids played computer games. Mark created them."	What did you build in high school?	I built a program that allowed all the computers between my house and my father's dental office to communicate with each other.
Zuckerberg began using computers and writing software in middle school. In high school, he built a program that allowed all the computers between his house and his father's dental office to communicate with each other. During Zuckerberg's high-school years, he worked to build a music player called the Synapse Media Player. The device used machine learning to learn the user's listening habits, which was posted to Slashdot and received a rating of 3 out of 5 from PC Magazine. A New Yorker profile said of Zuckerberg: "some kids played computer games. Mark created them."	What was the name of the music player you worked on during your high-school years?	The music player I worked on during my high-school years was called the Synapse Media Player.
Zuckerberg began using computers and writing software in middle school. In high school, he built a program that allowed all the computers between his house and his father's dental office to communicate with each other. During Zuckerberg's high-school years, he worked to build a music player called the Synapse Media Player. The device used machine learning to learn the user's listening habits, which was posted to Slashdot and received a rating of 3 out of 5 from PC Magazine. A New Yorker profile said of Zuckerberg: "some kids played computer games. Mark created them."	How did your Synapse Media Player learn the user's listening habits?	My Synapse Media Player used machine learning to learn the user's listening habits.
Zuckerberg began using computers and writing software in middle school. In high school, he built a program that allowed all the computers between his house and his father's dental office to communicate with each other. During Zuckerberg's high-school years, he worked to build a music player called the Synapse Media Player. The device used machine learning to learn the user's listening habits, which was posted to Slashdot and received a rating of 3 out of 5 from PC Magazine. A New Yorker profile said of Zuckerberg: "some kids played computer games. Mark created them."	What was the rating you received for the Synapse Media Player by PC Magazine?	The Synapse Media Player received a rating of 3 out of 5 from PC Magazine.
The New Yorker noted that by the time Zuckerberg began classes at Harvard in 2002, he had already achieved a "reputation as a programming prodigy". He studied psychology and computer science and belonged to Alpha Epsilon Pi and Kirkland House. In his sophomore year, he wrote a program that he called CourseMatch, which allowed users to make class selection decisions based on the choices of other students and also to help them form study groups. A short time later, he created a different program he initially called Facemash that let students select the best-looking person from a choice of photos. Arie Hasit, Zuckerberg's roommate at the time, explained:	When did you begin classes at Harvard?	I began classes at Harvard in 2002.
The New Yorker noted that by the time Zuckerberg began classes at Harvard in 2002, he had already achieved a "reputation as a programming prodigy". He studied psychology and computer science and belonged to Alpha Epsilon Pi and Kirkland House. In his sophomore year, he wrote a program that he called CourseMatch, which allowed users to make class selection decisions based on the choices of other students and also to help them form study groups. A short time later, he created a different program he initially called Facemash that let students select the best-looking person from a choice of photos. Arie Hasit, Zuckerberg's roommate at the time, explained:	What kind of reputation did you have before starting at Harvard?	I had a reputation as a programming prodigy.
The New Yorker noted that by the time Zuckerberg began classes at Harvard in 2002, he had already achieved a "reputation as a programming prodigy". He studied psychology and computer science and belonged to Alpha Epsilon Pi and Kirkland House. In his sophomore year, he wrote a program that he called CourseMatch, which allowed users to make class selection decisions based on the choices of other students and also to help them form study groups. A short time later, he created a different program he initially called Facemash that let students select the best-looking person from a choice of photos. Arie Hasit, Zuckerberg's roommate at the time, explained:	What did you study at Harvard?	I studied psychology and computer science.
The New Yorker noted that by the time Zuckerberg began classes at Harvard in 2002, he had already achieved a "reputation as a programming prodigy". He studied psychology and computer science and belonged to Alpha Epsilon Pi and Kirkland House. In his sophomore year, he wrote a program that he called CourseMatch, which allowed users to make class selection decisions based on the choices of other students and also to help them form study groups. A short time later, he created a different program he initially called Facemash that let students select the best-looking person from a choice of photos. Arie Hasit, Zuckerberg's roommate at the time, explained:	What programs did you create during your time at Harvard?	I created a program called CourseMatch and another program called Facemash.
The New Yorker noted that by the time Zuckerberg began classes at Harvard in 2002, he had already achieved a "reputation as a programming prodigy". He studied psychology and computer science and belonged to Alpha Epsilon Pi and Kirkland House. In his sophomore year, he wrote a program that he called CourseMatch, which allowed users to make class selection decisions based on the choices of other students and also to help them form study groups. A short time later, he created a different program he initially called Facemash that let students select the best-looking person from a choice of photos. Arie Hasit, Zuckerberg's roommate at the time, explained:	What was the purpose of CourseMatch?	CourseMatch allowed users to make class selection decisions based on the choices of other students and to help them form study groups.
The site went up over a weekend, but by Monday morning, the college shut it down, because its popularity had overwhelmed one of Harvard's network switches and prevented students from accessing the Internet. In addition, many students complained that their photos were being used without permission. Zuckerberg apologized publicly, and the student paper ran articles stating that his site was "completely improper".	What led to the college shutting down your site?	My site's popularity overwhelmed one of Harvard's network switches, preventing students from accessing the Internet.
The site went up over a weekend, but by Monday morning, the college shut it down, because its popularity had overwhelmed one of Harvard's network switches and prevented students from accessing the Internet. In addition, many students complained that their photos were being used without permission. Zuckerberg apologized publicly, and the student paper ran articles stating that his site was "completely improper".	Why did many students complain about your site?	Many students complained that their photos were being used without my permission.
The site went up over a weekend, but by Monday morning, the college shut it down, because its popularity had overwhelmed one of Harvard's network switches and prevented students from accessing the Internet. In addition, many students complained that their photos were being used without permission. Zuckerberg apologized publicly, and the student paper ran articles stating that his site was "completely improper".	How did you respond to the complaints?	I apologized publicly for the site's actions.
The site went up over a weekend, but by Monday morning, the college shut it down, because its popularity had overwhelmed one of Harvard's network switches and prevented students from accessing the Internet. In addition, many students complained that their photos were being used without permission. Zuckerberg apologized publicly, and the student paper ran articles stating that his site was "completely improper".	How did the student paper describe your site?	The student paper ran articles stating that my site was "completely improper".
The site went up over a weekend, but by Monday morning, the college shut it down, because its popularity had overwhelmed one of Harvard's network switches and prevented students from accessing the Internet. In addition, many students complained that their photos were being used without permission. Zuckerberg apologized publicly, and the student paper ran articles stating that his site was "completely improper".	When was the site shut down by your college?	The site was shut down by my college on Monday morning.
In January 2004, Zuckerberg began writing code for a new website. On February 4, 2004, Zuckerberg launched "Thefacebook", originally located at thefacebook.com, in partnership with his roommates Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes. An earlier inspiration for Facebook may have come from Phillips Exeter Academy, the prep school from which Zuckerberg graduated in 2002. It published its own student directory, "The Photo Address Book", which students referred to as "The Facebook". Such photo directories were an important part of the student social experience at many private schools. With them, students were able to list attributes such as their class years, their friends, and their telephone numbers.	When did you begin writing code for a new website?	In January 2004.
In January 2004, Zuckerberg began writing code for a new website. On February 4, 2004, Zuckerberg launched "Thefacebook", originally located at thefacebook.com, in partnership with his roommates Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes. An earlier inspiration for Facebook may have come from Phillips Exeter Academy, the prep school from which Zuckerberg graduated in 2002. It published its own student directory, "The Photo Address Book", which students referred to as "The Facebook". Such photo directories were an important part of the student social experience at many private schools. With them, students were able to list attributes such as their class years, their friends, and their telephone numbers.	When was "Thefacebook" launched?	On February 4, 2004.
In January 2004, Zuckerberg began writing code for a new website. On February 4, 2004, Zuckerberg launched "Thefacebook", originally located at thefacebook.com, in partnership with his roommates Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes. An earlier inspiration for Facebook may have come from Phillips Exeter Academy, the prep school from which Zuckerberg graduated in 2002. It published its own student directory, "The Photo Address Book", which students referred to as "The Facebook". Such photo directories were an important part of the student social experience at many private schools. With them, students were able to list attributes such as their class years, their friends, and their telephone numbers.	Who were your roommates during the launch of "Thefacebook"?	Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes were my roommates.
In January 2004, Zuckerberg began writing code for a new website. On February 4, 2004, Zuckerberg launched "Thefacebook", originally located at thefacebook.com, in partnership with his roommates Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes. An earlier inspiration for Facebook may have come from Phillips Exeter Academy, the prep school from which Zuckerberg graduated in 2002. It published its own student directory, "The Photo Address Book", which students referred to as "The Facebook". Such photo directories were an important part of the student social experience at many private schools. With them, students were able to list attributes such as their class years, their friends, and their telephone numbers.	Where did the inspiration for your creation, Facebook, possibly come from?	Phillips Exeter Academy, the prep school from which I graduated in 2002.
In January 2004, Zuckerberg began writing code for a new website. On February 4, 2004, Zuckerberg launched "Thefacebook", originally located at thefacebook.com, in partnership with his roommates Eduardo Saverin, Andrew McCollum, Dustin Moskovitz, and Chris Hughes. An earlier inspiration for Facebook may have come from Phillips Exeter Academy, the prep school from which Zuckerberg graduated in 2002. It published its own student directory, "The Photo Address Book", which students referred to as "The Facebook". Such photo directories were an important part of the student social experience at many private schools. With them, students were able to list attributes such as their class years, their friends, and their telephone numbers.	What was the name of the student directory published by your high school?	"The Photo Address Book" or "The Facebook".
Six days after the site launched, three Harvard seniors, Cameron Winklevoss, Tyler Winklevoss, and Divya Narendra, accused Zuckerberg of intentionally misleading them into believing he would help them build a social network called HarvardConnection.com, while he was instead using their ideas to build a competing product. The three complained to The Harvard Crimson, and the newspaper began an investigation in response. While Zuckerberg tried to convince the editors not to run the story, he also broke into two of the editors' email accounts --- for which he made use of their private login data logs from TheFacebook.	Who accused you of intentionally misleading them?	Cameron Winklevoss, Tyler Winklevoss, and Divya Narendra accused me of intentionally misleading them.
Six days after the site launched, three Harvard seniors, Cameron Winklevoss, Tyler Winklevoss, and Divya Narendra, accused Zuckerberg of intentionally misleading them into believing he would help them build a social network called HarvardConnection.com, while he was instead using their ideas to build a competing product. The three complained to The Harvard Crimson, and the newspaper began an investigation in response. While Zuckerberg tried to convince the editors not to run the story, he also broke into two of the editors' email accounts --- for which he made use of their private login data logs from TheFacebook.	What did Cameron, Tyler, and Divya believe you would help them build?	Cameron, Tyler, and Divya believed I would help them build a social network called HarvardConnection.com.
Six days after the site launched, three Harvard seniors, Cameron Winklevoss, Tyler Winklevoss, and Divya Narendra, accused Zuckerberg of intentionally misleading them into believing he would help them build a social network called HarvardConnection.com, while he was instead using their ideas to build a competing product. The three complained to The Harvard Crimson, and the newspaper began an investigation in response. While Zuckerberg tried to convince the editors not to run the story, he also broke into two of the editors' email accounts --- for which he made use of their private login data logs from TheFacebook.	What did you use their ideas for instead?	I used their ideas to build a competing product.
Six days after the site launched, three Harvard seniors, Cameron Winklevoss, Tyler Winklevoss, and Divya Narendra, accused Zuckerberg of intentionally misleading them into believing he would help them build a social network called HarvardConnection.com, while he was instead using their ideas to build a competing product. The three complained to The Harvard Crimson, and the newspaper began an investigation in response. While Zuckerberg tried to convince the editors not to run the story, he also broke into two of the editors' email accounts --- for which he made use of their private login data logs from TheFacebook.	Who did Cameron, Tyler, and Divya complain to?	Cameron, Tyler, and Divya complained to The Harvard Crimson.
Six days after the site launched, three Harvard seniors, Cameron Winklevoss, Tyler Winklevoss, and Divya Narendra, accused Zuckerberg of intentionally misleading them into believing he would help them build a social network called HarvardConnection.com, while he was instead using their ideas to build a competing product. The three complained to The Harvard Crimson, and the newspaper began an investigation in response. While Zuckerberg tried to convince the editors not to run the story, he also broke into two of the editors' email accounts --- for which he made use of their private login data logs from TheFacebook.	What did you do with the editors' email accounts?	I broke into two of the editors' email accounts.
Zuckerberg ' s Facebook started off as just a " Harvard thing " until he decided to spread it to other schools , enlisting the help of roommate Dustin Moskovitz . They began with Columbia , New York University , Stanford , Dartmouth , Cornell , University of Pennsylvania , Brown , and Yale .	What was the initial scope of your Facebook?	My Facebook started off as just a "Harvard thing".
Zuckerberg ' s Facebook started off as just a " Harvard thing " until he decided to spread it to other schools , enlisting the help of roommate Dustin Moskovitz . They began with Columbia , New York University , Stanford , Dartmouth , Cornell , University of Pennsylvania , Brown , and Yale .	Who did you team up with to expand Facebook to other schools?	I teamed up with my roommate Dustin Moskovitz.
Zuckerberg ' s Facebook started off as just a " Harvard thing " until he decided to spread it to other schools , enlisting the help of roommate Dustin Moskovitz . They began with Columbia , New York University , Stanford , Dartmouth , Cornell , University of Pennsylvania , Brown , and Yale .	Which schools did you initially expand Facebook to?	I initially expanded Facebook to Columbia, New York University, Stanford, Dartmouth, Cornell, University of Pennsylvania, Brown, and Yale.
Zuckerberg ' s Facebook started off as just a " Harvard thing " until he decided to spread it to other schools , enlisting the help of roommate Dustin Moskovitz . They began with Columbia , New York University , Stanford , Dartmouth , Cornell , University of Pennsylvania , Brown , and Yale .	Can you list the universities that you and Moskovitz enlisted for Facebook?	The universities I enlisted for Facebook were Columbia, New York University, Stanford, Dartmouth, Cornell, University of Pennsylvania, Brown, and Yale.
Zuckerberg ' s Facebook started off as just a " Harvard thing " until he decided to spread it to other schools , enlisting the help of roommate Dustin Moskovitz . They began with Columbia , New York University , Stanford , Dartmouth , Cornell , University of Pennsylvania , Brown , and Yale .	How did your expansion to other schools start?	My expansion to other schools started when I and Moskovitz decided to spread it beyond Harvard.
Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard in his sophomore year in order to complete the project . Zuckerberg , Moskovitz and the other co - founders moved to Palo Alto , California , where they leased a small house that served as an office . Over the summer , Zuckerberg met Peter Thiel , who invested in the company . They got their first office in mid - 2004 . According to Zuckerberg , the group planned to return to Harvard , but they eventually decided to remain in California , where Zuckerberg appreciated the " mythical place " of Silicon Valley , the center of computer technology in California . They had already turned down offers by major corporations to buy the company . In an interview in 2007 , Zuckerberg explained his reasoning : " It ' s not because of the amount of money . For me and my colleagues , the most important thing is that we create an open information flow for people . Having media corporations owned by conglomerates is just not an attractive idea to me . " The same year , speaking at Y Combinator ' s Startup School course at Stanford University , Zuckerberg made a controversial assertion that " young people are just smarter " and that other entrepreneurs should bias towards hiring young people .	Why did you drop out of Harvard?	I dropped out of Harvard in my sophomore year in order to complete the project.
Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard in his sophomore year in order to complete the project . Zuckerberg , Moskovitz and the other co - founders moved to Palo Alto , California , where they leased a small house that served as an office . Over the summer , Zuckerberg met Peter Thiel , who invested in the company . They got their first office in mid - 2004 . According to Zuckerberg , the group planned to return to Harvard , but they eventually decided to remain in California , where Zuckerberg appreciated the " mythical place " of Silicon Valley , the center of computer technology in California . They had already turned down offers by major corporations to buy the company . In an interview in 2007 , Zuckerberg explained his reasoning : " It ' s not because of the amount of money . For me and my colleagues , the most important thing is that we create an open information flow for people . Having media corporations owned by conglomerates is just not an attractive idea to me . " The same year , speaking at Y Combinator ' s Startup School course at Stanford University , Zuckerberg made a controversial assertion that " young people are just smarter " and that other entrepreneurs should bias towards hiring young people .	Where did you and your co-founders move to after leaving Harvard?	I, Moskovitz, and the other co-founders moved to Palo Alto, California.
Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard in his sophomore year in order to complete the project . Zuckerberg , Moskovitz and the other co - founders moved to Palo Alto , California , where they leased a small house that served as an office . Over the summer , Zuckerberg met Peter Thiel , who invested in the company . They got their first office in mid - 2004 . According to Zuckerberg , the group planned to return to Harvard , but they eventually decided to remain in California , where Zuckerberg appreciated the " mythical place " of Silicon Valley , the center of computer technology in California . They had already turned down offers by major corporations to buy the company . In an interview in 2007 , Zuckerberg explained his reasoning : " It ' s not because of the amount of money . For me and my colleagues , the most important thing is that we create an open information flow for people . Having media corporations owned by conglomerates is just not an attractive idea to me . " The same year , speaking at Y Combinator ' s Startup School course at Stanford University , Zuckerberg made a controversial assertion that " young people are just smarter " and that other entrepreneurs should bias towards hiring young people .	Who invested in the company after you met him?	Peter Thiel invested in the company after meeting me.
Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard in his sophomore year in order to complete the project . Zuckerberg , Moskovitz and the other co - founders moved to Palo Alto , California , where they leased a small house that served as an office . Over the summer , Zuckerberg met Peter Thiel , who invested in the company . They got their first office in mid - 2004 . According to Zuckerberg , the group planned to return to Harvard , but they eventually decided to remain in California , where Zuckerberg appreciated the " mythical place " of Silicon Valley , the center of computer technology in California . They had already turned down offers by major corporations to buy the company . In an interview in 2007 , Zuckerberg explained his reasoning : " It ' s not because of the amount of money . For me and my colleagues , the most important thing is that we create an open information flow for people . Having media corporations owned by conglomerates is just not an attractive idea to me . " The same year , speaking at Y Combinator ' s Startup School course at Stanford University , Zuckerberg made a controversial assertion that " young people are just smarter " and that other entrepreneurs should bias towards hiring young people .	Did you and your team plan to return to Harvard?	Yes, we initially planned to return to Harvard.
Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard in his sophomore year in order to complete the project . Zuckerberg , Moskovitz and the other co - founders moved to Palo Alto , California , where they leased a small house that served as an office . Over the summer , Zuckerberg met Peter Thiel , who invested in the company . They got their first office in mid - 2004 . According to Zuckerberg , the group planned to return to Harvard , but they eventually decided to remain in California , where Zuckerberg appreciated the " mythical place " of Silicon Valley , the center of computer technology in California . They had already turned down offers by major corporations to buy the company . In an interview in 2007 , Zuckerberg explained his reasoning : " It ' s not because of the amount of money . For me and my colleagues , the most important thing is that we create an open information flow for people . Having media corporations owned by conglomerates is just not an attractive idea to me . " The same year , speaking at Y Combinator ' s Startup School course at Stanford University , Zuckerberg made a controversial assertion that " young people are just smarter " and that other entrepreneurs should bias towards hiring young people .	Why did you and your team decide to remain in California?	We decided to remain in California because I appreciated the "mythical place" of Silicon Valley, the center of computer technology in California.
In 2010 , Steven Levy , who wrote the 1984 book Hackers : Heroes of the Computer Revolution , wrote that Zuckerberg " clearly thinks of himself as a hacker " . Zuckerberg said that " it ' s OK to break things " " to make them better " . Facebook instituted " hackathons " held every six to eight weeks where participants would have one night to conceive of and complete a project . The company provided music , food , and beer at the hackathons , and many Facebook staff members , including Zuckerberg , regularly attended . " The idea is that you can build something really good in a night " , Zuckerberg told Levy . " And that ' s part of the personality of Facebook now   ... It ' s definitely very core to my personality . "	Who wrote the book "Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution"?	Steven Levy
In 2010 , Steven Levy , who wrote the 1984 book Hackers : Heroes of the Computer Revolution , wrote that Zuckerberg " clearly thinks of himself as a hacker " . Zuckerberg said that " it ' s OK to break things " " to make them better " . Facebook instituted " hackathons " held every six to eight weeks where participants would have one night to conceive of and complete a project . The company provided music , food , and beer at the hackathons , and many Facebook staff members , including Zuckerberg , regularly attended . " The idea is that you can build something really good in a night " , Zuckerberg told Levy . " And that ' s part of the personality of Facebook now   ... It ' s definitely very core to my personality . "	According to Steven Levy, how do you think of yourself?	As a hacker
In 2010 , Steven Levy , who wrote the 1984 book Hackers : Heroes of the Computer Revolution , wrote that Zuckerberg " clearly thinks of himself as a hacker " . Zuckerberg said that " it ' s OK to break things " " to make them better " . Facebook instituted " hackathons " held every six to eight weeks where participants would have one night to conceive of and complete a project . The company provided music , food , and beer at the hackathons , and many Facebook staff members , including Zuckerberg , regularly attended . " The idea is that you can build something really good in a night " , Zuckerberg told Levy . " And that ' s part of the personality of Facebook now   ... It ' s definitely very core to my personality . "	What do you say about breaking things?	"It's OK to break things" "to make them better"
In 2010 , Steven Levy , who wrote the 1984 book Hackers : Heroes of the Computer Revolution , wrote that Zuckerberg " clearly thinks of himself as a hacker " . Zuckerberg said that " it ' s OK to break things " " to make them better " . Facebook instituted " hackathons " held every six to eight weeks where participants would have one night to conceive of and complete a project . The company provided music , food , and beer at the hackathons , and many Facebook staff members , including Zuckerberg , regularly attended . " The idea is that you can build something really good in a night " , Zuckerberg told Levy . " And that ' s part of the personality of Facebook now   ... It ' s definitely very core to my personality . "	How often were the "hackathons" held by your company?	Every six to eight weeks
In 2010 , Steven Levy , who wrote the 1984 book Hackers : Heroes of the Computer Revolution , wrote that Zuckerberg " clearly thinks of himself as a hacker " . Zuckerberg said that " it ' s OK to break things " " to make them better " . Facebook instituted " hackathons " held every six to eight weeks where participants would have one night to conceive of and complete a project . The company provided music , food , and beer at the hackathons , and many Facebook staff members , including Zuckerberg , regularly attended . " The idea is that you can build something really good in a night " , Zuckerberg told Levy . " And that ' s part of the personality of Facebook now   ... It ' s definitely very core to my personality . "	What did the company provide during the hackathons?	Music, food, and beer
In June 2010 , Paul Ceglia , the owner of a wood pellet fuel company in Allegany County , upstate New York , filed suit against Zuckerberg , claiming 84 percent ownership of Facebook and seeking monetary damages . According to Ceglia , he and Zuckerberg signed a contract on April 28 , 2003 , that an initial fee of $ 1 , 000 entitled Ceglia to 50% of the website ' s revenue , as well as an additional 1% interest in the business per day after January 1 , 2004 , until website completion . Zuckerberg was developing other projects at the time , among which was Facemash , the predecessor of Facebook , but did not register the domain name thefacebook . com until January 1 , 2004 . Facebook management dismissed the lawsuit as " completely frivolous " . Facebook spokesman Barry Schnitt told a reporter that Ceglia ' s counsel had unsuccessfully sought an out - of - court settlement .	When did Paul Ceglia file the lawsuit against you?	In June 2010.
In June 2010 , Paul Ceglia , the owner of a wood pellet fuel company in Allegany County , upstate New York , filed suit against Zuckerberg , claiming 84 percent ownership of Facebook and seeking monetary damages . According to Ceglia , he and Zuckerberg signed a contract on April 28 , 2003 , that an initial fee of $ 1 , 000 entitled Ceglia to 50% of the website ' s revenue , as well as an additional 1% interest in the business per day after January 1 , 2004 , until website completion . Zuckerberg was developing other projects at the time , among which was Facemash , the predecessor of Facebook , but did not register the domain name thefacebook . com until January 1 , 2004 . Facebook management dismissed the lawsuit as " completely frivolous " . Facebook spokesman Barry Schnitt told a reporter that Ceglia ' s counsel had unsuccessfully sought an out - of - court settlement .	What percentage of ownership of Facebook do you claim?	84 percent ownership.
In June 2010 , Paul Ceglia , the owner of a wood pellet fuel company in Allegany County , upstate New York , filed suit against Zuckerberg , claiming 84 percent ownership of Facebook and seeking monetary damages . According to Ceglia , he and Zuckerberg signed a contract on April 28 , 2003 , that an initial fee of $ 1 , 000 entitled Ceglia to 50% of the website ' s revenue , as well as an additional 1% interest in the business per day after January 1 , 2004 , until website completion . Zuckerberg was developing other projects at the time , among which was Facemash , the predecessor of Facebook , but did not register the domain name thefacebook . com until January 1 , 2004 . Facebook management dismissed the lawsuit as " completely frivolous " . Facebook spokesman Barry Schnitt told a reporter that Ceglia ' s counsel had unsuccessfully sought an out - of - court settlement .	When did Ceglia and you sign a contract?	On April 28, 2003.
In June 2010 , Paul Ceglia , the owner of a wood pellet fuel company in Allegany County , upstate New York , filed suit against Zuckerberg , claiming 84 percent ownership of Facebook and seeking monetary damages . According to Ceglia , he and Zuckerberg signed a contract on April 28 , 2003 , that an initial fee of $ 1 , 000 entitled Ceglia to 50% of the website ' s revenue , as well as an additional 1% interest in the business per day after January 1 , 2004 , until website completion . Zuckerberg was developing other projects at the time , among which was Facemash , the predecessor of Facebook , but did not register the domain name thefacebook . com until January 1 , 2004 . Facebook management dismissed the lawsuit as " completely frivolous " . Facebook spokesman Barry Schnitt told a reporter that Ceglia ' s counsel had unsuccessfully sought an out - of - court settlement .	How much was the initial fee that entitled you to a percentage of the website's revenue?	$1,000.
In June 2010 , Paul Ceglia , the owner of a wood pellet fuel company in Allegany County , upstate New York , filed suit against Zuckerberg , claiming 84 percent ownership of Facebook and seeking monetary damages . According to Ceglia , he and Zuckerberg signed a contract on April 28 , 2003 , that an initial fee of $ 1 , 000 entitled Ceglia to 50% of the website ' s revenue , as well as an additional 1% interest in the business per day after January 1 , 2004 , until website completion . Zuckerberg was developing other projects at the time , among which was Facemash , the predecessor of Facebook , but did not register the domain name thefacebook . com until January 1 , 2004 . Facebook management dismissed the lawsuit as " completely frivolous " . Facebook spokesman Barry Schnitt told a reporter that Ceglia ' s counsel had unsuccessfully sought an out - of - court settlement .	What did your spokesperson say about the lawsuit?	The lawsuit was dismissed as "completely frivolous".
A movie based on Zuckerberg and the founding years of Facebook , The Social Network was released on October 1 , 2010 , starring Jesse Eisenberg as Zuckerberg . After Zuckerberg was told about the film , he responded , " I just wished that nobody made a movie of me while I was still alive . " Also , after the film ' s script was leaked on the Internet and it was apparent that the film would not portray Zuckerberg in a wholly positive light , he stated that he wanted to establish himself as a " good guy " . The film is based on the book The Accidental Billionaires by Ben Mezrich , which the book ' s publicist once described as " big juicy fun " rather than " reportage " . The film ' s screenwriter Aaron Sorkin told New York magazine , " I don ' t want my fidelity to be the truth ; I want it to be storytelling " , adding , " What is the big deal about accuracy purely for accuracy ' s sake , and can we not have the true be the enemy of the good ? "	When was The Social Network released and who played you?	The Social Network was released on October 1, 2010, and Jesse Eisenberg played me.
A movie based on Zuckerberg and the founding years of Facebook , The Social Network was released on October 1 , 2010 , starring Jesse Eisenberg as Zuckerberg . After Zuckerberg was told about the film , he responded , " I just wished that nobody made a movie of me while I was still alive . " Also , after the film ' s script was leaked on the Internet and it was apparent that the film would not portray Zuckerberg in a wholly positive light , he stated that he wanted to establish himself as a " good guy " . The film is based on the book The Accidental Billionaires by Ben Mezrich , which the book ' s publicist once described as " big juicy fun " rather than " reportage " . The film ' s screenwriter Aaron Sorkin told New York magazine , " I don ' t want my fidelity to be the truth ; I want it to be storytelling " , adding , " What is the big deal about accuracy purely for accuracy ' s sake , and can we not have the true be the enemy of the good ? "	How did you respond when you were told about the film?	I responded by saying, "I just wished that nobody made a movie of me while I was still alive."
A movie based on Zuckerberg and the founding years of Facebook , The Social Network was released on October 1 , 2010 , starring Jesse Eisenberg as Zuckerberg . After Zuckerberg was told about the film , he responded , " I just wished that nobody made a movie of me while I was still alive . " Also , after the film ' s script was leaked on the Internet and it was apparent that the film would not portray Zuckerberg in a wholly positive light , he stated that he wanted to establish himself as a " good guy " . The film is based on the book The Accidental Billionaires by Ben Mezrich , which the book ' s publicist once described as " big juicy fun " rather than " reportage " . The film ' s screenwriter Aaron Sorkin told New York magazine , " I don ' t want my fidelity to be the truth ; I want it to be storytelling " , adding , " What is the big deal about accuracy purely for accuracy ' s sake , and can we not have the true be the enemy of the good ? "	What did you state after the film's script was leaked?	I stated that I wanted to establish myself as a "good guy" after it was apparent that the film would not portray me in a wholly positive light.
A movie based on Zuckerberg and the founding years of Facebook , The Social Network was released on October 1 , 2010 , starring Jesse Eisenberg as Zuckerberg . After Zuckerberg was told about the film , he responded , " I just wished that nobody made a movie of me while I was still alive . " Also , after the film ' s script was leaked on the Internet and it was apparent that the film would not portray Zuckerberg in a wholly positive light , he stated that he wanted to establish himself as a " good guy " . The film is based on the book The Accidental Billionaires by Ben Mezrich , which the book ' s publicist once described as " big juicy fun " rather than " reportage " . The film ' s screenwriter Aaron Sorkin told New York magazine , " I don ' t want my fidelity to be the truth ; I want it to be storytelling " , adding , " What is the big deal about accuracy purely for accuracy ' s sake , and can we not have the true be the enemy of the good ? "	What book is the film based on?	The film is based on the book The Accidental Billionaires by Ben Mezrich.
A movie based on Zuckerberg and the founding years of Facebook , The Social Network was released on October 1 , 2010 , starring Jesse Eisenberg as Zuckerberg . After Zuckerberg was told about the film , he responded , " I just wished that nobody made a movie of me while I was still alive . " Also , after the film ' s script was leaked on the Internet and it was apparent that the film would not portray Zuckerberg in a wholly positive light , he stated that he wanted to establish himself as a " good guy " . The film is based on the book The Accidental Billionaires by Ben Mezrich , which the book ' s publicist once described as " big juicy fun " rather than " reportage " . The film ' s screenwriter Aaron Sorkin told New York magazine , " I don ' t want my fidelity to be the truth ; I want it to be storytelling " , adding , " What is the big deal about accuracy purely for accuracy ' s sake , and can we not have the true be the enemy of the good ? "	How did the book's publicist describe it?	The book's publicist once described it as "big juicy fun" rather than "reportage."
On January 29 , 2011 , Zuckerberg made a surprise guest appearance on Saturday Night Live , which was hosted by Jesse Eisenberg . They both said it was the first time they had met . Eisenberg asked Zuckerberg , who had been critical of his portrayal by the film , what he thought of the movie . Zuckerberg replied , " It was interesting . " In a subsequent interview about their meeting , Eisenberg explained that he was " nervous to meet him , because I had spent now , a year and a half thinking about him   ... " He added , " Mark has been so gracious about something that ' s really so uncomfortable   ... The fact that he would do SNL and make fun of the situation is so sweet and so generous . It ' s the best possible way to handle something that , I think , could otherwise be very uncomfortable . "	When did you make a surprise guest appearance on Saturday Night Live?	On January 29, 2011.
On January 29 , 2011 , Zuckerberg made a surprise guest appearance on Saturday Night Live , which was hosted by Jesse Eisenberg . They both said it was the first time they had met . Eisenberg asked Zuckerberg , who had been critical of his portrayal by the film , what he thought of the movie . Zuckerberg replied , " It was interesting . " In a subsequent interview about their meeting , Eisenberg explained that he was " nervous to meet him , because I had spent now , a year and a half thinking about him   ... " He added , " Mark has been so gracious about something that ' s really so uncomfortable   ... The fact that he would do SNL and make fun of the situation is so sweet and so generous . It ' s the best possible way to handle something that , I think , could otherwise be very uncomfortable . "	Who was hosting the episode of Saturday Night Live that you appeared on?	Jesse Eisenberg.
On January 29 , 2011 , Zuckerberg made a surprise guest appearance on Saturday Night Live , which was hosted by Jesse Eisenberg . They both said it was the first time they had met . Eisenberg asked Zuckerberg , who had been critical of his portrayal by the film , what he thought of the movie . Zuckerberg replied , " It was interesting . " In a subsequent interview about their meeting , Eisenberg explained that he was " nervous to meet him , because I had spent now , a year and a half thinking about him   ... " He added , " Mark has been so gracious about something that ' s really so uncomfortable   ... The fact that he would do SNL and make fun of the situation is so sweet and so generous . It ' s the best possible way to handle something that , I think , could otherwise be very uncomfortable . "	What did you ask me during our meeting on Saturday Night Live?	I asked you what you thought of the movie that portrayed you.
On January 29 , 2011 , Zuckerberg made a surprise guest appearance on Saturday Night Live , which was hosted by Jesse Eisenberg . They both said it was the first time they had met . Eisenberg asked Zuckerberg , who had been critical of his portrayal by the film , what he thought of the movie . Zuckerberg replied , " It was interesting . " In a subsequent interview about their meeting , Eisenberg explained that he was " nervous to meet him , because I had spent now , a year and a half thinking about him   ... " He added , " Mark has been so gracious about something that ' s really so uncomfortable   ... The fact that he would do SNL and make fun of the situation is so sweet and so generous . It ' s the best possible way to handle something that , I think , could otherwise be very uncomfortable . "	How did you respond to Eisenberg's question about the movie?	I replied, "It was interesting."
On January 29 , 2011 , Zuckerberg made a surprise guest appearance on Saturday Night Live , which was hosted by Jesse Eisenberg . They both said it was the first time they had met . Eisenberg asked Zuckerberg , who had been critical of his portrayal by the film , what he thought of the movie . Zuckerberg replied , " It was interesting . " In a subsequent interview about their meeting , Eisenberg explained that he was " nervous to meet him , because I had spent now , a year and a half thinking about him   ... " He added , " Mark has been so gracious about something that ' s really so uncomfortable   ... The fact that he would do SNL and make fun of the situation is so sweet and so generous . It ' s the best possible way to handle something that , I think , could otherwise be very uncomfortable . "	How did you feel about meeting me?	I said I was nervous to meet you because I had spent a year and a half thinking about you.
Zuckerberg founded the Start - up : Education foundation . On September 22 , 2010 , it was reported that Zuckerberg had donated $ 100   million to Newark Public Schools , the public school system of Newark , New Jersey . Critics noted the timing of the donation as being close to the release of The Social Network , which painted a somewhat negative portrait of Zuckerberg . Zuckerberg responded to the criticism , saying , " The thing that I was most sensitive about with the movie timing was , I didn ' t want the press about The Social Network movie to get conflated with the Newark project . I was thinking about doing this anonymously just so that the two things could be kept separate . " Newark Mayor Cory Booker stated that he and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie had to convince Zuckerberg ' s team not to make the donation anonymously . The money was largely wasted , according to journalist Dale Russakoff .	Who founded the Start-up: Education foundation?	I founded the Start-up: Education foundation.
Zuckerberg founded the Start - up : Education foundation . On September 22 , 2010 , it was reported that Zuckerberg had donated $ 100   million to Newark Public Schools , the public school system of Newark , New Jersey . Critics noted the timing of the donation as being close to the release of The Social Network , which painted a somewhat negative portrait of Zuckerberg . Zuckerberg responded to the criticism , saying , " The thing that I was most sensitive about with the movie timing was , I didn ' t want the press about The Social Network movie to get conflated with the Newark project . I was thinking about doing this anonymously just so that the two things could be kept separate . " Newark Mayor Cory Booker stated that he and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie had to convince Zuckerberg ' s team not to make the donation anonymously . The money was largely wasted , according to journalist Dale Russakoff .	When did you donate $100 million to Newark Public Schools?	I donated $100 million to Newark Public Schools on September 22, 2010.
Zuckerberg founded the Start - up : Education foundation . On September 22 , 2010 , it was reported that Zuckerberg had donated $ 100   million to Newark Public Schools , the public school system of Newark , New Jersey . Critics noted the timing of the donation as being close to the release of The Social Network , which painted a somewhat negative portrait of Zuckerberg . Zuckerberg responded to the criticism , saying , " The thing that I was most sensitive about with the movie timing was , I didn ' t want the press about The Social Network movie to get conflated with the Newark project . I was thinking about doing this anonymously just so that the two things could be kept separate . " Newark Mayor Cory Booker stated that he and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie had to convince Zuckerberg ' s team not to make the donation anonymously . The money was largely wasted , according to journalist Dale Russakoff .	Where is Newark Public Schools located?	Newark Public Schools is located in Newark, New Jersey.
Zuckerberg founded the Start - up : Education foundation . On September 22 , 2010 , it was reported that Zuckerberg had donated $ 100   million to Newark Public Schools , the public school system of Newark , New Jersey . Critics noted the timing of the donation as being close to the release of The Social Network , which painted a somewhat negative portrait of Zuckerberg . Zuckerberg responded to the criticism , saying , " The thing that I was most sensitive about with the movie timing was , I didn ' t want the press about The Social Network movie to get conflated with the Newark project . I was thinking about doing this anonymously just so that the two things could be kept separate . " Newark Mayor Cory Booker stated that he and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie had to convince Zuckerberg ' s team not to make the donation anonymously . The money was largely wasted , according to journalist Dale Russakoff .	Why did critics mention the timing of my donation?	Critics mentioned the timing of the donation because it was close to the release of The Social Network, which portrayed me in a somewhat negative light.
Zuckerberg founded the Start - up : Education foundation . On September 22 , 2010 , it was reported that Zuckerberg had donated $ 100   million to Newark Public Schools , the public school system of Newark , New Jersey . Critics noted the timing of the donation as being close to the release of The Social Network , which painted a somewhat negative portrait of Zuckerberg . Zuckerberg responded to the criticism , saying , " The thing that I was most sensitive about with the movie timing was , I didn ' t want the press about The Social Network movie to get conflated with the Newark project . I was thinking about doing this anonymously just so that the two things could be kept separate . " Newark Mayor Cory Booker stated that he and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie had to convince Zuckerberg ' s team not to make the donation anonymously . The money was largely wasted , according to journalist Dale Russakoff .	What was your response to the criticism?	I responded to the criticism by stating that I didn't want the press about The Social Network movie to be associated with the Newark project, and I considered donating anonymously to keep the two separate.
On December 1 , 2015 , Zuckerberg and Chan pledged to transfer 99% of their Facebook shares , then valued at US $ 45   billion , to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative . The funds would not be transferred immediately , but over the course of their lives . Instead of forming a charitable corporation to donate the value of the stock to , as Bill Gates , Warren Buffett , Larry Page , Sergey Brin and other billionaires have done , Zuckerberg and Chan chose to use the structure of a limited liability company ( LLC ) . Some journalists and academics have said the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative conducts philanthrocapitalism .	When did you and Chan pledge to transfer your Facebook shares?	On December 1, 2015.
On December 1 , 2015 , Zuckerberg and Chan pledged to transfer 99% of their Facebook shares , then valued at US $ 45   billion , to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative . The funds would not be transferred immediately , but over the course of their lives . Instead of forming a charitable corporation to donate the value of the stock to , as Bill Gates , Warren Buffett , Larry Page , Sergey Brin and other billionaires have done , Zuckerberg and Chan chose to use the structure of a limited liability company ( LLC ) . Some journalists and academics have said the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative conducts philanthrocapitalism .	How much were my Facebook shares valued at when I made the pledge?	My Facebook shares were valued at US $45 billion.
On December 1 , 2015 , Zuckerberg and Chan pledged to transfer 99% of their Facebook shares , then valued at US $ 45   billion , to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative . The funds would not be transferred immediately , but over the course of their lives . Instead of forming a charitable corporation to donate the value of the stock to , as Bill Gates , Warren Buffett , Larry Page , Sergey Brin and other billionaires have done , Zuckerberg and Chan chose to use the structure of a limited liability company ( LLC ) . Some journalists and academics have said the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative conducts philanthrocapitalism .	To which initiative did you and Chan pledge to transfer your shares?	I pledged to transfer my shares to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.
On December 1 , 2015 , Zuckerberg and Chan pledged to transfer 99% of their Facebook shares , then valued at US $ 45   billion , to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative . The funds would not be transferred immediately , but over the course of their lives . Instead of forming a charitable corporation to donate the value of the stock to , as Bill Gates , Warren Buffett , Larry Page , Sergey Brin and other billionaires have done , Zuckerberg and Chan chose to use the structure of a limited liability company ( LLC ) . Some journalists and academics have said the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative conducts philanthrocapitalism .	Did you immediately transfer the funds?	No, the funds were not transferred immediately, but over the course of my life.
On December 1 , 2015 , Zuckerberg and Chan pledged to transfer 99% of their Facebook shares , then valued at US $ 45   billion , to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative . The funds would not be transferred immediately , but over the course of their lives . Instead of forming a charitable corporation to donate the value of the stock to , as Bill Gates , Warren Buffett , Larry Page , Sergey Brin and other billionaires have done , Zuckerberg and Chan chose to use the structure of a limited liability company ( LLC ) . Some journalists and academics have said the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative conducts philanthrocapitalism .	How did you and Chan choose to structure your donation?	We chose to use the structure of a limited liability company (LLC) instead of forming a charitable corporation as other billionaires have done.
On December 1 , 2015 , Zuckerberg and Chan pledged to transfer 99% of their Facebook shares , then valued at US $ 45   billion , to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative . The funds would not be transferred immediately , but over the course of their lives . Instead of forming a charitable corporation to donate the value of the stock to , as Bill Gates , Warren Buffett , Larry Page , Sergey Brin and other billionaires have done , Zuckerberg and Chan chose to use the structure of a limited liability company ( LLC ) . Some journalists and academics have said the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative conducts philanthrocapitalism .	What have some journalists and academics said about our Initiative?	Some journalists and academics have said that our Initiative conducts philanthrocapitalism.
On April 11 , 2013 , Zuckerberg led the launch of a 501 ( c ) ( 4 ) lobbying group called FWD . us . The founders and contributors to the group were primarily Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and investors , and its president was Joe Green , a close friend of Zuckerberg . The goals of the group include immigration reform , improving the state of education in the United States , and enabling more technological breakthroughs that benefit the public , yet it has also been criticized for financing ads advocating a variety of oil and gas development initiatives , including drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the Keystone XL pipeline . In 2013 , numerous liberal and progressive groups , such as The League of Conservation Voters , MoveOn . org , the Sierra Club , Democracy for America , CREDO , Daily Kos , 350 . org , and Presente and Progressives United agreed to either pull their Facebook ad buys or not buy Facebook ads for at least two weeks , in protest of Zuckerberg ads funded by FWD . us that were in support of oil drilling and the Keystone XL pipeline , and in opposition to Obamacare among Republican United States senators who back immigration reform . [ clarification needed ]	When was FWD.us launched?	FWD.us was launched on April 11, 2013.
On April 11 , 2013 , Zuckerberg led the launch of a 501 ( c ) ( 4 ) lobbying group called FWD . us . The founders and contributors to the group were primarily Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and investors , and its president was Joe Green , a close friend of Zuckerberg . The goals of the group include immigration reform , improving the state of education in the United States , and enabling more technological breakthroughs that benefit the public , yet it has also been criticized for financing ads advocating a variety of oil and gas development initiatives , including drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the Keystone XL pipeline . In 2013 , numerous liberal and progressive groups , such as The League of Conservation Voters , MoveOn . org , the Sierra Club , Democracy for America , CREDO , Daily Kos , 350 . org , and Presente and Progressives United agreed to either pull their Facebook ad buys or not buy Facebook ads for at least two weeks , in protest of Zuckerberg ads funded by FWD . us that were in support of oil drilling and the Keystone XL pipeline , and in opposition to Obamacare among Republican United States senators who back immigration reform . [ clarification needed ]	Who led the launch of FWD.us?	I led the launch of FWD.us.
On April 11 , 2013 , Zuckerberg led the launch of a 501 ( c ) ( 4 ) lobbying group called FWD . us . The founders and contributors to the group were primarily Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and investors , and its president was Joe Green , a close friend of Zuckerberg . The goals of the group include immigration reform , improving the state of education in the United States , and enabling more technological breakthroughs that benefit the public , yet it has also been criticized for financing ads advocating a variety of oil and gas development initiatives , including drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the Keystone XL pipeline . In 2013 , numerous liberal and progressive groups , such as The League of Conservation Voters , MoveOn . org , the Sierra Club , Democracy for America , CREDO , Daily Kos , 350 . org , and Presente and Progressives United agreed to either pull their Facebook ad buys or not buy Facebook ads for at least two weeks , in protest of Zuckerberg ads funded by FWD . us that were in support of oil drilling and the Keystone XL pipeline , and in opposition to Obamacare among Republican United States senators who back immigration reform . [ clarification needed ]	What were the goals of FWD.us?	The goals of FWD.us include immigration reform, improving the state of education in the United States, and enabling more technological breakthroughs that benefit the public.
On April 11 , 2013 , Zuckerberg led the launch of a 501 ( c ) ( 4 ) lobbying group called FWD . us . The founders and contributors to the group were primarily Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and investors , and its president was Joe Green , a close friend of Zuckerberg . The goals of the group include immigration reform , improving the state of education in the United States , and enabling more technological breakthroughs that benefit the public , yet it has also been criticized for financing ads advocating a variety of oil and gas development initiatives , including drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the Keystone XL pipeline . In 2013 , numerous liberal and progressive groups , such as The League of Conservation Voters , MoveOn . org , the Sierra Club , Democracy for America , CREDO , Daily Kos , 350 . org , and Presente and Progressives United agreed to either pull their Facebook ad buys or not buy Facebook ads for at least two weeks , in protest of Zuckerberg ads funded by FWD . us that were in support of oil drilling and the Keystone XL pipeline , and in opposition to Obamacare among Republican United States senators who back immigration reform . [ clarification needed ]	Who was the president of FWD.us?	Joe Green was the president of FWD.us.
On April 11 , 2013 , Zuckerberg led the launch of a 501 ( c ) ( 4 ) lobbying group called FWD . us . The founders and contributors to the group were primarily Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and investors , and its president was Joe Green , a close friend of Zuckerberg . The goals of the group include immigration reform , improving the state of education in the United States , and enabling more technological breakthroughs that benefit the public , yet it has also been criticized for financing ads advocating a variety of oil and gas development initiatives , including drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the Keystone XL pipeline . In 2013 , numerous liberal and progressive groups , such as The League of Conservation Voters , MoveOn . org , the Sierra Club , Democracy for America , CREDO , Daily Kos , 350 . org , and Presente and Progressives United agreed to either pull their Facebook ad buys or not buy Facebook ads for at least two weeks , in protest of Zuckerberg ads funded by FWD . us that were in support of oil drilling and the Keystone XL pipeline , and in opposition to Obamacare among Republican United States senators who back immigration reform . [ clarification needed ]	Why was your organization FWD.us criticized?	My organization FWD.us was criticized for financing ads advocating a variety of oil and gas development initiatives, including drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the Keystone XL pipeline.
Zuckerberg met his future wife , fellow Harvard student Priscilla Chan , at a frat party during his sophomore year there . They began dating in 2003 . In September 2010 , Chan , who was by then a medical student at the University of California , San Francisco , moved into Zuckerberg ' s rented house in Palo Alto , California . On May 19 , 2012 , they married in the grounds of his mansion in an event that also celebrated her graduation from medical school . On July 31 , 2015 , Zuckerberg revealed they were expecting a baby girl and that Chan had previously experienced three miscarriages . Their daughter , Maxima Chan Zuckerberg , was born on December 1 , 2015 . They announced in a Chinese New Year video that their daughter ' s Chinese name is Chen Mingyu ( Chinese : 陈明宇 ) . Their second daughter , August , was born in August 2017 . Zuckerberg and his wife welcomed their third daughter Aurelia on March 24 , 2023 , and announced the news across his social media pages .	Who did you meet at a frat party during your sophomore year at Harvard?	I met Priscilla Chan at a frat party during my sophomore year at Harvard.
Zuckerberg met his future wife , fellow Harvard student Priscilla Chan , at a frat party during his sophomore year there . They began dating in 2003 . In September 2010 , Chan , who was by then a medical student at the University of California , San Francisco , moved into Zuckerberg ' s rented house in Palo Alto , California . On May 19 , 2012 , they married in the grounds of his mansion in an event that also celebrated her graduation from medical school . On July 31 , 2015 , Zuckerberg revealed they were expecting a baby girl and that Chan had previously experienced three miscarriages . Their daughter , Maxima Chan Zuckerberg , was born on December 1 , 2015 . They announced in a Chinese New Year video that their daughter ' s Chinese name is Chen Mingyu ( Chinese : 陈明宇 ) . Their second daughter , August , was born in August 2017 . Zuckerberg and his wife welcomed their third daughter Aurelia on March 24 , 2023 , and announced the news across his social media pages .	When did you and Chan begin dating?	I and Chan began dating in 2003.
Zuckerberg met his future wife , fellow Harvard student Priscilla Chan , at a frat party during his sophomore year there . They began dating in 2003 . In September 2010 , Chan , who was by then a medical student at the University of California , San Francisco , moved into Zuckerberg ' s rented house in Palo Alto , California . On May 19 , 2012 , they married in the grounds of his mansion in an event that also celebrated her graduation from medical school . On July 31 , 2015 , Zuckerberg revealed they were expecting a baby girl and that Chan had previously experienced three miscarriages . Their daughter , Maxima Chan Zuckerberg , was born on December 1 , 2015 . They announced in a Chinese New Year video that their daughter ' s Chinese name is Chen Mingyu ( Chinese : 陈明宇 ) . Their second daughter , August , was born in August 2017 . Zuckerberg and his wife welcomed their third daughter Aurelia on March 24 , 2023 , and announced the news across his social media pages .	Where did she move into your rented house?	She moved into my rented house in Palo Alto, California.
Zuckerberg met his future wife , fellow Harvard student Priscilla Chan , at a frat party during his sophomore year there . They began dating in 2003 . In September 2010 , Chan , who was by then a medical student at the University of California , San Francisco , moved into Zuckerberg ' s rented house in Palo Alto , California . On May 19 , 2012 , they married in the grounds of his mansion in an event that also celebrated her graduation from medical school . On July 31 , 2015 , Zuckerberg revealed they were expecting a baby girl and that Chan had previously experienced three miscarriages . Their daughter , Maxima Chan Zuckerberg , was born on December 1 , 2015 . They announced in a Chinese New Year video that their daughter ' s Chinese name is Chen Mingyu ( Chinese : 陈明宇 ) . Their second daughter , August , was born in August 2017 . Zuckerberg and his wife welcomed their third daughter Aurelia on March 24 , 2023 , and announced the news across his social media pages .	When did you and Chan get married?	I and Chan got married on May 19, 2012.
Zuckerberg met his future wife , fellow Harvard student Priscilla Chan , at a frat party during his sophomore year there . They began dating in 2003 . In September 2010 , Chan , who was by then a medical student at the University of California , San Francisco , moved into Zuckerberg ' s rented house in Palo Alto , California . On May 19 , 2012 , they married in the grounds of his mansion in an event that also celebrated her graduation from medical school . On July 31 , 2015 , Zuckerberg revealed they were expecting a baby girl and that Chan had previously experienced three miscarriages . Their daughter , Maxima Chan Zuckerberg , was born on December 1 , 2015 . They announced in a Chinese New Year video that their daughter ' s Chinese name is Chen Mingyu ( Chinese : 陈明宇 ) . Their second daughter , August , was born in August 2017 . Zuckerberg and his wife welcomed their third daughter Aurelia on March 24 , 2023 , and announced the news across his social media pages .	When was your and Chan's first daughter born?	Our first daughter, Maxima Chan Zuckerberg, was born on December 1, 2015.
