Mark Robert Michael Wahlberg (born June 5, 1971), formerly known by his stage name Marky Mark, is an American actor. His work as a leading man spans the comedy, drama, and action genres. He has received multiple accolades, including a BAFTA Award, and nominations for two Academy Awards, three Golden Globe Awards, nine Primetime Emmy Awards, and three Screen Actors Guild Awards.	When were you born?	I was born on June 5, 1971.
Mark Robert Michael Wahlberg (born June 5, 1971), formerly known by his stage name Marky Mark, is an American actor. His work as a leading man spans the comedy, drama, and action genres. He has received multiple accolades, including a BAFTA Award, and nominations for two Academy Awards, three Golden Globe Awards, nine Primetime Emmy Awards, and three Screen Actors Guild Awards.	What was your stage name?	My stage name was Marky Mark.
Mark Robert Michael Wahlberg (born June 5, 1971), formerly known by his stage name Marky Mark, is an American actor. His work as a leading man spans the comedy, drama, and action genres. He has received multiple accolades, including a BAFTA Award, and nominations for two Academy Awards, three Golden Globe Awards, nine Primetime Emmy Awards, and three Screen Actors Guild Awards.	In which genres does your work as a leading man spans?	My work as a leading man spans the comedy, drama, and action genres.
Mark Robert Michael Wahlberg (born June 5, 1971), formerly known by his stage name Marky Mark, is an American actor. His work as a leading man spans the comedy, drama, and action genres. He has received multiple accolades, including a BAFTA Award, and nominations for two Academy Awards, three Golden Globe Awards, nine Primetime Emmy Awards, and three Screen Actors Guild Awards.	How many BAFTA Awards have you received?	I have received a BAFTA Award.
Mark Robert Michael Wahlberg (born June 5, 1971), formerly known by his stage name Marky Mark, is an American actor. His work as a leading man spans the comedy, drama, and action genres. He has received multiple accolades, including a BAFTA Award, and nominations for two Academy Awards, three Golden Globe Awards, nine Primetime Emmy Awards, and three Screen Actors Guild Awards.	How many Academy Awards nominations have you received?	I have received nominations for two Academy Awards.
Wahlberg was born in Boston, Massachusetts in 1971. During his early life, he perpetrated several crimes. In the 1990s, Wahlberg was a member of the music group Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch, with whom he released the albums Music for the People (1991) and You Gotta Believe (1992). Wahlberg made his screen debut in Renaissance Man (1994) and had his first starring role in Fear (1996). He received critical praise for his performance as porn actor Dirk Diggler in Boogie Nights (1997).	When and where were you born?	I was born in Boston, Massachusetts in 1971.
Wahlberg was born in Boston, Massachusetts in 1971. During his early life, he perpetrated several crimes. In the 1990s, Wahlberg was a member of the music group Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch, with whom he released the albums Music for the People (1991) and You Gotta Believe (1992). Wahlberg made his screen debut in Renaissance Man (1994) and had his first starring role in Fear (1996). He received critical praise for his performance as porn actor Dirk Diggler in Boogie Nights (1997).	What crimes did you commit during his early life?	I perpetrated several crimes during his early life.
Wahlberg was born in Boston, Massachusetts in 1971. During his early life, he perpetrated several crimes. In the 1990s, Wahlberg was a member of the music group Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch, with whom he released the albums Music for the People (1991) and You Gotta Believe (1992). Wahlberg made his screen debut in Renaissance Man (1994) and had his first starring role in Fear (1996). He received critical praise for his performance as porn actor Dirk Diggler in Boogie Nights (1997).	Which music group was you a member of in the 1990s?	I was a member of the music group Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch in the 1990s.
Wahlberg was born in Boston, Massachusetts in 1971. During his early life, he perpetrated several crimes. In the 1990s, Wahlberg was a member of the music group Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch, with whom he released the albums Music for the People (1991) and You Gotta Believe (1992). Wahlberg made his screen debut in Renaissance Man (1994) and had his first starring role in Fear (1996). He received critical praise for his performance as porn actor Dirk Diggler in Boogie Nights (1997).	What albums did you release with Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch?	I released the albums Music for the People (1991) and You Gotta Believe (1992) with Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch.
Wahlberg was born in Boston, Massachusetts in 1971. During his early life, he perpetrated several crimes. In the 1990s, Wahlberg was a member of the music group Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch, with whom he released the albums Music for the People (1991) and You Gotta Believe (1992). Wahlberg made his screen debut in Renaissance Man (1994) and had his first starring role in Fear (1996). He received critical praise for his performance as porn actor Dirk Diggler in Boogie Nights (1997).	What was your first starring role in a film?	My first starring role in a film was in Fear (1996).
In the early 2000s, he ventured into big-budget action movies, such as The Perfect Storm (2000), Planet of the Apes (2001), and The Italian Job (2003). He was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for playing a police officer in the crime drama The Departed (2006). He was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor for the sports drama biopic The Fighter (2010), in which he starred as Micky Ward. In the 2010s, he landed successful comedy roles with The Other Guys (2010), Ted (2012), Ted 2 (2015), Daddy's Home (2015), and Daddy's Home 2 (2017). He also became the protagonist in two films in the Transformers live-action film franchise, Transformers: Age of Extinction and Transformers: The Last Knight. He was the world's highest-paid actor in 2017.	What types of movies did you venture into in the early 2000s?	I ventured into big-budget action movies.
In the early 2000s, he ventured into big-budget action movies, such as The Perfect Storm (2000), Planet of the Apes (2001), and The Italian Job (2003). He was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for playing a police officer in the crime drama The Departed (2006). He was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor for the sports drama biopic The Fighter (2010), in which he starred as Micky Ward. In the 2010s, he landed successful comedy roles with The Other Guys (2010), Ted (2012), Ted 2 (2015), Daddy's Home (2015), and Daddy's Home 2 (2017). He also became the protagonist in two films in the Transformers live-action film franchise, Transformers: Age of Extinction and Transformers: The Last Knight. He was the world's highest-paid actor in 2017.	Which movies were you nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor?	I was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for playing a police officer in the crime drama The Departed.
In the early 2000s, he ventured into big-budget action movies, such as The Perfect Storm (2000), Planet of the Apes (2001), and The Italian Job (2003). He was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for playing a police officer in the crime drama The Departed (2006). He was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor for the sports drama biopic The Fighter (2010), in which he starred as Micky Ward. In the 2010s, he landed successful comedy roles with The Other Guys (2010), Ted (2012), Ted 2 (2015), Daddy's Home (2015), and Daddy's Home 2 (2017). He also became the protagonist in two films in the Transformers live-action film franchise, Transformers: Age of Extinction and Transformers: The Last Knight. He was the world's highest-paid actor in 2017.	Which movie did you star in as Micky Ward?	I starred as Micky Ward in the sports drama biopic The Fighter.
In the early 2000s, he ventured into big-budget action movies, such as The Perfect Storm (2000), Planet of the Apes (2001), and The Italian Job (2003). He was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for playing a police officer in the crime drama The Departed (2006). He was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor for the sports drama biopic The Fighter (2010), in which he starred as Micky Ward. In the 2010s, he landed successful comedy roles with The Other Guys (2010), Ted (2012), Ted 2 (2015), Daddy's Home (2015), and Daddy's Home 2 (2017). He also became the protagonist in two films in the Transformers live-action film franchise, Transformers: Age of Extinction and Transformers: The Last Knight. He was the world's highest-paid actor in 2017.	In which decade did you land successful comedy roles?	I landed successful comedy roles in the 2010s.
In the early 2000s, he ventured into big-budget action movies, such as The Perfect Storm (2000), Planet of the Apes (2001), and The Italian Job (2003). He was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for playing a police officer in the crime drama The Departed (2006). He was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor for the sports drama biopic The Fighter (2010), in which he starred as Micky Ward. In the 2010s, he landed successful comedy roles with The Other Guys (2010), Ted (2012), Ted 2 (2015), Daddy's Home (2015), and Daddy's Home 2 (2017). He also became the protagonist in two films in the Transformers live-action film franchise, Transformers: Age of Extinction and Transformers: The Last Knight. He was the world's highest-paid actor in 2017.	Which films did you become the protagonist in the Transformers live-action film franchise?	I became the protagonist in two films in the Transformers live-action film franchise, Transformers: Age of Extinction and Transformers: The Last Knight.
Wahlberg served as executive producer of five HBO series: the comedy-drama Entourage (2004–2011), the period crime drama Boardwalk Empire (2010–2014), the comedy-dramas How to Make It in America (2010–2011) and Ballers (2015–2019), and the documentary McMillions (2020). He is co-owner of the Wahlburgers chain and co-starred in the reality TV series about it. He received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2010.	What are some HBO series that you served as executive producer?	I served as executive producer of five HBO series: Entourage, Boardwalk Empire, How to Make It in America, Ballers, and McMillions.
Wahlberg served as executive producer of five HBO series: the comedy-drama Entourage (2004–2011), the period crime drama Boardwalk Empire (2010–2014), the comedy-dramas How to Make It in America (2010–2011) and Ballers (2015–2019), and the documentary McMillions (2020). He is co-owner of the Wahlburgers chain and co-starred in the reality TV series about it. He received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2010.	What is your involvement in the Wahlburgers chain?	I am co-owner of the Wahlburgers chain.
Wahlberg served as executive producer of five HBO series: the comedy-drama Entourage (2004–2011), the period crime drama Boardwalk Empire (2010–2014), the comedy-dramas How to Make It in America (2010–2011) and Ballers (2015–2019), and the documentary McMillions (2020). He is co-owner of the Wahlburgers chain and co-starred in the reality TV series about it. He received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2010.	Did you appear in a reality TV series about Wahlburgers?	Yes, I co-starred in the reality TV series about Wahlburgers.
Wahlberg served as executive producer of five HBO series: the comedy-drama Entourage (2004–2011), the period crime drama Boardwalk Empire (2010–2014), the comedy-dramas How to Make It in America (2010–2011) and Ballers (2015–2019), and the documentary McMillions (2020). He is co-owner of the Wahlburgers chain and co-starred in the reality TV series about it. He received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2010.	When did you receive a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame?	I received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2010.
Wahlberg served as executive producer of five HBO series: the comedy-drama Entourage (2004–2011), the period crime drama Boardwalk Empire (2010–2014), the comedy-dramas How to Make It in America (2010–2011) and Ballers (2015–2019), and the documentary McMillions (2020). He is co-owner of the Wahlburgers chain and co-starred in the reality TV series about it. He received a star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame in 2010.	How many HBO series did you serve as executive producer for?	I served as executive producer for five HBO series.
Mark Robert Michael Wahlberg was born on June 5, 1971, in the Dorchester neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts. He is the youngest of nine children, including actor Robert and singer/actor Donnie. His mother, Alma Elaine (née Donnelly; 1942–2021), was a bank clerk and a nurse's aide, and his father, Donald Edmond Wahlberg Sr. (1930–2008), was a delivery driver and U.S. Army veteran of the Korean War. Wahlberg's parents divorced in 1982; afterward, he divided his time between them.	When and where were you born?	I was born on June 5, 1971, in the Dorchester neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts.
Mark Robert Michael Wahlberg was born on June 5, 1971, in the Dorchester neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts. He is the youngest of nine children, including actor Robert and singer/actor Donnie. His mother, Alma Elaine (née Donnelly; 1942–2021), was a bank clerk and a nurse's aide, and his father, Donald Edmond Wahlberg Sr. (1930–2008), was a delivery driver and U.S. Army veteran of the Korean War. Wahlberg's parents divorced in 1982; afterward, he divided his time between them.	Who are your siblings?	I have eight siblings, including actor Robert and singer/actor Donnie.
Mark Robert Michael Wahlberg was born on June 5, 1971, in the Dorchester neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts. He is the youngest of nine children, including actor Robert and singer/actor Donnie. His mother, Alma Elaine (née Donnelly; 1942–2021), was a bank clerk and a nurse's aide, and his father, Donald Edmond Wahlberg Sr. (1930–2008), was a delivery driver and U.S. Army veteran of the Korean War. Wahlberg's parents divorced in 1982; afterward, he divided his time between them.	What were your mother's occupations?	My mother, Alma Elaine, was a bank clerk and a nurse's aide.
Mark Robert Michael Wahlberg was born on June 5, 1971, in the Dorchester neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts. He is the youngest of nine children, including actor Robert and singer/actor Donnie. His mother, Alma Elaine (née Donnelly; 1942–2021), was a bank clerk and a nurse's aide, and his father, Donald Edmond Wahlberg Sr. (1930–2008), was a delivery driver and U.S. Army veteran of the Korean War. Wahlberg's parents divorced in 1982; afterward, he divided his time between them.	What was your father's occupation and military background?	My father, Donald Edmond Wahlberg Sr., was a delivery driver and a U.S. Army veteran of the Korean War.
Mark Robert Michael Wahlberg was born on June 5, 1971, in the Dorchester neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts. He is the youngest of nine children, including actor Robert and singer/actor Donnie. His mother, Alma Elaine (née Donnelly; 1942–2021), was a bank clerk and a nurse's aide, and his father, Donald Edmond Wahlberg Sr. (1930–2008), was a delivery driver and U.S. Army veteran of the Korean War. Wahlberg's parents divorced in 1982; afterward, he divided his time between them.	When did your parents get divorced?	My parents divorced in 1982.
Wahlberg is of Swedish descent through his father, and of Irish descent through his paternal grandmother. His mother was of Irish, English and French-Canadian ancestry. On his mother's side of the family, he is distantly related to author Nathaniel Hawthorne. Wahlberg was raised Catholic, and attended Copley Square High School on Newbury Street in Boston. By age 13, he had developed an addiction to cocaine and other substances; he did not receive his high school diploma until June 2013, at the age of 42.	What is your ancestral background?	I am of Swedish descent through my father and of Irish descent through my paternal grandmother. My mother was of Irish, English, and French-Canadian ancestry.
Wahlberg is of Swedish descent through his father, and of Irish descent through his paternal grandmother. His mother was of Irish, English and French-Canadian ancestry. On his mother's side of the family, he is distantly related to author Nathaniel Hawthorne. Wahlberg was raised Catholic, and attended Copley Square High School on Newbury Street in Boston. By age 13, he had developed an addiction to cocaine and other substances; he did not receive his high school diploma until June 2013, at the age of 42.	Are you related to any famous author?	Yes, I am distantly related to author Nathaniel Hawthorne on my mother's side of the family.
Wahlberg is of Swedish descent through his father, and of Irish descent through his paternal grandmother. His mother was of Irish, English and French-Canadian ancestry. On his mother's side of the family, he is distantly related to author Nathaniel Hawthorne. Wahlberg was raised Catholic, and attended Copley Square High School on Newbury Street in Boston. By age 13, he had developed an addiction to cocaine and other substances; he did not receive his high school diploma until June 2013, at the age of 42.	What religion were you raised in?	I was raised Catholic.
Wahlberg is of Swedish descent through his father, and of Irish descent through his paternal grandmother. His mother was of Irish, English and French-Canadian ancestry. On his mother's side of the family, he is distantly related to author Nathaniel Hawthorne. Wahlberg was raised Catholic, and attended Copley Square High School on Newbury Street in Boston. By age 13, he had developed an addiction to cocaine and other substances; he did not receive his high school diploma until June 2013, at the age of 42.	Which high school did you attend?	I attended Copley Square High School on Newbury Street in Boston.
Wahlberg is of Swedish descent through his father, and of Irish descent through his paternal grandmother. His mother was of Irish, English and French-Canadian ancestry. On his mother's side of the family, he is distantly related to author Nathaniel Hawthorne. Wahlberg was raised Catholic, and attended Copley Square High School on Newbury Street in Boston. By age 13, he had developed an addiction to cocaine and other substances; he did not receive his high school diploma until June 2013, at the age of 42.	Did you finish high school on time?	No, I did not receive his high school diploma until June 2013, at the age of 42. He had developed an addiction to cocaine and other substances by the age of 13, which likely contributed to his delayed graduation.
In June 1986, a 15-year-old Wahlberg and three friends chased after three black children while yelling "Kill the nigger, kill the nigger" and throwing rocks at them. The next day, Wahlberg and the others followed a group of mostly black fourth-graders (including one of the victims from the previous day) taking a field trip on a beach, yelled racial epithets, threw rocks at them, and "summoned other white males who joined" in the harassment. In August 1986, civil action was filed against Wahlberg for violating the civil rights of his victims, and the case was settled the next month.	What did you do in June 1986?	In June 1986, three friends and I chased after three black children while yelling racial slurs and throwing rocks at them.
In June 1986, a 15-year-old Wahlberg and three friends chased after three black children while yelling "Kill the nigger, kill the nigger" and throwing rocks at them. The next day, Wahlberg and the others followed a group of mostly black fourth-graders (including one of the victims from the previous day) taking a field trip on a beach, yelled racial epithets, threw rocks at them, and "summoned other white males who joined" in the harassment. In August 1986, civil action was filed against Wahlberg for violating the civil rights of his victims, and the case was settled the next month.	What did you and your friends do the next day after the incident in June 1986?	The next day, the others and I followed a group of mostly black fourth-graders on a field trip to the beach. We yelled racial epithets, threw rocks at them, and summoned other white males to join in the harassment.
In June 1986, a 15-year-old Wahlberg and three friends chased after three black children while yelling "Kill the nigger, kill the nigger" and throwing rocks at them. The next day, Wahlberg and the others followed a group of mostly black fourth-graders (including one of the victims from the previous day) taking a field trip on a beach, yelled racial epithets, threw rocks at them, and "summoned other white males who joined" in the harassment. In August 1986, civil action was filed against Wahlberg for violating the civil rights of his victims, and the case was settled the next month.	When was a civil action filed against you?	A civil action was filed against me in August 1986.
In June 1986, a 15-year-old Wahlberg and three friends chased after three black children while yelling "Kill the nigger, kill the nigger" and throwing rocks at them. The next day, Wahlberg and the others followed a group of mostly black fourth-graders (including one of the victims from the previous day) taking a field trip on a beach, yelled racial epithets, threw rocks at them, and "summoned other white males who joined" in the harassment. In August 1986, civil action was filed against Wahlberg for violating the civil rights of his victims, and the case was settled the next month.	What were you accused of in the civil action?	I was accused of violating the civil rights of my victims in the filed civil action.
In June 1986, a 15-year-old Wahlberg and three friends chased after three black children while yelling "Kill the nigger, kill the nigger" and throwing rocks at them. The next day, Wahlberg and the others followed a group of mostly black fourth-graders (including one of the victims from the previous day) taking a field trip on a beach, yelled racial epithets, threw rocks at them, and "summoned other white males who joined" in the harassment. In August 1986, civil action was filed against Wahlberg for violating the civil rights of his victims, and the case was settled the next month.	How was the civil action settled?	The civil action against me was settled the next month after it was filed.
Wahlberg perpetrated another racist assault in April 1988. Then 16, he assaulted a middle-aged Vietnamese-American man on the street, calling him a "Vietnam fucking shit" and knocking him unconscious with a large wooden stick. Later the same day, Wahlberg attacked Johnny Trinh, another Vietnamese-American, punching him in the eye. When Wahlberg was arrested and returned to the scene of the first assault, he told police officers: "I'll tell you now that's the mother-fucker whose head I split open." Later, Wahlberg would explain that he was on PCP at the time. Investigators also noted that Wahlberg "made numerous unsolicited racial statements about 'gooks' and 'slant-eyed gooks'". Wahlberg was charged with attempted murder, pleaded guilty to felony assault, and was sentenced to two years in jail, but served only 45 days of his sentence. Wahlberg believed he had left the second victim permanently blind in one eye, though Trinh later said that he had lost his eye during the Vietnam War while serving in the South Vietnamese army, which fought alongside American forces.	What were you charged with?	I was charged with attempted murder.
Wahlberg perpetrated another racist assault in April 1988. Then 16, he assaulted a middle-aged Vietnamese-American man on the street, calling him a "Vietnam fucking shit" and knocking him unconscious with a large wooden stick. Later the same day, Wahlberg attacked Johnny Trinh, another Vietnamese-American, punching him in the eye. When Wahlberg was arrested and returned to the scene of the first assault, he told police officers: "I'll tell you now that's the mother-fucker whose head I split open." Later, Wahlberg would explain that he was on PCP at the time. Investigators also noted that Wahlberg "made numerous unsolicited racial statements about 'gooks' and 'slant-eyed gooks'". Wahlberg was charged with attempted murder, pleaded guilty to felony assault, and was sentenced to two years in jail, but served only 45 days of his sentence. Wahlberg believed he had left the second victim permanently blind in one eye, though Trinh later said that he had lost his eye during the Vietnam War while serving in the South Vietnamese army, which fought alongside American forces.	How long were you sentenced to jail?	I was sentenced to two years in jail.
Wahlberg perpetrated another racist assault in April 1988. Then 16, he assaulted a middle-aged Vietnamese-American man on the street, calling him a "Vietnam fucking shit" and knocking him unconscious with a large wooden stick. Later the same day, Wahlberg attacked Johnny Trinh, another Vietnamese-American, punching him in the eye. When Wahlberg was arrested and returned to the scene of the first assault, he told police officers: "I'll tell you now that's the mother-fucker whose head I split open." Later, Wahlberg would explain that he was on PCP at the time. Investigators also noted that Wahlberg "made numerous unsolicited racial statements about 'gooks' and 'slant-eyed gooks'". Wahlberg was charged with attempted murder, pleaded guilty to felony assault, and was sentenced to two years in jail, but served only 45 days of his sentence. Wahlberg believed he had left the second victim permanently blind in one eye, though Trinh later said that he had lost his eye during the Vietnam War while serving in the South Vietnamese army, which fought alongside American forces.	How long did you serve in jail?	I served only 45 days of my sentence.
Wahlberg perpetrated another racist assault in April 1988. Then 16, he assaulted a middle-aged Vietnamese-American man on the street, calling him a "Vietnam fucking shit" and knocking him unconscious with a large wooden stick. Later the same day, Wahlberg attacked Johnny Trinh, another Vietnamese-American, punching him in the eye. When Wahlberg was arrested and returned to the scene of the first assault, he told police officers: "I'll tell you now that's the mother-fucker whose head I split open." Later, Wahlberg would explain that he was on PCP at the time. Investigators also noted that Wahlberg "made numerous unsolicited racial statements about 'gooks' and 'slant-eyed gooks'". Wahlberg was charged with attempted murder, pleaded guilty to felony assault, and was sentenced to two years in jail, but served only 45 days of his sentence. Wahlberg believed he had left the second victim permanently blind in one eye, though Trinh later said that he had lost his eye during the Vietnam War while serving in the South Vietnamese army, which fought alongside American forces.	What weapon did you use in the assault?	I used a large wooden stick in the assault.
Wahlberg perpetrated another racist assault in April 1988. Then 16, he assaulted a middle-aged Vietnamese-American man on the street, calling him a "Vietnam fucking shit" and knocking him unconscious with a large wooden stick. Later the same day, Wahlberg attacked Johnny Trinh, another Vietnamese-American, punching him in the eye. When Wahlberg was arrested and returned to the scene of the first assault, he told police officers: "I'll tell you now that's the mother-fucker whose head I split open." Later, Wahlberg would explain that he was on PCP at the time. Investigators also noted that Wahlberg "made numerous unsolicited racial statements about 'gooks' and 'slant-eyed gooks'". Wahlberg was charged with attempted murder, pleaded guilty to felony assault, and was sentenced to two years in jail, but served only 45 days of his sentence. Wahlberg believed he had left the second victim permanently blind in one eye, though Trinh later said that he had lost his eye during the Vietnam War while serving in the South Vietnamese army, which fought alongside American forces.	What were some of the racial statements you made?	I made numerous unsolicited racial statements about 'gooks' and 'slant-eyed gooks'.
In August 1992, Wahlberg fractured the jaw of his neighbor Robert Crehan in an attack. Court documents state that in 1992, Wahlberg, "without provocation or cause, viciously and repeatedly kicked" Crehan in the face, while another man, Derek McCall, held the victim on the ground. Wahlberg's attorney claimed that Wahlberg and McCall, who is black, were provoked after McCall was called a racial slur by Crehan. The lawsuit was settled between the two parties, avoiding a criminal trial.	What happened in August 1992?	Wahlberg fractured the jaw of his neighbor Robert Crehan in an attack.
In August 1992, Wahlberg fractured the jaw of his neighbor Robert Crehan in an attack. Court documents state that in 1992, Wahlberg, "without provocation or cause, viciously and repeatedly kicked" Crehan in the face, while another man, Derek McCall, held the victim on the ground. Wahlberg's attorney claimed that Wahlberg and McCall, who is black, were provoked after McCall was called a racial slur by Crehan. The lawsuit was settled between the two parties, avoiding a criminal trial.	Who did you attack?	I attacked my neighbor Robert Crehan.
In August 1992, Wahlberg fractured the jaw of his neighbor Robert Crehan in an attack. Court documents state that in 1992, Wahlberg, "without provocation or cause, viciously and repeatedly kicked" Crehan in the face, while another man, Derek McCall, held the victim on the ground. Wahlberg's attorney claimed that Wahlberg and McCall, who is black, were provoked after McCall was called a racial slur by Crehan. The lawsuit was settled between the two parties, avoiding a criminal trial.	What did the court documents state about the attack?	The court documents state that Wahlberg "without provocation or cause, viciously and repeatedly kicked" Crehan in the face.
In August 1992, Wahlberg fractured the jaw of his neighbor Robert Crehan in an attack. Court documents state that in 1992, Wahlberg, "without provocation or cause, viciously and repeatedly kicked" Crehan in the face, while another man, Derek McCall, held the victim on the ground. Wahlberg's attorney claimed that Wahlberg and McCall, who is black, were provoked after McCall was called a racial slur by Crehan. The lawsuit was settled between the two parties, avoiding a criminal trial.	Who else was involved in the attack?	Another man named Derek McCall was involved in the attack.
In August 1992, Wahlberg fractured the jaw of his neighbor Robert Crehan in an attack. Court documents state that in 1992, Wahlberg, "without provocation or cause, viciously and repeatedly kicked" Crehan in the face, while another man, Derek McCall, held the victim on the ground. Wahlberg's attorney claimed that Wahlberg and McCall, who is black, were provoked after McCall was called a racial slur by Crehan. The lawsuit was settled between the two parties, avoiding a criminal trial.	What was the reason given by your attorney for the attack?	My attorney claimed that I and McCall were provoked after McCall was called a racial slur by Crehan.
In 2006, Wahlberg said the right thing for him to do would be to meet with Trinh and make amends, though he had not done so. In 2016, while requesting a pardon for his conviction for the assault on Trinh, Wahlberg said he had met with Trinh and apologized "for those horrific acts." Trinh released a public statement forgiving Wahlberg.	In 2006, what did you say was the right thing for him to do in regard to Trinh?	I said the right thing for me to do would be to meet with Trinh and make amends.
In 2006, Wahlberg said the right thing for him to do would be to meet with Trinh and make amends, though he had not done so. In 2016, while requesting a pardon for his conviction for the assault on Trinh, Wahlberg said he had met with Trinh and apologized "for those horrific acts." Trinh released a public statement forgiving Wahlberg.	Did you actually meet with Trinh and apologize for your actions?	In 2016, I claimed I had met with Trinh and apologized "for those horrific acts."
In 2006, Wahlberg said the right thing for him to do would be to meet with Trinh and make amends, though he had not done so. In 2016, while requesting a pardon for his conviction for the assault on Trinh, Wahlberg said he had met with Trinh and apologized "for those horrific acts." Trinh released a public statement forgiving Wahlberg.	When did you request a pardon for your conviction for the assault on Trinh?	It was in 2016 when he requested the pardon.
In 2006, Wahlberg said the right thing for him to do would be to meet with Trinh and make amends, though he had not done so. In 2016, while requesting a pardon for his conviction for the assault on Trinh, Wahlberg said he had met with Trinh and apologized "for those horrific acts." Trinh released a public statement forgiving Wahlberg.	How did Trinh respond to your apology?	Trinh released a public statement forgiving me.
In 2006, Wahlberg said the right thing for him to do would be to meet with Trinh and make amends, though he had not done so. In 2016, while requesting a pardon for his conviction for the assault on Trinh, Wahlberg said he had met with Trinh and apologized "for those horrific acts." Trinh released a public statement forgiving Wahlberg.	Have you actually made amends with Trinh?	No, as of 2016, I had not yet met with Trinh to make amends.
In 1990 , Wahlberg began recording with dancers / rappers Scott Ross ( Scottie Gee ) , Hector Barros ( Hector the Booty Inspector ) , Anthony Thomas ( Ashley Ace ) , and Terry Yancey ( DJ - T ) as Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch , earning a hit with " Good Vibrations " from their debut album Music for the People . The record , produced by brother Donnie , hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , later becoming certified as a platinum single . The second single , " Wildside " , peaked at number five on Billboard ' s Hot Singles Sales chart and at number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 . [ citation needed ] It was certified as a gold single . Marky Mark opened for the New Kids on the Block during their last tour . Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch also had their own video game , titled Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch : Make My Video , which despite the band ' s success , was a huge flop . The second Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch LP , You Gotta Believe , was not as successful as the first , yielding only a minor hit single in the title track .	Who were the members of Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch?	The members of Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch were Scott Ross, Hector Barros, Anthony Thomas, and Terry Yancey.
In 1990 , Wahlberg began recording with dancers / rappers Scott Ross ( Scottie Gee ) , Hector Barros ( Hector the Booty Inspector ) , Anthony Thomas ( Ashley Ace ) , and Terry Yancey ( DJ - T ) as Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch , earning a hit with " Good Vibrations " from their debut album Music for the People . The record , produced by brother Donnie , hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , later becoming certified as a platinum single . The second single , " Wildside " , peaked at number five on Billboard ' s Hot Singles Sales chart and at number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 . [ citation needed ] It was certified as a gold single . Marky Mark opened for the New Kids on the Block during their last tour . Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch also had their own video game , titled Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch : Make My Video , which despite the band ' s success , was a huge flop . The second Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch LP , You Gotta Believe , was not as successful as the first , yielding only a minor hit single in the title track .	What was the name of Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch's debut album?	The debut album of Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch was called "Music for the People".
In 1990 , Wahlberg began recording with dancers / rappers Scott Ross ( Scottie Gee ) , Hector Barros ( Hector the Booty Inspector ) , Anthony Thomas ( Ashley Ace ) , and Terry Yancey ( DJ - T ) as Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch , earning a hit with " Good Vibrations " from their debut album Music for the People . The record , produced by brother Donnie , hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , later becoming certified as a platinum single . The second single , " Wildside " , peaked at number five on Billboard ' s Hot Singles Sales chart and at number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 . [ citation needed ] It was certified as a gold single . Marky Mark opened for the New Kids on the Block during their last tour . Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch also had their own video game , titled Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch : Make My Video , which despite the band ' s success , was a huge flop . The second Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch LP , You Gotta Believe , was not as successful as the first , yielding only a minor hit single in the title track .	Which song from their debut album became a hit?	The song "Good Vibrations" from their debut album became a hit.
In 1990 , Wahlberg began recording with dancers / rappers Scott Ross ( Scottie Gee ) , Hector Barros ( Hector the Booty Inspector ) , Anthony Thomas ( Ashley Ace ) , and Terry Yancey ( DJ - T ) as Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch , earning a hit with " Good Vibrations " from their debut album Music for the People . The record , produced by brother Donnie , hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , later becoming certified as a platinum single . The second single , " Wildside " , peaked at number five on Billboard ' s Hot Singles Sales chart and at number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 . [ citation needed ] It was certified as a gold single . Marky Mark opened for the New Kids on the Block during their last tour . Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch also had their own video game , titled Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch : Make My Video , which despite the band ' s success , was a huge flop . The second Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch LP , You Gotta Believe , was not as successful as the first , yielding only a minor hit single in the title track .	Who produced your debut album?	My brother Donnie produced our debut album.
In 1990 , Wahlberg began recording with dancers / rappers Scott Ross ( Scottie Gee ) , Hector Barros ( Hector the Booty Inspector ) , Anthony Thomas ( Ashley Ace ) , and Terry Yancey ( DJ - T ) as Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch , earning a hit with " Good Vibrations " from their debut album Music for the People . The record , produced by brother Donnie , hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , later becoming certified as a platinum single . The second single , " Wildside " , peaked at number five on Billboard ' s Hot Singles Sales chart and at number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 . [ citation needed ] It was certified as a gold single . Marky Mark opened for the New Kids on the Block during their last tour . Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch also had their own video game , titled Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch : Make My Video , which despite the band ' s success , was a huge flop . The second Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch LP , You Gotta Believe , was not as successful as the first , yielding only a minor hit single in the title track .	Did Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch have any other successful singles?	Yes, their second single "Wildside" peaked at number five on Billboard's Hot Singles Sales chart and at number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100.
In December 1992 , while performing on the British TV show The Word , Wahlberg praised Shabba Ranks , who had stated gay people should be crucified . GLAAD condemned him and berated Calvin Klein for using him to promote their products . A self - titled autobiographical picture book , Marky Mark , with images taken by Lynn Goldsmith and statements mostly by him , was also released . Trying to resuscitate his music career , he had shifted to Hamburg , where he was produced under the label of East West Records by Frank Peterson and Alex Christensen .	When did you praise Shabba Ranks on The Word?	I praised Shabba Ranks on The Word in December 1992.
In December 1992 , while performing on the British TV show The Word , Wahlberg praised Shabba Ranks , who had stated gay people should be crucified . GLAAD condemned him and berated Calvin Klein for using him to promote their products . A self - titled autobiographical picture book , Marky Mark , with images taken by Lynn Goldsmith and statements mostly by him , was also released . Trying to resuscitate his music career , he had shifted to Hamburg , where he was produced under the label of East West Records by Frank Peterson and Alex Christensen .	Who condemned you for praising Shabba Ranks?	GLAAD condemned me for praising Shabba Ranks.
In December 1992 , while performing on the British TV show The Word , Wahlberg praised Shabba Ranks , who had stated gay people should be crucified . GLAAD condemned him and berated Calvin Klein for using him to promote their products . A self - titled autobiographical picture book , Marky Mark , with images taken by Lynn Goldsmith and statements mostly by him , was also released . Trying to resuscitate his music career , he had shifted to Hamburg , where he was produced under the label of East West Records by Frank Peterson and Alex Christensen .	Who did GLAAD berate for using you to promote their products?	GLAAD berated Calvin Klein for using me to promote their products.
In December 1992 , while performing on the British TV show The Word , Wahlberg praised Shabba Ranks , who had stated gay people should be crucified . GLAAD condemned him and berated Calvin Klein for using him to promote their products . A self - titled autobiographical picture book , Marky Mark , with images taken by Lynn Goldsmith and statements mostly by him , was also released . Trying to resuscitate his music career , he had shifted to Hamburg , where he was produced under the label of East West Records by Frank Peterson and Alex Christensen .	What is the title of your autobiographical picture book?	The title of my autobiographical picture book is "Marky Mark".
In December 1992 , while performing on the British TV show The Word , Wahlberg praised Shabba Ranks , who had stated gay people should be crucified . GLAAD condemned him and berated Calvin Klein for using him to promote their products . A self - titled autobiographical picture book , Marky Mark , with images taken by Lynn Goldsmith and statements mostly by him , was also released . Trying to resuscitate his music career , he had shifted to Hamburg , where he was produced under the label of East West Records by Frank Peterson and Alex Christensen .	Where did you shift to in order to resuscitate your music career?	I shifted to Hamburg in order to resuscitate my music career.
In 1995 , he released a single titled " No Mercy " , in support of his friend Dariusz Michalczewski , whom he had befriended earlier in the 1990s . Michalczewski also appears in the music video of the song . Wahlberg and Prince Ital Joe released another album in 1995 for Ultraphonic Records . Titled The Remix Album , it featured remixes from the duo ' s previous album , Life in the Streets , as well as Mark ' s solo track , " No Mercy " .	When did you release a single titled "No Mercy"?	In 1995.
In 1995 , he released a single titled " No Mercy " , in support of his friend Dariusz Michalczewski , whom he had befriended earlier in the 1990s . Michalczewski also appears in the music video of the song . Wahlberg and Prince Ital Joe released another album in 1995 for Ultraphonic Records . Titled The Remix Album , it featured remixes from the duo ' s previous album , Life in the Streets , as well as Mark ' s solo track , " No Mercy " .	Who did you release the single in support of?	My friend Dariusz Michalczewski.
In 1995 , he released a single titled " No Mercy " , in support of his friend Dariusz Michalczewski , whom he had befriended earlier in the 1990s . Michalczewski also appears in the music video of the song . Wahlberg and Prince Ital Joe released another album in 1995 for Ultraphonic Records . Titled The Remix Album , it featured remixes from the duo ' s previous album , Life in the Streets , as well as Mark ' s solo track , " No Mercy " .	When did you befriend Dariusz Michalczewski?	Earlier in the 1990s.
In 1995 , he released a single titled " No Mercy " , in support of his friend Dariusz Michalczewski , whom he had befriended earlier in the 1990s . Michalczewski also appears in the music video of the song . Wahlberg and Prince Ital Joe released another album in 1995 for Ultraphonic Records . Titled The Remix Album , it featured remixes from the duo ' s previous album , Life in the Streets , as well as Mark ' s solo track , " No Mercy " .	Who appears in the music video of the song "No Mercy"?	Dariusz Michalczewski.
In 1995 , he released a single titled " No Mercy " , in support of his friend Dariusz Michalczewski , whom he had befriended earlier in the 1990s . Michalczewski also appears in the music video of the song . Wahlberg and Prince Ital Joe released another album in 1995 for Ultraphonic Records . Titled The Remix Album , it featured remixes from the duo ' s previous album , Life in the Streets , as well as Mark ' s solo track , " No Mercy " .	What was the title of the album released in 1995 for Ultraphonic Records?	The Remix Album.
He earned positive reviews after films such as Boogie Nights , Three Kings , The Perfect Storm , and Four Brothers . During the early 2000s , Wahlberg appeared in remakes of 1960s films such as Planet of the Apes , The Truth About Charlie ( a remake of the 1963 film Charade ) , and The Italian Job . His performance in I Heart Huckabees was voted the best supporting performance of the year in the 2004 The Village Voice Critics Poll . Wahlberg was originally cast as Linus Caldwell in Ocean ' s Eleven , but Matt Damon played the role instead . The two later worked together in The Departed . Wahlberg was also considered for a role in the film Brokeback Mountain . It was originally intended to star Wahlberg and Joaquin Phoenix ( with whom he appeared in the 2000 film The Yards ) as Ennis Del Mar and Jack Twist , respectively , but both actors were uncomfortable with the film ' s sex scenes . The roles ultimately went to Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal , both of whom were nominated for Academy Awards for their performances .	Which films earned you positive reviews?	Boogie Nights, Three Kings, The Perfect Storm, and Four Brothers.
He earned positive reviews after films such as Boogie Nights , Three Kings , The Perfect Storm , and Four Brothers . During the early 2000s , Wahlberg appeared in remakes of 1960s films such as Planet of the Apes , The Truth About Charlie ( a remake of the 1963 film Charade ) , and The Italian Job . His performance in I Heart Huckabees was voted the best supporting performance of the year in the 2004 The Village Voice Critics Poll . Wahlberg was originally cast as Linus Caldwell in Ocean ' s Eleven , but Matt Damon played the role instead . The two later worked together in The Departed . Wahlberg was also considered for a role in the film Brokeback Mountain . It was originally intended to star Wahlberg and Joaquin Phoenix ( with whom he appeared in the 2000 film The Yards ) as Ennis Del Mar and Jack Twist , respectively , but both actors were uncomfortable with the film ' s sex scenes . The roles ultimately went to Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal , both of whom were nominated for Academy Awards for their performances .	In which decade did you appear in remakes of 1960s films?	The early 2000s.
He earned positive reviews after films such as Boogie Nights , Three Kings , The Perfect Storm , and Four Brothers . During the early 2000s , Wahlberg appeared in remakes of 1960s films such as Planet of the Apes , The Truth About Charlie ( a remake of the 1963 film Charade ) , and The Italian Job . His performance in I Heart Huckabees was voted the best supporting performance of the year in the 2004 The Village Voice Critics Poll . Wahlberg was originally cast as Linus Caldwell in Ocean ' s Eleven , but Matt Damon played the role instead . The two later worked together in The Departed . Wahlberg was also considered for a role in the film Brokeback Mountain . It was originally intended to star Wahlberg and Joaquin Phoenix ( with whom he appeared in the 2000 film The Yards ) as Ennis Del Mar and Jack Twist , respectively , but both actors were uncomfortable with the film ' s sex scenes . The roles ultimately went to Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal , both of whom were nominated for Academy Awards for their performances .	Which film was your performance voted as the best supporting performance in?	I Heart Huckabees.
He earned positive reviews after films such as Boogie Nights , Three Kings , The Perfect Storm , and Four Brothers . During the early 2000s , Wahlberg appeared in remakes of 1960s films such as Planet of the Apes , The Truth About Charlie ( a remake of the 1963 film Charade ) , and The Italian Job . His performance in I Heart Huckabees was voted the best supporting performance of the year in the 2004 The Village Voice Critics Poll . Wahlberg was originally cast as Linus Caldwell in Ocean ' s Eleven , but Matt Damon played the role instead . The two later worked together in The Departed . Wahlberg was also considered for a role in the film Brokeback Mountain . It was originally intended to star Wahlberg and Joaquin Phoenix ( with whom he appeared in the 2000 film The Yards ) as Ennis Del Mar and Jack Twist , respectively , but both actors were uncomfortable with the film ' s sex scenes . The roles ultimately went to Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal , both of whom were nominated for Academy Awards for their performances .	Who originally cast your role in Ocean's Eleven?	Matt Damon.
He earned positive reviews after films such as Boogie Nights , Three Kings , The Perfect Storm , and Four Brothers . During the early 2000s , Wahlberg appeared in remakes of 1960s films such as Planet of the Apes , The Truth About Charlie ( a remake of the 1963 film Charade ) , and The Italian Job . His performance in I Heart Huckabees was voted the best supporting performance of the year in the 2004 The Village Voice Critics Poll . Wahlberg was originally cast as Linus Caldwell in Ocean ' s Eleven , but Matt Damon played the role instead . The two later worked together in The Departed . Wahlberg was also considered for a role in the film Brokeback Mountain . It was originally intended to star Wahlberg and Joaquin Phoenix ( with whom he appeared in the 2000 film The Yards ) as Ennis Del Mar and Jack Twist , respectively , but both actors were uncomfortable with the film ' s sex scenes . The roles ultimately went to Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal , both of whom were nominated for Academy Awards for their performances .	Who were originally intended to star in Brokeback Mountain?	I and Joaquin Phoenix.
Despite his felony conviction , which legally prohibits him from handling firearms , Wahlberg prepared for his role in Shooter by attending long - range shooting training at Front Sight Firearms Training Institute near Pahrump , Nevada . He was able to hit a target at 1 , 100 yards on his second day , a feat which usually takes weeks to achieve . He had said in a number of interviews that he would retire at the age of 40 to concentrate on parenthood and professional golf . However , in early 2007 , he indicated that the latter was no longer the plan as " his golf game is horrible " . He played Jack Salmon , the father of the protagonist , Susie , in Peter Jackson ' s The Lovely Bones , a film adaptation of the Alice Sebold book of the same name . In 2007 , he starred opposite Joaquin Phoenix in We Own the Night , a movie about a family of police officers in New York City .	What was your role in the movie Shooter?	I played the role of a shooter in the movie Shooter.
Despite his felony conviction , which legally prohibits him from handling firearms , Wahlberg prepared for his role in Shooter by attending long - range shooting training at Front Sight Firearms Training Institute near Pahrump , Nevada . He was able to hit a target at 1 , 100 yards on his second day , a feat which usually takes weeks to achieve . He had said in a number of interviews that he would retire at the age of 40 to concentrate on parenthood and professional golf . However , in early 2007 , he indicated that the latter was no longer the plan as " his golf game is horrible " . He played Jack Salmon , the father of the protagonist , Susie , in Peter Jackson ' s The Lovely Bones , a film adaptation of the Alice Sebold book of the same name . In 2007 , he starred opposite Joaquin Phoenix in We Own the Night , a movie about a family of police officers in New York City .	Where did you receive long-range shooting training?	I received long-range shooting training at Front Sight Firearms Training Institute near Pahrump, Nevada.
Despite his felony conviction , which legally prohibits him from handling firearms , Wahlberg prepared for his role in Shooter by attending long - range shooting training at Front Sight Firearms Training Institute near Pahrump , Nevada . He was able to hit a target at 1 , 100 yards on his second day , a feat which usually takes weeks to achieve . He had said in a number of interviews that he would retire at the age of 40 to concentrate on parenthood and professional golf . However , in early 2007 , he indicated that the latter was no longer the plan as " his golf game is horrible " . He played Jack Salmon , the father of the protagonist , Susie , in Peter Jackson ' s The Lovely Bones , a film adaptation of the Alice Sebold book of the same name . In 2007 , he starred opposite Joaquin Phoenix in We Own the Night , a movie about a family of police officers in New York City .	How far were you able to hit a target on your second day of training?	I was able to hit a target at 1,100 yards on my second day of training.
Despite his felony conviction , which legally prohibits him from handling firearms , Wahlberg prepared for his role in Shooter by attending long - range shooting training at Front Sight Firearms Training Institute near Pahrump , Nevada . He was able to hit a target at 1 , 100 yards on his second day , a feat which usually takes weeks to achieve . He had said in a number of interviews that he would retire at the age of 40 to concentrate on parenthood and professional golf . However , in early 2007 , he indicated that the latter was no longer the plan as " his golf game is horrible " . He played Jack Salmon , the father of the protagonist , Susie , in Peter Jackson ' s The Lovely Bones , a film adaptation of the Alice Sebold book of the same name . In 2007 , he starred opposite Joaquin Phoenix in We Own the Night , a movie about a family of police officers in New York City .	What did you originally plan to do at the age of 40?	I originally planned to retire at the age of 40 to concentrate on parenthood and professional golf.
Despite his felony conviction , which legally prohibits him from handling firearms , Wahlberg prepared for his role in Shooter by attending long - range shooting training at Front Sight Firearms Training Institute near Pahrump , Nevada . He was able to hit a target at 1 , 100 yards on his second day , a feat which usually takes weeks to achieve . He had said in a number of interviews that he would retire at the age of 40 to concentrate on parenthood and professional golf . However , in early 2007 , he indicated that the latter was no longer the plan as " his golf game is horrible " . He played Jack Salmon , the father of the protagonist , Susie , in Peter Jackson ' s The Lovely Bones , a film adaptation of the Alice Sebold book of the same name . In 2007 , he starred opposite Joaquin Phoenix in We Own the Night , a movie about a family of police officers in New York City .	Why did you change your plans about professional golf?	I changed my plans about professional golf because I considered my golf game to be horrible.
He starred in M . Night Shyamalan ' s The Happening as Eliot Moore , which premiered in movie theaters on June 13 , 2008 . The same year , he played the title role in Max Payne , based on the video game of the same name . While promoting Max Payne , Wahlberg became involved in a playful feud with The Lonely Island ' s Andy Samberg . Samberg had done an impression of Wahlberg in a Saturday Night Live sketch titled " Mark Wahlberg Talks to Animals " . Wahlberg later appeared in a follow - up sketch parodying the original one , Samberg ' s impression of Wahlberg , and his own threats to Samberg .	What movie did you star in as Eliot Moore?	I starred in M . Night Shyamalan ' s The Happening as Eliot Moore.
He starred in M . Night Shyamalan ' s The Happening as Eliot Moore , which premiered in movie theaters on June 13 , 2008 . The same year , he played the title role in Max Payne , based on the video game of the same name . While promoting Max Payne , Wahlberg became involved in a playful feud with The Lonely Island ' s Andy Samberg . Samberg had done an impression of Wahlberg in a Saturday Night Live sketch titled " Mark Wahlberg Talks to Animals " . Wahlberg later appeared in a follow - up sketch parodying the original one , Samberg ' s impression of Wahlberg , and his own threats to Samberg .	When did The Happening premiere in movie theaters?	The Happening premiered in movie theaters on June 13 , 2008 .
He starred in M . Night Shyamalan ' s The Happening as Eliot Moore , which premiered in movie theaters on June 13 , 2008 . The same year , he played the title role in Max Payne , based on the video game of the same name . While promoting Max Payne , Wahlberg became involved in a playful feud with The Lonely Island ' s Andy Samberg . Samberg had done an impression of Wahlberg in a Saturday Night Live sketch titled " Mark Wahlberg Talks to Animals " . Wahlberg later appeared in a follow - up sketch parodying the original one , Samberg ' s impression of Wahlberg , and his own threats to Samberg .	What video game was Max Payne based on?	Max Payne was based on the video game of the same name.
He starred in M . Night Shyamalan ' s The Happening as Eliot Moore , which premiered in movie theaters on June 13 , 2008 . The same year , he played the title role in Max Payne , based on the video game of the same name . While promoting Max Payne , Wahlberg became involved in a playful feud with The Lonely Island ' s Andy Samberg . Samberg had done an impression of Wahlberg in a Saturday Night Live sketch titled " Mark Wahlberg Talks to Animals " . Wahlberg later appeared in a follow - up sketch parodying the original one , Samberg ' s impression of Wahlberg , and his own threats to Samberg .	Who did you have a playful feud with while promoting Max Payne?	I had a playful feud with The Lonely Island ' s Andy Samberg.
He starred in M . Night Shyamalan ' s The Happening as Eliot Moore , which premiered in movie theaters on June 13 , 2008 . The same year , he played the title role in Max Payne , based on the video game of the same name . While promoting Max Payne , Wahlberg became involved in a playful feud with The Lonely Island ' s Andy Samberg . Samberg had done an impression of Wahlberg in a Saturday Night Live sketch titled " Mark Wahlberg Talks to Animals " . Wahlberg later appeared in a follow - up sketch parodying the original one , Samberg ' s impression of Wahlberg , and his own threats to Samberg .	What was the title of the Saturday Night Live sketch where Samberg did an impression of you?	The title of the Saturday Night Live sketch where Samberg did an impression of me was "Mark Wahlberg Talks to Animals".
In 2012 , Wahlberg starred in Seth MacFarlane ' s hit comedy Ted , reprising the same role in its 2015 sequel . Wahlberg later starred as Navy SEAL Marcus Luttrell in the war film Lone Survivor ( 2013 ) , based on Luttrell ' s 2007 book of the same name . The film received commercial success and mostly positive reviews , and Wahlberg ' s performance was highly praised . In 2014 , Wahlberg starred in the remake of The Gambler , the 1974 James Caan film that was loosely inspired by the Dostoyevsky novella . In 2014 , Wahlberg was the producer of the reality show Breaking Boston , which was pulled off the air after its premiere had 311 , 000 viewers . He executive - produced one episode of Wahlburgers , while co - starring in it . In 2015 , he starred opposite Will Ferrell in the comedy Daddy ' s Home . In 2016 , he starred in two Peter Berg films , Deepwater Horizon , a film about the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill , and Patriots Day , a film about the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing .	When did you star in the film Lone Survivor?	I starred in Lone Survivor in 2013.
In 2012 , Wahlberg starred in Seth MacFarlane ' s hit comedy Ted , reprising the same role in its 2015 sequel . Wahlberg later starred as Navy SEAL Marcus Luttrell in the war film Lone Survivor ( 2013 ) , based on Luttrell ' s 2007 book of the same name . The film received commercial success and mostly positive reviews , and Wahlberg ' s performance was highly praised . In 2014 , Wahlberg starred in the remake of The Gambler , the 1974 James Caan film that was loosely inspired by the Dostoyevsky novella . In 2014 , Wahlberg was the producer of the reality show Breaking Boston , which was pulled off the air after its premiere had 311 , 000 viewers . He executive - produced one episode of Wahlburgers , while co - starring in it . In 2015 , he starred opposite Will Ferrell in the comedy Daddy ' s Home . In 2016 , he starred in two Peter Berg films , Deepwater Horizon , a film about the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill , and Patriots Day , a film about the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing .	What was your role in the film Ted?	I reprised the same role in the film Ted and its 2015 sequel.
In 2012 , Wahlberg starred in Seth MacFarlane ' s hit comedy Ted , reprising the same role in its 2015 sequel . Wahlberg later starred as Navy SEAL Marcus Luttrell in the war film Lone Survivor ( 2013 ) , based on Luttrell ' s 2007 book of the same name . The film received commercial success and mostly positive reviews , and Wahlberg ' s performance was highly praised . In 2014 , Wahlberg starred in the remake of The Gambler , the 1974 James Caan film that was loosely inspired by the Dostoyevsky novella . In 2014 , Wahlberg was the producer of the reality show Breaking Boston , which was pulled off the air after its premiere had 311 , 000 viewers . He executive - produced one episode of Wahlburgers , while co - starring in it . In 2015 , he starred opposite Will Ferrell in the comedy Daddy ' s Home . In 2016 , he starred in two Peter Berg films , Deepwater Horizon , a film about the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill , and Patriots Day , a film about the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing .	What type of book was Lone Survivor based on?	Lone Survivor was based on Marcus Luttrell's 2007 book of the same name.
In 2012 , Wahlberg starred in Seth MacFarlane ' s hit comedy Ted , reprising the same role in its 2015 sequel . Wahlberg later starred as Navy SEAL Marcus Luttrell in the war film Lone Survivor ( 2013 ) , based on Luttrell ' s 2007 book of the same name . The film received commercial success and mostly positive reviews , and Wahlberg ' s performance was highly praised . In 2014 , Wahlberg starred in the remake of The Gambler , the 1974 James Caan film that was loosely inspired by the Dostoyevsky novella . In 2014 , Wahlberg was the producer of the reality show Breaking Boston , which was pulled off the air after its premiere had 311 , 000 viewers . He executive - produced one episode of Wahlburgers , while co - starring in it . In 2015 , he starred opposite Will Ferrell in the comedy Daddy ' s Home . In 2016 , he starred in two Peter Berg films , Deepwater Horizon , a film about the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill , and Patriots Day , a film about the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing .	What happened to the reality show Breaking Boston?	The reality show Breaking Boston was pulled off the air after its premiere had 311,000 viewers.
In 2012 , Wahlberg starred in Seth MacFarlane ' s hit comedy Ted , reprising the same role in its 2015 sequel . Wahlberg later starred as Navy SEAL Marcus Luttrell in the war film Lone Survivor ( 2013 ) , based on Luttrell ' s 2007 book of the same name . The film received commercial success and mostly positive reviews , and Wahlberg ' s performance was highly praised . In 2014 , Wahlberg starred in the remake of The Gambler , the 1974 James Caan film that was loosely inspired by the Dostoyevsky novella . In 2014 , Wahlberg was the producer of the reality show Breaking Boston , which was pulled off the air after its premiere had 311 , 000 viewers . He executive - produced one episode of Wahlburgers , while co - starring in it . In 2015 , he starred opposite Will Ferrell in the comedy Daddy ' s Home . In 2016 , he starred in two Peter Berg films , Deepwater Horizon , a film about the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill , and Patriots Day , a film about the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing .	Who did you star opposite in the film Daddy's Home?	I starred opposite Will Ferrell in the comedy Daddy's Home.
In 2015 , Wahlberg recruited rapper Sean Combs and billionaire Ronald Burkle to join him in investing in Aquahydrate , a bottled water brand Wahlberg discovered . Together , the three men own a majority stake in the company . Wahlberg , together with former GNC executive Tom Dowd , co - founded Performance Inspired , a sports nutrition company launched in 2016 . In February 2017 , Wahlberg was one of the investors who took part in a $ 6 million funding round for StockX , a sneaker resale marketplace . In March 2019 , Wahlberg bought a stake in the F45 fitness franchise .	Who did you recruit in 2015 to invest in Aquahydrate?	I recruited rapper Sean Combs and billionaire Ronald Burkle to invest in Aquahydrate.
In 2015 , Wahlberg recruited rapper Sean Combs and billionaire Ronald Burkle to join him in investing in Aquahydrate , a bottled water brand Wahlberg discovered . Together , the three men own a majority stake in the company . Wahlberg , together with former GNC executive Tom Dowd , co - founded Performance Inspired , a sports nutrition company launched in 2016 . In February 2017 , Wahlberg was one of the investors who took part in a $ 6 million funding round for StockX , a sneaker resale marketplace . In March 2019 , Wahlberg bought a stake in the F45 fitness franchise .	What kind of company did you co-found in 2016?	I co-founded Performance Inspired, a sports nutrition company, in 2016.
In 2015 , Wahlberg recruited rapper Sean Combs and billionaire Ronald Burkle to join him in investing in Aquahydrate , a bottled water brand Wahlberg discovered . Together , the three men own a majority stake in the company . Wahlberg , together with former GNC executive Tom Dowd , co - founded Performance Inspired , a sports nutrition company launched in 2016 . In February 2017 , Wahlberg was one of the investors who took part in a $ 6 million funding round for StockX , a sneaker resale marketplace . In March 2019 , Wahlberg bought a stake in the F45 fitness franchise .	In what year did you take part in a $6 million funding round for StockX?	I took part in a $6 million funding round for StockX in February 2017.
In 2015 , Wahlberg recruited rapper Sean Combs and billionaire Ronald Burkle to join him in investing in Aquahydrate , a bottled water brand Wahlberg discovered . Together , the three men own a majority stake in the company . Wahlberg , together with former GNC executive Tom Dowd , co - founded Performance Inspired , a sports nutrition company launched in 2016 . In February 2017 , Wahlberg was one of the investors who took part in a $ 6 million funding round for StockX , a sneaker resale marketplace . In March 2019 , Wahlberg bought a stake in the F45 fitness franchise .	What did you buy a stake in in March 2019?	I bought a stake in the F45 fitness franchise in March 2019.
In 2015 , Wahlberg recruited rapper Sean Combs and billionaire Ronald Burkle to join him in investing in Aquahydrate , a bottled water brand Wahlberg discovered . Together , the three men own a majority stake in the company . Wahlberg , together with former GNC executive Tom Dowd , co - founded Performance Inspired , a sports nutrition company launched in 2016 . In February 2017 , Wahlberg was one of the investors who took part in a $ 6 million funding round for StockX , a sneaker resale marketplace . In March 2019 , Wahlberg bought a stake in the F45 fitness franchise .	Who owns a majority stake in Aquahydrate?	Sean Combs, Ronald Burkle and I own a majority stake in Aquahydrate.
On July 20 , 2018 , Wahlberg and his business partner , Jay Feldman , announced the purchase of Bobby Layman Chevrolet in Columbus , Ohio . The dealership was renamed Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet . Due to the success of the dealership , local ABC affiliate WSYX reported in March 2020 that Haydocy Buick - GMC , right across the street from Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet , had filed paperwork with Ohio Secretary of State Frank LaRose to rename itself Mark Wahlberg Buick - GMC ; Feldman later confirmed that he and Wahlberg were purchasing their second General Motors dealership in the city . The deal became official on June 29 , 2020 , and also included Haydocy ' s Airstream and RV dealership , located next door at the car dealership ' s former Oldsmobile showroom . Shortly afterward , Wahlberg and Feldman announced they were purchasing Jack Maxton Chevrolet in nearby Worthington , Ohio , their fourth Columbus - area dealership , with plans to rename it Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet of Worthington . A fifth dealership , Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet of Avon , was added in Avon , Ohio in July 2021 ; unlike the other dealerships , the Avon location is in Greater Cleveland , marking Wahlberg and Feldman ' s entry into Northeast Ohio .	When did you and your business partner announce the purchase of Bobby Layman Chevrolet in Columbus, Ohio?	On July 20, 2018.
On July 20 , 2018 , Wahlberg and his business partner , Jay Feldman , announced the purchase of Bobby Layman Chevrolet in Columbus , Ohio . The dealership was renamed Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet . Due to the success of the dealership , local ABC affiliate WSYX reported in March 2020 that Haydocy Buick - GMC , right across the street from Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet , had filed paperwork with Ohio Secretary of State Frank LaRose to rename itself Mark Wahlberg Buick - GMC ; Feldman later confirmed that he and Wahlberg were purchasing their second General Motors dealership in the city . The deal became official on June 29 , 2020 , and also included Haydocy ' s Airstream and RV dealership , located next door at the car dealership ' s former Oldsmobile showroom . Shortly afterward , Wahlberg and Feldman announced they were purchasing Jack Maxton Chevrolet in nearby Worthington , Ohio , their fourth Columbus - area dealership , with plans to rename it Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet of Worthington . A fifth dealership , Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet of Avon , was added in Avon , Ohio in July 2021 ; unlike the other dealerships , the Avon location is in Greater Cleveland , marking Wahlberg and Feldman ' s entry into Northeast Ohio .	What was the dealership renamed to after you and his business partner's purchase?	The dealership was renamed Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet.
On July 20 , 2018 , Wahlberg and his business partner , Jay Feldman , announced the purchase of Bobby Layman Chevrolet in Columbus , Ohio . The dealership was renamed Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet . Due to the success of the dealership , local ABC affiliate WSYX reported in March 2020 that Haydocy Buick - GMC , right across the street from Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet , had filed paperwork with Ohio Secretary of State Frank LaRose to rename itself Mark Wahlberg Buick - GMC ; Feldman later confirmed that he and Wahlberg were purchasing their second General Motors dealership in the city . The deal became official on June 29 , 2020 , and also included Haydocy ' s Airstream and RV dealership , located next door at the car dealership ' s former Oldsmobile showroom . Shortly afterward , Wahlberg and Feldman announced they were purchasing Jack Maxton Chevrolet in nearby Worthington , Ohio , their fourth Columbus - area dealership , with plans to rename it Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet of Worthington . A fifth dealership , Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet of Avon , was added in Avon , Ohio in July 2021 ; unlike the other dealerships , the Avon location is in Greater Cleveland , marking Wahlberg and Feldman ' s entry into Northeast Ohio .	Which dealership filed paperwork to rename itself Mark Wahlberg Buick - GMC?	Haydocy Buick - GMC filed paperwork to rename itself Mark Wahlberg Buick - GMC.
On July 20 , 2018 , Wahlberg and his business partner , Jay Feldman , announced the purchase of Bobby Layman Chevrolet in Columbus , Ohio . The dealership was renamed Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet . Due to the success of the dealership , local ABC affiliate WSYX reported in March 2020 that Haydocy Buick - GMC , right across the street from Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet , had filed paperwork with Ohio Secretary of State Frank LaRose to rename itself Mark Wahlberg Buick - GMC ; Feldman later confirmed that he and Wahlberg were purchasing their second General Motors dealership in the city . The deal became official on June 29 , 2020 , and also included Haydocy ' s Airstream and RV dealership , located next door at the car dealership ' s former Oldsmobile showroom . Shortly afterward , Wahlberg and Feldman announced they were purchasing Jack Maxton Chevrolet in nearby Worthington , Ohio , their fourth Columbus - area dealership , with plans to rename it Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet of Worthington . A fifth dealership , Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet of Avon , was added in Avon , Ohio in July 2021 ; unlike the other dealerships , the Avon location is in Greater Cleveland , marking Wahlberg and Feldman ' s entry into Northeast Ohio .	When did the deal for purchasing the second General Motors dealership in the city become official?	The deal became official on June 29, 2020.
On July 20 , 2018 , Wahlberg and his business partner , Jay Feldman , announced the purchase of Bobby Layman Chevrolet in Columbus , Ohio . The dealership was renamed Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet . Due to the success of the dealership , local ABC affiliate WSYX reported in March 2020 that Haydocy Buick - GMC , right across the street from Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet , had filed paperwork with Ohio Secretary of State Frank LaRose to rename itself Mark Wahlberg Buick - GMC ; Feldman later confirmed that he and Wahlberg were purchasing their second General Motors dealership in the city . The deal became official on June 29 , 2020 , and also included Haydocy ' s Airstream and RV dealership , located next door at the car dealership ' s former Oldsmobile showroom . Shortly afterward , Wahlberg and Feldman announced they were purchasing Jack Maxton Chevrolet in nearby Worthington , Ohio , their fourth Columbus - area dealership , with plans to rename it Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet of Worthington . A fifth dealership , Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet of Avon , was added in Avon , Ohio in July 2021 ; unlike the other dealerships , the Avon location is in Greater Cleveland , marking Wahlberg and Feldman ' s entry into Northeast Ohio .	How many Columbus-area dealerships do you and Feldman currently own?	I and Feldman currently own four Columbus-area dealerships.
Wahlberg was booked to fly on American Airlines Flight 11 on September 11 , 2001 , but his plans changed the day before and he canceled his reservation . He received backlash for stating in a 2012 interview , " If I was on that plane with my kids , it wouldn ' t have went down like it did " . He added that " there would have been a lot of blood in that first - class cabin and then me saying , ' OK , we ' re going to land somewhere safely , don ' t worry . ' " He issued an apology after family members of those killed on the flight expressed outrage .	What was you originally scheduled to do on September 11, 2001?	I was originally scheduled to fly on American Airlines Flight 11.
Wahlberg was booked to fly on American Airlines Flight 11 on September 11 , 2001 , but his plans changed the day before and he canceled his reservation . He received backlash for stating in a 2012 interview , " If I was on that plane with my kids , it wouldn ' t have went down like it did " . He added that " there would have been a lot of blood in that first - class cabin and then me saying , ' OK , we ' re going to land somewhere safely , don ' t worry . ' " He issued an apology after family members of those killed on the flight expressed outrage .	Did you end up taking the flight on September 11, 2001?	No, I canceled my reservation and did not take the flight.
Wahlberg was booked to fly on American Airlines Flight 11 on September 11 , 2001 , but his plans changed the day before and he canceled his reservation . He received backlash for stating in a 2012 interview , " If I was on that plane with my kids , it wouldn ' t have went down like it did " . He added that " there would have been a lot of blood in that first - class cabin and then me saying , ' OK , we ' re going to land somewhere safely , don ' t worry . ' " He issued an apology after family members of those killed on the flight expressed outrage .	What did Wahlbeyourg say in a 2012 interview about the events of September 11, 2001?	I stated, "If I was on that plane with my kids, it wouldn't have went down like it did."
Wahlberg was booked to fly on American Airlines Flight 11 on September 11 , 2001 , but his plans changed the day before and he canceled his reservation . He received backlash for stating in a 2012 interview , " If I was on that plane with my kids , it wouldn ' t have went down like it did " . He added that " there would have been a lot of blood in that first - class cabin and then me saying , ' OK , we ' re going to land somewhere safely , don ' t worry . ' " He issued an apology after family members of those killed on the flight expressed outrage .	How did you suggest you would have reacted if you were on the plane?	I suggested that there would have been a lot of blood in the first-class cabin, but then I would have assured everyone that we would land safely.
Wahlberg was booked to fly on American Airlines Flight 11 on September 11 , 2001 , but his plans changed the day before and he canceled his reservation . He received backlash for stating in a 2012 interview , " If I was on that plane with my kids , it wouldn ' t have went down like it did " . He added that " there would have been a lot of blood in that first - class cabin and then me saying , ' OK , we ' re going to land somewhere safely , don ' t worry . ' " He issued an apology after family members of those killed on the flight expressed outrage .	Did you apologize for his comments?	Yes, I issued an apology after family members of the deceased expressed outrage.
