Megan Denise Fox (born May 16, 1986) is an American actress. She made her acting debut in the family film Holiday in the Sun (2001), which was followed by numerous supporting roles in film and television, such as the teen musical comedy Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen (2004), as well as a starring role in the ABC sitcom Hope & Faith (2004–2006). Her breakout role was as Mikaela Banes in the blockbuster action film Transformers (2007), which she reprised in its sequel Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen (2009). She also portrayed the titular character in the horror comedy Jennifer's Body (2009), starred as April O'Neil in the superhero action film Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2014) and its sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows (2016), and starred as Reagan Lucas in the fifth and sixth seasons of the Fox sitcom New Girl (2016–2017).	When did you make your acting debut?	I made my acting debut in 2001.
Megan Denise Fox (born May 16, 1986) is an American actress. She made her acting debut in the family film Holiday in the Sun (2001), which was followed by numerous supporting roles in film and television, such as the teen musical comedy Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen (2004), as well as a starring role in the ABC sitcom Hope & Faith (2004–2006). Her breakout role was as Mikaela Banes in the blockbuster action film Transformers (2007), which she reprised in its sequel Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen (2009). She also portrayed the titular character in the horror comedy Jennifer's Body (2009), starred as April O'Neil in the superhero action film Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2014) and its sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows (2016), and starred as Reagan Lucas in the fifth and sixth seasons of the Fox sitcom New Girl (2016–2017).	In which film did you have a starring role in the ABC sitcom Hope & Faith?	I had a starring role in the ABC sitcom Hope & Faith from 2004 to 2006.
Megan Denise Fox (born May 16, 1986) is an American actress. She made her acting debut in the family film Holiday in the Sun (2001), which was followed by numerous supporting roles in film and television, such as the teen musical comedy Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen (2004), as well as a starring role in the ABC sitcom Hope & Faith (2004–2006). Her breakout role was as Mikaela Banes in the blockbuster action film Transformers (2007), which she reprised in its sequel Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen (2009). She also portrayed the titular character in the horror comedy Jennifer's Body (2009), starred as April O'Neil in the superhero action film Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2014) and its sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows (2016), and starred as Reagan Lucas in the fifth and sixth seasons of the Fox sitcom New Girl (2016–2017).	What was your breakout role?	My breakout role was as Mikaela Banes in the blockbuster action film Transformers.
Megan Denise Fox (born May 16, 1986) is an American actress. She made her acting debut in the family film Holiday in the Sun (2001), which was followed by numerous supporting roles in film and television, such as the teen musical comedy Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen (2004), as well as a starring role in the ABC sitcom Hope & Faith (2004–2006). Her breakout role was as Mikaela Banes in the blockbuster action film Transformers (2007), which she reprised in its sequel Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen (2009). She also portrayed the titular character in the horror comedy Jennifer's Body (2009), starred as April O'Neil in the superhero action film Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2014) and its sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows (2016), and starred as Reagan Lucas in the fifth and sixth seasons of the Fox sitcom New Girl (2016–2017).	In which films did you portray the character April O'Neil?	I portrayed the character April O'Neil in the superhero action films Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2014) and its sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows (2016).
Megan Denise Fox (born May 16, 1986) is an American actress. She made her acting debut in the family film Holiday in the Sun (2001), which was followed by numerous supporting roles in film and television, such as the teen musical comedy Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen (2004), as well as a starring role in the ABC sitcom Hope & Faith (2004–2006). Her breakout role was as Mikaela Banes in the blockbuster action film Transformers (2007), which she reprised in its sequel Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen (2009). She also portrayed the titular character in the horror comedy Jennifer's Body (2009), starred as April O'Neil in the superhero action film Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles (2014) and its sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows (2016), and starred as Reagan Lucas in the fifth and sixth seasons of the Fox sitcom New Girl (2016–2017).	In which seasons of the Fox sitcom New Girl did you star as Reagan Lucas?	I starred as Reagan Lucas in the fifth and sixth seasons of the Fox sitcom New Girl.
Fox has also made appearances in numerous magazines such as Maxim, Rolling Stone, and FHM. She is the recipient of several accolades, including two Scream Awards and four Teen Choice Awards.	Which magazines have you appeared in?	I have appeared in magazines such as Maxim, Rolling Stone, and FHM.
Fox has also made appearances in numerous magazines such as Maxim, Rolling Stone, and FHM. She is the recipient of several accolades, including two Scream Awards and four Teen Choice Awards.	How many accolades have you received?	I have received several accolades.
Fox has also made appearances in numerous magazines such as Maxim, Rolling Stone, and FHM. She is the recipient of several accolades, including two Scream Awards and four Teen Choice Awards.	What types of awards have you won?	I have won two Scream Awards and four Teen Choice Awards.
Fox has also made appearances in numerous magazines such as Maxim, Rolling Stone, and FHM. She is the recipient of several accolades, including two Scream Awards and four Teen Choice Awards.	Can you name any specific magazines that you have appeared in?	Yes, I have appeared in Maxim, Rolling Stone, and FHM.
Fox has also made appearances in numerous magazines such as Maxim, Rolling Stone, and FHM. She is the recipient of several accolades, including two Scream Awards and four Teen Choice Awards.	What kind of awards have you received?	I have received accolades such as two Scream Awards and four Teen Choice Awards.
Megan Denise Fox was born on May 16, 1986, in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, to parents Gloria Darlene (née Cisson) and Franklin Thomas Fox. She spent her early childhood in nearby Rockwood. Fox's father, a parole officer, and her mother divorced when Fox was three years old. Her mother later remarried, and Fox and her sister were raised by her mother and her stepfather, Tony Tonachio. She was raised "very strictly Pentecostal", but later attended Catholic school for 12 years. She said that her parents were "very strict" and that she was not allowed to have a boyfriend or invite friends to her house. She lived with her mother until she made enough money to support herself.	When were you born?	I was born on May 16, 1986.
Megan Denise Fox was born on May 16, 1986, in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, to parents Gloria Darlene (née Cisson) and Franklin Thomas Fox. She spent her early childhood in nearby Rockwood. Fox's father, a parole officer, and her mother divorced when Fox was three years old. Her mother later remarried, and Fox and her sister were raised by her mother and her stepfather, Tony Tonachio. She was raised "very strictly Pentecostal", but later attended Catholic school for 12 years. She said that her parents were "very strict" and that she was not allowed to have a boyfriend or invite friends to her house. She lived with her mother until she made enough money to support herself.	Where were you born?	I was born in Oak Ridge, Tennessee.
Megan Denise Fox was born on May 16, 1986, in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, to parents Gloria Darlene (née Cisson) and Franklin Thomas Fox. She spent her early childhood in nearby Rockwood. Fox's father, a parole officer, and her mother divorced when Fox was three years old. Her mother later remarried, and Fox and her sister were raised by her mother and her stepfather, Tony Tonachio. She was raised "very strictly Pentecostal", but later attended Catholic school for 12 years. She said that her parents were "very strict" and that she was not allowed to have a boyfriend or invite friends to her house. She lived with her mother until she made enough money to support herself.	Who are your parents?	My parents are Gloria Darlene (née Cisson) and Franklin Thomas Fox.
Megan Denise Fox was born on May 16, 1986, in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, to parents Gloria Darlene (née Cisson) and Franklin Thomas Fox. She spent her early childhood in nearby Rockwood. Fox's father, a parole officer, and her mother divorced when Fox was three years old. Her mother later remarried, and Fox and her sister were raised by her mother and her stepfather, Tony Tonachio. She was raised "very strictly Pentecostal", but later attended Catholic school for 12 years. She said that her parents were "very strict" and that she was not allowed to have a boyfriend or invite friends to her house. She lived with her mother until she made enough money to support herself.	How were you raised?	I was raised "very strictly Pentecostal" and later attended Catholic school for 12 years.
Megan Denise Fox was born on May 16, 1986, in Oak Ridge, Tennessee, to parents Gloria Darlene (née Cisson) and Franklin Thomas Fox. She spent her early childhood in nearby Rockwood. Fox's father, a parole officer, and her mother divorced when Fox was three years old. Her mother later remarried, and Fox and her sister were raised by her mother and her stepfather, Tony Tonachio. She was raised "very strictly Pentecostal", but later attended Catholic school for 12 years. She said that her parents were "very strict" and that she was not allowed to have a boyfriend or invite friends to her house. She lived with her mother until she made enough money to support herself.	Who primarily raised you and your sister?	My sister and I were primarily raised by my mother and my stepfather, Tony Tonachio.
Fox began her training in dance and drama at age five, in Kingston, Tennessee. She attended a dance class at the community center there and was involved in Kingston Elementary School's chorus and the Kingston Clippers swim team. At age 10, after moving to St. Petersburg, Florida, Fox continued her training. When she was 13 years old, Fox began modeling after winning several awards at the 1999 American Modeling and Talent Convention in Hilton Head, South Carolina. Fox attended high school at Morningside Academy in Port St. Lucie until her junior year when she attended St. Lucie West Centennial High School.	Where did you begin your training in dance and drama?	I began my training in dance and drama in Kingston, Tennessee.
Fox began her training in dance and drama at age five, in Kingston, Tennessee. She attended a dance class at the community center there and was involved in Kingston Elementary School's chorus and the Kingston Clippers swim team. At age 10, after moving to St. Petersburg, Florida, Fox continued her training. When she was 13 years old, Fox began modeling after winning several awards at the 1999 American Modeling and Talent Convention in Hilton Head, South Carolina. Fox attended high school at Morningside Academy in Port St. Lucie until her junior year when she attended St. Lucie West Centennial High School.	What activities were you involved in at Kingston Elementary School?	I was involved in Kingston Elementary School's chorus and the Kingston Clippers swim team.
Fox began her training in dance and drama at age five, in Kingston, Tennessee. She attended a dance class at the community center there and was involved in Kingston Elementary School's chorus and the Kingston Clippers swim team. At age 10, after moving to St. Petersburg, Florida, Fox continued her training. When she was 13 years old, Fox began modeling after winning several awards at the 1999 American Modeling and Talent Convention in Hilton Head, South Carolina. Fox attended high school at Morningside Academy in Port St. Lucie until her junior year when she attended St. Lucie West Centennial High School.	At what age did you start modeling?	I started modeling at the age of 13.
Fox began her training in dance and drama at age five, in Kingston, Tennessee. She attended a dance class at the community center there and was involved in Kingston Elementary School's chorus and the Kingston Clippers swim team. At age 10, after moving to St. Petersburg, Florida, Fox continued her training. When she was 13 years old, Fox began modeling after winning several awards at the 1999 American Modeling and Talent Convention in Hilton Head, South Carolina. Fox attended high school at Morningside Academy in Port St. Lucie until her junior year when she attended St. Lucie West Centennial High School.	Where did you attend high school until your junior year?	I attended high school at Morningside Academy in Port St. Lucie until my junior year.
Fox began her training in dance and drama at age five, in Kingston, Tennessee. She attended a dance class at the community center there and was involved in Kingston Elementary School's chorus and the Kingston Clippers swim team. At age 10, after moving to St. Petersburg, Florida, Fox continued her training. When she was 13 years old, Fox began modeling after winning several awards at the 1999 American Modeling and Talent Convention in Hilton Head, South Carolina. Fox attended high school at Morningside Academy in Port St. Lucie until her junior year when she attended St. Lucie West Centennial High School.	Which awards did you win at the 1999 American Modeling and Talent Convention?	I won several awards at the 1999 American Modeling and Talent Convention in Hilton Head, South Carolina.
When she was 17 she tested out of school via correspondence, in order to move to Los Angeles, California.	How old were you when you tested out of school?	I was 17 when I tested out of school.
When she was 17 she tested out of school via correspondence, in order to move to Los Angeles, California.	What was the reason for you testing out of school?	I tested out of school in order to move to Los Angeles, California.
When she was 17 she tested out of school via correspondence, in order to move to Los Angeles, California.	Where did you move to?	I moved to Los Angeles, California.
When she was 17 she tested out of school via correspondence, in order to move to Los Angeles, California.	How did you complete your education?	I completed my education via correspondence.
When she was 17 she tested out of school via correspondence, in order to move to Los Angeles, California.	At what age did you move to Los Angeles?	I moved to Los Angeles at the age of 17.
Fox spoke freely about her time in school, stating that in middle school she was bullied and had to eat lunch in the bathroom to avoid being "pelted with ketchup packets." She said that the problem was not her looks, but that she had "always gotten along better with boys" and that "rubbed some people the wrong way." Fox also said that she was never popular in high school, and that "everyone hated me, and I was a total outcast, my friends were always guys, I have a very aggressive personality, and girls didn't like me for that. I've had only one great girlfriend my whole life." In the same interview, she mentions that she hated school and has "never been a big believer in formal education" and that "the education I was getting seemed irrelevant. So, I was sort of checked out on that part of it."	Can you tell me about your experience in middle school?	In middle school, I was bullied and had to eat lunch in the bathroom to avoid being "pelted with ketchup packets."
Fox spoke freely about her time in school, stating that in middle school she was bullied and had to eat lunch in the bathroom to avoid being "pelted with ketchup packets." She said that the problem was not her looks, but that she had "always gotten along better with boys" and that "rubbed some people the wrong way." Fox also said that she was never popular in high school, and that "everyone hated me, and I was a total outcast, my friends were always guys, I have a very aggressive personality, and girls didn't like me for that. I've had only one great girlfriend my whole life." In the same interview, she mentions that she hated school and has "never been a big believer in formal education" and that "the education I was getting seemed irrelevant. So, I was sort of checked out on that part of it."	What was the reason for your bullying in middle school?	The problem was not my looks, but the fact that I had "always gotten along better with boys" and that "rubbed some people the wrong way."
Fox spoke freely about her time in school, stating that in middle school she was bullied and had to eat lunch in the bathroom to avoid being "pelted with ketchup packets." She said that the problem was not her looks, but that she had "always gotten along better with boys" and that "rubbed some people the wrong way." Fox also said that she was never popular in high school, and that "everyone hated me, and I was a total outcast, my friends were always guys, I have a very aggressive personality, and girls didn't like me for that. I've had only one great girlfriend my whole life." In the same interview, she mentions that she hated school and has "never been a big believer in formal education" and that "the education I was getting seemed irrelevant. So, I was sort of checked out on that part of it."	How was my high school experience like?	In high school, everyone hated me, and I was a total outcast. My friends were always guys, and girls didn't like me because I have a very aggressive personality.
Fox spoke freely about her time in school, stating that in middle school she was bullied and had to eat lunch in the bathroom to avoid being "pelted with ketchup packets." She said that the problem was not her looks, but that she had "always gotten along better with boys" and that "rubbed some people the wrong way." Fox also said that she was never popular in high school, and that "everyone hated me, and I was a total outcast, my friends were always guys, I have a very aggressive personality, and girls didn't like me for that. I've had only one great girlfriend my whole life." In the same interview, she mentions that she hated school and has "never been a big believer in formal education" and that "the education I was getting seemed irrelevant. So, I was sort of checked out on that part of it."	Did I have any close friends during my school days?	You've had only one great girlfriend your whole life.
Fox spoke freely about her time in school, stating that in middle school she was bullied and had to eat lunch in the bathroom to avoid being "pelted with ketchup packets." She said that the problem was not her looks, but that she had "always gotten along better with boys" and that "rubbed some people the wrong way." Fox also said that she was never popular in high school, and that "everyone hated me, and I was a total outcast, my friends were always guys, I have a very aggressive personality, and girls didn't like me for that. I've had only one great girlfriend my whole life." In the same interview, she mentions that she hated school and has "never been a big believer in formal education" and that "the education I was getting seemed irrelevant. So, I was sort of checked out on that part of it."	How did you feel about formal education?	I hated school and have "never been a big believer in formal education." The education I was getting seemed irrelevant, so I was sort of checked out on that part of it.
In 2001, Fox made her acting debut in the romantic comedy Holiday in the Sun, as spoiled heiress Brianna Wallace and rival of Alex Stewart (Ashley Olsen), which was released direct-to-DVD on November 20, 2001. In the next several years, she guest-starred on the sitcoms What I Like About You and Two and a Half Men. Fox also appeared as an uncredited extra in the action film Bad Boys II (2003).	What was your acting debut?	I made my acting debut in the romantic comedy Holiday in the Sun.
In 2001, Fox made her acting debut in the romantic comedy Holiday in the Sun, as spoiled heiress Brianna Wallace and rival of Alex Stewart (Ashley Olsen), which was released direct-to-DVD on November 20, 2001. In the next several years, she guest-starred on the sitcoms What I Like About You and Two and a Half Men. Fox also appeared as an uncredited extra in the action film Bad Boys II (2003).	In which year was Holiday in the Sun released?	Holiday in the Sun was released in 2001.
In 2001, Fox made her acting debut in the romantic comedy Holiday in the Sun, as spoiled heiress Brianna Wallace and rival of Alex Stewart (Ashley Olsen), which was released direct-to-DVD on November 20, 2001. In the next several years, she guest-starred on the sitcoms What I Like About You and Two and a Half Men. Fox also appeared as an uncredited extra in the action film Bad Boys II (2003).	Who was your character in Holiday in the Sun?	My character in Holiday in the Sun was Brianna Wallace.
In 2001, Fox made her acting debut in the romantic comedy Holiday in the Sun, as spoiled heiress Brianna Wallace and rival of Alex Stewart (Ashley Olsen), which was released direct-to-DVD on November 20, 2001. In the next several years, she guest-starred on the sitcoms What I Like About You and Two and a Half Men. Fox also appeared as an uncredited extra in the action film Bad Boys II (2003).	What kind of film was Bad Boys II?	Bad Boys II was an action film.
In 2001, Fox made her acting debut in the romantic comedy Holiday in the Sun, as spoiled heiress Brianna Wallace and rival of Alex Stewart (Ashley Olsen), which was released direct-to-DVD on November 20, 2001. In the next several years, she guest-starred on the sitcoms What I Like About You and Two and a Half Men. Fox also appeared as an uncredited extra in the action film Bad Boys II (2003).	When was Bad Boys II released?	Bad Boys II was released in 2003.
In 2004, Fox made her feature film debut opposite Lindsay Lohan in the musical comedy Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen, playing the supporting role of Carla Santini, a rival of Lola (Lohan). She was also cast in a regular role on the ABC sitcom Hope & Faith, in which she portrayed Sydney Shanowski, replacing Nicole Paggi. Fox appeared in the second and third seasons, until the series was cancelled by ABC in May 2006.	When did you make your feature film debut?	I made my feature film debut in 2004.
In 2004, Fox made her feature film debut opposite Lindsay Lohan in the musical comedy Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen, playing the supporting role of Carla Santini, a rival of Lola (Lohan). She was also cast in a regular role on the ABC sitcom Hope & Faith, in which she portrayed Sydney Shanowski, replacing Nicole Paggi. Fox appeared in the second and third seasons, until the series was cancelled by ABC in May 2006.	Who did you star opposite in your feature film debut?	I starred opposite Lindsay Lohan in my feature film debut.
In 2004, Fox made her feature film debut opposite Lindsay Lohan in the musical comedy Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen, playing the supporting role of Carla Santini, a rival of Lola (Lohan). She was also cast in a regular role on the ABC sitcom Hope & Faith, in which she portrayed Sydney Shanowski, replacing Nicole Paggi. Fox appeared in the second and third seasons, until the series was cancelled by ABC in May 2006.	What was the name of the musical comedy in which you made your feature film debut?	The name of the musical comedy in which I made my feature film debut is Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen.
In 2004, Fox made her feature film debut opposite Lindsay Lohan in the musical comedy Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen, playing the supporting role of Carla Santini, a rival of Lola (Lohan). She was also cast in a regular role on the ABC sitcom Hope & Faith, in which she portrayed Sydney Shanowski, replacing Nicole Paggi. Fox appeared in the second and third seasons, until the series was cancelled by ABC in May 2006.	What role did you play in Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen?	I played the supporting role of Carla Santini in Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen.
In 2004, Fox made her feature film debut opposite Lindsay Lohan in the musical comedy Confessions of a Teenage Drama Queen, playing the supporting role of Carla Santini, a rival of Lola (Lohan). She was also cast in a regular role on the ABC sitcom Hope & Faith, in which she portrayed Sydney Shanowski, replacing Nicole Paggi. Fox appeared in the second and third seasons, until the series was cancelled by ABC in May 2006.	In which TV sitcom did you have a regular role?	I had a regular role on the ABC sitcom Hope & Faith.
In 2007, Fox won the lead female role of Mikaela Banes in the 2007 live-action film Transformers, based on the toy and cartoon saga of the same name. Fox played the love interest of Shia LaBeouf's character Sam Witwicky. Fox was nominated for an MTV Movie Award in the category of "Breakthrough Performance", and was also nominated for three Teen Choice Awards. She had signed on for two more Transformers sequels, reprising her role as Mikaela in Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen. There was controversy surrounding Fox's appearance while filming the sequel when Michael Bay, the film's director, ordered the actress to gain ten pounds. The film was released worldwide on June 24, 2009, to box office success.	When did you win the lead female role of Mikaela Banes in the film Transformers?	In 2007.
In 2007, Fox won the lead female role of Mikaela Banes in the 2007 live-action film Transformers, based on the toy and cartoon saga of the same name. Fox played the love interest of Shia LaBeouf's character Sam Witwicky. Fox was nominated for an MTV Movie Award in the category of "Breakthrough Performance", and was also nominated for three Teen Choice Awards. She had signed on for two more Transformers sequels, reprising her role as Mikaela in Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen. There was controversy surrounding Fox's appearance while filming the sequel when Michael Bay, the film's director, ordered the actress to gain ten pounds. The film was released worldwide on June 24, 2009, to box office success.	What role did you play in Transformers?	I played the role of Mikaela Banes.
In 2007, Fox won the lead female role of Mikaela Banes in the 2007 live-action film Transformers, based on the toy and cartoon saga of the same name. Fox played the love interest of Shia LaBeouf's character Sam Witwicky. Fox was nominated for an MTV Movie Award in the category of "Breakthrough Performance", and was also nominated for three Teen Choice Awards. She had signed on for two more Transformers sequels, reprising her role as Mikaela in Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen. There was controversy surrounding Fox's appearance while filming the sequel when Michael Bay, the film's director, ordered the actress to gain ten pounds. The film was released worldwide on June 24, 2009, to box office success.	Who was your love interest in Transformers?	My love interest in Transformers was Shia LaBeouf's character Sam Witwicky.
In 2007, Fox won the lead female role of Mikaela Banes in the 2007 live-action film Transformers, based on the toy and cartoon saga of the same name. Fox played the love interest of Shia LaBeouf's character Sam Witwicky. Fox was nominated for an MTV Movie Award in the category of "Breakthrough Performance", and was also nominated for three Teen Choice Awards. She had signed on for two more Transformers sequels, reprising her role as Mikaela in Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen. There was controversy surrounding Fox's appearance while filming the sequel when Michael Bay, the film's director, ordered the actress to gain ten pounds. The film was released worldwide on June 24, 2009, to box office success.	What award were you nominated for in 2007 for Transformers?	I was nominated for an MTV Movie Award in the category of "Breakthrough Performance".
In 2007, Fox won the lead female role of Mikaela Banes in the 2007 live-action film Transformers, based on the toy and cartoon saga of the same name. Fox played the love interest of Shia LaBeouf's character Sam Witwicky. Fox was nominated for an MTV Movie Award in the category of "Breakthrough Performance", and was also nominated for three Teen Choice Awards. She had signed on for two more Transformers sequels, reprising her role as Mikaela in Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen. There was controversy surrounding Fox's appearance while filming the sequel when Michael Bay, the film's director, ordered the actress to gain ten pounds. The film was released worldwide on June 24, 2009, to box office success.	In which Transformers sequel did you reprise your role as Mikaela?	I reprised my role as Mikaela in Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen.
Fox was to star in the third installment, Transformers: Dark of the Moon, but was not included because of her statements comparing working under director Bay to working for Hitler. Bay said in June 2009 that Fox was fired on orders of executive producer Steven Spielberg, a claim Spielberg challenged.	Who was supposed to star in the third installment of Transformers?	I was supposed to star in the third installment of Transformers.
Fox was to star in the third installment, Transformers: Dark of the Moon, but was not included because of her statements comparing working under director Bay to working for Hitler. Bay said in June 2009 that Fox was fired on orders of executive producer Steven Spielberg, a claim Spielberg challenged.	Why were you not included in Transformers: Dark of the Moon?	I was not included in Transformers: Dark of the Moon because of my statements comparing working under director Bay to working for Hitler.
Fox was to star in the third installment, Transformers: Dark of the Moon, but was not included because of her statements comparing working under director Bay to working for Hitler. Bay said in June 2009 that Fox was fired on orders of executive producer Steven Spielberg, a claim Spielberg challenged.	When did Bay say that you were fired?	Bay said in June 2009 that I was fired.
Fox was to star in the third installment, Transformers: Dark of the Moon, but was not included because of her statements comparing working under director Bay to working for Hitler. Bay said in June 2009 that Fox was fired on orders of executive producer Steven Spielberg, a claim Spielberg challenged.	Who ordered me to be fired from Transformers?	Executive producer Steven Spielberg ordered me to be fired from Transformers.
Fox was to star in the third installment, Transformers: Dark of the Moon, but was not included because of her statements comparing working under director Bay to working for Hitler. Bay said in June 2009 that Fox was fired on orders of executive producer Steven Spielberg, a claim Spielberg challenged.	Did Spielberg challenge Bay's claim?	Yes, Spielberg challenged Bay's claim.
In 2009 , Fox had her first lead role since the Transformers series ; she portrayed the title character in Jennifer ' s Body , written by Academy Award – winning screenwriter Diablo Cody . The film initially earned mixed to average reviews upon its release , with Fox ' s performance earning praise . However , the film grew a cult following over time and was critically reassessed as a " forgotten feminist classic " . According to Cody , the film was marketed incorrectly by executives who focused their efforts on the young male audience .	When did you have your first lead role since the Transformers series?	In 2009.
In 2009 , Fox had her first lead role since the Transformers series ; she portrayed the title character in Jennifer ' s Body , written by Academy Award – winning screenwriter Diablo Cody . The film initially earned mixed to average reviews upon its release , with Fox ' s performance earning praise . However , the film grew a cult following over time and was critically reassessed as a " forgotten feminist classic " . According to Cody , the film was marketed incorrectly by executives who focused their efforts on the young male audience .	Who wrote the movie Jennifer's Body?	Academy Award-winning screenwriter Diablo Cody.
In 2009 , Fox had her first lead role since the Transformers series ; she portrayed the title character in Jennifer ' s Body , written by Academy Award – winning screenwriter Diablo Cody . The film initially earned mixed to average reviews upon its release , with Fox ' s performance earning praise . However , the film grew a cult following over time and was critically reassessed as a " forgotten feminist classic " . According to Cody , the film was marketed incorrectly by executives who focused their efforts on the young male audience .	How was the film Jennifer's Body initially received?	It earned mixed to average reviews upon its release.
In 2009 , Fox had her first lead role since the Transformers series ; she portrayed the title character in Jennifer ' s Body , written by Academy Award – winning screenwriter Diablo Cody . The film initially earned mixed to average reviews upon its release , with Fox ' s performance earning praise . However , the film grew a cult following over time and was critically reassessed as a " forgotten feminist classic " . According to Cody , the film was marketed incorrectly by executives who focused their efforts on the young male audience .	What kind of reviews did your performance in Jennifer's Body receive?	My performance earned praise.
In 2009 , Fox had her first lead role since the Transformers series ; she portrayed the title character in Jennifer ' s Body , written by Academy Award – winning screenwriter Diablo Cody . The film initially earned mixed to average reviews upon its release , with Fox ' s performance earning praise . However , the film grew a cult following over time and was critically reassessed as a " forgotten feminist classic " . According to Cody , the film was marketed incorrectly by executives who focused their efforts on the young male audience .	How was the film Jennifer's Body later reassessed?	It was critically reassessed as a "forgotten feminist classic".
In April 2009 , she began filming the western superhero film Jonah Hex , in which she portrayed Tallulah Black / Leila , a gun - wielding beauty and Jonah Hex ' s ( Josh Brolin ) love interest . The film was released on June 18 , 2010 . Despite receiving top billing , Fox described her role in the film as being a cameo . Jonah Hex was a critical and commercial failure in the U . S . , with its international distribution cancelled after its poor performance . The film was named the " worst picture of the year " by the Houston Film Critics Society .	What film did you begin filming in April 2009?	I began filming the western superhero film Jonah Hex.
In April 2009 , she began filming the western superhero film Jonah Hex , in which she portrayed Tallulah Black / Leila , a gun - wielding beauty and Jonah Hex ' s ( Josh Brolin ) love interest . The film was released on June 18 , 2010 . Despite receiving top billing , Fox described her role in the film as being a cameo . Jonah Hex was a critical and commercial failure in the U . S . , with its international distribution cancelled after its poor performance . The film was named the " worst picture of the year " by the Houston Film Critics Society .	What character did you portray in the film Jonah Hex?	I portrayed Tallulah Black / Leila.
In April 2009 , she began filming the western superhero film Jonah Hex , in which she portrayed Tallulah Black / Leila , a gun - wielding beauty and Jonah Hex ' s ( Josh Brolin ) love interest . The film was released on June 18 , 2010 . Despite receiving top billing , Fox described her role in the film as being a cameo . Jonah Hex was a critical and commercial failure in the U . S . , with its international distribution cancelled after its poor performance . The film was named the " worst picture of the year " by the Houston Film Critics Society .	Who is Jonah Hex's love interest in the film?	Jonah Hex's love interest in the film is Tallulah Black / Leila.
In April 2009 , she began filming the western superhero film Jonah Hex , in which she portrayed Tallulah Black / Leila , a gun - wielding beauty and Jonah Hex ' s ( Josh Brolin ) love interest . The film was released on June 18 , 2010 . Despite receiving top billing , Fox described her role in the film as being a cameo . Jonah Hex was a critical and commercial failure in the U . S . , with its international distribution cancelled after its poor performance . The film was named the " worst picture of the year " by the Houston Film Critics Society .	When was the film Jonah Hex released?	The film Jonah Hex was released on June 18, 2010.
In April 2009 , she began filming the western superhero film Jonah Hex , in which she portrayed Tallulah Black / Leila , a gun - wielding beauty and Jonah Hex ' s ( Josh Brolin ) love interest . The film was released on June 18 , 2010 . Despite receiving top billing , Fox described her role in the film as being a cameo . Jonah Hex was a critical and commercial failure in the U . S . , with its international distribution cancelled after its poor performance . The film was named the " worst picture of the year " by the Houston Film Critics Society .	What was the critical reception of your film Jonah Hex in the U.S.?	My film Jonah Hex was a critical failure in the U.S.
In 2015 , Fox was cast in the role of Amelia Delthanis in the Plarium video game , Stormfall : Rise of Balur . In October 2015 , it was confirmed that Fox would be temporarily replacing Zooey Deschanel in the television sitcom New Girl , following Deschanel ' s maternity leave . She starred as Reagan Lucas , appearing in the fifth and sixth seasons of the series . Her performance earned positive reviews from critics . In 2016 , Fox reprised her role of April O ' Neil in the sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles : Out of the Shadows .	What role did you play in the Plarium video game, Stormfall: Rise of Balur?	I played the role of Amelia Delthanis in the game.
In 2015 , Fox was cast in the role of Amelia Delthanis in the Plarium video game , Stormfall : Rise of Balur . In October 2015 , it was confirmed that Fox would be temporarily replacing Zooey Deschanel in the television sitcom New Girl , following Deschanel ' s maternity leave . She starred as Reagan Lucas , appearing in the fifth and sixth seasons of the series . Her performance earned positive reviews from critics . In 2016 , Fox reprised her role of April O ' Neil in the sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles : Out of the Shadows .	Who did you temporarily replace in the television sitcom New Girl?	I temporarily replaced Zooey Deschanel in the show.
In 2015 , Fox was cast in the role of Amelia Delthanis in the Plarium video game , Stormfall : Rise of Balur . In October 2015 , it was confirmed that Fox would be temporarily replacing Zooey Deschanel in the television sitcom New Girl , following Deschanel ' s maternity leave . She starred as Reagan Lucas , appearing in the fifth and sixth seasons of the series . Her performance earned positive reviews from critics . In 2016 , Fox reprised her role of April O ' Neil in the sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles : Out of the Shadows .	In which seasons of New Girl did you appear as Reagan Lucas?	I appeared in the fifth and sixth seasons of New Girl as Reagan Lucas.
In 2015 , Fox was cast in the role of Amelia Delthanis in the Plarium video game , Stormfall : Rise of Balur . In October 2015 , it was confirmed that Fox would be temporarily replacing Zooey Deschanel in the television sitcom New Girl , following Deschanel ' s maternity leave . She starred as Reagan Lucas , appearing in the fifth and sixth seasons of the series . Her performance earned positive reviews from critics . In 2016 , Fox reprised her role of April O ' Neil in the sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles : Out of the Shadows .	How did your performance as Reagan Lucas in New Girl receive reviews from critics?	My performance as Reagan Lucas in New Girl received positive reviews from critics.
In 2015 , Fox was cast in the role of Amelia Delthanis in the Plarium video game , Stormfall : Rise of Balur . In October 2015 , it was confirmed that Fox would be temporarily replacing Zooey Deschanel in the television sitcom New Girl , following Deschanel ' s maternity leave . She starred as Reagan Lucas , appearing in the fifth and sixth seasons of the series . Her performance earned positive reviews from critics . In 2016 , Fox reprised her role of April O ' Neil in the sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles : Out of the Shadows .	Which role did you reprise in the sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows?	I reprised my role of April O'Neil in the sequel.
In 2019 , Fox starred in the mystery - fantasy film Above the Shadows opposite Olivia Thirlby and Alan Ritchson , directed by Claudia Myers . It was released on July 19 , 2019 , by Gravitas Ventures . That same year , Fox appeared in Zeroville directed by James Franco , which was previously shot in 2014 . The film was panned by critics and performed poorly at the box office .	Who did you star opposite in the film Above the Shadows?	Olivia Thirlby and Alan Ritchson.
In 2019 , Fox starred in the mystery - fantasy film Above the Shadows opposite Olivia Thirlby and Alan Ritchson , directed by Claudia Myers . It was released on July 19 , 2019 , by Gravitas Ventures . That same year , Fox appeared in Zeroville directed by James Franco , which was previously shot in 2014 . The film was panned by critics and performed poorly at the box office .	When was the film Above the Shadows released?	July 19, 2019.
In 2019 , Fox starred in the mystery - fantasy film Above the Shadows opposite Olivia Thirlby and Alan Ritchson , directed by Claudia Myers . It was released on July 19 , 2019 , by Gravitas Ventures . That same year , Fox appeared in Zeroville directed by James Franco , which was previously shot in 2014 . The film was panned by critics and performed poorly at the box office .	Who directed the film Above the Shadows?	Claudia Myers.
In 2019 , Fox starred in the mystery - fantasy film Above the Shadows opposite Olivia Thirlby and Alan Ritchson , directed by Claudia Myers . It was released on July 19 , 2019 , by Gravitas Ventures . That same year , Fox appeared in Zeroville directed by James Franco , which was previously shot in 2014 . The film was panned by critics and performed poorly at the box office .	When was the film Zeroville shot?	It was shot in 2014.
In 2019 , Fox starred in the mystery - fantasy film Above the Shadows opposite Olivia Thirlby and Alan Ritchson , directed by Claudia Myers . It was released on July 19 , 2019 , by Gravitas Ventures . That same year , Fox appeared in Zeroville directed by James Franco , which was previously shot in 2014 . The film was panned by critics and performed poorly at the box office .	How did the film Zeroville perform at the box office?	It performed poorly.
Fox will feature as a voice role in Naya Legend of the Golden Dolphins , a 3D documentary film . The story is told by an ensemble cast , including Kate Winslet , Elliot Page , Gerard Butler , James Franco , Julian Lennon , Diego Luna , Cheech Marin , Whoopi Goldberg , Isabella Rossellini , and Daryl Hannah . Fox will play crime boss Alana in thriller film Johnny & Clyde with Tyson Ritter . Fox will play a role in the film Taurus , a musical drama , alongside Machine Gun Kelly , Naomi Wild , and Lil Tjay .	Will you feature as a voice role in the film Naya Legend of the Golden Dolphins?	Yes
Fox will feature as a voice role in Naya Legend of the Golden Dolphins , a 3D documentary film . The story is told by an ensemble cast , including Kate Winslet , Elliot Page , Gerard Butler , James Franco , Julian Lennon , Diego Luna , Cheech Marin , Whoopi Goldberg , Isabella Rossellini , and Daryl Hannah . Fox will play crime boss Alana in thriller film Johnny & Clyde with Tyson Ritter . Fox will play a role in the film Taurus , a musical drama , alongside Machine Gun Kelly , Naomi Wild , and Lil Tjay .	What type of film is Naya Legend of the Golden Dolphins?	A 3D documentary film
Fox will feature as a voice role in Naya Legend of the Golden Dolphins , a 3D documentary film . The story is told by an ensemble cast , including Kate Winslet , Elliot Page , Gerard Butler , James Franco , Julian Lennon , Diego Luna , Cheech Marin , Whoopi Goldberg , Isabella Rossellini , and Daryl Hannah . Fox will play crime boss Alana in thriller film Johnny & Clyde with Tyson Ritter . Fox will play a role in the film Taurus , a musical drama , alongside Machine Gun Kelly , Naomi Wild , and Lil Tjay .	Who are some of the other cast members in the film Naya Legend of the Golden Dolphins?	Kate Winslet, Elliot Page, Gerard Butler, James Franco, Julian Lennon, Diego Luna, Cheech Marin, Whoopi Goldberg, Isabella Rossellini, and Daryl Hannah
Fox will feature as a voice role in Naya Legend of the Golden Dolphins , a 3D documentary film . The story is told by an ensemble cast , including Kate Winslet , Elliot Page , Gerard Butler , James Franco , Julian Lennon , Diego Luna , Cheech Marin , Whoopi Goldberg , Isabella Rossellini , and Daryl Hannah . Fox will play crime boss Alana in thriller film Johnny & Clyde with Tyson Ritter . Fox will play a role in the film Taurus , a musical drama , alongside Machine Gun Kelly , Naomi Wild , and Lil Tjay .	In which film will you play the role of crime boss Alana?	Johnny & Clyde
Fox will feature as a voice role in Naya Legend of the Golden Dolphins , a 3D documentary film . The story is told by an ensemble cast , including Kate Winslet , Elliot Page , Gerard Butler , James Franco , Julian Lennon , Diego Luna , Cheech Marin , Whoopi Goldberg , Isabella Rossellini , and Daryl Hannah . Fox will play crime boss Alana in thriller film Johnny & Clyde with Tyson Ritter . Fox will play a role in the film Taurus , a musical drama , alongside Machine Gun Kelly , Naomi Wild , and Lil Tjay .	Who will be your co-stars in the film Taurus?	Machine Gun Kelly, Naomi Wild, and Lil Tjay
In 2009 , Fox ' s public image came under scrutiny when an unsigned letter from three crew members of Transformers defended director Michael Bay against accusations made by Fox about his on - set behavior , including a comparison with Adolf Hitler . In response to the letter alleging that Fox ' s on - set behavior is unpleasant and contrasts her public persona , Bay stated he does not condone the letter or Fox ' s " outlandish quotes " , but " her crazy quips are part of her crazy charm " , and that they still work well together . A production assistant who worked on Transformers also stated that he never saw Fox act inappropriately on set . Fox said the letter ' s claims were false , and that she had privately spoken with the parties involved . She said she was " very fortunate " to be a part of the franchise , and was looking forward to continuing her work . DiPaolo concluded that Fox ' s criticism of the media sexually objectifying girls and women was in stark contrast to her sex symbol status and that " her defiance of director Michael Bay and frequent outspoken comments " stifled her career .	When did your public image come under scrutiny?	In 2009.
In 2009 , Fox ' s public image came under scrutiny when an unsigned letter from three crew members of Transformers defended director Michael Bay against accusations made by Fox about his on - set behavior , including a comparison with Adolf Hitler . In response to the letter alleging that Fox ' s on - set behavior is unpleasant and contrasts her public persona , Bay stated he does not condone the letter or Fox ' s " outlandish quotes " , but " her crazy quips are part of her crazy charm " , and that they still work well together . A production assistant who worked on Transformers also stated that he never saw Fox act inappropriately on set . Fox said the letter ' s claims were false , and that she had privately spoken with the parties involved . She said she was " very fortunate " to be a part of the franchise , and was looking forward to continuing her work . DiPaolo concluded that Fox ' s criticism of the media sexually objectifying girls and women was in stark contrast to her sex symbol status and that " her defiance of director Michael Bay and frequent outspoken comments " stifled her career .	Who defended director Michael Bay against accusations made by you?	Three crew members of Transformers.
In 2009 , Fox ' s public image came under scrutiny when an unsigned letter from three crew members of Transformers defended director Michael Bay against accusations made by Fox about his on - set behavior , including a comparison with Adolf Hitler . In response to the letter alleging that Fox ' s on - set behavior is unpleasant and contrasts her public persona , Bay stated he does not condone the letter or Fox ' s " outlandish quotes " , but " her crazy quips are part of her crazy charm " , and that they still work well together . A production assistant who worked on Transformers also stated that he never saw Fox act inappropriately on set . Fox said the letter ' s claims were false , and that she had privately spoken with the parties involved . She said she was " very fortunate " to be a part of the franchise , and was looking forward to continuing her work . DiPaolo concluded that Fox ' s criticism of the media sexually objectifying girls and women was in stark contrast to her sex symbol status and that " her defiance of director Michael Bay and frequent outspoken comments " stifled her career .	What did you compare Michael Bay to?	Adolf Hitler.
In 2009 , Fox ' s public image came under scrutiny when an unsigned letter from three crew members of Transformers defended director Michael Bay against accusations made by Fox about his on - set behavior , including a comparison with Adolf Hitler . In response to the letter alleging that Fox ' s on - set behavior is unpleasant and contrasts her public persona , Bay stated he does not condone the letter or Fox ' s " outlandish quotes " , but " her crazy quips are part of her crazy charm " , and that they still work well together . A production assistant who worked on Transformers also stated that he never saw Fox act inappropriately on set . Fox said the letter ' s claims were false , and that she had privately spoken with the parties involved . She said she was " very fortunate " to be a part of the franchise , and was looking forward to continuing her work . DiPaolo concluded that Fox ' s criticism of the media sexually objectifying girls and women was in stark contrast to her sex symbol status and that " her defiance of director Michael Bay and frequent outspoken comments " stifled her career .	How did you respond to the letter about my on-set behavior?	I stated I do not condone the letter or your "outlandish quotes", but I mentioned that your crazy quips are part of your crazy charm and that we still work well together.
In 2009 , Fox ' s public image came under scrutiny when an unsigned letter from three crew members of Transformers defended director Michael Bay against accusations made by Fox about his on - set behavior , including a comparison with Adolf Hitler . In response to the letter alleging that Fox ' s on - set behavior is unpleasant and contrasts her public persona , Bay stated he does not condone the letter or Fox ' s " outlandish quotes " , but " her crazy quips are part of her crazy charm " , and that they still work well together . A production assistant who worked on Transformers also stated that he never saw Fox act inappropriately on set . Fox said the letter ' s claims were false , and that she had privately spoken with the parties involved . She said she was " very fortunate " to be a part of the franchise , and was looking forward to continuing her work . DiPaolo concluded that Fox ' s criticism of the media sexually objectifying girls and women was in stark contrast to her sex symbol status and that " her defiance of director Michael Bay and frequent outspoken comments " stifled her career .	What did a production assistant who worked on Transformers say about your behavior on set?	The production assistant stated that he never saw me act inappropriately on set.
Fox ' s overexposure in the media led several men ' s websites , such as AskMen , to boycott her on August 4 , 2009 , although some refused to do so , feeling that the boycott was a publicity stunt and therefore hypocritical . In response to the media attention , Fox told magazine Nylon , in September of that year , that " [ the studio ] wanted to make sure [ the film ] would make $ 700   million , so they oversaturated the media with their stars " and that she did not " want to have people get completely sick of [ her ] before [ she ' s ] ever even done something legitimate . " She became much less prominent in the media by 2010 , after starring in the less commercially successful films Jonah Hex and Passion Play . That same year , Fox said , " My biggest regret is that I ' ve assisted the media in making me into a cartoon character . I don ' t regret what has happened to me , but I regret the way I have dealt with it . " Dixon and Foster stated , " The problem [ Fox ] faces is that the [ image ] construct has replaced the real in the minds of the public ; and once established , a media persona is hard to recalibrate . "	What led to your boycott by men's websites?	My overexposure in the media.
Fox ' s overexposure in the media led several men ' s websites , such as AskMen , to boycott her on August 4 , 2009 , although some refused to do so , feeling that the boycott was a publicity stunt and therefore hypocritical . In response to the media attention , Fox told magazine Nylon , in September of that year , that " [ the studio ] wanted to make sure [ the film ] would make $ 700   million , so they oversaturated the media with their stars " and that she did not " want to have people get completely sick of [ her ] before [ she ' s ] ever even done something legitimate . " She became much less prominent in the media by 2010 , after starring in the less commercially successful films Jonah Hex and Passion Play . That same year , Fox said , " My biggest regret is that I ' ve assisted the media in making me into a cartoon character . I don ' t regret what has happened to me , but I regret the way I have dealt with it . " Dixon and Foster stated , " The problem [ Fox ] faces is that the [ image ] construct has replaced the real in the minds of the public ; and once established , a media persona is hard to recalibrate . "	When did the boycott of you take place?	The boycott occurred on August 4, 2009.
Fox ' s overexposure in the media led several men ' s websites , such as AskMen , to boycott her on August 4 , 2009 , although some refused to do so , feeling that the boycott was a publicity stunt and therefore hypocritical . In response to the media attention , Fox told magazine Nylon , in September of that year , that " [ the studio ] wanted to make sure [ the film ] would make $ 700   million , so they oversaturated the media with their stars " and that she did not " want to have people get completely sick of [ her ] before [ she ' s ] ever even done something legitimate . " She became much less prominent in the media by 2010 , after starring in the less commercially successful films Jonah Hex and Passion Play . That same year , Fox said , " My biggest regret is that I ' ve assisted the media in making me into a cartoon character . I don ' t regret what has happened to me , but I regret the way I have dealt with it . " Dixon and Foster stated , " The problem [ Fox ] faces is that the [ image ] construct has replaced the real in the minds of the public ; and once established , a media persona is hard to recalibrate . "	How did you respond to the media attention?	I told magazine Nylon in September of that year that the studio wanted to ensure the film's success by oversaturating the media with their stars.
Fox ' s overexposure in the media led several men ' s websites , such as AskMen , to boycott her on August 4 , 2009 , although some refused to do so , feeling that the boycott was a publicity stunt and therefore hypocritical . In response to the media attention , Fox told magazine Nylon , in September of that year , that " [ the studio ] wanted to make sure [ the film ] would make $ 700   million , so they oversaturated the media with their stars " and that she did not " want to have people get completely sick of [ her ] before [ she ' s ] ever even done something legitimate . " She became much less prominent in the media by 2010 , after starring in the less commercially successful films Jonah Hex and Passion Play . That same year , Fox said , " My biggest regret is that I ' ve assisted the media in making me into a cartoon character . I don ' t regret what has happened to me , but I regret the way I have dealt with it . " Dixon and Foster stated , " The problem [ Fox ] faces is that the [ image ] construct has replaced the real in the minds of the public ; and once established , a media persona is hard to recalibrate . "	What films did you star in after becoming less prominent in the media?	I starred in the films Jonah Hex and Passion Play.
Fox ' s overexposure in the media led several men ' s websites , such as AskMen , to boycott her on August 4 , 2009 , although some refused to do so , feeling that the boycott was a publicity stunt and therefore hypocritical . In response to the media attention , Fox told magazine Nylon , in September of that year , that " [ the studio ] wanted to make sure [ the film ] would make $ 700   million , so they oversaturated the media with their stars " and that she did not " want to have people get completely sick of [ her ] before [ she ' s ] ever even done something legitimate . " She became much less prominent in the media by 2010 , after starring in the less commercially successful films Jonah Hex and Passion Play . That same year , Fox said , " My biggest regret is that I ' ve assisted the media in making me into a cartoon character . I don ' t regret what has happened to me , but I regret the way I have dealt with it . " Dixon and Foster stated , " The problem [ Fox ] faces is that the [ image ] construct has replaced the real in the minds of the public ; and once established , a media persona is hard to recalibrate . "	What is your regret regarding your portrayal in the media?	My biggest regret is that I have assisted the media in turning me into a cartoon character.
Fox began dating actor Brian Austin Green in 2004 , after meeting on the set of Hope & Faith ; she was 18 years old , while he was 30 . According to Fox , Green was initially hesitant to enter a relationship with her due to the age difference , stating , " I had to convince him that I was slightly more responsible and well - spoken and had other things to bring to the table besides being 18 . " They became engaged in November 2006 . In February 2009 , they ended their engagement , but were reported to have gotten engaged again on June 1 , 2010 . Fox maintained that she and Green had been continuously engaged since 2006 .	When did you and Brian Austin Green start dating?	We began dating in 2004.
Fox began dating actor Brian Austin Green in 2004 , after meeting on the set of Hope & Faith ; she was 18 years old , while he was 30 . According to Fox , Green was initially hesitant to enter a relationship with her due to the age difference , stating , " I had to convince him that I was slightly more responsible and well - spoken and had other things to bring to the table besides being 18 . " They became engaged in November 2006 . In February 2009 , they ended their engagement , but were reported to have gotten engaged again on June 1 , 2010 . Fox maintained that she and Green had been continuously engaged since 2006 .	How old were you when you started dating Brian Austin Green?	I was 18 years old.
Fox began dating actor Brian Austin Green in 2004 , after meeting on the set of Hope & Faith ; she was 18 years old , while he was 30 . According to Fox , Green was initially hesitant to enter a relationship with her due to the age difference , stating , " I had to convince him that I was slightly more responsible and well - spoken and had other things to bring to the table besides being 18 . " They became engaged in November 2006 . In February 2009 , they ended their engagement , but were reported to have gotten engaged again on June 1 , 2010 . Fox maintained that she and Green had been continuously engaged since 2006 .	What was the reason you hesitated to enter a relationship with me?	I hesitated due to the age difference.
Fox began dating actor Brian Austin Green in 2004 , after meeting on the set of Hope & Faith ; she was 18 years old , while he was 30 . According to Fox , Green was initially hesitant to enter a relationship with her due to the age difference , stating , " I had to convince him that I was slightly more responsible and well - spoken and had other things to bring to the table besides being 18 . " They became engaged in November 2006 . In February 2009 , they ended their engagement , but were reported to have gotten engaged again on June 1 , 2010 . Fox maintained that she and Green had been continuously engaged since 2006 .	When did you and Brian Austin Green become engaged for the first time?	We became engaged in November 2006.
Fox began dating actor Brian Austin Green in 2004 , after meeting on the set of Hope & Faith ; she was 18 years old , while he was 30 . According to Fox , Green was initially hesitant to enter a relationship with her due to the age difference , stating , " I had to convince him that I was slightly more responsible and well - spoken and had other things to bring to the table besides being 18 . " They became engaged in November 2006 . In February 2009 , they ended their engagement , but were reported to have gotten engaged again on June 1 , 2010 . Fox maintained that she and Green had been continuously engaged since 2006 .	Did you and Brian Austin Green break off your engagement at any point?	Yes, we ended our engagement in February 2009, but got engaged again on June 1, 2010. I maintained that we had been continuously engaged since 2006.
Fox and Green married on June 24 , 2010 , in a private ceremony at the Four Seasons Resort on Maui . Together , they have three sons , born in 2012 , 2014 , and 2016 . Fox was also a stepmother to Green ' s son from a previous relationship . Fox filed for divorce on August 21 , 2015 , a few days after she and Green announced their separation . By early 2016 , they were back together and expecting their third child . On April 25 , 2019 , Fox filed to dismiss the divorce in Los Angeles , California .	When did you and Green get married?	We got married on June 24, 2010.
Fox and Green married on June 24 , 2010 , in a private ceremony at the Four Seasons Resort on Maui . Together , they have three sons , born in 2012 , 2014 , and 2016 . Fox was also a stepmother to Green ' s son from a previous relationship . Fox filed for divorce on August 21 , 2015 , a few days after she and Green announced their separation . By early 2016 , they were back together and expecting their third child . On April 25 , 2019 , Fox filed to dismiss the divorce in Los Angeles , California .	Where did you and Green have your wedding ceremony?	We had our wedding ceremony at the Four Seasons Resort on Maui.
Fox and Green married on June 24 , 2010 , in a private ceremony at the Four Seasons Resort on Maui . Together , they have three sons , born in 2012 , 2014 , and 2016 . Fox was also a stepmother to Green ' s son from a previous relationship . Fox filed for divorce on August 21 , 2015 , a few days after she and Green announced their separation . By early 2016 , they were back together and expecting their third child . On April 25 , 2019 , Fox filed to dismiss the divorce in Los Angeles , California .	How many sons do you and Green have?	We have three sons.
Fox and Green married on June 24 , 2010 , in a private ceremony at the Four Seasons Resort on Maui . Together , they have three sons , born in 2012 , 2014 , and 2016 . Fox was also a stepmother to Green ' s son from a previous relationship . Fox filed for divorce on August 21 , 2015 , a few days after she and Green announced their separation . By early 2016 , they were back together and expecting their third child . On April 25 , 2019 , Fox filed to dismiss the divorce in Los Angeles , California .	When were your and Green's sons born?	My and Green's sons were born in 2012, 2014, and 2016.
Fox and Green married on June 24 , 2010 , in a private ceremony at the Four Seasons Resort on Maui . Together , they have three sons , born in 2012 , 2014 , and 2016 . Fox was also a stepmother to Green ' s son from a previous relationship . Fox filed for divorce on August 21 , 2015 , a few days after she and Green announced their separation . By early 2016 , they were back together and expecting their third child . On April 25 , 2019 , Fox filed to dismiss the divorce in Los Angeles , California .	When did you file for divorce?	I filed for divorce on August 21, 2015.
In June 2020 , she and singer Machine Gun Kelly went public about their relationship , several weeks after the release of Machine Gun Kelly ' s song " Bloody Valentine " , whose music video features Fox . On January 12 , 2022 , Fox announced that the two were engaged .	When did you and Machine Gun Kelly go public about your relationship?	In June 2020.
In June 2020 , she and singer Machine Gun Kelly went public about their relationship , several weeks after the release of Machine Gun Kelly ' s song " Bloody Valentine " , whose music video features Fox . On January 12 , 2022 , Fox announced that the two were engaged .	What song of Machine Gun Kelly features you in its music video?	"Bloody Valentine".
In June 2020 , she and singer Machine Gun Kelly went public about their relationship , several weeks after the release of Machine Gun Kelly ' s song " Bloody Valentine " , whose music video features Fox . On January 12 , 2022 , Fox announced that the two were engaged .	When did you announce that you and Machine Gun Kelly were engaged?	On January 12, 2022.
