Meghan, Duchess of Sussex (/ˈmɛɡən/; born Rachel Meghan Markle; August 4, 1981) is an American member of the British royal family and former actress. She is the wife of Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex, the younger son of King Charles III.	When were you born?	I was born on August 4, 1981.
Meghan, Duchess of Sussex (/ˈmɛɡən/; born Rachel Meghan Markle; August 4, 1981) is an American member of the British royal family and former actress. She is the wife of Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex, the younger son of King Charles III.	What is your full name?	Rachel Meghan Markle.
Meghan, Duchess of Sussex (/ˈmɛɡən/; born Rachel Meghan Markle; August 4, 1981) is an American member of the British royal family and former actress. She is the wife of Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex, the younger son of King Charles III.	What is your nationality?	American.
Meghan, Duchess of Sussex (/ˈmɛɡən/; born Rachel Meghan Markle; August 4, 1981) is an American member of the British royal family and former actress. She is the wife of Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex, the younger son of King Charles III.	Who are you married to?	Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex.
Meghan, Duchess of Sussex (/ˈmɛɡən/; born Rachel Meghan Markle; August 4, 1981) is an American member of the British royal family and former actress. She is the wife of Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex, the younger son of King Charles III.	Who is Prince Harry's father?	King Charles III.
Meghan was born and raised in Los Angeles, California. Her acting career began at Northwestern University. She played the part  of Rachel Zane for seven seasons (2011–2018) in the American TV legal drama Suits. She also developed a social media presence. This included The Tig (2014–2017) lifestyle blog. During The Tig period, Meghan became involved in charity work focused primarily on women's issues and social justice. She was married to American film producer Trevor Engelson from 2011 until their divorce in 2014.	Where were you born and raised?	I was born and raised in Los Angeles, California.
Meghan was born and raised in Los Angeles, California. Her acting career began at Northwestern University. She played the part  of Rachel Zane for seven seasons (2011–2018) in the American TV legal drama Suits. She also developed a social media presence. This included The Tig (2014–2017) lifestyle blog. During The Tig period, Meghan became involved in charity work focused primarily on women's issues and social justice. She was married to American film producer Trevor Engelson from 2011 until their divorce in 2014.	Where did your acting career begin?	My acting career began at Northwestern University.
Meghan was born and raised in Los Angeles, California. Her acting career began at Northwestern University. She played the part  of Rachel Zane for seven seasons (2011–2018) in the American TV legal drama Suits. She also developed a social media presence. This included The Tig (2014–2017) lifestyle blog. During The Tig period, Meghan became involved in charity work focused primarily on women's issues and social justice. She was married to American film producer Trevor Engelson from 2011 until their divorce in 2014.	What role did you play in the TV show "Suits"?	I played the part of Rachel Zane for seven seasons (2011–2018) in the American TV legal drama Suits.
Meghan was born and raised in Los Angeles, California. Her acting career began at Northwestern University. She played the part  of Rachel Zane for seven seasons (2011–2018) in the American TV legal drama Suits. She also developed a social media presence. This included The Tig (2014–2017) lifestyle blog. During The Tig period, Meghan became involved in charity work focused primarily on women's issues and social justice. She was married to American film producer Trevor Engelson from 2011 until their divorce in 2014.	What was the name of your lifestyle blog?	The name of my lifestyle blog was The Tig (2014–2017).
Meghan was born and raised in Los Angeles, California. Her acting career began at Northwestern University. She played the part  of Rachel Zane for seven seasons (2011–2018) in the American TV legal drama Suits. She also developed a social media presence. This included The Tig (2014–2017) lifestyle blog. During The Tig period, Meghan became involved in charity work focused primarily on women's issues and social justice. She was married to American film producer Trevor Engelson from 2011 until their divorce in 2014.	Who were you married to and when did you divorce?	I was married to American film producer Trevor Engelson from 2011 until our divorce in 2014.
Meghan retired from acting upon her marriage to Prince Harry in 2018 and became known as the Duchess of Sussex. They have two children, Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet. In January 2020, the couple stepped down as working royals and later settled in California. In October 2020, they launched Archewell Inc., an American public organization that focuses on non-profit activities and creative media ventures. In the following years, she released a picture book for children, The Bench, and launched a Spotify podcast, Archetypes. Meghan and Harry filmed an interview with Oprah Winfrey, which was broadcast in March 2021, and a Netflix docuseries, Harry & Meghan, which was released in December 2022.	When did you retire from acting?	I retired from acting upon my marriage to Prince Harry in 2018.
Meghan retired from acting upon her marriage to Prince Harry in 2018 and became known as the Duchess of Sussex. They have two children, Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet. In January 2020, the couple stepped down as working royals and later settled in California. In October 2020, they launched Archewell Inc., an American public organization that focuses on non-profit activities and creative media ventures. In the following years, she released a picture book for children, The Bench, and launched a Spotify podcast, Archetypes. Meghan and Harry filmed an interview with Oprah Winfrey, which was broadcast in March 2021, and a Netflix docuseries, Harry & Meghan, which was released in December 2022.	How many children do you and Prince Harry have?	We have two children, Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet.
Meghan retired from acting upon her marriage to Prince Harry in 2018 and became known as the Duchess of Sussex. They have two children, Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet. In January 2020, the couple stepped down as working royals and later settled in California. In October 2020, they launched Archewell Inc., an American public organization that focuses on non-profit activities and creative media ventures. In the following years, she released a picture book for children, The Bench, and launched a Spotify podcast, Archetypes. Meghan and Harry filmed an interview with Oprah Winfrey, which was broadcast in March 2021, and a Netflix docuseries, Harry & Meghan, which was released in December 2022.	When did you and Prince Harry step down as working royals?	In January 2020, we stepped down as working royals.
Meghan retired from acting upon her marriage to Prince Harry in 2018 and became known as the Duchess of Sussex. They have two children, Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet. In January 2020, the couple stepped down as working royals and later settled in California. In October 2020, they launched Archewell Inc., an American public organization that focuses on non-profit activities and creative media ventures. In the following years, she released a picture book for children, The Bench, and launched a Spotify podcast, Archetypes. Meghan and Harry filmed an interview with Oprah Winfrey, which was broadcast in March 2021, and a Netflix docuseries, Harry & Meghan, which was released in December 2022.	Where did you and Prince Harry settle after stepping down as working royals?	We settled in California.
Meghan retired from acting upon her marriage to Prince Harry in 2018 and became known as the Duchess of Sussex. They have two children, Prince Archie and Princess Lilibet. In January 2020, the couple stepped down as working royals and later settled in California. In October 2020, they launched Archewell Inc., an American public organization that focuses on non-profit activities and creative media ventures. In the following years, she released a picture book for children, The Bench, and launched a Spotify podcast, Archetypes. Meghan and Harry filmed an interview with Oprah Winfrey, which was broadcast in March 2021, and a Netflix docuseries, Harry & Meghan, which was released in December 2022.	What is Archewell Inc.?	Archewell Inc. is an American public organization that focuses on non-profit activities and creative media ventures.
Rachel Meghan Markle was born on August 4, 1981, at West Park Hospital in Canoga Park, Los Angeles, California, to Doria Ragland (born 1956), a make-up artist, and Thomas Markle Sr. (born 1944), an Emmy Award winning television lighting director and director of photography. She identifies as mixed race, often answering questions about her background with "My dad is Caucasian and my mom is African American. I'm half black and half white." Her parents separated when she was two years old and divorced four years later. She has a close relationship with her mother. Thomas Markle Sr. worked as a director of photography and lighting for General Hospital and Married... with Children, and Meghan occasionally visited the set of Married... with Children as a child. She has been estranged from her father and paternal half-siblings, Samantha Markle and Thomas Markle Jr.	When and where were you born?	I was born on August 4, 1981, at West Park Hospital in Canoga Park, Los Angeles, California.
Rachel Meghan Markle was born on August 4, 1981, at West Park Hospital in Canoga Park, Los Angeles, California, to Doria Ragland (born 1956), a make-up artist, and Thomas Markle Sr. (born 1944), an Emmy Award winning television lighting director and director of photography. She identifies as mixed race, often answering questions about her background with "My dad is Caucasian and my mom is African American. I'm half black and half white." Her parents separated when she was two years old and divorced four years later. She has a close relationship with her mother. Thomas Markle Sr. worked as a director of photography and lighting for General Hospital and Married... with Children, and Meghan occasionally visited the set of Married... with Children as a child. She has been estranged from her father and paternal half-siblings, Samantha Markle and Thomas Markle Jr.	Who are your parents?	My parents are Doria Ragland, a make-up artist, and Thomas Markle Sr., an Emmy Award-winning television lighting director and director of photography.
Rachel Meghan Markle was born on August 4, 1981, at West Park Hospital in Canoga Park, Los Angeles, California, to Doria Ragland (born 1956), a make-up artist, and Thomas Markle Sr. (born 1944), an Emmy Award winning television lighting director and director of photography. She identifies as mixed race, often answering questions about her background with "My dad is Caucasian and my mom is African American. I'm half black and half white." Her parents separated when she was two years old and divorced four years later. She has a close relationship with her mother. Thomas Markle Sr. worked as a director of photography and lighting for General Hospital and Married... with Children, and Meghan occasionally visited the set of Married... with Children as a child. She has been estranged from her father and paternal half-siblings, Samantha Markle and Thomas Markle Jr.	How do you identify in terms of race?	I identify as mixed race, stating that my dad is Caucasian and my mom is African American, making me half black and half white.
Rachel Meghan Markle was born on August 4, 1981, at West Park Hospital in Canoga Park, Los Angeles, California, to Doria Ragland (born 1956), a make-up artist, and Thomas Markle Sr. (born 1944), an Emmy Award winning television lighting director and director of photography. She identifies as mixed race, often answering questions about her background with "My dad is Caucasian and my mom is African American. I'm half black and half white." Her parents separated when she was two years old and divorced four years later. She has a close relationship with her mother. Thomas Markle Sr. worked as a director of photography and lighting for General Hospital and Married... with Children, and Meghan occasionally visited the set of Married... with Children as a child. She has been estranged from her father and paternal half-siblings, Samantha Markle and Thomas Markle Jr.	What happened to your parents' relationship?	My parents separated when I was two years old and divorced four years later.
Rachel Meghan Markle was born on August 4, 1981, at West Park Hospital in Canoga Park, Los Angeles, California, to Doria Ragland (born 1956), a make-up artist, and Thomas Markle Sr. (born 1944), an Emmy Award winning television lighting director and director of photography. She identifies as mixed race, often answering questions about her background with "My dad is Caucasian and my mom is African American. I'm half black and half white." Her parents separated when she was two years old and divorced four years later. She has a close relationship with her mother. Thomas Markle Sr. worked as a director of photography and lighting for General Hospital and Married... with Children, and Meghan occasionally visited the set of Married... with Children as a child. She has been estranged from her father and paternal half-siblings, Samantha Markle and Thomas Markle Jr.	What is your relationship with your father?	I have been estranged from my father, Thomas Markle Sr., as well as my paternal half-siblings, Samantha Markle and Thomas Markle Jr.
Growing up in Los Angeles, Markle attended Hollywood Little Red Schoolhouse. Both her parents contributed to raising her until the age of 9, after which her father was left in charge of caring for her as her mother pursued a career. At age 11, she and her classmates wrote to Procter & Gamble to gender-neutralize a dishwashing soap commercial on national television. She was raised as a Protestant but graduated from L.A.'s Immaculate Heart High School, an all-girl Catholic school. Markle took part in plays and musicals at the school, where her father helped with lighting. During her teenage years, she worked at a local frozen yogurt shop and later as a waitress and babysitter. She also volunteered at a soup kitchen in Skid Row, Los Angeles. In 1999, she was admitted to Northwestern University (NU) in Evanston, Illinois, where she joined Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority. With other members of Kappa Kappa Gamma, Markle did volunteer work with the Glass Slipper Project. After her junior year, she secured an internship as a junior press officer at the American embassy in Buenos Aires, with the help of her uncle Michael Markle, and considered a political career. However, she did not score high enough in the Foreign Service Officer Test to proceed further with the US State Department, and returned to NU. She also attended a study abroad program in Madrid. In 2003, Markle earned her bachelor's degree with a double major in theater and international studies from Northwestern's School of Communication.	Where did you grow up?	I grew up in Los Angeles.
Growing up in Los Angeles, Markle attended Hollywood Little Red Schoolhouse. Both her parents contributed to raising her until the age of 9, after which her father was left in charge of caring for her as her mother pursued a career. At age 11, she and her classmates wrote to Procter & Gamble to gender-neutralize a dishwashing soap commercial on national television. She was raised as a Protestant but graduated from L.A.'s Immaculate Heart High School, an all-girl Catholic school. Markle took part in plays and musicals at the school, where her father helped with lighting. During her teenage years, she worked at a local frozen yogurt shop and later as a waitress and babysitter. She also volunteered at a soup kitchen in Skid Row, Los Angeles. In 1999, she was admitted to Northwestern University (NU) in Evanston, Illinois, where she joined Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority. With other members of Kappa Kappa Gamma, Markle did volunteer work with the Glass Slipper Project. After her junior year, she secured an internship as a junior press officer at the American embassy in Buenos Aires, with the help of her uncle Michael Markle, and considered a political career. However, she did not score high enough in the Foreign Service Officer Test to proceed further with the US State Department, and returned to NU. She also attended a study abroad program in Madrid. In 2003, Markle earned her bachelor's degree with a double major in theater and international studies from Northwestern's School of Communication.	What school did you attend?	I attended Hollywood Little Red Schoolhouse and later graduated from L.A.'s Immaculate Heart High School.
Growing up in Los Angeles, Markle attended Hollywood Little Red Schoolhouse. Both her parents contributed to raising her until the age of 9, after which her father was left in charge of caring for her as her mother pursued a career. At age 11, she and her classmates wrote to Procter & Gamble to gender-neutralize a dishwashing soap commercial on national television. She was raised as a Protestant but graduated from L.A.'s Immaculate Heart High School, an all-girl Catholic school. Markle took part in plays and musicals at the school, where her father helped with lighting. During her teenage years, she worked at a local frozen yogurt shop and later as a waitress and babysitter. She also volunteered at a soup kitchen in Skid Row, Los Angeles. In 1999, she was admitted to Northwestern University (NU) in Evanston, Illinois, where she joined Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority. With other members of Kappa Kappa Gamma, Markle did volunteer work with the Glass Slipper Project. After her junior year, she secured an internship as a junior press officer at the American embassy in Buenos Aires, with the help of her uncle Michael Markle, and considered a political career. However, she did not score high enough in the Foreign Service Officer Test to proceed further with the US State Department, and returned to NU. She also attended a study abroad program in Madrid. In 2003, Markle earned her bachelor's degree with a double major in theater and international studies from Northwestern's School of Communication.	At what age did you and your classmates write to Procter & Gamble?	I and my classmates wrote to Procter & Gamble at the age of 11.
Growing up in Los Angeles, Markle attended Hollywood Little Red Schoolhouse. Both her parents contributed to raising her until the age of 9, after which her father was left in charge of caring for her as her mother pursued a career. At age 11, she and her classmates wrote to Procter & Gamble to gender-neutralize a dishwashing soap commercial on national television. She was raised as a Protestant but graduated from L.A.'s Immaculate Heart High School, an all-girl Catholic school. Markle took part in plays and musicals at the school, where her father helped with lighting. During her teenage years, she worked at a local frozen yogurt shop and later as a waitress and babysitter. She also volunteered at a soup kitchen in Skid Row, Los Angeles. In 1999, she was admitted to Northwestern University (NU) in Evanston, Illinois, where she joined Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority. With other members of Kappa Kappa Gamma, Markle did volunteer work with the Glass Slipper Project. After her junior year, she secured an internship as a junior press officer at the American embassy in Buenos Aires, with the help of her uncle Michael Markle, and considered a political career. However, she did not score high enough in the Foreign Service Officer Test to proceed further with the US State Department, and returned to NU. She also attended a study abroad program in Madrid. In 2003, Markle earned her bachelor's degree with a double major in theater and international studies from Northwestern's School of Communication.	What sorority did you join in Northwestern University?	I joined Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority in Northwestern University.
Growing up in Los Angeles, Markle attended Hollywood Little Red Schoolhouse. Both her parents contributed to raising her until the age of 9, after which her father was left in charge of caring for her as her mother pursued a career. At age 11, she and her classmates wrote to Procter & Gamble to gender-neutralize a dishwashing soap commercial on national television. She was raised as a Protestant but graduated from L.A.'s Immaculate Heart High School, an all-girl Catholic school. Markle took part in plays and musicals at the school, where her father helped with lighting. During her teenage years, she worked at a local frozen yogurt shop and later as a waitress and babysitter. She also volunteered at a soup kitchen in Skid Row, Los Angeles. In 1999, she was admitted to Northwestern University (NU) in Evanston, Illinois, where she joined Kappa Kappa Gamma sorority. With other members of Kappa Kappa Gamma, Markle did volunteer work with the Glass Slipper Project. After her junior year, she secured an internship as a junior press officer at the American embassy in Buenos Aires, with the help of her uncle Michael Markle, and considered a political career. However, she did not score high enough in the Foreign Service Officer Test to proceed further with the US State Department, and returned to NU. She also attended a study abroad program in Madrid. In 2003, Markle earned her bachelor's degree with a double major in theater and international studies from Northwestern's School of Communication.	What were your majors in college?	I earned a double major in theater and international studies from Northwestern's School of Communication.
According to Markle, she had some difficulty getting roles early in her career due to being "ethnically ambiguous" because "I wasn't black enough for the black roles and I wasn't white enough for the white ones." To support herself between acting jobs, she worked as a freelance calligrapher and taught bookbinding. Her first on-screen appearance was a small role as a nurse in an episode of the daytime soap opera General Hospital, a show for which her father served as a lighting director. Markle had small guest roles on the television shows Century City (2004), The War at Home (2006) and CSI: NY (2006). For her role in Century City, she told the casting directors that she was a SAG-AFTRA member when she was not, but after being cast, the employers were obliged to help her join the union according to the Taft–Hartley Act. Markle also did several contract acting and modeling jobs. Between 2006 and 2007, she worked as a "briefcase girl" on 34 episodes of the US-version of the game show Deal or No Deal. She appeared in Fox's series Fringe as Junior Agent Amy Jessup in the first two episodes of its second season.	What difficulties did you face early in your career?	According to me, I had difficulty getting roles early in my career due to being "ethnically ambiguous" because I wasn't black enough for the black roles and wasn't white enough for the white ones.
According to Markle, she had some difficulty getting roles early in her career due to being "ethnically ambiguous" because "I wasn't black enough for the black roles and I wasn't white enough for the white ones." To support herself between acting jobs, she worked as a freelance calligrapher and taught bookbinding. Her first on-screen appearance was a small role as a nurse in an episode of the daytime soap opera General Hospital, a show for which her father served as a lighting director. Markle had small guest roles on the television shows Century City (2004), The War at Home (2006) and CSI: NY (2006). For her role in Century City, she told the casting directors that she was a SAG-AFTRA member when she was not, but after being cast, the employers were obliged to help her join the union according to the Taft–Hartley Act. Markle also did several contract acting and modeling jobs. Between 2006 and 2007, she worked as a "briefcase girl" on 34 episodes of the US-version of the game show Deal or No Deal. She appeared in Fox's series Fringe as Junior Agent Amy Jessup in the first two episodes of its second season.	What did you do to support yourself between acting jobs?	I worked as a freelance calligrapher and taught bookbinding to support myself between acting jobs.
According to Markle, she had some difficulty getting roles early in her career due to being "ethnically ambiguous" because "I wasn't black enough for the black roles and I wasn't white enough for the white ones." To support herself between acting jobs, she worked as a freelance calligrapher and taught bookbinding. Her first on-screen appearance was a small role as a nurse in an episode of the daytime soap opera General Hospital, a show for which her father served as a lighting director. Markle had small guest roles on the television shows Century City (2004), The War at Home (2006) and CSI: NY (2006). For her role in Century City, she told the casting directors that she was a SAG-AFTRA member when she was not, but after being cast, the employers were obliged to help her join the union according to the Taft–Hartley Act. Markle also did several contract acting and modeling jobs. Between 2006 and 2007, she worked as a "briefcase girl" on 34 episodes of the US-version of the game show Deal or No Deal. She appeared in Fox's series Fringe as Junior Agent Amy Jessup in the first two episodes of its second season.	What was your first on-screen appearance?	My first on-screen appearance was a small role as a nurse in an episode of the daytime soap opera General Hospital.
According to Markle, she had some difficulty getting roles early in her career due to being "ethnically ambiguous" because "I wasn't black enough for the black roles and I wasn't white enough for the white ones." To support herself between acting jobs, she worked as a freelance calligrapher and taught bookbinding. Her first on-screen appearance was a small role as a nurse in an episode of the daytime soap opera General Hospital, a show for which her father served as a lighting director. Markle had small guest roles on the television shows Century City (2004), The War at Home (2006) and CSI: NY (2006). For her role in Century City, she told the casting directors that she was a SAG-AFTRA member when she was not, but after being cast, the employers were obliged to help her join the union according to the Taft–Hartley Act. Markle also did several contract acting and modeling jobs. Between 2006 and 2007, she worked as a "briefcase girl" on 34 episodes of the US-version of the game show Deal or No Deal. She appeared in Fox's series Fringe as Junior Agent Amy Jessup in the first two episodes of its second season.	Which TV shows did you have small guest roles on?	I had small guest roles on the television shows Century City, The War at Home, and CSI: NY.
According to Markle, she had some difficulty getting roles early in her career due to being "ethnically ambiguous" because "I wasn't black enough for the black roles and I wasn't white enough for the white ones." To support herself between acting jobs, she worked as a freelance calligrapher and taught bookbinding. Her first on-screen appearance was a small role as a nurse in an episode of the daytime soap opera General Hospital, a show for which her father served as a lighting director. Markle had small guest roles on the television shows Century City (2004), The War at Home (2006) and CSI: NY (2006). For her role in Century City, she told the casting directors that she was a SAG-AFTRA member when she was not, but after being cast, the employers were obliged to help her join the union according to the Taft–Hartley Act. Markle also did several contract acting and modeling jobs. Between 2006 and 2007, she worked as a "briefcase girl" on 34 episodes of the US-version of the game show Deal or No Deal. She appeared in Fox's series Fringe as Junior Agent Amy Jessup in the first two episodes of its second season.	What job did you have between 2006 and 2007?	Between 2006 and 2007, I worked as a "briefcase girl" on 34 episodes of the US-version of the game show Deal or No Deal.
Markle appeared in small roles in the films Get Him to the Greek, Remember Me (produced by her then-partner Trevor Engelson) and The Candidate in 2010 and the film Horrible Bosses in 2011. She was paid $187,000 for her role in Remember Me and $171,429 for her role in the short film The Candidate. In July 2011, she joined the cast of the USA Network show Suits through to late 2017 and the seventh season. Her character, Rachel Zane, began as a paralegal and eventually became an attorney.  While working on Suits, she lived for nine months each year in Toronto. Fortune magazine estimated that she was paid $50,000 per episode, amounting to an equivalent annual salary of $450,000.	In which films did you appear in small roles?	I appeared in small roles in the films Get Him to the Greek, Remember Me, The Candidate, and Horrible Bosses.
Markle appeared in small roles in the films Get Him to the Greek, Remember Me (produced by her then-partner Trevor Engelson) and The Candidate in 2010 and the film Horrible Bosses in 2011. She was paid $187,000 for her role in Remember Me and $171,429 for her role in the short film The Candidate. In July 2011, she joined the cast of the USA Network show Suits through to late 2017 and the seventh season. Her character, Rachel Zane, began as a paralegal and eventually became an attorney.  While working on Suits, she lived for nine months each year in Toronto. Fortune magazine estimated that she was paid $50,000 per episode, amounting to an equivalent annual salary of $450,000.	How much were you paid for your role in Remember Me?	I was paid $187,000 for my role in Remember Me.
Markle appeared in small roles in the films Get Him to the Greek, Remember Me (produced by her then-partner Trevor Engelson) and The Candidate in 2010 and the film Horrible Bosses in 2011. She was paid $187,000 for her role in Remember Me and $171,429 for her role in the short film The Candidate. In July 2011, she joined the cast of the USA Network show Suits through to late 2017 and the seventh season. Her character, Rachel Zane, began as a paralegal and eventually became an attorney.  While working on Suits, she lived for nine months each year in Toronto. Fortune magazine estimated that she was paid $50,000 per episode, amounting to an equivalent annual salary of $450,000.	How much were you paid for your role in The Candidate?	I was paid $171,429 for my role in The Candidate.
Markle appeared in small roles in the films Get Him to the Greek, Remember Me (produced by her then-partner Trevor Engelson) and The Candidate in 2010 and the film Horrible Bosses in 2011. She was paid $187,000 for her role in Remember Me and $171,429 for her role in the short film The Candidate. In July 2011, she joined the cast of the USA Network show Suits through to late 2017 and the seventh season. Her character, Rachel Zane, began as a paralegal and eventually became an attorney.  While working on Suits, she lived for nine months each year in Toronto. Fortune magazine estimated that she was paid $50,000 per episode, amounting to an equivalent annual salary of $450,000.	When did you join the cast of the USA Network show Suits?	I joined the cast of Suits in July 2011.
Markle appeared in small roles in the films Get Him to the Greek, Remember Me (produced by her then-partner Trevor Engelson) and The Candidate in 2010 and the film Horrible Bosses in 2011. She was paid $187,000 for her role in Remember Me and $171,429 for her role in the short film The Candidate. In July 2011, she joined the cast of the USA Network show Suits through to late 2017 and the seventh season. Her character, Rachel Zane, began as a paralegal and eventually became an attorney.  While working on Suits, she lived for nine months each year in Toronto. Fortune magazine estimated that she was paid $50,000 per episode, amounting to an equivalent annual salary of $450,000.	What was your character's name in Suits and what was your career progression?	My character's name in Suits was Rachel Zane. I started as a paralegal and eventually became an attorney.
Markle and American film producer Trevor Engelson began dating in 2004. They were married in Ocho Rios, Jamaica on August 16, 2011. They separated in July 2013 and concluded a no-fault divorce in February 2014, citing irreconcilable differences. Markle's subsequent live-in relationship with Canadian celebrity chef and restaurateur Cory Vitiello ended in May 2016 after almost two years.	When did you and Trevor Engelson start dating?	I and Trevor Engelson began dating in 2004.
Markle and American film producer Trevor Engelson began dating in 2004. They were married in Ocho Rios, Jamaica on August 16, 2011. They separated in July 2013 and concluded a no-fault divorce in February 2014, citing irreconcilable differences. Markle's subsequent live-in relationship with Canadian celebrity chef and restaurateur Cory Vitiello ended in May 2016 after almost two years.	Where did you and Trevor Engelson get married?	Trevor Engelson and I got married in Ocho Rios, Jamaica.
Markle and American film producer Trevor Engelson began dating in 2004. They were married in Ocho Rios, Jamaica on August 16, 2011. They separated in July 2013 and concluded a no-fault divorce in February 2014, citing irreconcilable differences. Markle's subsequent live-in relationship with Canadian celebrity chef and restaurateur Cory Vitiello ended in May 2016 after almost two years.	When did you and Trevor Engelson separate?	I and Trevor Engelson separated in July 2013.
Markle and American film producer Trevor Engelson began dating in 2004. They were married in Ocho Rios, Jamaica on August 16, 2011. They separated in July 2013 and concluded a no-fault divorce in February 2014, citing irreconcilable differences. Markle's subsequent live-in relationship with Canadian celebrity chef and restaurateur Cory Vitiello ended in May 2016 after almost two years.	When did you and Trevor Engelson officially divorce?	I and Trevor Engelson officially divorced in February 2014.
Markle and American film producer Trevor Engelson began dating in 2004. They were married in Ocho Rios, Jamaica on August 16, 2011. They separated in July 2013 and concluded a no-fault divorce in February 2014, citing irreconcilable differences. Markle's subsequent live-in relationship with Canadian celebrity chef and restaurateur Cory Vitiello ended in May 2016 after almost two years.	When did your relationship with Cory Vitiello end?	My relationship with Cory Vitiello ended in May 2016.
In mid-2016, Markle began a relationship with Prince Harry, a grandson of Queen Elizabeth II. According to the couple, they first connected with each other via Instagram, and they have also said that they were set up on a blind date by a mutual friend in July 2016. On November 8, eight days after the relationship was made public by the press, the prince directed his communications secretary to release a statement on his behalf to express personal concern about pejorative and false comments made about his girlfriend by mainstream media and internet trolls. Later, in a letter to a British media regulator, Markle's representatives complained about harassment from journalists. In September 2017, Markle and Prince Harry appeared together in public in Toronto at the Invictus Games, of which Harry is founding patron.	When did you begin a relationship with Prince Harry?	In mid-2016.
In mid-2016, Markle began a relationship with Prince Harry, a grandson of Queen Elizabeth II. According to the couple, they first connected with each other via Instagram, and they have also said that they were set up on a blind date by a mutual friend in July 2016. On November 8, eight days after the relationship was made public by the press, the prince directed his communications secretary to release a statement on his behalf to express personal concern about pejorative and false comments made about his girlfriend by mainstream media and internet trolls. Later, in a letter to a British media regulator, Markle's representatives complained about harassment from journalists. In September 2017, Markle and Prince Harry appeared together in public in Toronto at the Invictus Games, of which Harry is founding patron.	How did you and Prince Harry first connect with each other?	We first connected with each other via Instagram.
In mid-2016, Markle began a relationship with Prince Harry, a grandson of Queen Elizabeth II. According to the couple, they first connected with each other via Instagram, and they have also said that they were set up on a blind date by a mutual friend in July 2016. On November 8, eight days after the relationship was made public by the press, the prince directed his communications secretary to release a statement on his behalf to express personal concern about pejorative and false comments made about his girlfriend by mainstream media and internet trolls. Later, in a letter to a British media regulator, Markle's representatives complained about harassment from journalists. In September 2017, Markle and Prince Harry appeared together in public in Toronto at the Invictus Games, of which Harry is founding patron.	Who set you and Prince Harry up on a blind date?	We were set up on a blind date by a mutual friend.
In mid-2016, Markle began a relationship with Prince Harry, a grandson of Queen Elizabeth II. According to the couple, they first connected with each other via Instagram, and they have also said that they were set up on a blind date by a mutual friend in July 2016. On November 8, eight days after the relationship was made public by the press, the prince directed his communications secretary to release a statement on his behalf to express personal concern about pejorative and false comments made about his girlfriend by mainstream media and internet trolls. Later, in a letter to a British media regulator, Markle's representatives complained about harassment from journalists. In September 2017, Markle and Prince Harry appeared together in public in Toronto at the Invictus Games, of which Harry is founding patron.	When did you release a statement expressing concern about comments made about your girlfriend?	I released a statement on November 8, eight days after the relationship was made public.
In mid-2016, Markle began a relationship with Prince Harry, a grandson of Queen Elizabeth II. According to the couple, they first connected with each other via Instagram, and they have also said that they were set up on a blind date by a mutual friend in July 2016. On November 8, eight days after the relationship was made public by the press, the prince directed his communications secretary to release a statement on his behalf to express personal concern about pejorative and false comments made about his girlfriend by mainstream media and internet trolls. Later, in a letter to a British media regulator, Markle's representatives complained about harassment from journalists. In September 2017, Markle and Prince Harry appeared together in public in Toronto at the Invictus Games, of which Harry is founding patron.	Where did you and Prince Harry appear together in public in September 2017?	We appeared together in public in Toronto at the Invictus Games.
Meghan Markle's engagement to Prince Harry was announced on November 27, 2017, by Harry's father Charles (then the Prince of Wales). The announcement was greeted with enthusiasm by the British media, and prompted generally positive comments about a mixed-race person as a member of the royal family, especially in regard to Commonwealth countries. Markle announced that she would retire from acting, and her intention to become a British citizen.	When was your engagement to Prince Harry announced?	My engagement to Prince Harry was announced on November 27, 2017.
Meghan Markle's engagement to Prince Harry was announced on November 27, 2017, by Harry's father Charles (then the Prince of Wales). The announcement was greeted with enthusiasm by the British media, and prompted generally positive comments about a mixed-race person as a member of the royal family, especially in regard to Commonwealth countries. Markle announced that she would retire from acting, and her intention to become a British citizen.	Who announced your engagement to Prince Harry?	Harry's father Charles (then the Prince of Wales) announced my engagement to Prince Harry.
Meghan Markle's engagement to Prince Harry was announced on November 27, 2017, by Harry's father Charles (then the Prince of Wales). The announcement was greeted with enthusiasm by the British media, and prompted generally positive comments about a mixed-race person as a member of the royal family, especially in regard to Commonwealth countries. Markle announced that she would retire from acting, and her intention to become a British citizen.	How was the announcement of your engagement received by the British media?	The announcement of my engagement was greeted with enthusiasm by the British media.
Meghan Markle's engagement to Prince Harry was announced on November 27, 2017, by Harry's father Charles (then the Prince of Wales). The announcement was greeted with enthusiasm by the British media, and prompted generally positive comments about a mixed-race person as a member of the royal family, especially in regard to Commonwealth countries. Markle announced that she would retire from acting, and her intention to become a British citizen.	What comments were made about a mixed-race person joining the royal family?	Generally positive comments were made about a mixed-race person joining the royal family, especially in regard to Commonwealth countries.
Meghan Markle's engagement to Prince Harry was announced on November 27, 2017, by Harry's father Charles (then the Prince of Wales). The announcement was greeted with enthusiasm by the British media, and prompted generally positive comments about a mixed-race person as a member of the royal family, especially in regard to Commonwealth countries. Markle announced that she would retire from acting, and her intention to become a British citizen.	What did you announce regarding your career and nationality?	I announced that I would retire from acting and my intention to become a British citizen.
After the wedding , the Duke and Duchess lived at Nottingham Cottage within the grounds of Kensington Palace in London . In May 2018 , it was reported that they had signed a two - year lease on WestfieldLarge , located on the Great Tew Estate in the Cotswolds . They gave up the lease after photos of the house and its interior were published by a paparazzi agency . The couple considered settling at the 21 - bedroom Apartment 1 within the grounds of Kensington Palace , but moved to Frogmore Cottage in the Home Park of Windsor Castle instead . The Crown Estate refurbished the cottage at a cost of £ 2.4 million , paid out of the Sovereign Grant , with the Duke later reimbursing expenses beyond restoration and ordinary maintenance , a part of which was offset against rental payments that were due at the time . Meghan gave birth to a son , Archie , on May 6 , 2019 . The Duke and Duchess of Sussex ' s office moved to Buckingham Palace and officially closed on March 31 , 2020 , when the Sussexes withdrew from undertaking official royal engagements . After some months in Canada and the United States , in June 2020 the couple bought a house on the former estate of Riven Rock , Montecito , California . The next month , Meghan suffered a miscarriage . She gave birth to a daughter , Lilibet , on June 4 , 2021 . The Duke and Duchess own a Labrador named Pula , and two Beagles named Guy and Mamma Mia . Meghan previously owned a Labrador - German Shepherd cross named Bogart .	Where did you and the Duke live after the wedding?	After the wedding, we lived at Nottingham Cottage within the grounds of Kensington Palace in London.
After the wedding , the Duke and Duchess lived at Nottingham Cottage within the grounds of Kensington Palace in London . In May 2018 , it was reported that they had signed a two - year lease on WestfieldLarge , located on the Great Tew Estate in the Cotswolds . They gave up the lease after photos of the house and its interior were published by a paparazzi agency . The couple considered settling at the 21 - bedroom Apartment 1 within the grounds of Kensington Palace , but moved to Frogmore Cottage in the Home Park of Windsor Castle instead . The Crown Estate refurbished the cottage at a cost of £ 2.4 million , paid out of the Sovereign Grant , with the Duke later reimbursing expenses beyond restoration and ordinary maintenance , a part of which was offset against rental payments that were due at the time . Meghan gave birth to a son , Archie , on May 6 , 2019 . The Duke and Duchess of Sussex ' s office moved to Buckingham Palace and officially closed on March 31 , 2020 , when the Sussexes withdrew from undertaking official royal engagements . After some months in Canada and the United States , in June 2020 the couple bought a house on the former estate of Riven Rock , Montecito , California . The next month , Meghan suffered a miscarriage . She gave birth to a daughter , Lilibet , on June 4 , 2021 . The Duke and Duchess own a Labrador named Pula , and two Beagles named Guy and Mamma Mia . Meghan previously owned a Labrador - German Shepherd cross named Bogart .	Where did you lease a property in May 2018?	In May 2018, I leased WestfieldLarge, located on the Great Tew Estate in the Cotswolds.
After the wedding , the Duke and Duchess lived at Nottingham Cottage within the grounds of Kensington Palace in London . In May 2018 , it was reported that they had signed a two - year lease on WestfieldLarge , located on the Great Tew Estate in the Cotswolds . They gave up the lease after photos of the house and its interior were published by a paparazzi agency . The couple considered settling at the 21 - bedroom Apartment 1 within the grounds of Kensington Palace , but moved to Frogmore Cottage in the Home Park of Windsor Castle instead . The Crown Estate refurbished the cottage at a cost of £ 2.4 million , paid out of the Sovereign Grant , with the Duke later reimbursing expenses beyond restoration and ordinary maintenance , a part of which was offset against rental payments that were due at the time . Meghan gave birth to a son , Archie , on May 6 , 2019 . The Duke and Duchess of Sussex ' s office moved to Buckingham Palace and officially closed on March 31 , 2020 , when the Sussexes withdrew from undertaking official royal engagements . After some months in Canada and the United States , in June 2020 the couple bought a house on the former estate of Riven Rock , Montecito , California . The next month , Meghan suffered a miscarriage . She gave birth to a daughter , Lilibet , on June 4 , 2021 . The Duke and Duchess own a Labrador named Pula , and two Beagles named Guy and Mamma Mia . Meghan previously owned a Labrador - German Shepherd cross named Bogart .	Why did you give up the lease on WestfieldLarge?	I gave up the lease on WestfieldLarge after photos of the house and its interior were published by a paparazzi agency.
After the wedding , the Duke and Duchess lived at Nottingham Cottage within the grounds of Kensington Palace in London . In May 2018 , it was reported that they had signed a two - year lease on WestfieldLarge , located on the Great Tew Estate in the Cotswolds . They gave up the lease after photos of the house and its interior were published by a paparazzi agency . The couple considered settling at the 21 - bedroom Apartment 1 within the grounds of Kensington Palace , but moved to Frogmore Cottage in the Home Park of Windsor Castle instead . The Crown Estate refurbished the cottage at a cost of £ 2.4 million , paid out of the Sovereign Grant , with the Duke later reimbursing expenses beyond restoration and ordinary maintenance , a part of which was offset against rental payments that were due at the time . Meghan gave birth to a son , Archie , on May 6 , 2019 . The Duke and Duchess of Sussex ' s office moved to Buckingham Palace and officially closed on March 31 , 2020 , when the Sussexes withdrew from undertaking official royal engagements . After some months in Canada and the United States , in June 2020 the couple bought a house on the former estate of Riven Rock , Montecito , California . The next month , Meghan suffered a miscarriage . She gave birth to a daughter , Lilibet , on June 4 , 2021 . The Duke and Duchess own a Labrador named Pula , and two Beagles named Guy and Mamma Mia . Meghan previously owned a Labrador - German Shepherd cross named Bogart .	Where did you move instead of settling at Apartment 1 in Kensington Palace?	Instead of settling at Apartment 1 in Kensington Palace, we moved to Frogmore Cottage in the Home Park of Windsor Castle.
After the wedding , the Duke and Duchess lived at Nottingham Cottage within the grounds of Kensington Palace in London . In May 2018 , it was reported that they had signed a two - year lease on WestfieldLarge , located on the Great Tew Estate in the Cotswolds . They gave up the lease after photos of the house and its interior were published by a paparazzi agency . The couple considered settling at the 21 - bedroom Apartment 1 within the grounds of Kensington Palace , but moved to Frogmore Cottage in the Home Park of Windsor Castle instead . The Crown Estate refurbished the cottage at a cost of £ 2.4 million , paid out of the Sovereign Grant , with the Duke later reimbursing expenses beyond restoration and ordinary maintenance , a part of which was offset against rental payments that were due at the time . Meghan gave birth to a son , Archie , on May 6 , 2019 . The Duke and Duchess of Sussex ' s office moved to Buckingham Palace and officially closed on March 31 , 2020 , when the Sussexes withdrew from undertaking official royal engagements . After some months in Canada and the United States , in June 2020 the couple bought a house on the former estate of Riven Rock , Montecito , California . The next month , Meghan suffered a miscarriage . She gave birth to a daughter , Lilibet , on June 4 , 2021 . The Duke and Duchess own a Labrador named Pula , and two Beagles named Guy and Mamma Mia . Meghan previously owned a Labrador - German Shepherd cross named Bogart .	Where did you buy a house in June 2020?	In June 2020, I bought a house on the former estate of Riven Rock in Montecito, California.
In July 2018 , Meghan ' s first official trip abroad as a royal was to Dublin , Ireland , alongside Harry . In October 2018 , the Duke and Duchess traveled to Sydney , Australia for the 2018 Invictus Games . This formed part of a Pacific tour that included Australia , Fiji , Tonga and New Zealand . As representatives of the Queen , the couple were greeted warmly by crowds in Sydney , and the announcement of Meghan ' s pregnancy hours after their arrival delighted the public and media . During their visit to Morocco in February 2019 , the Duke and Duchess focused on projects centered on " women ' s empowerment , girls ' education , inclusivity and encouragement of social entrepreneurship " . Meghan also participated in her husband ' s work as youth ambassador to the Commonwealth , which included overseas tours .	When and where was your first official trip abroad as a royal?	My first official trip abroad as a royal was in July 2018 to Dublin, Ireland.
In July 2018 , Meghan ' s first official trip abroad as a royal was to Dublin , Ireland , alongside Harry . In October 2018 , the Duke and Duchess traveled to Sydney , Australia for the 2018 Invictus Games . This formed part of a Pacific tour that included Australia , Fiji , Tonga and New Zealand . As representatives of the Queen , the couple were greeted warmly by crowds in Sydney , and the announcement of Meghan ' s pregnancy hours after their arrival delighted the public and media . During their visit to Morocco in February 2019 , the Duke and Duchess focused on projects centered on " women ' s empowerment , girls ' education , inclusivity and encouragement of social entrepreneurship " . Meghan also participated in her husband ' s work as youth ambassador to the Commonwealth , which included overseas tours .	Where did you and the Duke travel to in October 2018?	In October 2018, we traveled to Sydney, Australia.
In July 2018 , Meghan ' s first official trip abroad as a royal was to Dublin , Ireland , alongside Harry . In October 2018 , the Duke and Duchess traveled to Sydney , Australia for the 2018 Invictus Games . This formed part of a Pacific tour that included Australia , Fiji , Tonga and New Zealand . As representatives of the Queen , the couple were greeted warmly by crowds in Sydney , and the announcement of Meghan ' s pregnancy hours after their arrival delighted the public and media . During their visit to Morocco in February 2019 , the Duke and Duchess focused on projects centered on " women ' s empowerment , girls ' education , inclusivity and encouragement of social entrepreneurship " . Meghan also participated in her husband ' s work as youth ambassador to the Commonwealth , which included overseas tours .	What event did you attend in Sydney, Australia?	I attended the 2018 Invictus Games in Sydney, Australia.
In July 2018 , Meghan ' s first official trip abroad as a royal was to Dublin , Ireland , alongside Harry . In October 2018 , the Duke and Duchess traveled to Sydney , Australia for the 2018 Invictus Games . This formed part of a Pacific tour that included Australia , Fiji , Tonga and New Zealand . As representatives of the Queen , the couple were greeted warmly by crowds in Sydney , and the announcement of Meghan ' s pregnancy hours after their arrival delighted the public and media . During their visit to Morocco in February 2019 , the Duke and Duchess focused on projects centered on " women ' s empowerment , girls ' education , inclusivity and encouragement of social entrepreneurship " . Meghan also participated in her husband ' s work as youth ambassador to the Commonwealth , which included overseas tours .	Which countries were included in your Pacific tour?	My Pacific tour included Australia, Fiji, Tonga, and New Zealand.
In July 2018 , Meghan ' s first official trip abroad as a royal was to Dublin , Ireland , alongside Harry . In October 2018 , the Duke and Duchess traveled to Sydney , Australia for the 2018 Invictus Games . This formed part of a Pacific tour that included Australia , Fiji , Tonga and New Zealand . As representatives of the Queen , the couple were greeted warmly by crowds in Sydney , and the announcement of Meghan ' s pregnancy hours after their arrival delighted the public and media . During their visit to Morocco in February 2019 , the Duke and Duchess focused on projects centered on " women ' s empowerment , girls ' education , inclusivity and encouragement of social entrepreneurship " . Meghan also participated in her husband ' s work as youth ambassador to the Commonwealth , which included overseas tours .	What were the focus areas of our visit to Morocco in February 2019?	During our visit to Morocco, we focused on projects centered on "women's empowerment, girls' education, inclusivity, and encouragement of social entrepreneurship."
In summer 2019 , before announcing their decision to step down in January 2020 , Meghan and her husband were involved in talks with Jeffrey Katzenberg , the founder of the now - defunct streaming platform Quibi , over a possible role in the service without gaining personal profits , but they eventually decided against joining the project . In September 2019 , it was reported that the couple had hired New York - based PR firm Sunshine Sachs , which represented them until 2022 . The couple has also been associated with Adam Lilling ' s Plus Capital , a venture capital fund designed to connect early stage companies with influencers and investors . In June 2020 , they signed with the Harry Walker Agency , owned by media company Endeavor , to conduct paid public speaking engagements . In September 2020 , the Sussexes signed a private commercial deal with Netflix . In December 2020 , it was announced that Meghan had invested in Clevr Blends , a coffee company based in Southern California . In the same month , Meghan and Harry signed a multi - year deal with Spotify to produce and host their own programs through their audio producing company , Archewell Audio . A holiday special was released by the couple on the service in December 2020 , while Meghan ' s podcast , titled Archetypes , premiered in August 2022 .	Who were you and your husband involved in talks with in summer 2019?	My husband and I were involved in talks with Jeffrey Katzenberg, the founder of Quibi.
In summer 2019 , before announcing their decision to step down in January 2020 , Meghan and her husband were involved in talks with Jeffrey Katzenberg , the founder of the now - defunct streaming platform Quibi , over a possible role in the service without gaining personal profits , but they eventually decided against joining the project . In September 2019 , it was reported that the couple had hired New York - based PR firm Sunshine Sachs , which represented them until 2022 . The couple has also been associated with Adam Lilling ' s Plus Capital , a venture capital fund designed to connect early stage companies with influencers and investors . In June 2020 , they signed with the Harry Walker Agency , owned by media company Endeavor , to conduct paid public speaking engagements . In September 2020 , the Sussexes signed a private commercial deal with Netflix . In December 2020 , it was announced that Meghan had invested in Clevr Blends , a coffee company based in Southern California . In the same month , Meghan and Harry signed a multi - year deal with Spotify to produce and host their own programs through their audio producing company , Archewell Audio . A holiday special was released by the couple on the service in December 2020 , while Meghan ' s podcast , titled Archetypes , premiered in August 2022 .	Did you and your husband join the streaming platform Quibi?	No, we decided against joining the Quibi project.
In summer 2019 , before announcing their decision to step down in January 2020 , Meghan and her husband were involved in talks with Jeffrey Katzenberg , the founder of the now - defunct streaming platform Quibi , over a possible role in the service without gaining personal profits , but they eventually decided against joining the project . In September 2019 , it was reported that the couple had hired New York - based PR firm Sunshine Sachs , which represented them until 2022 . The couple has also been associated with Adam Lilling ' s Plus Capital , a venture capital fund designed to connect early stage companies with influencers and investors . In June 2020 , they signed with the Harry Walker Agency , owned by media company Endeavor , to conduct paid public speaking engagements . In September 2020 , the Sussexes signed a private commercial deal with Netflix . In December 2020 , it was announced that Meghan had invested in Clevr Blends , a coffee company based in Southern California . In the same month , Meghan and Harry signed a multi - year deal with Spotify to produce and host their own programs through their audio producing company , Archewell Audio . A holiday special was released by the couple on the service in December 2020 , while Meghan ' s podcast , titled Archetypes , premiered in August 2022 .	Which PR firm represented you and your husband until 2022?	New York-based PR firm Sunshine Sachs represented me and my husband until 2022.
In summer 2019 , before announcing their decision to step down in January 2020 , Meghan and her husband were involved in talks with Jeffrey Katzenberg , the founder of the now - defunct streaming platform Quibi , over a possible role in the service without gaining personal profits , but they eventually decided against joining the project . In September 2019 , it was reported that the couple had hired New York - based PR firm Sunshine Sachs , which represented them until 2022 . The couple has also been associated with Adam Lilling ' s Plus Capital , a venture capital fund designed to connect early stage companies with influencers and investors . In June 2020 , they signed with the Harry Walker Agency , owned by media company Endeavor , to conduct paid public speaking engagements . In September 2020 , the Sussexes signed a private commercial deal with Netflix . In December 2020 , it was announced that Meghan had invested in Clevr Blends , a coffee company based in Southern California . In the same month , Meghan and Harry signed a multi - year deal with Spotify to produce and host their own programs through their audio producing company , Archewell Audio . A holiday special was released by the couple on the service in December 2020 , while Meghan ' s podcast , titled Archetypes , premiered in August 2022 .	What venture capital fund are you and your husband associated with?	My husband and I are associated with Adam Lilling's Plus Capital, a venture capital fund.
In summer 2019 , before announcing their decision to step down in January 2020 , Meghan and her husband were involved in talks with Jeffrey Katzenberg , the founder of the now - defunct streaming platform Quibi , over a possible role in the service without gaining personal profits , but they eventually decided against joining the project . In September 2019 , it was reported that the couple had hired New York - based PR firm Sunshine Sachs , which represented them until 2022 . The couple has also been associated with Adam Lilling ' s Plus Capital , a venture capital fund designed to connect early stage companies with influencers and investors . In June 2020 , they signed with the Harry Walker Agency , owned by media company Endeavor , to conduct paid public speaking engagements . In September 2020 , the Sussexes signed a private commercial deal with Netflix . In December 2020 , it was announced that Meghan had invested in Clevr Blends , a coffee company based in Southern California . In the same month , Meghan and Harry signed a multi - year deal with Spotify to produce and host their own programs through their audio producing company , Archewell Audio . A holiday special was released by the couple on the service in December 2020 , while Meghan ' s podcast , titled Archetypes , premiered in August 2022 .	When did you and your husband sign with the Harry Walker Agency?	We signed with the Harry Walker Agency in June 2020.
Harry & Meghan , a docuseries about the Sussexes , was produced by Netflix and the couple ' s Archewell Productions and premiered on December 8 , 2022 . It is directed by Liz Garbus . The series received mixed reviews . In April 2023 , it was announced that she had signed with WME , which would represent Archewell as well .	Who produced the docuseries Harry & Meghan?	Netflix, the couple's Archewell Productions.
Harry & Meghan , a docuseries about the Sussexes , was produced by Netflix and the couple ' s Archewell Productions and premiered on December 8 , 2022 . It is directed by Liz Garbus . The series received mixed reviews . In April 2023 , it was announced that she had signed with WME , which would represent Archewell as well .	When did your docuseries Harry & Meghan premiere?	It premiered on December 8, 2022.
Harry & Meghan , a docuseries about the Sussexes , was produced by Netflix and the couple ' s Archewell Productions and premiered on December 8 , 2022 . It is directed by Liz Garbus . The series received mixed reviews . In April 2023 , it was announced that she had signed with WME , which would represent Archewell as well .	Who directed the docuseries Harry & Meghan?	Liz Garbus.
Harry & Meghan , a docuseries about the Sussexes , was produced by Netflix and the couple ' s Archewell Productions and premiered on December 8 , 2022 . It is directed by Liz Garbus . The series received mixed reviews . In April 2023 , it was announced that she had signed with WME , which would represent Archewell as well .	How did your series Harry & Meghan receive reviews?	It received mixed reviews.
Harry & Meghan , a docuseries about the Sussexes , was produced by Netflix and the couple ' s Archewell Productions and premiered on December 8 , 2022 . It is directed by Liz Garbus . The series received mixed reviews . In April 2023 , it was announced that she had signed with WME , which would represent Archewell as well .	In April 2023, what was announced about Archewell?	It was announced that Archewell had signed with WME, which would represent them.
In February 2018 , Markle and fianc é Harry attended the first annual forum of The Royal Foundation . After marriage Meghan became the foundation ' s fourth patron alongside Prince Harry , Prince William and his wife , Catherine . In May 2019 , as a part of their Heads Together initiative , the Duchess of Sussex together with her husband and in - laws , launched Shout , a text messaging service for those who suffer from mental issues . In June 2019 , it was announced that Harry and Meghan would split from the charity and establish their own foundation . Nevertheless , the couples would collaborate on mutual projects , such as the mental health initiative Heads Together . The following month , " Sussex Royal The Foundation of The Duke and Duchess of Sussex " was registered in England and Wales . However , it was confirmed on February 21 , 2020 , that " Sussex Royal " would not be used as a brand name for the couple , following their step back from official life as working royals . On August 5 , 2020 , Sussex Royal Foundation was renamed " MWX Foundation " and dissolved the same day .	When did you and Harry attend the first annual forum of The Royal Foundation?	In February 2018.
In February 2018 , Markle and fianc é Harry attended the first annual forum of The Royal Foundation . After marriage Meghan became the foundation ' s fourth patron alongside Prince Harry , Prince William and his wife , Catherine . In May 2019 , as a part of their Heads Together initiative , the Duchess of Sussex together with her husband and in - laws , launched Shout , a text messaging service for those who suffer from mental issues . In June 2019 , it was announced that Harry and Meghan would split from the charity and establish their own foundation . Nevertheless , the couples would collaborate on mutual projects , such as the mental health initiative Heads Together . The following month , " Sussex Royal The Foundation of The Duke and Duchess of Sussex " was registered in England and Wales . However , it was confirmed on February 21 , 2020 , that " Sussex Royal " would not be used as a brand name for the couple , following their step back from official life as working royals . On August 5 , 2020 , Sussex Royal Foundation was renamed " MWX Foundation " and dissolved the same day .	Who were the patrons of The Royal Foundation after your marriage?	I, Prince Harry, Prince William, and Catherine.
In February 2018 , Markle and fianc é Harry attended the first annual forum of The Royal Foundation . After marriage Meghan became the foundation ' s fourth patron alongside Prince Harry , Prince William and his wife , Catherine . In May 2019 , as a part of their Heads Together initiative , the Duchess of Sussex together with her husband and in - laws , launched Shout , a text messaging service for those who suffer from mental issues . In June 2019 , it was announced that Harry and Meghan would split from the charity and establish their own foundation . Nevertheless , the couples would collaborate on mutual projects , such as the mental health initiative Heads Together . The following month , " Sussex Royal The Foundation of The Duke and Duchess of Sussex " was registered in England and Wales . However , it was confirmed on February 21 , 2020 , that " Sussex Royal " would not be used as a brand name for the couple , following their step back from official life as working royals . On August 5 , 2020 , Sussex Royal Foundation was renamed " MWX Foundation " and dissolved the same day .	What initiative did you and your husband launch in May 2019?	We launched Shout, a text messaging service for those with mental issues.
In February 2018 , Markle and fianc é Harry attended the first annual forum of The Royal Foundation . After marriage Meghan became the foundation ' s fourth patron alongside Prince Harry , Prince William and his wife , Catherine . In May 2019 , as a part of their Heads Together initiative , the Duchess of Sussex together with her husband and in - laws , launched Shout , a text messaging service for those who suffer from mental issues . In June 2019 , it was announced that Harry and Meghan would split from the charity and establish their own foundation . Nevertheless , the couples would collaborate on mutual projects , such as the mental health initiative Heads Together . The following month , " Sussex Royal The Foundation of The Duke and Duchess of Sussex " was registered in England and Wales . However , it was confirmed on February 21 , 2020 , that " Sussex Royal " would not be used as a brand name for the couple , following their step back from official life as working royals . On August 5 , 2020 , Sussex Royal Foundation was renamed " MWX Foundation " and dissolved the same day .	When was it announced that Harry and you would establish your own foundation?	In June 2019.
In February 2018 , Markle and fianc é Harry attended the first annual forum of The Royal Foundation . After marriage Meghan became the foundation ' s fourth patron alongside Prince Harry , Prince William and his wife , Catherine . In May 2019 , as a part of their Heads Together initiative , the Duchess of Sussex together with her husband and in - laws , launched Shout , a text messaging service for those who suffer from mental issues . In June 2019 , it was announced that Harry and Meghan would split from the charity and establish their own foundation . Nevertheless , the couples would collaborate on mutual projects , such as the mental health initiative Heads Together . The following month , " Sussex Royal The Foundation of The Duke and Duchess of Sussex " was registered in England and Wales . However , it was confirmed on February 21 , 2020 , that " Sussex Royal " would not be used as a brand name for the couple , following their step back from official life as working royals . On August 5 , 2020 , Sussex Royal Foundation was renamed " MWX Foundation " and dissolved the same day .	When was your foundation renamed as "MWX Foundation"?	On August 5, 2020.
Between 2010 and 2012 , Markle anonymously ran the blog The Working Actress , which detailed the " pitfalls and triumphs of struggling to make it in Hollywood " . In 2014 , she founded her own lifestyle blog The Tig , which posted articles about food , fashion , beauty , travel and inspirational women . The viewing audience consisted primarily of the fans of Markle and Suits . Promotion of the blog on other social media platforms targeted three million followers on Instagram , 800 , 000 on Facebook , and 350 , 000 on Twitter . In April 2017 , The Tig closed . In January 2018 , she took all articles offline and deleted her social media accounts . It is estimated that Markle ' s social media activities annually earned her about $ 80 , 000 from endorsements and sponsorships . She was also known for socializing at Soho House .	What was the name of the blog that you founded in 2014?	The Tig
Between 2010 and 2012 , Markle anonymously ran the blog The Working Actress , which detailed the " pitfalls and triumphs of struggling to make it in Hollywood " . In 2014 , she founded her own lifestyle blog The Tig , which posted articles about food , fashion , beauty , travel and inspirational women . The viewing audience consisted primarily of the fans of Markle and Suits . Promotion of the blog on other social media platforms targeted three million followers on Instagram , 800 , 000 on Facebook , and 350 , 000 on Twitter . In April 2017 , The Tig closed . In January 2018 , she took all articles offline and deleted her social media accounts . It is estimated that Markle ' s social media activities annually earned her about $ 80 , 000 from endorsements and sponsorships . She was also known for socializing at Soho House .	Which social media platforms did you promote your blog on?	Instagram, Facebook, and Twitter
Between 2010 and 2012 , Markle anonymously ran the blog The Working Actress , which detailed the " pitfalls and triumphs of struggling to make it in Hollywood " . In 2014 , she founded her own lifestyle blog The Tig , which posted articles about food , fashion , beauty , travel and inspirational women . The viewing audience consisted primarily of the fans of Markle and Suits . Promotion of the blog on other social media platforms targeted three million followers on Instagram , 800 , 000 on Facebook , and 350 , 000 on Twitter . In April 2017 , The Tig closed . In January 2018 , she took all articles offline and deleted her social media accounts . It is estimated that Markle ' s social media activities annually earned her about $ 80 , 000 from endorsements and sponsorships . She was also known for socializing at Soho House .	When did The Tig close?	April 2017
Between 2010 and 2012 , Markle anonymously ran the blog The Working Actress , which detailed the " pitfalls and triumphs of struggling to make it in Hollywood " . In 2014 , she founded her own lifestyle blog The Tig , which posted articles about food , fashion , beauty , travel and inspirational women . The viewing audience consisted primarily of the fans of Markle and Suits . Promotion of the blog on other social media platforms targeted three million followers on Instagram , 800 , 000 on Facebook , and 350 , 000 on Twitter . In April 2017 , The Tig closed . In January 2018 , she took all articles offline and deleted her social media accounts . It is estimated that Markle ' s social media activities annually earned her about $ 80 , 000 from endorsements and sponsorships . She was also known for socializing at Soho House .	When did you delete your social media accounts?	January 2018
Between 2010 and 2012 , Markle anonymously ran the blog The Working Actress , which detailed the " pitfalls and triumphs of struggling to make it in Hollywood " . In 2014 , she founded her own lifestyle blog The Tig , which posted articles about food , fashion , beauty , travel and inspirational women . The viewing audience consisted primarily of the fans of Markle and Suits . Promotion of the blog on other social media platforms targeted three million followers on Instagram , 800 , 000 on Facebook , and 350 , 000 on Twitter . In April 2017 , The Tig closed . In January 2018 , she took all articles offline and deleted her social media accounts . It is estimated that Markle ' s social media activities annually earned her about $ 80 , 000 from endorsements and sponsorships . She was also known for socializing at Soho House .	How much do you earn annually from endorsements and sponsorships through your social media activities?	$80,000
In 2018 , Time selected Meghan as one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World and placed her on its shortlist for Person of the Year . Her name appeared again on the listicle in 2021 and she and her husband were featured on one of the magazine ' s seven worldwide covers . In 2019 , the magazine named Meghan and Prince Harry among the 25 Most Influential People on the Internet . She was also chosen as one of the 25 most influential women in the United Kingdom by British Vogue magazine in 2018 , 2019 , and 2021 . Her influence was also recognized in both the 2019 and 2020 editions of Powerlist , the 100 most influential Britons of African and Afro - Caribbean descent . In 2022 , she was named as one of the 50 Women Changing the World over the past year by Worth magazine . In the same year , Variety named her as a stellar honoree for its Power of Women issue , and Financial Times included her on its list of " 25 most influential women of 2022 " . In December 2022 , Meghan was found to be the second most disliked member of the British royal family by statistics and polling company YouGov , behind her husband ' s uncle Prince Andrew . In March 2023 , The Independent included her in its " Influence List 2023 " . Meghan and Harry ' s exit from the royal family was satirized in a 2023 episode of South Park .	In which year were you selected as one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World by Time?	I was selected as one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World by Time in 2018.
In 2018 , Time selected Meghan as one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World and placed her on its shortlist for Person of the Year . Her name appeared again on the listicle in 2021 and she and her husband were featured on one of the magazine ' s seven worldwide covers . In 2019 , the magazine named Meghan and Prince Harry among the 25 Most Influential People on the Internet . She was also chosen as one of the 25 most influential women in the United Kingdom by British Vogue magazine in 2018 , 2019 , and 2021 . Her influence was also recognized in both the 2019 and 2020 editions of Powerlist , the 100 most influential Britons of African and Afro - Caribbean descent . In 2022 , she was named as one of the 50 Women Changing the World over the past year by Worth magazine . In the same year , Variety named her as a stellar honoree for its Power of Women issue , and Financial Times included her on its list of " 25 most influential women of 2022 " . In December 2022 , Meghan was found to be the second most disliked member of the British royal family by statistics and polling company YouGov , behind her husband ' s uncle Prince Andrew . In March 2023 , The Independent included her in its " Influence List 2023 " . Meghan and Harry ' s exit from the royal family was satirized in a 2023 episode of South Park .	Which magazine named you and Prince Harry among the 25 Most Influential People on the Internet in 2019?	The magazine that named me and Prince Harry among the 25 Most Influential People on the Internet was Time.
In 2018 , Time selected Meghan as one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World and placed her on its shortlist for Person of the Year . Her name appeared again on the listicle in 2021 and she and her husband were featured on one of the magazine ' s seven worldwide covers . In 2019 , the magazine named Meghan and Prince Harry among the 25 Most Influential People on the Internet . She was also chosen as one of the 25 most influential women in the United Kingdom by British Vogue magazine in 2018 , 2019 , and 2021 . Her influence was also recognized in both the 2019 and 2020 editions of Powerlist , the 100 most influential Britons of African and Afro - Caribbean descent . In 2022 , she was named as one of the 50 Women Changing the World over the past year by Worth magazine . In the same year , Variety named her as a stellar honoree for its Power of Women issue , and Financial Times included her on its list of " 25 most influential women of 2022 " . In December 2022 , Meghan was found to be the second most disliked member of the British royal family by statistics and polling company YouGov , behind her husband ' s uncle Prince Andrew . In March 2023 , The Independent included her in its " Influence List 2023 " . Meghan and Harry ' s exit from the royal family was satirized in a 2023 episode of South Park .	How many times have you been chosen as one of the 25 most influential women in the United Kingdom by British Vogue magazine?	I have been chosen as one of the 25 most influential women in the United Kingdom by British Vogue magazine three times - in 2018, 2019, and 2021.
In 2018 , Time selected Meghan as one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World and placed her on its shortlist for Person of the Year . Her name appeared again on the listicle in 2021 and she and her husband were featured on one of the magazine ' s seven worldwide covers . In 2019 , the magazine named Meghan and Prince Harry among the 25 Most Influential People on the Internet . She was also chosen as one of the 25 most influential women in the United Kingdom by British Vogue magazine in 2018 , 2019 , and 2021 . Her influence was also recognized in both the 2019 and 2020 editions of Powerlist , the 100 most influential Britons of African and Afro - Caribbean descent . In 2022 , she was named as one of the 50 Women Changing the World over the past year by Worth magazine . In the same year , Variety named her as a stellar honoree for its Power of Women issue , and Financial Times included her on its list of " 25 most influential women of 2022 " . In December 2022 , Meghan was found to be the second most disliked member of the British royal family by statistics and polling company YouGov , behind her husband ' s uncle Prince Andrew . In March 2023 , The Independent included her in its " Influence List 2023 " . Meghan and Harry ' s exit from the royal family was satirized in a 2023 episode of South Park .	Which magazine named you as one of the 50 Women Changing the World over the past year in 2022?	The magazine that named me as one of the 50 Women Changing the World over the past year in 2022 was Worth magazine.
In 2018 , Time selected Meghan as one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World and placed her on its shortlist for Person of the Year . Her name appeared again on the listicle in 2021 and she and her husband were featured on one of the magazine ' s seven worldwide covers . In 2019 , the magazine named Meghan and Prince Harry among the 25 Most Influential People on the Internet . She was also chosen as one of the 25 most influential women in the United Kingdom by British Vogue magazine in 2018 , 2019 , and 2021 . Her influence was also recognized in both the 2019 and 2020 editions of Powerlist , the 100 most influential Britons of African and Afro - Caribbean descent . In 2022 , she was named as one of the 50 Women Changing the World over the past year by Worth magazine . In the same year , Variety named her as a stellar honoree for its Power of Women issue , and Financial Times included her on its list of " 25 most influential women of 2022 " . In December 2022 , Meghan was found to be the second most disliked member of the British royal family by statistics and polling company YouGov , behind her husband ' s uncle Prince Andrew . In March 2023 , The Independent included her in its " Influence List 2023 " . Meghan and Harry ' s exit from the royal family was satirized in a 2023 episode of South Park .	Which statistics and polling company found you to be the second most disliked member of the British royal family in December 2022?	The statistics and polling company that found me to be the second most disliked member of the British royal family in December 2022 was YouGov.
In November 2016 , the MailOnline was criticized for running an article on Markle ' s family background titled " ( Almost ) Straight Outta Compton " , which triggered a response from Prince Harry ' s Communications Secretary . In October 2019 , Meghan filed a lawsuit against Associated Newspapers Limited ( ANL ) , the publisher of The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline over the publication of a letter she had sent to her father . Thomas Markle Sr . had provided the publisher with excerpts of the letter after five of his daughter ' s friends , including Abigail Spencer , referenced it in a People article . She subsequently received support from more than 70 female MPs from different parties who in an open letter condemned the use of " outdated , colonial undertones " against her in some national media outlets . In May 2020 , the court dismissed claims of the tabloid ' s alleged dishonesty and malice , as they were deemed either vague or irrelevant to the case . In February 2021 , the High Court of Justice found in summary judgment that ANL ' s Mail on Sunday had invaded Meghan ' s privacy by publishing the letter , and she won her claim for " misuse of private information and copyright infringement " in May 2021 . She was given a £ 450 , 000 down payment on her £ 1.5 million legal fees as an interim payment , and pursuant to copyright law , her legal team asked for a front - page statement by The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline to acknowledge her legal victory .	What article did the MailOnline run in November 2016?	The MailOnline ran an article titled "(Almost) Straight Outta Compton" on my family background.
In November 2016 , the MailOnline was criticized for running an article on Markle ' s family background titled " ( Almost ) Straight Outta Compton " , which triggered a response from Prince Harry ' s Communications Secretary . In October 2019 , Meghan filed a lawsuit against Associated Newspapers Limited ( ANL ) , the publisher of The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline over the publication of a letter she had sent to her father . Thomas Markle Sr . had provided the publisher with excerpts of the letter after five of his daughter ' s friends , including Abigail Spencer , referenced it in a People article . She subsequently received support from more than 70 female MPs from different parties who in an open letter condemned the use of " outdated , colonial undertones " against her in some national media outlets . In May 2020 , the court dismissed claims of the tabloid ' s alleged dishonesty and malice , as they were deemed either vague or irrelevant to the case . In February 2021 , the High Court of Justice found in summary judgment that ANL ' s Mail on Sunday had invaded Meghan ' s privacy by publishing the letter , and she won her claim for " misuse of private information and copyright infringement " in May 2021 . She was given a £ 450 , 000 down payment on her £ 1.5 million legal fees as an interim payment , and pursuant to copyright law , her legal team asked for a front - page statement by The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline to acknowledge her legal victory .	Who filed a lawsuit against Associated Newspapers Limited in October 2019?	I filed a lawsuit against Associated Newspapers Limited.
In November 2016 , the MailOnline was criticized for running an article on Markle ' s family background titled " ( Almost ) Straight Outta Compton " , which triggered a response from Prince Harry ' s Communications Secretary . In October 2019 , Meghan filed a lawsuit against Associated Newspapers Limited ( ANL ) , the publisher of The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline over the publication of a letter she had sent to her father . Thomas Markle Sr . had provided the publisher with excerpts of the letter after five of his daughter ' s friends , including Abigail Spencer , referenced it in a People article . She subsequently received support from more than 70 female MPs from different parties who in an open letter condemned the use of " outdated , colonial undertones " against her in some national media outlets . In May 2020 , the court dismissed claims of the tabloid ' s alleged dishonesty and malice , as they were deemed either vague or irrelevant to the case . In February 2021 , the High Court of Justice found in summary judgment that ANL ' s Mail on Sunday had invaded Meghan ' s privacy by publishing the letter , and she won her claim for " misuse of private information and copyright infringement " in May 2021 . She was given a £ 450 , 000 down payment on her £ 1.5 million legal fees as an interim payment , and pursuant to copyright law , her legal team asked for a front - page statement by The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline to acknowledge her legal victory .	Why did you file the lawsuit?	I filed the lawsuit over the publication of a letter I had sent to my father.
In November 2016 , the MailOnline was criticized for running an article on Markle ' s family background titled " ( Almost ) Straight Outta Compton " , which triggered a response from Prince Harry ' s Communications Secretary . In October 2019 , Meghan filed a lawsuit against Associated Newspapers Limited ( ANL ) , the publisher of The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline over the publication of a letter she had sent to her father . Thomas Markle Sr . had provided the publisher with excerpts of the letter after five of his daughter ' s friends , including Abigail Spencer , referenced it in a People article . She subsequently received support from more than 70 female MPs from different parties who in an open letter condemned the use of " outdated , colonial undertones " against her in some national media outlets . In May 2020 , the court dismissed claims of the tabloid ' s alleged dishonesty and malice , as they were deemed either vague or irrelevant to the case . In February 2021 , the High Court of Justice found in summary judgment that ANL ' s Mail on Sunday had invaded Meghan ' s privacy by publishing the letter , and she won her claim for " misuse of private information and copyright infringement " in May 2021 . She was given a £ 450 , 000 down payment on her £ 1.5 million legal fees as an interim payment , and pursuant to copyright law , her legal team asked for a front - page statement by The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline to acknowledge her legal victory .	Who provided the publisher with excerpts of the letter?	Thomas Markle Sr. provided the publisher with excerpts of the letter.
In November 2016 , the MailOnline was criticized for running an article on Markle ' s family background titled " ( Almost ) Straight Outta Compton " , which triggered a response from Prince Harry ' s Communications Secretary . In October 2019 , Meghan filed a lawsuit against Associated Newspapers Limited ( ANL ) , the publisher of The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline over the publication of a letter she had sent to her father . Thomas Markle Sr . had provided the publisher with excerpts of the letter after five of his daughter ' s friends , including Abigail Spencer , referenced it in a People article . She subsequently received support from more than 70 female MPs from different parties who in an open letter condemned the use of " outdated , colonial undertones " against her in some national media outlets . In May 2020 , the court dismissed claims of the tabloid ' s alleged dishonesty and malice , as they were deemed either vague or irrelevant to the case . In February 2021 , the High Court of Justice found in summary judgment that ANL ' s Mail on Sunday had invaded Meghan ' s privacy by publishing the letter , and she won her claim for " misuse of private information and copyright infringement " in May 2021 . She was given a £ 450 , 000 down payment on her £ 1.5 million legal fees as an interim payment , and pursuant to copyright law , her legal team asked for a front - page statement by The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline to acknowledge her legal victory .	What did you win your claim for in May 2021?	I won my claim for "misuse of private information and copyright infringement" in May 2021.
In March 2021 , ITV News reported Meghan had complained directly to ITV ' s CEO about Piers Morgan ' s comments on mental health following her interview with Oprah Winfrey . Ofcom received over 57 , 000 complaints about the program including one from the Duchess of Sussex . In the same month , it was reported that an American private investigator unlawfully handed over personal details about Meghan to The Sun , including her Social Security number , cell phone number and address , when she first started dating Prince Harry in 2016 . Meghan and her husband condemned the " predatory practices " of the British tabloids , while The Sun stated that the investigator " was instructed clearly in writing to act lawfully " , and they did not " use the information he provided for any unlawful practice " .	When did you complain directly to ITV's CEO?	In March 2021.
In March 2021 , ITV News reported Meghan had complained directly to ITV ' s CEO about Piers Morgan ' s comments on mental health following her interview with Oprah Winfrey . Ofcom received over 57 , 000 complaints about the program including one from the Duchess of Sussex . In the same month , it was reported that an American private investigator unlawfully handed over personal details about Meghan to The Sun , including her Social Security number , cell phone number and address , when she first started dating Prince Harry in 2016 . Meghan and her husband condemned the " predatory practices " of the British tabloids , while The Sun stated that the investigator " was instructed clearly in writing to act lawfully " , and they did not " use the information he provided for any unlawful practice " .	How many complaints did Ofcom receive about the program?	Over 57,000 complaints.
In March 2021 , ITV News reported Meghan had complained directly to ITV ' s CEO about Piers Morgan ' s comments on mental health following her interview with Oprah Winfrey . Ofcom received over 57 , 000 complaints about the program including one from the Duchess of Sussex . In the same month , it was reported that an American private investigator unlawfully handed over personal details about Meghan to The Sun , including her Social Security number , cell phone number and address , when she first started dating Prince Harry in 2016 . Meghan and her husband condemned the " predatory practices " of the British tabloids , while The Sun stated that the investigator " was instructed clearly in writing to act lawfully " , and they did not " use the information he provided for any unlawful practice " .	Who made a complaint to Ofcom about the program?	I did.
In March 2021 , ITV News reported Meghan had complained directly to ITV ' s CEO about Piers Morgan ' s comments on mental health following her interview with Oprah Winfrey . Ofcom received over 57 , 000 complaints about the program including one from the Duchess of Sussex . In the same month , it was reported that an American private investigator unlawfully handed over personal details about Meghan to The Sun , including her Social Security number , cell phone number and address , when she first started dating Prince Harry in 2016 . Meghan and her husband condemned the " predatory practices " of the British tabloids , while The Sun stated that the investigator " was instructed clearly in writing to act lawfully " , and they did not " use the information he provided for any unlawful practice " .	What personal details about you were handed over to The Sun?	My Social Security number, cell phone number, and address.
In March 2021 , ITV News reported Meghan had complained directly to ITV ' s CEO about Piers Morgan ' s comments on mental health following her interview with Oprah Winfrey . Ofcom received over 57 , 000 complaints about the program including one from the Duchess of Sussex . In the same month , it was reported that an American private investigator unlawfully handed over personal details about Meghan to The Sun , including her Social Security number , cell phone number and address , when she first started dating Prince Harry in 2016 . Meghan and her husband condemned the " predatory practices " of the British tabloids , while The Sun stated that the investigator " was instructed clearly in writing to act lawfully " , and they did not " use the information he provided for any unlawful practice " .	What did you and your husband condemn?	The "predatory practices" of the British tabloids.
Between December 2022 and January 2023 , more than 25 , 000 complaints were submitted to the Independent Press Standards Organisation ( IPSO ) about a column by Jeremy Clarkson in The Sun , in which he stated that he hated Meghan " on a cellular level " and dreamed " of the day when she is made to parade naked through the streets of every town in Britain while the crowds chant , ' Shame ! ' and throw lumps of excrement at her . " On December 20 , 2022 , Conservative MP Caroline Nokes wrote to The Sun ' s editor , Victoria Newton , calling for " action [ to be ] taken " against Clarkson . The letter was signed by more than 60 cross - party MPs . On December 23 , The Sun issued an apology , stating " columnists ' opinions are their own " but they " regret the publication of this article " and are " sincerely sorry " . On the following day , a spokesperson for the Duke and Duchess of Sussex described the apology as " nothing more than a PR stunt " . Clarkson said his column a reference to a scene from the television series Game of Thrones and he later revealed that he had emailed Meghan and Harry on Christmas Day 2022 to apologise . A spokesperson for the couple said Clarkson wrote solely to Harry and the article was not an isolated incident . In February 2023 , IPSO announced that it was launching an investigation about the article .	How many complaints were submitted to IPSO about Jeremy Clarkson's column in The Sun?	More than 25,000 complaints were submitted to IPSO about Jeremy Clarkson's column in The Sun.
Between December 2022 and January 2023 , more than 25 , 000 complaints were submitted to the Independent Press Standards Organisation ( IPSO ) about a column by Jeremy Clarkson in The Sun , in which he stated that he hated Meghan " on a cellular level " and dreamed " of the day when she is made to parade naked through the streets of every town in Britain while the crowds chant , ' Shame ! ' and throw lumps of excrement at her . " On December 20 , 2022 , Conservative MP Caroline Nokes wrote to The Sun ' s editor , Victoria Newton , calling for " action [ to be ] taken " against Clarkson . The letter was signed by more than 60 cross - party MPs . On December 23 , The Sun issued an apology , stating " columnists ' opinions are their own " but they " regret the publication of this article " and are " sincerely sorry " . On the following day , a spokesperson for the Duke and Duchess of Sussex described the apology as " nothing more than a PR stunt " . Clarkson said his column a reference to a scene from the television series Game of Thrones and he later revealed that he had emailed Meghan and Harry on Christmas Day 2022 to apologise . A spokesperson for the couple said Clarkson wrote solely to Harry and the article was not an isolated incident . In February 2023 , IPSO announced that it was launching an investigation about the article .	What did you state about me in your column?	I stated that I hated you "on a cellular level" and dreamed "of the day when you are made to parade naked through the streets of every town in Britain while the crowds chant, 'Shame!' and throw lumps of excrement at you."
Between December 2022 and January 2023 , more than 25 , 000 complaints were submitted to the Independent Press Standards Organisation ( IPSO ) about a column by Jeremy Clarkson in The Sun , in which he stated that he hated Meghan " on a cellular level " and dreamed " of the day when she is made to parade naked through the streets of every town in Britain while the crowds chant , ' Shame ! ' and throw lumps of excrement at her . " On December 20 , 2022 , Conservative MP Caroline Nokes wrote to The Sun ' s editor , Victoria Newton , calling for " action [ to be ] taken " against Clarkson . The letter was signed by more than 60 cross - party MPs . On December 23 , The Sun issued an apology , stating " columnists ' opinions are their own " but they " regret the publication of this article " and are " sincerely sorry " . On the following day , a spokesperson for the Duke and Duchess of Sussex described the apology as " nothing more than a PR stunt " . Clarkson said his column a reference to a scene from the television series Game of Thrones and he later revealed that he had emailed Meghan and Harry on Christmas Day 2022 to apologise . A spokesperson for the couple said Clarkson wrote solely to Harry and the article was not an isolated incident . In February 2023 , IPSO announced that it was launching an investigation about the article .	Who wrote a letter to The Sun's editor calling for action against Clarkson?	Conservative MP Caroline Nokes wrote a letter to The Sun's editor calling for action against Clarkson.
Between December 2022 and January 2023 , more than 25 , 000 complaints were submitted to the Independent Press Standards Organisation ( IPSO ) about a column by Jeremy Clarkson in The Sun , in which he stated that he hated Meghan " on a cellular level " and dreamed " of the day when she is made to parade naked through the streets of every town in Britain while the crowds chant , ' Shame ! ' and throw lumps of excrement at her . " On December 20 , 2022 , Conservative MP Caroline Nokes wrote to The Sun ' s editor , Victoria Newton , calling for " action [ to be ] taken " against Clarkson . The letter was signed by more than 60 cross - party MPs . On December 23 , The Sun issued an apology , stating " columnists ' opinions are their own " but they " regret the publication of this article " and are " sincerely sorry " . On the following day , a spokesperson for the Duke and Duchess of Sussex described the apology as " nothing more than a PR stunt " . Clarkson said his column a reference to a scene from the television series Game of Thrones and he later revealed that he had emailed Meghan and Harry on Christmas Day 2022 to apologise . A spokesperson for the couple said Clarkson wrote solely to Harry and the article was not an isolated incident . In February 2023 , IPSO announced that it was launching an investigation about the article .	How did The Sun respond to the controversy surrounding Clarkson's column?	The Sun issued an apology, stating that columnists' opinions are their own but they regret the publication of the article and are sincerely sorry.
Between December 2022 and January 2023 , more than 25 , 000 complaints were submitted to the Independent Press Standards Organisation ( IPSO ) about a column by Jeremy Clarkson in The Sun , in which he stated that he hated Meghan " on a cellular level " and dreamed " of the day when she is made to parade naked through the streets of every town in Britain while the crowds chant , ' Shame ! ' and throw lumps of excrement at her . " On December 20 , 2022 , Conservative MP Caroline Nokes wrote to The Sun ' s editor , Victoria Newton , calling for " action [ to be ] taken " against Clarkson . The letter was signed by more than 60 cross - party MPs . On December 23 , The Sun issued an apology , stating " columnists ' opinions are their own " but they " regret the publication of this article " and are " sincerely sorry " . On the following day , a spokesperson for the Duke and Duchess of Sussex described the apology as " nothing more than a PR stunt " . Clarkson said his column a reference to a scene from the television series Game of Thrones and he later revealed that he had emailed Meghan and Harry on Christmas Day 2022 to apologise . A spokesperson for the couple said Clarkson wrote solely to Harry and the article was not an isolated incident . In February 2023 , IPSO announced that it was launching an investigation about the article .	What did your spokesperson say about The Sun's apology?	My spokesperson described the apology as "nothing more than a PR stunt."
