Michael Gerard Tyson (born June 30, 1966) is an American former professional boxer who competed from 1985 to 2005. Nicknamed "Iron Mike" and "Kid Dynamite" in his early career, and later known as "The Baddest Man on the Planet", Tyson is considered to be one of the greatest heavyweight boxers of all time. He reigned as the undisputed world heavyweight champion from 1987 to 1990. Tyson won his first 19 professional fights by knockout, 12 of them in the first round. Claiming his first belt at 20 years, four months, and 22 days old, Tyson holds the record as the youngest boxer ever to win a heavyweight title. He was the first heavyweight boxer to simultaneously hold the WBA, WBC and IBF titles, as well as the only heavyweight to unify them in succession. The following year, Tyson became the lineal champion when he knocked out Michael Spinks in 91 seconds of the first round. In 1990, Tyson was knocked out by underdog Buster Douglas in one of the biggest upsets in boxing history.	When did you start your professional boxing career?	I started my professional boxing career in 1985.
Michael Gerard Tyson (born June 30, 1966) is an American former professional boxer who competed from 1985 to 2005. Nicknamed "Iron Mike" and "Kid Dynamite" in his early career, and later known as "The Baddest Man on the Planet", Tyson is considered to be one of the greatest heavyweight boxers of all time. He reigned as the undisputed world heavyweight champion from 1987 to 1990. Tyson won his first 19 professional fights by knockout, 12 of them in the first round. Claiming his first belt at 20 years, four months, and 22 days old, Tyson holds the record as the youngest boxer ever to win a heavyweight title. He was the first heavyweight boxer to simultaneously hold the WBA, WBC and IBF titles, as well as the only heavyweight to unify them in succession. The following year, Tyson became the lineal champion when he knocked out Michael Spinks in 91 seconds of the first round. In 1990, Tyson was knocked out by underdog Buster Douglas in one of the biggest upsets in boxing history.	What were some of your nicknames in your early career?	Some of my nicknames in my early career were "Iron Mike" and "Kid Dynamite".
Michael Gerard Tyson (born June 30, 1966) is an American former professional boxer who competed from 1985 to 2005. Nicknamed "Iron Mike" and "Kid Dynamite" in his early career, and later known as "The Baddest Man on the Planet", Tyson is considered to be one of the greatest heavyweight boxers of all time. He reigned as the undisputed world heavyweight champion from 1987 to 1990. Tyson won his first 19 professional fights by knockout, 12 of them in the first round. Claiming his first belt at 20 years, four months, and 22 days old, Tyson holds the record as the youngest boxer ever to win a heavyweight title. He was the first heavyweight boxer to simultaneously hold the WBA, WBC and IBF titles, as well as the only heavyweight to unify them in succession. The following year, Tyson became the lineal champion when he knocked out Michael Spinks in 91 seconds of the first round. In 1990, Tyson was knocked out by underdog Buster Douglas in one of the biggest upsets in boxing history.	How long did you reign as the undisputed world heavyweight champion?	I reigned as the undisputed world heavyweight champion from 1987 to 1990.
Michael Gerard Tyson (born June 30, 1966) is an American former professional boxer who competed from 1985 to 2005. Nicknamed "Iron Mike" and "Kid Dynamite" in his early career, and later known as "The Baddest Man on the Planet", Tyson is considered to be one of the greatest heavyweight boxers of all time. He reigned as the undisputed world heavyweight champion from 1987 to 1990. Tyson won his first 19 professional fights by knockout, 12 of them in the first round. Claiming his first belt at 20 years, four months, and 22 days old, Tyson holds the record as the youngest boxer ever to win a heavyweight title. He was the first heavyweight boxer to simultaneously hold the WBA, WBC and IBF titles, as well as the only heavyweight to unify them in succession. The following year, Tyson became the lineal champion when he knocked out Michael Spinks in 91 seconds of the first round. In 1990, Tyson was knocked out by underdog Buster Douglas in one of the biggest upsets in boxing history.	What is the record you hold as the youngest boxer to win a heavyweight title?	I hold the record as the youngest boxer ever to win a heavyweight title at 20 years, four months, and 22 days old.
Michael Gerard Tyson (born June 30, 1966) is an American former professional boxer who competed from 1985 to 2005. Nicknamed "Iron Mike" and "Kid Dynamite" in his early career, and later known as "The Baddest Man on the Planet", Tyson is considered to be one of the greatest heavyweight boxers of all time. He reigned as the undisputed world heavyweight champion from 1987 to 1990. Tyson won his first 19 professional fights by knockout, 12 of them in the first round. Claiming his first belt at 20 years, four months, and 22 days old, Tyson holds the record as the youngest boxer ever to win a heavyweight title. He was the first heavyweight boxer to simultaneously hold the WBA, WBC and IBF titles, as well as the only heavyweight to unify them in succession. The following year, Tyson became the lineal champion when he knocked out Michael Spinks in 91 seconds of the first round. In 1990, Tyson was knocked out by underdog Buster Douglas in one of the biggest upsets in boxing history.	Who did you knock out in 91 seconds of the first round to become the lineal champion?	I knocked out Michael Spinks in 91 seconds of the first round to become the lineal champion.
In 1992, Tyson was convicted of rape and sentenced to six years in prison, although he was released on parole after three years. After his release in 1995, he engaged in a series of comeback fights, regaining the WBA and WBC titles in 1996 to join Floyd Patterson, Muhammad Ali, Tim Witherspoon, Evander Holyfield and George Foreman as the only men in boxing history to have regained a heavyweight championship after losing it. After being stripped of the WBC title in the same year, Tyson lost the WBA title to Evander Holyfield by an eleventh round stoppage. Their 1997 rematch ended when Tyson was disqualified for biting Holyfield's ears, one bite notoriously being strong enough to remove a portion of his right ear. In 2002, Tyson fought for the world heavyweight title, losing by knockout to Lennox Lewis.	When were you convicted of rape?	In 1992.
In 1992, Tyson was convicted of rape and sentenced to six years in prison, although he was released on parole after three years. After his release in 1995, he engaged in a series of comeback fights, regaining the WBA and WBC titles in 1996 to join Floyd Patterson, Muhammad Ali, Tim Witherspoon, Evander Holyfield and George Foreman as the only men in boxing history to have regained a heavyweight championship after losing it. After being stripped of the WBC title in the same year, Tyson lost the WBA title to Evander Holyfield by an eleventh round stoppage. Their 1997 rematch ended when Tyson was disqualified for biting Holyfield's ears, one bite notoriously being strong enough to remove a portion of his right ear. In 2002, Tyson fought for the world heavyweight title, losing by knockout to Lennox Lewis.	How long were you sentenced to prison?	I was sentenced to six years in prison.
In 1992, Tyson was convicted of rape and sentenced to six years in prison, although he was released on parole after three years. After his release in 1995, he engaged in a series of comeback fights, regaining the WBA and WBC titles in 1996 to join Floyd Patterson, Muhammad Ali, Tim Witherspoon, Evander Holyfield and George Foreman as the only men in boxing history to have regained a heavyweight championship after losing it. After being stripped of the WBC title in the same year, Tyson lost the WBA title to Evander Holyfield by an eleventh round stoppage. Their 1997 rematch ended when Tyson was disqualified for biting Holyfield's ears, one bite notoriously being strong enough to remove a portion of his right ear. In 2002, Tyson fought for the world heavyweight title, losing by knockout to Lennox Lewis.	When were you released from prison?	I was released on parole in 1995.
In 1992, Tyson was convicted of rape and sentenced to six years in prison, although he was released on parole after three years. After his release in 1995, he engaged in a series of comeback fights, regaining the WBA and WBC titles in 1996 to join Floyd Patterson, Muhammad Ali, Tim Witherspoon, Evander Holyfield and George Foreman as the only men in boxing history to have regained a heavyweight championship after losing it. After being stripped of the WBC title in the same year, Tyson lost the WBA title to Evander Holyfield by an eleventh round stoppage. Their 1997 rematch ended when Tyson was disqualified for biting Holyfield's ears, one bite notoriously being strong enough to remove a portion of his right ear. In 2002, Tyson fought for the world heavyweight title, losing by knockout to Lennox Lewis.	Who did you regain the WBA and WBC titles from in 1996?	I regained the titles from Floyd Patterson, Muhammad Ali, Tim Witherspoon, Evander Holyfield, and George Foreman.
In 1992, Tyson was convicted of rape and sentenced to six years in prison, although he was released on parole after three years. After his release in 1995, he engaged in a series of comeback fights, regaining the WBA and WBC titles in 1996 to join Floyd Patterson, Muhammad Ali, Tim Witherspoon, Evander Holyfield and George Foreman as the only men in boxing history to have regained a heavyweight championship after losing it. After being stripped of the WBC title in the same year, Tyson lost the WBA title to Evander Holyfield by an eleventh round stoppage. Their 1997 rematch ended when Tyson was disqualified for biting Holyfield's ears, one bite notoriously being strong enough to remove a portion of his right ear. In 2002, Tyson fought for the world heavyweight title, losing by knockout to Lennox Lewis.	How did you lose the WBA title in 1996?	I lost the WBA title to Evander Holyfield by an eleventh round stoppage.
Tyson was known for his ferocious and intimidating boxing style as well as his controversial behavior inside and outside the ring. With a knockout-to-win percentage of 88%, he was ranked 16th on The Ring magazine's list of 100 greatest punchers of all time, and first on ESPN's list of "The Hardest Hitters in Heavyweight History". Sky Sports described him as "perhaps the most ferocious fighter to step into a professional ring". He has been inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame and the World Boxing Hall of Fame.	What are you known for?	I am known for my ferocious and intimidating boxing style as well as my controversial behavior inside and outside the ring.
Tyson was known for his ferocious and intimidating boxing style as well as his controversial behavior inside and outside the ring. With a knockout-to-win percentage of 88%, he was ranked 16th on The Ring magazine's list of 100 greatest punchers of all time, and first on ESPN's list of "The Hardest Hitters in Heavyweight History". Sky Sports described him as "perhaps the most ferocious fighter to step into a professional ring". He has been inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame and the World Boxing Hall of Fame.	How were you ranked in terms of your knockout-to-win percentage?	I was ranked 16th on The Ring magazine's list of 100 greatest punchers of all time, with a knockout-to-win percentage of 88%.
Tyson was known for his ferocious and intimidating boxing style as well as his controversial behavior inside and outside the ring. With a knockout-to-win percentage of 88%, he was ranked 16th on The Ring magazine's list of 100 greatest punchers of all time, and first on ESPN's list of "The Hardest Hitters in Heavyweight History". Sky Sports described him as "perhaps the most ferocious fighter to step into a professional ring". He has been inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame and the World Boxing Hall of Fame.	Which list ranked you as the "The Hardest Hitters in Heavyweight History"?	I was ranked first on ESPN's list of "The Hardest Hitters in Heavyweight History".
Tyson was known for his ferocious and intimidating boxing style as well as his controversial behavior inside and outside the ring. With a knockout-to-win percentage of 88%, he was ranked 16th on The Ring magazine's list of 100 greatest punchers of all time, and first on ESPN's list of "The Hardest Hitters in Heavyweight History". Sky Sports described him as "perhaps the most ferocious fighter to step into a professional ring". He has been inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame and the World Boxing Hall of Fame.	How were you described by Sky Sports?	I was described by Sky Sports as "perhaps the most ferocious fighter to step into a professional ring".
Tyson was known for his ferocious and intimidating boxing style as well as his controversial behavior inside and outside the ring. With a knockout-to-win percentage of 88%, he was ranked 16th on The Ring magazine's list of 100 greatest punchers of all time, and first on ESPN's list of "The Hardest Hitters in Heavyweight History". Sky Sports described him as "perhaps the most ferocious fighter to step into a professional ring". He has been inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame and the World Boxing Hall of Fame.	In which boxing hall of fames have you been inducted?	I have been inducted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame and the World Boxing Hall of Fame.
Michael Gerard Tyson was born into a Catholic family in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, New York City on June 30, 1966. He has an older brother named Rodney (born c. 1961) and an older sister named Denise, who died of a heart attack at age 24 in February 1990. Tyson's mother, born in Charlottesville, Virginia was described as a promiscuous woman who might have been a prostitute. Tyson's biological father is listed as "Purcell Tyson", a "humble cab driver" (who was from Jamaica) on his birth certificate but the man Tyson had known as his father was a pimp named Jimmy Kirkpatrick. Kirkpatrick was from Grier Town, North Carolina (a predominantly black neighborhood that was annexed by the city of Charlotte), where he was one of the neighborhood's top baseball players. Kirkpatrick married and had a son, Tyson's half-brother Jimmie Lee Kirkpatrick, who would help to integrate Charlotte high school football in 1965. In 1959, Jimmy Kirkpatrick left his family and moved to Brooklyn, where he met Tyson's mother, Lorna Mae (Smith) Tyson. Kirkpatrick frequented pool halls, gambled and hung out on the streets. "My father was just a regular street guy caught up in the street world," Tyson said. Kirkpatrick abandoned the Tyson family around the time Mike was born, leaving Tyson's mother to care for the children on her own. Kirkpatrick died in 1992.	When and where were you born?	I was born in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, New York City on June 30, 1966.
Michael Gerard Tyson was born into a Catholic family in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, New York City on June 30, 1966. He has an older brother named Rodney (born c. 1961) and an older sister named Denise, who died of a heart attack at age 24 in February 1990. Tyson's mother, born in Charlottesville, Virginia was described as a promiscuous woman who might have been a prostitute. Tyson's biological father is listed as "Purcell Tyson", a "humble cab driver" (who was from Jamaica) on his birth certificate but the man Tyson had known as his father was a pimp named Jimmy Kirkpatrick. Kirkpatrick was from Grier Town, North Carolina (a predominantly black neighborhood that was annexed by the city of Charlotte), where he was one of the neighborhood's top baseball players. Kirkpatrick married and had a son, Tyson's half-brother Jimmie Lee Kirkpatrick, who would help to integrate Charlotte high school football in 1965. In 1959, Jimmy Kirkpatrick left his family and moved to Brooklyn, where he met Tyson's mother, Lorna Mae (Smith) Tyson. Kirkpatrick frequented pool halls, gambled and hung out on the streets. "My father was just a regular street guy caught up in the street world," Tyson said. Kirkpatrick abandoned the Tyson family around the time Mike was born, leaving Tyson's mother to care for the children on her own. Kirkpatrick died in 1992.	Who are your siblings?	I have an older brother named Rodney (born c. 1961) and an older sister named Denise, who died in February 1990.
Michael Gerard Tyson was born into a Catholic family in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, New York City on June 30, 1966. He has an older brother named Rodney (born c. 1961) and an older sister named Denise, who died of a heart attack at age 24 in February 1990. Tyson's mother, born in Charlottesville, Virginia was described as a promiscuous woman who might have been a prostitute. Tyson's biological father is listed as "Purcell Tyson", a "humble cab driver" (who was from Jamaica) on his birth certificate but the man Tyson had known as his father was a pimp named Jimmy Kirkpatrick. Kirkpatrick was from Grier Town, North Carolina (a predominantly black neighborhood that was annexed by the city of Charlotte), where he was one of the neighborhood's top baseball players. Kirkpatrick married and had a son, Tyson's half-brother Jimmie Lee Kirkpatrick, who would help to integrate Charlotte high school football in 1965. In 1959, Jimmy Kirkpatrick left his family and moved to Brooklyn, where he met Tyson's mother, Lorna Mae (Smith) Tyson. Kirkpatrick frequented pool halls, gambled and hung out on the streets. "My father was just a regular street guy caught up in the street world," Tyson said. Kirkpatrick abandoned the Tyson family around the time Mike was born, leaving Tyson's mother to care for the children on her own. Kirkpatrick died in 1992.	What was the profession of your biological father as per your birth certificate?	According to my birth certificate, my biological father is listed as "Purcell Tyson", a "humble cab driver".
Michael Gerard Tyson was born into a Catholic family in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, New York City on June 30, 1966. He has an older brother named Rodney (born c. 1961) and an older sister named Denise, who died of a heart attack at age 24 in February 1990. Tyson's mother, born in Charlottesville, Virginia was described as a promiscuous woman who might have been a prostitute. Tyson's biological father is listed as "Purcell Tyson", a "humble cab driver" (who was from Jamaica) on his birth certificate but the man Tyson had known as his father was a pimp named Jimmy Kirkpatrick. Kirkpatrick was from Grier Town, North Carolina (a predominantly black neighborhood that was annexed by the city of Charlotte), where he was one of the neighborhood's top baseball players. Kirkpatrick married and had a son, Tyson's half-brother Jimmie Lee Kirkpatrick, who would help to integrate Charlotte high school football in 1965. In 1959, Jimmy Kirkpatrick left his family and moved to Brooklyn, where he met Tyson's mother, Lorna Mae (Smith) Tyson. Kirkpatrick frequented pool halls, gambled and hung out on the streets. "My father was just a regular street guy caught up in the street world," Tyson said. Kirkpatrick abandoned the Tyson family around the time Mike was born, leaving Tyson's mother to care for the children on her own. Kirkpatrick died in 1992.	Who was the man you knew as your father?	The man I knew as my father was a pimp named Jimmy Kirkpatrick.
Michael Gerard Tyson was born into a Catholic family in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, New York City on June 30, 1966. He has an older brother named Rodney (born c. 1961) and an older sister named Denise, who died of a heart attack at age 24 in February 1990. Tyson's mother, born in Charlottesville, Virginia was described as a promiscuous woman who might have been a prostitute. Tyson's biological father is listed as "Purcell Tyson", a "humble cab driver" (who was from Jamaica) on his birth certificate but the man Tyson had known as his father was a pimp named Jimmy Kirkpatrick. Kirkpatrick was from Grier Town, North Carolina (a predominantly black neighborhood that was annexed by the city of Charlotte), where he was one of the neighborhood's top baseball players. Kirkpatrick married and had a son, Tyson's half-brother Jimmie Lee Kirkpatrick, who would help to integrate Charlotte high school football in 1965. In 1959, Jimmy Kirkpatrick left his family and moved to Brooklyn, where he met Tyson's mother, Lorna Mae (Smith) Tyson. Kirkpatrick frequented pool halls, gambled and hung out on the streets. "My father was just a regular street guy caught up in the street world," Tyson said. Kirkpatrick abandoned the Tyson family around the time Mike was born, leaving Tyson's mother to care for the children on her own. Kirkpatrick died in 1992.	Where did your father move to and how did he meet my mother?	My father moved to Brooklyn in 1959, where he met my mother, Lorna Mae (Smith) Tyson.
The family lived in Bedford-Stuyvesant until their financial burdens necessitated a move to Brownsville when Tyson was 10 years old. Tyson's mother died six years later, leaving 16-year-old Tyson in the care of boxing manager and trainer Cus D'Amato, who would become his legal guardian. Tyson later said, "I never saw my mother happy with me and proud of me for doing something: she only knew me as being a wild kid running the streets, coming home with new clothes that she knew I didn't pay for. I never got a chance to talk to her or know about her. Professionally, it has no effect, but it's crushing emotionally and personally."	Where did your family move when you were 10 years old?	My family moved to Brownsville.
The family lived in Bedford-Stuyvesant until their financial burdens necessitated a move to Brownsville when Tyson was 10 years old. Tyson's mother died six years later, leaving 16-year-old Tyson in the care of boxing manager and trainer Cus D'Amato, who would become his legal guardian. Tyson later said, "I never saw my mother happy with me and proud of me for doing something: she only knew me as being a wild kid running the streets, coming home with new clothes that she knew I didn't pay for. I never got a chance to talk to her or know about her. Professionally, it has no effect, but it's crushing emotionally and personally."	How old were you when your mother died?	I was 16 years old when my mother died.
The family lived in Bedford-Stuyvesant until their financial burdens necessitated a move to Brownsville when Tyson was 10 years old. Tyson's mother died six years later, leaving 16-year-old Tyson in the care of boxing manager and trainer Cus D'Amato, who would become his legal guardian. Tyson later said, "I never saw my mother happy with me and proud of me for doing something: she only knew me as being a wild kid running the streets, coming home with new clothes that she knew I didn't pay for. I never got a chance to talk to her or know about her. Professionally, it has no effect, but it's crushing emotionally and personally."	Who became your legal guardian after your mother's death?	Boxing manager and trainer Cus D'Amato became my legal guardian.
The family lived in Bedford-Stuyvesant until their financial burdens necessitated a move to Brownsville when Tyson was 10 years old. Tyson's mother died six years later, leaving 16-year-old Tyson in the care of boxing manager and trainer Cus D'Amato, who would become his legal guardian. Tyson later said, "I never saw my mother happy with me and proud of me for doing something: she only knew me as being a wild kid running the streets, coming home with new clothes that she knew I didn't pay for. I never got a chance to talk to her or know about her. Professionally, it has no effect, but it's crushing emotionally and personally."	What did you say about your relationship with your mother?	I said that I never saw my mother happy with me and proud of me for doing something.
The family lived in Bedford-Stuyvesant until their financial burdens necessitated a move to Brownsville when Tyson was 10 years old. Tyson's mother died six years later, leaving 16-year-old Tyson in the care of boxing manager and trainer Cus D'Amato, who would become his legal guardian. Tyson later said, "I never saw my mother happy with me and proud of me for doing something: she only knew me as being a wild kid running the streets, coming home with new clothes that she knew I didn't pay for. I never got a chance to talk to her or know about her. Professionally, it has no effect, but it's crushing emotionally and personally."	How did you describe your relationship with your mother while growing up?	I described my relationship with my mother as her only knowing me as a wild kid running the streets and bringing home new clothes that I didn't pay for.
Throughout his childhood, Tyson lived in and around neighborhoods with a high rate of crime. According to an interview in Details, his first fight was with a bigger youth who had pulled the head off one of Tyson's pigeons. Tyson was repeatedly caught committing petty crimes and fighting those who ridiculed his high-pitched voice and lisp. By the age of 13, he had been arrested 38 times. He ended up at the Tryon School for Boys in Johnstown, New York. Tyson's emerging boxing ability was discovered there by Bobby Stewart, a juvenile detention center counselor and former boxer. Stewart considered Tyson to be an outstanding fighter and trained him for a few months before introducing him to Cus D'Amato. Tyson dropped out of high school as a junior. He would be awarded an honorary Doctorate in Humane Letters from Central State University in 1989. Kevin Rooney also trained Tyson, and he was occasionally assisted by Teddy Atlas, although Atlas was dismissed by D'Amato when Tyson was 15. Rooney eventually took over all training duties for the young fighter.	Where did you live throughout your childhood?	I lived in and around neighborhoods with a high rate of crime.
Throughout his childhood, Tyson lived in and around neighborhoods with a high rate of crime. According to an interview in Details, his first fight was with a bigger youth who had pulled the head off one of Tyson's pigeons. Tyson was repeatedly caught committing petty crimes and fighting those who ridiculed his high-pitched voice and lisp. By the age of 13, he had been arrested 38 times. He ended up at the Tryon School for Boys in Johnstown, New York. Tyson's emerging boxing ability was discovered there by Bobby Stewart, a juvenile detention center counselor and former boxer. Stewart considered Tyson to be an outstanding fighter and trained him for a few months before introducing him to Cus D'Amato. Tyson dropped out of high school as a junior. He would be awarded an honorary Doctorate in Humane Letters from Central State University in 1989. Kevin Rooney also trained Tyson, and he was occasionally assisted by Teddy Atlas, although Atlas was dismissed by D'Amato when Tyson was 15. Rooney eventually took over all training duties for the young fighter.	What was your first fight about?	My first fight was with a bigger youth who had pulled the head off one of my pigeons.
Throughout his childhood, Tyson lived in and around neighborhoods with a high rate of crime. According to an interview in Details, his first fight was with a bigger youth who had pulled the head off one of Tyson's pigeons. Tyson was repeatedly caught committing petty crimes and fighting those who ridiculed his high-pitched voice and lisp. By the age of 13, he had been arrested 38 times. He ended up at the Tryon School for Boys in Johnstown, New York. Tyson's emerging boxing ability was discovered there by Bobby Stewart, a juvenile detention center counselor and former boxer. Stewart considered Tyson to be an outstanding fighter and trained him for a few months before introducing him to Cus D'Amato. Tyson dropped out of high school as a junior. He would be awarded an honorary Doctorate in Humane Letters from Central State University in 1989. Kevin Rooney also trained Tyson, and he was occasionally assisted by Teddy Atlas, although Atlas was dismissed by D'Amato when Tyson was 15. Rooney eventually took over all training duties for the young fighter.	How many times had you been arrested by the age of 13?	I had been arrested 38 times by the age of 13.
Throughout his childhood, Tyson lived in and around neighborhoods with a high rate of crime. According to an interview in Details, his first fight was with a bigger youth who had pulled the head off one of Tyson's pigeons. Tyson was repeatedly caught committing petty crimes and fighting those who ridiculed his high-pitched voice and lisp. By the age of 13, he had been arrested 38 times. He ended up at the Tryon School for Boys in Johnstown, New York. Tyson's emerging boxing ability was discovered there by Bobby Stewart, a juvenile detention center counselor and former boxer. Stewart considered Tyson to be an outstanding fighter and trained him for a few months before introducing him to Cus D'Amato. Tyson dropped out of high school as a junior. He would be awarded an honorary Doctorate in Humane Letters from Central State University in 1989. Kevin Rooney also trained Tyson, and he was occasionally assisted by Teddy Atlas, although Atlas was dismissed by D'Amato when Tyson was 15. Rooney eventually took over all training duties for the young fighter.	Who discovered your boxing ability at the Tryon School for Boys?	Bobby Stewart, a juvenile detention center counselor and former boxer, discovered my boxing ability at the Tryon School for Boys.
Throughout his childhood, Tyson lived in and around neighborhoods with a high rate of crime. According to an interview in Details, his first fight was with a bigger youth who had pulled the head off one of Tyson's pigeons. Tyson was repeatedly caught committing petty crimes and fighting those who ridiculed his high-pitched voice and lisp. By the age of 13, he had been arrested 38 times. He ended up at the Tryon School for Boys in Johnstown, New York. Tyson's emerging boxing ability was discovered there by Bobby Stewart, a juvenile detention center counselor and former boxer. Stewart considered Tyson to be an outstanding fighter and trained him for a few months before introducing him to Cus D'Amato. Tyson dropped out of high school as a junior. He would be awarded an honorary Doctorate in Humane Letters from Central State University in 1989. Kevin Rooney also trained Tyson, and he was occasionally assisted by Teddy Atlas, although Atlas was dismissed by D'Amato when Tyson was 15. Rooney eventually took over all training duties for the young fighter.	Who trained you for a few months before introducing you to Cus D'Amato?	Bobby Stewart trained me for a few months before introducing me to Cus D'Amato.
As an amateur, Tyson won gold medals at the 1981 and 1982 Junior Olympic Games, defeating Joe Cortez in 1981 and beating Kelton Brown in 1982. Brown's corner threw in the towel in the first round. In 1984 Tyson won the gold medal at the Nation Golden Gloves held in New York, beating Jonathan Littles. He fought Henry Tillman twice as an amateur, losing both bouts by decision. Tillman went on to win heavyweight gold at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles.	Who did you defeat at the 1981 Junior Olympic Games?	I defeated Joe Cortez.
As an amateur, Tyson won gold medals at the 1981 and 1982 Junior Olympic Games, defeating Joe Cortez in 1981 and beating Kelton Brown in 1982. Brown's corner threw in the towel in the first round. In 1984 Tyson won the gold medal at the Nation Golden Gloves held in New York, beating Jonathan Littles. He fought Henry Tillman twice as an amateur, losing both bouts by decision. Tillman went on to win heavyweight gold at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles.	Who did you beat in the first round at the 1982 Junior Olympic Games?	I beat Kelton Brown.
As an amateur, Tyson won gold medals at the 1981 and 1982 Junior Olympic Games, defeating Joe Cortez in 1981 and beating Kelton Brown in 1982. Brown's corner threw in the towel in the first round. In 1984 Tyson won the gold medal at the Nation Golden Gloves held in New York, beating Jonathan Littles. He fought Henry Tillman twice as an amateur, losing both bouts by decision. Tillman went on to win heavyweight gold at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles.	What happened in your fight against Jonathan Littles at the Nation Golden Gloves?	I won the gold medal by defeating Jonathan Littles.
As an amateur, Tyson won gold medals at the 1981 and 1982 Junior Olympic Games, defeating Joe Cortez in 1981 and beating Kelton Brown in 1982. Brown's corner threw in the towel in the first round. In 1984 Tyson won the gold medal at the Nation Golden Gloves held in New York, beating Jonathan Littles. He fought Henry Tillman twice as an amateur, losing both bouts by decision. Tillman went on to win heavyweight gold at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles.	How did you fare in your bouts against Henry Tillman as an amateur?	I lost both bouts against Henry Tillman.
As an amateur, Tyson won gold medals at the 1981 and 1982 Junior Olympic Games, defeating Joe Cortez in 1981 and beating Kelton Brown in 1982. Brown's corner threw in the towel in the first round. In 1984 Tyson won the gold medal at the Nation Golden Gloves held in New York, beating Jonathan Littles. He fought Henry Tillman twice as an amateur, losing both bouts by decision. Tillman went on to win heavyweight gold at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles.	What did Henry Tillman go on to achieve after his fights against you?	Henry Tillman went on to win heavyweight gold at the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles.
Tyson made his professional debut as an 18-year-old on March 6, 1985, in Albany, New York. He defeated Hector Mercedes via first-round TKO. He had 15 bouts in his first year as a professional. Fighting frequently, Tyson won 26 of his first 28 fights by KO or TKO; 16 of those came in the first round. The quality of his opponents gradually increased to journeyman fighters and borderline contenders, like James Tillis, David Jaco, Jesse Ferguson, Mitch Green, and Marvis Frazier. His win streak attracted media attention and Tyson was billed as the next great heavyweight champion. D'Amato died in November 1985, relatively early into Tyson's professional career, and some speculate that his death was the catalyst to many of the troubles Tyson was to experience as his life and career progressed.	When did you make your professional debut?	I made my professional debut on March 6, 1985.
Tyson made his professional debut as an 18-year-old on March 6, 1985, in Albany, New York. He defeated Hector Mercedes via first-round TKO. He had 15 bouts in his first year as a professional. Fighting frequently, Tyson won 26 of his first 28 fights by KO or TKO; 16 of those came in the first round. The quality of his opponents gradually increased to journeyman fighters and borderline contenders, like James Tillis, David Jaco, Jesse Ferguson, Mitch Green, and Marvis Frazier. His win streak attracted media attention and Tyson was billed as the next great heavyweight champion. D'Amato died in November 1985, relatively early into Tyson's professional career, and some speculate that his death was the catalyst to many of the troubles Tyson was to experience as his life and career progressed.	How did you defeat Hector Mercedes in your debut fight?	I defeated Hector Mercedes via first-round TKO.
Tyson made his professional debut as an 18-year-old on March 6, 1985, in Albany, New York. He defeated Hector Mercedes via first-round TKO. He had 15 bouts in his first year as a professional. Fighting frequently, Tyson won 26 of his first 28 fights by KO or TKO; 16 of those came in the first round. The quality of his opponents gradually increased to journeyman fighters and borderline contenders, like James Tillis, David Jaco, Jesse Ferguson, Mitch Green, and Marvis Frazier. His win streak attracted media attention and Tyson was billed as the next great heavyweight champion. D'Amato died in November 1985, relatively early into Tyson's professional career, and some speculate that his death was the catalyst to many of the troubles Tyson was to experience as his life and career progressed.	How many fights did you have in your first year as a professional?	I had 15 bouts in my first year as a professional.
Tyson made his professional debut as an 18-year-old on March 6, 1985, in Albany, New York. He defeated Hector Mercedes via first-round TKO. He had 15 bouts in his first year as a professional. Fighting frequently, Tyson won 26 of his first 28 fights by KO or TKO; 16 of those came in the first round. The quality of his opponents gradually increased to journeyman fighters and borderline contenders, like James Tillis, David Jaco, Jesse Ferguson, Mitch Green, and Marvis Frazier. His win streak attracted media attention and Tyson was billed as the next great heavyweight champion. D'Amato died in November 1985, relatively early into Tyson's professional career, and some speculate that his death was the catalyst to many of the troubles Tyson was to experience as his life and career progressed.	How many of your first 28 fights did you win by KO or TKO?	I won 26 of my first 28 fights by KO or TKO.
Tyson made his professional debut as an 18-year-old on March 6, 1985, in Albany, New York. He defeated Hector Mercedes via first-round TKO. He had 15 bouts in his first year as a professional. Fighting frequently, Tyson won 26 of his first 28 fights by KO or TKO; 16 of those came in the first round. The quality of his opponents gradually increased to journeyman fighters and borderline contenders, like James Tillis, David Jaco, Jesse Ferguson, Mitch Green, and Marvis Frazier. His win streak attracted media attention and Tyson was billed as the next great heavyweight champion. D'Amato died in November 1985, relatively early into Tyson's professional career, and some speculate that his death was the catalyst to many of the troubles Tyson was to experience as his life and career progressed.	Who were some of the opponents you faced during your early career?	Some of the opponents I faced during my early career were James Tillis, David Jaco, Jesse Ferguson, Mitch Green, and Marvis Frazier.
Tyson's first nationally televised bout took place on February 16, 1986, at Houston Field House in Troy, New York, against journeyman heavyweight Jesse Ferguson, and was carried by ABC Sports. Tyson knocked down Ferguson with an uppercut in the fifth round that broke Ferguson's nose. During the sixth round, Ferguson began to hold and clinch Tyson in an apparent attempt to avoid further punishment. After admonishing Ferguson several times to obey his commands to box, the referee finally stopped the fight near the middle of the sixth round. The fight was initially ruled a win for Tyson by disqualification (DQ) of his opponent. The ruling was "adjusted" to a win by technical knockout (TKO) after Tyson's corner protested that a DQ win would end Tyson's string of knockout victories, and that a knockout would have been the inevitable result.	When did your first nationally televised bout take place?	February 16, 1986.
Tyson's first nationally televised bout took place on February 16, 1986, at Houston Field House in Troy, New York, against journeyman heavyweight Jesse Ferguson, and was carried by ABC Sports. Tyson knocked down Ferguson with an uppercut in the fifth round that broke Ferguson's nose. During the sixth round, Ferguson began to hold and clinch Tyson in an apparent attempt to avoid further punishment. After admonishing Ferguson several times to obey his commands to box, the referee finally stopped the fight near the middle of the sixth round. The fight was initially ruled a win for Tyson by disqualification (DQ) of his opponent. The ruling was "adjusted" to a win by technical knockout (TKO) after Tyson's corner protested that a DQ win would end Tyson's string of knockout victories, and that a knockout would have been the inevitable result.	Where did your first nationally televised bout take place?	Houston Field House in Troy, New York.
Tyson's first nationally televised bout took place on February 16, 1986, at Houston Field House in Troy, New York, against journeyman heavyweight Jesse Ferguson, and was carried by ABC Sports. Tyson knocked down Ferguson with an uppercut in the fifth round that broke Ferguson's nose. During the sixth round, Ferguson began to hold and clinch Tyson in an apparent attempt to avoid further punishment. After admonishing Ferguson several times to obey his commands to box, the referee finally stopped the fight near the middle of the sixth round. The fight was initially ruled a win for Tyson by disqualification (DQ) of his opponent. The ruling was "adjusted" to a win by technical knockout (TKO) after Tyson's corner protested that a DQ win would end Tyson's string of knockout victories, and that a knockout would have been the inevitable result.	Who was your opponent in your first nationally televised bout?	Jesse Ferguson.
Tyson's first nationally televised bout took place on February 16, 1986, at Houston Field House in Troy, New York, against journeyman heavyweight Jesse Ferguson, and was carried by ABC Sports. Tyson knocked down Ferguson with an uppercut in the fifth round that broke Ferguson's nose. During the sixth round, Ferguson began to hold and clinch Tyson in an apparent attempt to avoid further punishment. After admonishing Ferguson several times to obey his commands to box, the referee finally stopped the fight near the middle of the sixth round. The fight was initially ruled a win for Tyson by disqualification (DQ) of his opponent. The ruling was "adjusted" to a win by technical knockout (TKO) after Tyson's corner protested that a DQ win would end Tyson's string of knockout victories, and that a knockout would have been the inevitable result.	How did you win the fight against Jesse Ferguson?	I knocked down Ferguson with an uppercut in the fifth round that broke Ferguson's nose.
Tyson's first nationally televised bout took place on February 16, 1986, at Houston Field House in Troy, New York, against journeyman heavyweight Jesse Ferguson, and was carried by ABC Sports. Tyson knocked down Ferguson with an uppercut in the fifth round that broke Ferguson's nose. During the sixth round, Ferguson began to hold and clinch Tyson in an apparent attempt to avoid further punishment. After admonishing Ferguson several times to obey his commands to box, the referee finally stopped the fight near the middle of the sixth round. The fight was initially ruled a win for Tyson by disqualification (DQ) of his opponent. The ruling was "adjusted" to a win by technical knockout (TKO) after Tyson's corner protested that a DQ win would end Tyson's string of knockout victories, and that a knockout would have been the inevitable result.	Why was the ruling of your first nationally televised bout adjusted?	My corner protested that a disqualification win would end my string of knockout victories, and argued that a knockout would have been the inevitable result.
In July, after recording six more knockout victories, Tyson fought former world title challenger Marvis Frazier in Glens Falls, New York, on another ABC Sports broadcast. Tyson won easily, charging at Frazier at the opening bell and hitting him with an uppercut that knocked Frazier unconscious thirty seconds into the fight.	Who did you fight in July?	I fought former world title challenger Marvis Frazier.
In July, after recording six more knockout victories, Tyson fought former world title challenger Marvis Frazier in Glens Falls, New York, on another ABC Sports broadcast. Tyson won easily, charging at Frazier at the opening bell and hitting him with an uppercut that knocked Frazier unconscious thirty seconds into the fight.	Where did our fight take place?	In Glens Falls, New York.
In July, after recording six more knockout victories, Tyson fought former world title challenger Marvis Frazier in Glens Falls, New York, on another ABC Sports broadcast. Tyson won easily, charging at Frazier at the opening bell and hitting him with an uppercut that knocked Frazier unconscious thirty seconds into the fight.	How many knockout victories did you record before the fight?	Six more knockout victories.
In July, after recording six more knockout victories, Tyson fought former world title challenger Marvis Frazier in Glens Falls, New York, on another ABC Sports broadcast. Tyson won easily, charging at Frazier at the opening bell and hitting him with an uppercut that knocked Frazier unconscious thirty seconds into the fight.	How did you win the fight against Marvis Frazier?	I charged at Frazier at the opening bell and hit him with an uppercut, knocking Frazier unconscious.
In July, after recording six more knockout victories, Tyson fought former world title challenger Marvis Frazier in Glens Falls, New York, on another ABC Sports broadcast. Tyson won easily, charging at Frazier at the opening bell and hitting him with an uppercut that knocked Frazier unconscious thirty seconds into the fight.	How long did the fight between you and Marvis Frazier last?	Thirty seconds.
Expectations for Tyson were extremely high , and he was the favorite to win the heavyweight unification series , a tournament designed to establish an undisputed heavyweight champion . Tyson defended his title against James Smith on March 7 , 1987 , in Las Vegas , Nevada . He won by unanimous decision and added Smith ' s World Boxing Association ( WBA ) title to his existing belt . " Tyson - mania " in the media was becoming rampant . He beat Pinklon Thomas in May by TKO in the sixth round . On August 1 he took the International Boxing Federation ( IBF ) title from Tony Tucker in a twelve - round unanimous decision 119 – 111 , 118 – 113 , and 116 – 112 . He became the first heavyweight to own all three major belts   – WBA , WBC , and IBF   – at the same time . Another fight , in October of that year , ended with a victory for Tyson over 1984 Olympic super heavyweight gold medalist Tyrell Biggs by TKO in the seventh round .	What were the expectations for you?	Expectations for me were extremely high.
Expectations for Tyson were extremely high , and he was the favorite to win the heavyweight unification series , a tournament designed to establish an undisputed heavyweight champion . Tyson defended his title against James Smith on March 7 , 1987 , in Las Vegas , Nevada . He won by unanimous decision and added Smith ' s World Boxing Association ( WBA ) title to his existing belt . " Tyson - mania " in the media was becoming rampant . He beat Pinklon Thomas in May by TKO in the sixth round . On August 1 he took the International Boxing Federation ( IBF ) title from Tony Tucker in a twelve - round unanimous decision 119 – 111 , 118 – 113 , and 116 – 112 . He became the first heavyweight to own all three major belts   – WBA , WBC , and IBF   – at the same time . Another fight , in October of that year , ended with a victory for Tyson over 1984 Olympic super heavyweight gold medalist Tyrell Biggs by TKO in the seventh round .	What tournament were you the favorite to win?	I was the favorite to win the heavyweight unification series.
Expectations for Tyson were extremely high , and he was the favorite to win the heavyweight unification series , a tournament designed to establish an undisputed heavyweight champion . Tyson defended his title against James Smith on March 7 , 1987 , in Las Vegas , Nevada . He won by unanimous decision and added Smith ' s World Boxing Association ( WBA ) title to his existing belt . " Tyson - mania " in the media was becoming rampant . He beat Pinklon Thomas in May by TKO in the sixth round . On August 1 he took the International Boxing Federation ( IBF ) title from Tony Tucker in a twelve - round unanimous decision 119 – 111 , 118 – 113 , and 116 – 112 . He became the first heavyweight to own all three major belts   – WBA , WBC , and IBF   – at the same time . Another fight , in October of that year , ended with a victory for Tyson over 1984 Olympic super heavyweight gold medalist Tyrell Biggs by TKO in the seventh round .	Who did you defend your title against on March 7, 1987?	I defended my title against James Smith.
Expectations for Tyson were extremely high , and he was the favorite to win the heavyweight unification series , a tournament designed to establish an undisputed heavyweight champion . Tyson defended his title against James Smith on March 7 , 1987 , in Las Vegas , Nevada . He won by unanimous decision and added Smith ' s World Boxing Association ( WBA ) title to his existing belt . " Tyson - mania " in the media was becoming rampant . He beat Pinklon Thomas in May by TKO in the sixth round . On August 1 he took the International Boxing Federation ( IBF ) title from Tony Tucker in a twelve - round unanimous decision 119 – 111 , 118 – 113 , and 116 – 112 . He became the first heavyweight to own all three major belts   – WBA , WBC , and IBF   – at the same time . Another fight , in October of that year , ended with a victory for Tyson over 1984 Olympic super heavyweight gold medalist Tyrell Biggs by TKO in the seventh round .	Where did you defend your title against James Smith?	I defended my title against James Smith in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Expectations for Tyson were extremely high , and he was the favorite to win the heavyweight unification series , a tournament designed to establish an undisputed heavyweight champion . Tyson defended his title against James Smith on March 7 , 1987 , in Las Vegas , Nevada . He won by unanimous decision and added Smith ' s World Boxing Association ( WBA ) title to his existing belt . " Tyson - mania " in the media was becoming rampant . He beat Pinklon Thomas in May by TKO in the sixth round . On August 1 he took the International Boxing Federation ( IBF ) title from Tony Tucker in a twelve - round unanimous decision 119 – 111 , 118 – 113 , and 116 – 112 . He became the first heavyweight to own all three major belts   – WBA , WBC , and IBF   – at the same time . Another fight , in October of that year , ended with a victory for Tyson over 1984 Olympic super heavyweight gold medalist Tyrell Biggs by TKO in the seventh round .	How did you win against Pinklon Thomas in May?	I won against Pinklon Thomas by TKO in the sixth round.
During this period , Tyson ' s problems outside the ring were also beginning to emerge . His marriage to Robin Givens was heading for divorce , and his future contract was being fought over by Don King and Bill Cayton . In late 1988 , Tyson parted with manager Bill Cayton and fired longtime trainer Kevin Rooney , the man many credit for honing Tyson ' s craft after the death of D ' Amato . Following Rooney ' s departure , critics alleged that Tyson began to show less head movement and combination punching . In 1989 , Tyson had only two fights amid personal turmoil . He faced the British boxer Frank Bruno in February . Bruno managed to stun Tyson at the end of the first round , although Tyson went on to knock Bruno out in the fifth round . Tyson then knocked out Carl " The Truth " Williams in the first round in July .	What problems were emerging for you outside the ring during this period?	My marriage to Robin Givens was heading for divorce, and my future contract was being fought over by Don King and Bill Cayton.
During this period , Tyson ' s problems outside the ring were also beginning to emerge . His marriage to Robin Givens was heading for divorce , and his future contract was being fought over by Don King and Bill Cayton . In late 1988 , Tyson parted with manager Bill Cayton and fired longtime trainer Kevin Rooney , the man many credit for honing Tyson ' s craft after the death of D ' Amato . Following Rooney ' s departure , critics alleged that Tyson began to show less head movement and combination punching . In 1989 , Tyson had only two fights amid personal turmoil . He faced the British boxer Frank Bruno in February . Bruno managed to stun Tyson at the end of the first round , although Tyson went on to knock Bruno out in the fifth round . Tyson then knocked out Carl " The Truth " Williams in the first round in July .	Who did you part ways with in late 1988?	I parted ways with manager Bill Cayton and fired longtime trainer Kevin Rooney.
During this period , Tyson ' s problems outside the ring were also beginning to emerge . His marriage to Robin Givens was heading for divorce , and his future contract was being fought over by Don King and Bill Cayton . In late 1988 , Tyson parted with manager Bill Cayton and fired longtime trainer Kevin Rooney , the man many credit for honing Tyson ' s craft after the death of D ' Amato . Following Rooney ' s departure , critics alleged that Tyson began to show less head movement and combination punching . In 1989 , Tyson had only two fights amid personal turmoil . He faced the British boxer Frank Bruno in February . Bruno managed to stun Tyson at the end of the first round , although Tyson went on to knock Bruno out in the fifth round . Tyson then knocked out Carl " The Truth " Williams in the first round in July .	Who did critics credit for honing your craft after the death of D'Amato?	Critics credit longtime trainer Kevin Rooney for honing my craft after the death of D'Amato.
During this period , Tyson ' s problems outside the ring were also beginning to emerge . His marriage to Robin Givens was heading for divorce , and his future contract was being fought over by Don King and Bill Cayton . In late 1988 , Tyson parted with manager Bill Cayton and fired longtime trainer Kevin Rooney , the man many credit for honing Tyson ' s craft after the death of D ' Amato . Following Rooney ' s departure , critics alleged that Tyson began to show less head movement and combination punching . In 1989 , Tyson had only two fights amid personal turmoil . He faced the British boxer Frank Bruno in February . Bruno managed to stun Tyson at the end of the first round , although Tyson went on to knock Bruno out in the fifth round . Tyson then knocked out Carl " The Truth " Williams in the first round in July .	How many fights did you have in 1989 amid personal turmoil?	I had only two fights in 1989 amid personal turmoil.
During this period , Tyson ' s problems outside the ring were also beginning to emerge . His marriage to Robin Givens was heading for divorce , and his future contract was being fought over by Don King and Bill Cayton . In late 1988 , Tyson parted with manager Bill Cayton and fired longtime trainer Kevin Rooney , the man many credit for honing Tyson ' s craft after the death of D ' Amato . Following Rooney ' s departure , critics alleged that Tyson began to show less head movement and combination punching . In 1989 , Tyson had only two fights amid personal turmoil . He faced the British boxer Frank Bruno in February . Bruno managed to stun Tyson at the end of the first round , although Tyson went on to knock Bruno out in the fifth round . Tyson then knocked out Carl " The Truth " Williams in the first round in July .	Who did you knock out in the first round in July?	I knocked out Carl "The Truth" Williams in the first round in July.
By 1990 , Tyson seemed to have lost direction , and his personal life was in disarray amidst reports of less vigorous training prior to the Buster Douglas match . In a fight on February 11 , 1990 , he lost the undisputed championship to Douglas in Tokyo . Tyson was a huge betting favorite ; indeed , the Mirage , the only casino to put out odds for the fight , made Tyson a 42 / 1 favorite . Tyson failed to find a way past Douglas ' s quick jab that had a 12 - inch ( 30   cm ) reach advantage over his own . Tyson did catch Douglas with an uppercut in the eighth round and knocked him to the floor , but Douglas recovered sufficiently to hand Tyson a heavy beating in the subsequent two rounds . After the fight , the Tyson camp would complain that the count was slow and that Douglas had taken longer than ten seconds to get back on his feet . Just 35 seconds into the tenth round , Douglas unleashed a brutal uppercut , followed by a four - punch combination of hooks that knocked Tyson down for the first time in his career . He was counted out by referee Octavio Meyran .	When did you lose the undisputed championship?	I lost the undisputed championship on February 11, 1990.
By 1990 , Tyson seemed to have lost direction , and his personal life was in disarray amidst reports of less vigorous training prior to the Buster Douglas match . In a fight on February 11 , 1990 , he lost the undisputed championship to Douglas in Tokyo . Tyson was a huge betting favorite ; indeed , the Mirage , the only casino to put out odds for the fight , made Tyson a 42 / 1 favorite . Tyson failed to find a way past Douglas ' s quick jab that had a 12 - inch ( 30   cm ) reach advantage over his own . Tyson did catch Douglas with an uppercut in the eighth round and knocked him to the floor , but Douglas recovered sufficiently to hand Tyson a heavy beating in the subsequent two rounds . After the fight , the Tyson camp would complain that the count was slow and that Douglas had taken longer than ten seconds to get back on his feet . Just 35 seconds into the tenth round , Douglas unleashed a brutal uppercut , followed by a four - punch combination of hooks that knocked Tyson down for the first time in his career . He was counted out by referee Octavio Meyran .	Who did you lose the championship to?	I lost the championship to Buster Douglas.
By 1990 , Tyson seemed to have lost direction , and his personal life was in disarray amidst reports of less vigorous training prior to the Buster Douglas match . In a fight on February 11 , 1990 , he lost the undisputed championship to Douglas in Tokyo . Tyson was a huge betting favorite ; indeed , the Mirage , the only casino to put out odds for the fight , made Tyson a 42 / 1 favorite . Tyson failed to find a way past Douglas ' s quick jab that had a 12 - inch ( 30   cm ) reach advantage over his own . Tyson did catch Douglas with an uppercut in the eighth round and knocked him to the floor , but Douglas recovered sufficiently to hand Tyson a heavy beating in the subsequent two rounds . After the fight , the Tyson camp would complain that the count was slow and that Douglas had taken longer than ten seconds to get back on his feet . Just 35 seconds into the tenth round , Douglas unleashed a brutal uppercut , followed by a four - punch combination of hooks that knocked Tyson down for the first time in his career . He was counted out by referee Octavio Meyran .	What were the odds for you winning the fight?	I was a 42/1 favorite to win the fight.
By 1990 , Tyson seemed to have lost direction , and his personal life was in disarray amidst reports of less vigorous training prior to the Buster Douglas match . In a fight on February 11 , 1990 , he lost the undisputed championship to Douglas in Tokyo . Tyson was a huge betting favorite ; indeed , the Mirage , the only casino to put out odds for the fight , made Tyson a 42 / 1 favorite . Tyson failed to find a way past Douglas ' s quick jab that had a 12 - inch ( 30   cm ) reach advantage over his own . Tyson did catch Douglas with an uppercut in the eighth round and knocked him to the floor , but Douglas recovered sufficiently to hand Tyson a heavy beating in the subsequent two rounds . After the fight , the Tyson camp would complain that the count was slow and that Douglas had taken longer than ten seconds to get back on his feet . Just 35 seconds into the tenth round , Douglas unleashed a brutal uppercut , followed by a four - punch combination of hooks that knocked Tyson down for the first time in his career . He was counted out by referee Octavio Meyran .	How did you defeat Tyson?	I defeated Tyson by using my quick jab and a combination of hooks.
By 1990 , Tyson seemed to have lost direction , and his personal life was in disarray amidst reports of less vigorous training prior to the Buster Douglas match . In a fight on February 11 , 1990 , he lost the undisputed championship to Douglas in Tokyo . Tyson was a huge betting favorite ; indeed , the Mirage , the only casino to put out odds for the fight , made Tyson a 42 / 1 favorite . Tyson failed to find a way past Douglas ' s quick jab that had a 12 - inch ( 30   cm ) reach advantage over his own . Tyson did catch Douglas with an uppercut in the eighth round and knocked him to the floor , but Douglas recovered sufficiently to hand Tyson a heavy beating in the subsequent two rounds . After the fight , the Tyson camp would complain that the count was slow and that Douglas had taken longer than ten seconds to get back on his feet . Just 35 seconds into the tenth round , Douglas unleashed a brutal uppercut , followed by a four - punch combination of hooks that knocked Tyson down for the first time in his career . He was counted out by referee Octavio Meyran .	Who was the referee for the fight?	The referee for the fight was Octavio Meyran.
Tyson and Holyfield fought again on June 28 , 1997 . Originally , Halpern was supposed to be the referee , but after Tyson ' s camp protested , Halpern stepped aside in favor of Mills Lane . The highly anticipated rematch was dubbed The Sound and the Fury , and it was held at the Las Vegas MGM Grand Garden Arena , site of the first bout . It was a lucrative event , drawing even more attention than the first bout and grossing $ 100   million . Tyson received $ 30   million and Holyfield $ 35   million , the highest paid professional boxing purses until 2007 . The fight was purchased by 1.99   million households , setting a pay - per - view buy rate record that stood until May 5 , 2007 , being surpassed by Oscar De La Hoya vs . Floyd Mayweather Jr .	When did you and Holyfield fight again?	We fought again on June 28, 1997.
Tyson and Holyfield fought again on June 28 , 1997 . Originally , Halpern was supposed to be the referee , but after Tyson ' s camp protested , Halpern stepped aside in favor of Mills Lane . The highly anticipated rematch was dubbed The Sound and the Fury , and it was held at the Las Vegas MGM Grand Garden Arena , site of the first bout . It was a lucrative event , drawing even more attention than the first bout and grossing $ 100   million . Tyson received $ 30   million and Holyfield $ 35   million , the highest paid professional boxing purses until 2007 . The fight was purchased by 1.99   million households , setting a pay - per - view buy rate record that stood until May 5 , 2007 , being surpassed by Oscar De La Hoya vs . Floyd Mayweather Jr .	Who was originally supposed to be the referee?	Halpern was originally supposed to be the referee.
Tyson and Holyfield fought again on June 28 , 1997 . Originally , Halpern was supposed to be the referee , but after Tyson ' s camp protested , Halpern stepped aside in favor of Mills Lane . The highly anticipated rematch was dubbed The Sound and the Fury , and it was held at the Las Vegas MGM Grand Garden Arena , site of the first bout . It was a lucrative event , drawing even more attention than the first bout and grossing $ 100   million . Tyson received $ 30   million and Holyfield $ 35   million , the highest paid professional boxing purses until 2007 . The fight was purchased by 1.99   million households , setting a pay - per - view buy rate record that stood until May 5 , 2007 , being surpassed by Oscar De La Hoya vs . Floyd Mayweather Jr .	Who replaced you as the referee?	Mills Lane replaced me as the referee.
Tyson and Holyfield fought again on June 28 , 1997 . Originally , Halpern was supposed to be the referee , but after Tyson ' s camp protested , Halpern stepped aside in favor of Mills Lane . The highly anticipated rematch was dubbed The Sound and the Fury , and it was held at the Las Vegas MGM Grand Garden Arena , site of the first bout . It was a lucrative event , drawing even more attention than the first bout and grossing $ 100   million . Tyson received $ 30   million and Holyfield $ 35   million , the highest paid professional boxing purses until 2007 . The fight was purchased by 1.99   million households , setting a pay - per - view buy rate record that stood until May 5 , 2007 , being surpassed by Oscar De La Hoya vs . Floyd Mayweather Jr .	What was the name given to your rematch?	The rematch was dubbed "The Sound and the Fury."
Tyson and Holyfield fought again on June 28 , 1997 . Originally , Halpern was supposed to be the referee , but after Tyson ' s camp protested , Halpern stepped aside in favor of Mills Lane . The highly anticipated rematch was dubbed The Sound and the Fury , and it was held at the Las Vegas MGM Grand Garden Arena , site of the first bout . It was a lucrative event , drawing even more attention than the first bout and grossing $ 100   million . Tyson received $ 30   million and Holyfield $ 35   million , the highest paid professional boxing purses until 2007 . The fight was purchased by 1.99   million households , setting a pay - per - view buy rate record that stood until May 5 , 2007 , being surpassed by Oscar De La Hoya vs . Floyd Mayweather Jr .	Where was your rematch held?	My rematch was held at the Las Vegas MGM Grand Garden Arena.
Soon to become one of the most controversial events in modern sports , the fight was stopped at the end of the third round , with Tyson disqualified for biting Holyfield on both ears . The first time Tyson bit him , the match was temporarily stopped . Referee Mills Lane deducted two points from Tyson and the fight resumed . However , after the match resumed , Tyson bit him again , resulting in his disqualification , and Holyfield won the match . The first bite was severe enough to remove a piece of Holyfield ' s right ear , which was found on the ring floor after the fight . Tyson later stated that his actions were retaliation for Holyfield repeatedly headbutting him without penalty . In the confusion that followed the ending of the bout and announcement of the decision , a near riot occurred in the arena and several people were injured . Tyson Holyfield II was the first heavyweight title fight in over 50 years to end in a disqualification .	What caused the fight to be stopped at the end of the third round?	I was disqualified for biting Holyfield on both ears.
Soon to become one of the most controversial events in modern sports , the fight was stopped at the end of the third round , with Tyson disqualified for biting Holyfield on both ears . The first time Tyson bit him , the match was temporarily stopped . Referee Mills Lane deducted two points from Tyson and the fight resumed . However , after the match resumed , Tyson bit him again , resulting in his disqualification , and Holyfield won the match . The first bite was severe enough to remove a piece of Holyfield ' s right ear , which was found on the ring floor after the fight . Tyson later stated that his actions were retaliation for Holyfield repeatedly headbutting him without penalty . In the confusion that followed the ending of the bout and announcement of the decision , a near riot occurred in the arena and several people were injured . Tyson Holyfield II was the first heavyweight title fight in over 50 years to end in a disqualification .	How did the referee penalize you after the first biting incident?	Referee Mills Lane deducted two points from me.
Soon to become one of the most controversial events in modern sports , the fight was stopped at the end of the third round , with Tyson disqualified for biting Holyfield on both ears . The first time Tyson bit him , the match was temporarily stopped . Referee Mills Lane deducted two points from Tyson and the fight resumed . However , after the match resumed , Tyson bit him again , resulting in his disqualification , and Holyfield won the match . The first bite was severe enough to remove a piece of Holyfield ' s right ear , which was found on the ring floor after the fight . Tyson later stated that his actions were retaliation for Holyfield repeatedly headbutting him without penalty . In the confusion that followed the ending of the bout and announcement of the decision , a near riot occurred in the arena and several people were injured . Tyson Holyfield II was the first heavyweight title fight in over 50 years to end in a disqualification .	How did the first bite affect you?	The first bite was severe enough to remove a piece of my right ear.
Soon to become one of the most controversial events in modern sports , the fight was stopped at the end of the third round , with Tyson disqualified for biting Holyfield on both ears . The first time Tyson bit him , the match was temporarily stopped . Referee Mills Lane deducted two points from Tyson and the fight resumed . However , after the match resumed , Tyson bit him again , resulting in his disqualification , and Holyfield won the match . The first bite was severe enough to remove a piece of Holyfield ' s right ear , which was found on the ring floor after the fight . Tyson later stated that his actions were retaliation for Holyfield repeatedly headbutting him without penalty . In the confusion that followed the ending of the bout and announcement of the decision , a near riot occurred in the arena and several people were injured . Tyson Holyfield II was the first heavyweight title fight in over 50 years to end in a disqualification .	Why did you claim your actions were retaliation?	I stated that my actions were retaliation for Holyfield repeatedly headbutting me without penalty.
Soon to become one of the most controversial events in modern sports , the fight was stopped at the end of the third round , with Tyson disqualified for biting Holyfield on both ears . The first time Tyson bit him , the match was temporarily stopped . Referee Mills Lane deducted two points from Tyson and the fight resumed . However , after the match resumed , Tyson bit him again , resulting in his disqualification , and Holyfield won the match . The first bite was severe enough to remove a piece of Holyfield ' s right ear , which was found on the ring floor after the fight . Tyson later stated that his actions were retaliation for Holyfield repeatedly headbutting him without penalty . In the confusion that followed the ending of the bout and announcement of the decision , a near riot occurred in the arena and several people were injured . Tyson Holyfield II was the first heavyweight title fight in over 50 years to end in a disqualification .	What happened in the arena after your fight ended?	In the confusion that followed the ending of my bout and announcement of the decision, a near riot occurred in the arena and several people were injured.
Legal problems arose with Tyson once again . On February 5 , 1999 , Tyson was sentenced to a year ' s imprisonment , fined $ 5 , 000 , and ordered to serve two years probation along with undergoing 200 hours of community service for assaulting two motorists after a traffic accident on August 31 , 1998 . He served nine months of that sentence . After his release , he fought Orlin Norris on October 23 , 1999 . Tyson knocked down Norris with a left hook thrown after the bell sounded to end the first round . Norris injured his knee when he went down and said that he was unable to continue . Consequently , the bout was ruled a no contest .	When did you serve your imprisonment sentence?	I served my imprisonment sentence on February 5, 1999.
Legal problems arose with Tyson once again . On February 5 , 1999 , Tyson was sentenced to a year ' s imprisonment , fined $ 5 , 000 , and ordered to serve two years probation along with undergoing 200 hours of community service for assaulting two motorists after a traffic accident on August 31 , 1998 . He served nine months of that sentence . After his release , he fought Orlin Norris on October 23 , 1999 . Tyson knocked down Norris with a left hook thrown after the bell sounded to end the first round . Norris injured his knee when he went down and said that he was unable to continue . Consequently , the bout was ruled a no contest .	How long were you sentenced to imprisonment?	I was sentenced to a year's imprisonment.
Legal problems arose with Tyson once again . On February 5 , 1999 , Tyson was sentenced to a year ' s imprisonment , fined $ 5 , 000 , and ordered to serve two years probation along with undergoing 200 hours of community service for assaulting two motorists after a traffic accident on August 31 , 1998 . He served nine months of that sentence . After his release , he fought Orlin Norris on October 23 , 1999 . Tyson knocked down Norris with a left hook thrown after the bell sounded to end the first round . Norris injured his knee when he went down and said that he was unable to continue . Consequently , the bout was ruled a no contest .	How much were you fined?	I was fined $5,000.
Legal problems arose with Tyson once again . On February 5 , 1999 , Tyson was sentenced to a year ' s imprisonment , fined $ 5 , 000 , and ordered to serve two years probation along with undergoing 200 hours of community service for assaulting two motorists after a traffic accident on August 31 , 1998 . He served nine months of that sentence . After his release , he fought Orlin Norris on October 23 , 1999 . Tyson knocked down Norris with a left hook thrown after the bell sounded to end the first round . Norris injured his knee when he went down and said that he was unable to continue . Consequently , the bout was ruled a no contest .	What were the conditions of your probation?	I was ordered to serve two years probation and undergo 200 hours of community service.
Legal problems arose with Tyson once again . On February 5 , 1999 , Tyson was sentenced to a year ' s imprisonment , fined $ 5 , 000 , and ordered to serve two years probation along with undergoing 200 hours of community service for assaulting two motorists after a traffic accident on August 31 , 1998 . He served nine months of that sentence . After his release , he fought Orlin Norris on October 23 , 1999 . Tyson knocked down Norris with a left hook thrown after the bell sounded to end the first round . Norris injured his knee when he went down and said that he was unable to continue . Consequently , the bout was ruled a no contest .	Who did you fight after your release from prison?	I fought Orlin Norris after my release from prison.
In 2000 , Tyson had three fights . The first match in January was staged at the MEN Arena in Manchester , England against Julius Francis . Following controversy as to whether Tyson was allowed into the country , he took four minutes to knock out Francis , ending the bout in the second round . He also fought Lou Savarese in June 2000 in Glasgow , winning in the first round ; the fight lasted only 38 seconds . Tyson continued punching after the referee had stopped the fight , knocking the referee to the floor as he tried to separate the boxers . In October , Tyson fought the similarly controversial Andrew Golota , winning in round three after Go ł ota was unable to continue due to a broken cheekbone , concussion , and neck injury . The result was later changed to no contest after Tyson refused to take a pre - fight drug test and then tested positive for marijuana in a post - fight urine test . Tyson fought only once in 2001 , beating Brian Nielsen in Copenhagen by TKO in the seventh round .	How many fights did you have in 2000?	I had three fights in 2000.
In 2000 , Tyson had three fights . The first match in January was staged at the MEN Arena in Manchester , England against Julius Francis . Following controversy as to whether Tyson was allowed into the country , he took four minutes to knock out Francis , ending the bout in the second round . He also fought Lou Savarese in June 2000 in Glasgow , winning in the first round ; the fight lasted only 38 seconds . Tyson continued punching after the referee had stopped the fight , knocking the referee to the floor as he tried to separate the boxers . In October , Tyson fought the similarly controversial Andrew Golota , winning in round three after Go ł ota was unable to continue due to a broken cheekbone , concussion , and neck injury . The result was later changed to no contest after Tyson refused to take a pre - fight drug test and then tested positive for marijuana in a post - fight urine test . Tyson fought only once in 2001 , beating Brian Nielsen in Copenhagen by TKO in the seventh round .	Where was your first match in January 2000 staged?	My first match in January 2000 was staged at the MEN Arena in Manchester, England.
In 2000 , Tyson had three fights . The first match in January was staged at the MEN Arena in Manchester , England against Julius Francis . Following controversy as to whether Tyson was allowed into the country , he took four minutes to knock out Francis , ending the bout in the second round . He also fought Lou Savarese in June 2000 in Glasgow , winning in the first round ; the fight lasted only 38 seconds . Tyson continued punching after the referee had stopped the fight , knocking the referee to the floor as he tried to separate the boxers . In October , Tyson fought the similarly controversial Andrew Golota , winning in round three after Go ł ota was unable to continue due to a broken cheekbone , concussion , and neck injury . The result was later changed to no contest after Tyson refused to take a pre - fight drug test and then tested positive for marijuana in a post - fight urine test . Tyson fought only once in 2001 , beating Brian Nielsen in Copenhagen by TKO in the seventh round .	Who did you fight in June 2000 and where?	I fought Lou Savarese in June 2000 in Glasgow.
In 2000 , Tyson had three fights . The first match in January was staged at the MEN Arena in Manchester , England against Julius Francis . Following controversy as to whether Tyson was allowed into the country , he took four minutes to knock out Francis , ending the bout in the second round . He also fought Lou Savarese in June 2000 in Glasgow , winning in the first round ; the fight lasted only 38 seconds . Tyson continued punching after the referee had stopped the fight , knocking the referee to the floor as he tried to separate the boxers . In October , Tyson fought the similarly controversial Andrew Golota , winning in round three after Go ł ota was unable to continue due to a broken cheekbone , concussion , and neck injury . The result was later changed to no contest after Tyson refused to take a pre - fight drug test and then tested positive for marijuana in a post - fight urine test . Tyson fought only once in 2001 , beating Brian Nielsen in Copenhagen by TKO in the seventh round .	How long did your fight against Lou Savarese last?	My fight against Lou Savarese lasted only 38 seconds.
In 2000 , Tyson had three fights . The first match in January was staged at the MEN Arena in Manchester , England against Julius Francis . Following controversy as to whether Tyson was allowed into the country , he took four minutes to knock out Francis , ending the bout in the second round . He also fought Lou Savarese in June 2000 in Glasgow , winning in the first round ; the fight lasted only 38 seconds . Tyson continued punching after the referee had stopped the fight , knocking the referee to the floor as he tried to separate the boxers . In October , Tyson fought the similarly controversial Andrew Golota , winning in round three after Go ł ota was unable to continue due to a broken cheekbone , concussion , and neck injury . The result was later changed to no contest after Tyson refused to take a pre - fight drug test and then tested positive for marijuana in a post - fight urine test . Tyson fought only once in 2001 , beating Brian Nielsen in Copenhagen by TKO in the seventh round .	Why was the result of your fight against Andrew Golota changed to no contest?	The result of my fight against Andrew Golota was changed to no contest because I refused to take a pre-fight drug test and then tested positive for marijuana in a post-fight urine test.
Two years prior to the bout , Tyson had made several inflammatory remarks to Lewis in an interview following the Savarese fight . The remarks included the statement " I want your heart , I want to eat your children . " On January 22 , 2002 , the two boxers and their entourages were involved in a brawl at a New York press conference to publicize the planned event . A few weeks later , the Nevada State Athletic Commission refused to grant Tyson a license for the fight , and the promoters had to make alternative arrangements . After multiple states balked at granting Tyson a license , the fight eventually occurred on June 8 at the Pyramid Arena in Memphis , Tennessee . Lewis dominated the fight and knocked out Tyson with a right hand in the eighth round . Tyson was respectful after the fight and praised Lewis on his victory . This fight was the highest - grossing event in pay - per - view history at that time , generating $ 106.9   million from 1.95   million buys in the US .	What inflammatory remarks did you make to Lewis?	I said, "I want your heart, I want to eat your children."
Two years prior to the bout , Tyson had made several inflammatory remarks to Lewis in an interview following the Savarese fight . The remarks included the statement " I want your heart , I want to eat your children . " On January 22 , 2002 , the two boxers and their entourages were involved in a brawl at a New York press conference to publicize the planned event . A few weeks later , the Nevada State Athletic Commission refused to grant Tyson a license for the fight , and the promoters had to make alternative arrangements . After multiple states balked at granting Tyson a license , the fight eventually occurred on June 8 at the Pyramid Arena in Memphis , Tennessee . Lewis dominated the fight and knocked out Tyson with a right hand in the eighth round . Tyson was respectful after the fight and praised Lewis on his victory . This fight was the highest - grossing event in pay - per - view history at that time , generating $ 106.9   million from 1.95   million buys in the US .	When did the brawl between you and Lewis occur?	The brawl took place on January 22, 2002, at a New York press conference.
Two years prior to the bout , Tyson had made several inflammatory remarks to Lewis in an interview following the Savarese fight . The remarks included the statement " I want your heart , I want to eat your children . " On January 22 , 2002 , the two boxers and their entourages were involved in a brawl at a New York press conference to publicize the planned event . A few weeks later , the Nevada State Athletic Commission refused to grant Tyson a license for the fight , and the promoters had to make alternative arrangements . After multiple states balked at granting Tyson a license , the fight eventually occurred on June 8 at the Pyramid Arena in Memphis , Tennessee . Lewis dominated the fight and knocked out Tyson with a right hand in the eighth round . Tyson was respectful after the fight and praised Lewis on his victory . This fight was the highest - grossing event in pay - per - view history at that time , generating $ 106.9   million from 1.95   million buys in the US .	Why were you refused a license for the fight by the Nevada State Athletic Commission?	The Nevada State Athletic Commission refused to grant me a license for the fight, but the reason was not stated.
Two years prior to the bout , Tyson had made several inflammatory remarks to Lewis in an interview following the Savarese fight . The remarks included the statement " I want your heart , I want to eat your children . " On January 22 , 2002 , the two boxers and their entourages were involved in a brawl at a New York press conference to publicize the planned event . A few weeks later , the Nevada State Athletic Commission refused to grant Tyson a license for the fight , and the promoters had to make alternative arrangements . After multiple states balked at granting Tyson a license , the fight eventually occurred on June 8 at the Pyramid Arena in Memphis , Tennessee . Lewis dominated the fight and knocked out Tyson with a right hand in the eighth round . Tyson was respectful after the fight and praised Lewis on his victory . This fight was the highest - grossing event in pay - per - view history at that time , generating $ 106.9   million from 1.95   million buys in the US .	Where did our fight eventually occur?	The fight took place at the Pyramid Arena in Memphis, Tennessee.
Two years prior to the bout , Tyson had made several inflammatory remarks to Lewis in an interview following the Savarese fight . The remarks included the statement " I want your heart , I want to eat your children . " On January 22 , 2002 , the two boxers and their entourages were involved in a brawl at a New York press conference to publicize the planned event . A few weeks later , the Nevada State Athletic Commission refused to grant Tyson a license for the fight , and the promoters had to make alternative arrangements . After multiple states balked at granting Tyson a license , the fight eventually occurred on June 8 at the Pyramid Arena in Memphis , Tennessee . Lewis dominated the fight and knocked out Tyson with a right hand in the eighth round . Tyson was respectful after the fight and praised Lewis on his victory . This fight was the highest - grossing event in pay - per - view history at that time , generating $ 106.9   million from 1.95   million buys in the US .	How much money did the fight generate in pay-per-view sales?	The fight generated $106.9 million from 1.95 million buys in the US, making it the highest-grossing event in pay-per-view history at that time.
On July 30 , 2004 , Tyson had a match against British boxer Danny Williams in another comeback fight , and this time , staged in Louisville , Kentucky . Tyson dominated the opening two rounds . The third round was even , with Williams getting in some clean blows and also a few illegal ones , for which he was penalized . In the fourth round , Tyson was unexpectedly knocked out . After the fight , it was revealed that Tyson was trying to fight on one leg , having torn a ligament in his other knee in the first round . This was Tyson ' s fifth career defeat . He underwent surgery for the ligament four days after the fight . His manager , Shelly Finkel , claimed that Tyson was unable to throw meaningful right - hand punches since he had a knee injury .	When did you have a match against British boxer Danny Williams?	I had a match against British boxer Danny Williams on July 30, 2004.
On July 30 , 2004 , Tyson had a match against British boxer Danny Williams in another comeback fight , and this time , staged in Louisville , Kentucky . Tyson dominated the opening two rounds . The third round was even , with Williams getting in some clean blows and also a few illegal ones , for which he was penalized . In the fourth round , Tyson was unexpectedly knocked out . After the fight , it was revealed that Tyson was trying to fight on one leg , having torn a ligament in his other knee in the first round . This was Tyson ' s fifth career defeat . He underwent surgery for the ligament four days after the fight . His manager , Shelly Finkel , claimed that Tyson was unable to throw meaningful right - hand punches since he had a knee injury .	Where was the match staged?	The match was staged in Louisville, Kentucky.
On July 30 , 2004 , Tyson had a match against British boxer Danny Williams in another comeback fight , and this time , staged in Louisville , Kentucky . Tyson dominated the opening two rounds . The third round was even , with Williams getting in some clean blows and also a few illegal ones , for which he was penalized . In the fourth round , Tyson was unexpectedly knocked out . After the fight , it was revealed that Tyson was trying to fight on one leg , having torn a ligament in his other knee in the first round . This was Tyson ' s fifth career defeat . He underwent surgery for the ligament four days after the fight . His manager , Shelly Finkel , claimed that Tyson was unable to throw meaningful right - hand punches since he had a knee injury .	How did you perform in the opening two rounds?	I dominated the opening two rounds.
On July 30 , 2004 , Tyson had a match against British boxer Danny Williams in another comeback fight , and this time , staged in Louisville , Kentucky . Tyson dominated the opening two rounds . The third round was even , with Williams getting in some clean blows and also a few illegal ones , for which he was penalized . In the fourth round , Tyson was unexpectedly knocked out . After the fight , it was revealed that Tyson was trying to fight on one leg , having torn a ligament in his other knee in the first round . This was Tyson ' s fifth career defeat . He underwent surgery for the ligament four days after the fight . His manager , Shelly Finkel , claimed that Tyson was unable to throw meaningful right - hand punches since he had a knee injury .	What happened in the third round?	The third round was even, with Williams getting in some clean blows and also a few illegal ones, for which he was penalized.
On July 30 , 2004 , Tyson had a match against British boxer Danny Williams in another comeback fight , and this time , staged in Louisville , Kentucky . Tyson dominated the opening two rounds . The third round was even , with Williams getting in some clean blows and also a few illegal ones , for which he was penalized . In the fourth round , Tyson was unexpectedly knocked out . After the fight , it was revealed that Tyson was trying to fight on one leg , having torn a ligament in his other knee in the first round . This was Tyson ' s fifth career defeat . He underwent surgery for the ligament four days after the fight . His manager , Shelly Finkel , claimed that Tyson was unable to throw meaningful right - hand punches since he had a knee injury .	Why were you unexpectedly knocked out in the fourth round?	I was unexpectedly knocked out in the fourth round because I was trying to fight on one leg, having torn a ligament in my other knee in the first round.
To help pay off his debts , Tyson announced he would be doing a series of exhibition bouts , calling it Tyson ' s World Tour . For his first bout , Tyson returned to the ring in 2006 for a four - round exhibition against journeyman heavyweight Corey Sanders in Youngstown , Ohio . Tyson , without headgear at 5   ft 10.5   in and 216 pounds , was in quality shape , but far from his prime against Sanders , at 6   ft 6   in who wore headgear . Tyson appeared to be " holding back " in the exhibition to prevent an early end to the " show " . " If I don ' t get out of this financial quagmire there ' s a possibility I may have to be a punching bag for somebody . The money I make isn ' t going to help my bills from a tremendous standpoint , but I ' m going to feel better about myself . I ' m not going to be depressed " , explained Tyson about the reasons for his " comeback " . After the bout was poorly received by fans the remainder of the tour was cancelled .	What was the name of your World Tour?	My World Tour.
To help pay off his debts , Tyson announced he would be doing a series of exhibition bouts , calling it Tyson ' s World Tour . For his first bout , Tyson returned to the ring in 2006 for a four - round exhibition against journeyman heavyweight Corey Sanders in Youngstown , Ohio . Tyson , without headgear at 5   ft 10.5   in and 216 pounds , was in quality shape , but far from his prime against Sanders , at 6   ft 6   in who wore headgear . Tyson appeared to be " holding back " in the exhibition to prevent an early end to the " show " . " If I don ' t get out of this financial quagmire there ' s a possibility I may have to be a punching bag for somebody . The money I make isn ' t going to help my bills from a tremendous standpoint , but I ' m going to feel better about myself . I ' m not going to be depressed " , explained Tyson about the reasons for his " comeback " . After the bout was poorly received by fans the remainder of the tour was cancelled .	Who did you fight in your first bout of the tour?	Corey Sanders.
To help pay off his debts , Tyson announced he would be doing a series of exhibition bouts , calling it Tyson ' s World Tour . For his first bout , Tyson returned to the ring in 2006 for a four - round exhibition against journeyman heavyweight Corey Sanders in Youngstown , Ohio . Tyson , without headgear at 5   ft 10.5   in and 216 pounds , was in quality shape , but far from his prime against Sanders , at 6   ft 6   in who wore headgear . Tyson appeared to be " holding back " in the exhibition to prevent an early end to the " show " . " If I don ' t get out of this financial quagmire there ' s a possibility I may have to be a punching bag for somebody . The money I make isn ' t going to help my bills from a tremendous standpoint , but I ' m going to feel better about myself . I ' m not going to be depressed " , explained Tyson about the reasons for his " comeback " . After the bout was poorly received by fans the remainder of the tour was cancelled .	Where did the first bout take place?	Youngstown, Ohio.
To help pay off his debts , Tyson announced he would be doing a series of exhibition bouts , calling it Tyson ' s World Tour . For his first bout , Tyson returned to the ring in 2006 for a four - round exhibition against journeyman heavyweight Corey Sanders in Youngstown , Ohio . Tyson , without headgear at 5   ft 10.5   in and 216 pounds , was in quality shape , but far from his prime against Sanders , at 6   ft 6   in who wore headgear . Tyson appeared to be " holding back " in the exhibition to prevent an early end to the " show " . " If I don ' t get out of this financial quagmire there ' s a possibility I may have to be a punching bag for somebody . The money I make isn ' t going to help my bills from a tremendous standpoint , but I ' m going to feel better about myself . I ' m not going to be depressed " , explained Tyson about the reasons for his " comeback " . After the bout was poorly received by fans the remainder of the tour was cancelled .	Were you wearing headgear during the bout?	No, I was not wearing headgear.
To help pay off his debts , Tyson announced he would be doing a series of exhibition bouts , calling it Tyson ' s World Tour . For his first bout , Tyson returned to the ring in 2006 for a four - round exhibition against journeyman heavyweight Corey Sanders in Youngstown , Ohio . Tyson , without headgear at 5   ft 10.5   in and 216 pounds , was in quality shape , but far from his prime against Sanders , at 6   ft 6   in who wore headgear . Tyson appeared to be " holding back " in the exhibition to prevent an early end to the " show " . " If I don ' t get out of this financial quagmire there ' s a possibility I may have to be a punching bag for somebody . The money I make isn ' t going to help my bills from a tremendous standpoint , but I ' m going to feel better about myself . I ' m not going to be depressed " , explained Tyson about the reasons for his " comeback " . After the bout was poorly received by fans the remainder of the tour was cancelled .	Why did you hold back in the exhibition bout?	I held back to prevent an early end to the show.
