Muhammad Ali (/ɑːˈliː/; born Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr.; January 17, 1942 – June 3, 2016) was an American professional boxer and activist. Nicknamed "The Greatest", he is regarded as one of the most significant sports figures of the 20th century and is often regarded as the greatest heavyweight boxer of all time. In 1999, he was named Sportsman of the Century by Sports Illustrated and the Sports Personality of the Century by the BBC.	When were you born?	I was born on January 17, 1942.
Muhammad Ali (/ɑːˈliː/; born Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr.; January 17, 1942 – June 3, 2016) was an American professional boxer and activist. Nicknamed "The Greatest", he is regarded as one of the most significant sports figures of the 20th century and is often regarded as the greatest heavyweight boxer of all time. In 1999, he was named Sportsman of the Century by Sports Illustrated and the Sports Personality of the Century by the BBC.	When did you pass away?	I passed away on June 3, 2016.
Muhammad Ali (/ɑːˈliː/; born Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr.; January 17, 1942 – June 3, 2016) was an American professional boxer and activist. Nicknamed "The Greatest", he is regarded as one of the most significant sports figures of the 20th century and is often regarded as the greatest heavyweight boxer of all time. In 1999, he was named Sportsman of the Century by Sports Illustrated and the Sports Personality of the Century by the BBC.	What was your birth name?	My birth name was Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr.
Muhammad Ali (/ɑːˈliː/; born Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr.; January 17, 1942 – June 3, 2016) was an American professional boxer and activist. Nicknamed "The Greatest", he is regarded as one of the most significant sports figures of the 20th century and is often regarded as the greatest heavyweight boxer of all time. In 1999, he was named Sportsman of the Century by Sports Illustrated and the Sports Personality of the Century by the BBC.	How are you often referred to?	I am often referred to as "The Greatest".
Muhammad Ali (/ɑːˈliː/; born Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr.; January 17, 1942 – June 3, 2016) was an American professional boxer and activist. Nicknamed "The Greatest", he is regarded as one of the most significant sports figures of the 20th century and is often regarded as the greatest heavyweight boxer of all time. In 1999, he was named Sportsman of the Century by Sports Illustrated and the Sports Personality of the Century by the BBC.	What titles did you receive in 1999?	In 1999, I was named Sportsman of the Century by Sports Illustrated and the Sports Personality of the Century by the BBC.
Born and raised in Louisville, Kentucky, he began training as an amateur boxer at age 12. At 18, he won a gold medal in the light heavyweight division at the 1960 Summer Olympics and turned professional later that year. He became a Muslim after 1961. He won the world heavyweight championship, defeating Sonny Liston in a major upset on February 25, 1964, at age 22. During that year, he denounced his birth name as a "slave name" and formally changed his name to Muhammad Ali. In 1966, Ali refused to be drafted into the military owing to his religious beliefs and ethical opposition to the Vietnam War and was found guilty of draft evasion and stripped of his boxing titles. He stayed out of prison while appealing the decision to the Supreme Court, where his conviction was overturned in 1971. He did not fight for nearly four years and lost a period of peak performance as an athlete. Ali's actions as a conscientious objector to the Vietnam War made him an icon for the larger counterculture of the 1960s generation, and he was a very high-profile figure of racial pride for African Americans during the civil rights movement and throughout his career. As a Muslim, Ali was initially affiliated with Elijah Muhammad's Nation of Islam (NOI). He later disavowed the NOI, adhering to Sunni Islam.	Where were you born and raised?	I was born and raised in Louisville, Kentucky.
Born and raised in Louisville, Kentucky, he began training as an amateur boxer at age 12. At 18, he won a gold medal in the light heavyweight division at the 1960 Summer Olympics and turned professional later that year. He became a Muslim after 1961. He won the world heavyweight championship, defeating Sonny Liston in a major upset on February 25, 1964, at age 22. During that year, he denounced his birth name as a "slave name" and formally changed his name to Muhammad Ali. In 1966, Ali refused to be drafted into the military owing to his religious beliefs and ethical opposition to the Vietnam War and was found guilty of draft evasion and stripped of his boxing titles. He stayed out of prison while appealing the decision to the Supreme Court, where his conviction was overturned in 1971. He did not fight for nearly four years and lost a period of peak performance as an athlete. Ali's actions as a conscientious objector to the Vietnam War made him an icon for the larger counterculture of the 1960s generation, and he was a very high-profile figure of racial pride for African Americans during the civil rights movement and throughout his career. As a Muslim, Ali was initially affiliated with Elijah Muhammad's Nation of Islam (NOI). He later disavowed the NOI, adhering to Sunni Islam.	At what age did you start training as an amateur boxer?	I started training as an amateur boxer at age 12.
Born and raised in Louisville, Kentucky, he began training as an amateur boxer at age 12. At 18, he won a gold medal in the light heavyweight division at the 1960 Summer Olympics and turned professional later that year. He became a Muslim after 1961. He won the world heavyweight championship, defeating Sonny Liston in a major upset on February 25, 1964, at age 22. During that year, he denounced his birth name as a "slave name" and formally changed his name to Muhammad Ali. In 1966, Ali refused to be drafted into the military owing to his religious beliefs and ethical opposition to the Vietnam War and was found guilty of draft evasion and stripped of his boxing titles. He stayed out of prison while appealing the decision to the Supreme Court, where his conviction was overturned in 1971. He did not fight for nearly four years and lost a period of peak performance as an athlete. Ali's actions as a conscientious objector to the Vietnam War made him an icon for the larger counterculture of the 1960s generation, and he was a very high-profile figure of racial pride for African Americans during the civil rights movement and throughout his career. As a Muslim, Ali was initially affiliated with Elijah Muhammad's Nation of Islam (NOI). He later disavowed the NOI, adhering to Sunni Islam.	What did you win at the 1960 Summer Olympics?	I won a gold medal in the light heavyweight division at the 1960 Summer Olympics.
Born and raised in Louisville, Kentucky, he began training as an amateur boxer at age 12. At 18, he won a gold medal in the light heavyweight division at the 1960 Summer Olympics and turned professional later that year. He became a Muslim after 1961. He won the world heavyweight championship, defeating Sonny Liston in a major upset on February 25, 1964, at age 22. During that year, he denounced his birth name as a "slave name" and formally changed his name to Muhammad Ali. In 1966, Ali refused to be drafted into the military owing to his religious beliefs and ethical opposition to the Vietnam War and was found guilty of draft evasion and stripped of his boxing titles. He stayed out of prison while appealing the decision to the Supreme Court, where his conviction was overturned in 1971. He did not fight for nearly four years and lost a period of peak performance as an athlete. Ali's actions as a conscientious objector to the Vietnam War made him an icon for the larger counterculture of the 1960s generation, and he was a very high-profile figure of racial pride for African Americans during the civil rights movement and throughout his career. As a Muslim, Ali was initially affiliated with Elijah Muhammad's Nation of Islam (NOI). He later disavowed the NOI, adhering to Sunni Islam.	When did you win the world heavyweight championship and how old were you?	I won the world heavyweight championship on February 25, 1964, at the age of 22.
Born and raised in Louisville, Kentucky, he began training as an amateur boxer at age 12. At 18, he won a gold medal in the light heavyweight division at the 1960 Summer Olympics and turned professional later that year. He became a Muslim after 1961. He won the world heavyweight championship, defeating Sonny Liston in a major upset on February 25, 1964, at age 22. During that year, he denounced his birth name as a "slave name" and formally changed his name to Muhammad Ali. In 1966, Ali refused to be drafted into the military owing to his religious beliefs and ethical opposition to the Vietnam War and was found guilty of draft evasion and stripped of his boxing titles. He stayed out of prison while appealing the decision to the Supreme Court, where his conviction was overturned in 1971. He did not fight for nearly four years and lost a period of peak performance as an athlete. Ali's actions as a conscientious objector to the Vietnam War made him an icon for the larger counterculture of the 1960s generation, and he was a very high-profile figure of racial pride for African Americans during the civil rights movement and throughout his career. As a Muslim, Ali was initially affiliated with Elijah Muhammad's Nation of Islam (NOI). He later disavowed the NOI, adhering to Sunni Islam.	What was your birth name and when did you change it?	My birth name was denounced as a "slave name" and I formally changed it to Muhammad Ali in 1964.
He fought in several historic boxing matches, including his highly publicized fights with Sonny Liston, Joe Frazier (including the Fight of the Century, the biggest boxing event up until then), the Thrilla in Manila, and his fight with George Foreman in The Rumble in the Jungle. Ali thrived in the spotlight at a  time when many boxers let their managers do the talking, and he became renowned for his provocative and outlandish persona. He was famous for trash-talking, often free-styled with rhyme schemes and spoken word poetry incorporating elements of hip hop. He often predicted in which round he would knock out his opponent.	Who did you fight in the Thrilla in Manila?	Joe Frazier
He fought in several historic boxing matches, including his highly publicized fights with Sonny Liston, Joe Frazier (including the Fight of the Century, the biggest boxing event up until then), the Thrilla in Manila, and his fight with George Foreman in The Rumble in the Jungle. Ali thrived in the spotlight at a  time when many boxers let their managers do the talking, and he became renowned for his provocative and outlandish persona. He was famous for trash-talking, often free-styled with rhyme schemes and spoken word poetry incorporating elements of hip hop. He often predicted in which round he would knock out his opponent.	What were you famous for?	Trash-talking and making predictions about knocking out my opponents.
He fought in several historic boxing matches, including his highly publicized fights with Sonny Liston, Joe Frazier (including the Fight of the Century, the biggest boxing event up until then), the Thrilla in Manila, and his fight with George Foreman in The Rumble in the Jungle. Ali thrived in the spotlight at a  time when many boxers let their managers do the talking, and he became renowned for his provocative and outlandish persona. He was famous for trash-talking, often free-styled with rhyme schemes and spoken word poetry incorporating elements of hip hop. He often predicted in which round he would knock out his opponent.	Which boxing event was considered the biggest up until then?	The Fight of the Century
He fought in several historic boxing matches, including his highly publicized fights with Sonny Liston, Joe Frazier (including the Fight of the Century, the biggest boxing event up until then), the Thrilla in Manila, and his fight with George Foreman in The Rumble in the Jungle. Ali thrived in the spotlight at a  time when many boxers let their managers do the talking, and he became renowned for his provocative and outlandish persona. He was famous for trash-talking, often free-styled with rhyme schemes and spoken word poetry incorporating elements of hip hop. He often predicted in which round he would knock out his opponent.	What are you renowned for?	My provocative and outlandish persona.
He fought in several historic boxing matches, including his highly publicized fights with Sonny Liston, Joe Frazier (including the Fight of the Century, the biggest boxing event up until then), the Thrilla in Manila, and his fight with George Foreman in The Rumble in the Jungle. Ali thrived in the spotlight at a  time when many boxers let their managers do the talking, and he became renowned for his provocative and outlandish persona. He was famous for trash-talking, often free-styled with rhyme schemes and spoken word poetry incorporating elements of hip hop. He often predicted in which round he would knock out his opponent.	Who did you fight in The Rumble in The Jungle?	George Foreman
Outside boxing, Ali attained success as a spoken word artist, releasing two studio albums: I Am the Greatest! (1963) and The Adventures of Ali and His Gang vs. Mr. Tooth Decay (1976). Both albums received Grammy Award nominations. He also featured as an actor and writer, releasing two autobiographies. Ali retired from boxing in 1981 and focused on religion, philanthropy and activism. In 1984, he made public his diagnosis of Parkinson's syndrome, which some reports attributed to boxing-related injuries, though he and his specialist physicians disputed this. He remained an active public figure globally, but in his later years made fewer public appearances as his condition worsened, and he was cared for by his family.	What are the names of the two studio albums you released as a spoken word artist?	The names of the two studio albums I released as a spoken word artist are "I Am the Greatest!" (1963) and "The Adventures of Ali and His Gang vs. Mr. Tooth Decay" (1976).
Outside boxing, Ali attained success as a spoken word artist, releasing two studio albums: I Am the Greatest! (1963) and The Adventures of Ali and His Gang vs. Mr. Tooth Decay (1976). Both albums received Grammy Award nominations. He also featured as an actor and writer, releasing two autobiographies. Ali retired from boxing in 1981 and focused on religion, philanthropy and activism. In 1984, he made public his diagnosis of Parkinson's syndrome, which some reports attributed to boxing-related injuries, though he and his specialist physicians disputed this. He remained an active public figure globally, but in his later years made fewer public appearances as his condition worsened, and he was cared for by his family.	What nominations did both of your spoken word albums receive?	Both of my spoken word albums received Grammy Award nominations.
Outside boxing, Ali attained success as a spoken word artist, releasing two studio albums: I Am the Greatest! (1963) and The Adventures of Ali and His Gang vs. Mr. Tooth Decay (1976). Both albums received Grammy Award nominations. He also featured as an actor and writer, releasing two autobiographies. Ali retired from boxing in 1981 and focused on religion, philanthropy and activism. In 1984, he made public his diagnosis of Parkinson's syndrome, which some reports attributed to boxing-related injuries, though he and his specialist physicians disputed this. He remained an active public figure globally, but in his later years made fewer public appearances as his condition worsened, and he was cared for by his family.	Apart from being a boxer, what other roles did you fulfill in your career?	Apart from being a boxer, I had a career as an actor and writer. I also released two autobiographies.
Outside boxing, Ali attained success as a spoken word artist, releasing two studio albums: I Am the Greatest! (1963) and The Adventures of Ali and His Gang vs. Mr. Tooth Decay (1976). Both albums received Grammy Award nominations. He also featured as an actor and writer, releasing two autobiographies. Ali retired from boxing in 1981 and focused on religion, philanthropy and activism. In 1984, he made public his diagnosis of Parkinson's syndrome, which some reports attributed to boxing-related injuries, though he and his specialist physicians disputed this. He remained an active public figure globally, but in his later years made fewer public appearances as his condition worsened, and he was cared for by his family.	When did you retire from boxing?	I retired from boxing in 1981.
Outside boxing, Ali attained success as a spoken word artist, releasing two studio albums: I Am the Greatest! (1963) and The Adventures of Ali and His Gang vs. Mr. Tooth Decay (1976). Both albums received Grammy Award nominations. He also featured as an actor and writer, releasing two autobiographies. Ali retired from boxing in 1981 and focused on religion, philanthropy and activism. In 1984, he made public his diagnosis of Parkinson's syndrome, which some reports attributed to boxing-related injuries, though he and his specialist physicians disputed this. He remained an active public figure globally, but in his later years made fewer public appearances as his condition worsened, and he was cared for by his family.	What did you focus on after retiring from boxing?	After retiring from boxing, I focused on religion, philanthropy, and activism.
Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr. (/ˈkæʃəs/ KASH-əss) was born on January 17, 1942, in Louisville, Kentucky. He had one brother. He was named after his father, Cassius Marcellus Clay Sr., who had a sister and four brothers and who himself was named in honor of the 19th-century Republican politician and staunch abolitionist Cassius Marcellus Clay, also from the state of Kentucky. Clay's father's paternal grandparents were John Clay and Sallie Anne Clay; Clay's sister Eva claimed that Sallie was a native of Madagascar. He was a descendant of slaves of the antebellum South, and was predominantly of African descent, with Irish and English family heritage. Ali's maternal great-grandfather, Abe Grady, emigrated from Ennis, County Clare, Ireland. DNA testing performed in 2018 showed that, through his paternal grandmother, Ali was a descendant of the former slave Archer Alexander, who had been chosen from the building crew as the model of a freed man for the Emancipation Memorial, and was the subject of abolitionist William Greenleaf Eliot's book, The Story of Archer Alexander: From Slavery to Freedom. Like Ali, Alexander fought for his freedom.	When and where were you born?	I was born on January 17, 1942, in Louisville, Kentucky.
Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr. (/ˈkæʃəs/ KASH-əss) was born on January 17, 1942, in Louisville, Kentucky. He had one brother. He was named after his father, Cassius Marcellus Clay Sr., who had a sister and four brothers and who himself was named in honor of the 19th-century Republican politician and staunch abolitionist Cassius Marcellus Clay, also from the state of Kentucky. Clay's father's paternal grandparents were John Clay and Sallie Anne Clay; Clay's sister Eva claimed that Sallie was a native of Madagascar. He was a descendant of slaves of the antebellum South, and was predominantly of African descent, with Irish and English family heritage. Ali's maternal great-grandfather, Abe Grady, emigrated from Ennis, County Clare, Ireland. DNA testing performed in 2018 showed that, through his paternal grandmother, Ali was a descendant of the former slave Archer Alexander, who had been chosen from the building crew as the model of a freed man for the Emancipation Memorial, and was the subject of abolitionist William Greenleaf Eliot's book, The Story of Archer Alexander: From Slavery to Freedom. Like Ali, Alexander fought for his freedom.	Do you have any siblings?	Yes, I have one brother.
Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr. (/ˈkæʃəs/ KASH-əss) was born on January 17, 1942, in Louisville, Kentucky. He had one brother. He was named after his father, Cassius Marcellus Clay Sr., who had a sister and four brothers and who himself was named in honor of the 19th-century Republican politician and staunch abolitionist Cassius Marcellus Clay, also from the state of Kentucky. Clay's father's paternal grandparents were John Clay and Sallie Anne Clay; Clay's sister Eva claimed that Sallie was a native of Madagascar. He was a descendant of slaves of the antebellum South, and was predominantly of African descent, with Irish and English family heritage. Ali's maternal great-grandfather, Abe Grady, emigrated from Ennis, County Clare, Ireland. DNA testing performed in 2018 showed that, through his paternal grandmother, Ali was a descendant of the former slave Archer Alexander, who had been chosen from the building crew as the model of a freed man for the Emancipation Memorial, and was the subject of abolitionist William Greenleaf Eliot's book, The Story of Archer Alexander: From Slavery to Freedom. Like Ali, Alexander fought for his freedom.	Who were you named after?	I was named after my father, Cassius Marcellus Clay Sr.
Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr. (/ˈkæʃəs/ KASH-əss) was born on January 17, 1942, in Louisville, Kentucky. He had one brother. He was named after his father, Cassius Marcellus Clay Sr., who had a sister and four brothers and who himself was named in honor of the 19th-century Republican politician and staunch abolitionist Cassius Marcellus Clay, also from the state of Kentucky. Clay's father's paternal grandparents were John Clay and Sallie Anne Clay; Clay's sister Eva claimed that Sallie was a native of Madagascar. He was a descendant of slaves of the antebellum South, and was predominantly of African descent, with Irish and English family heritage. Ali's maternal great-grandfather, Abe Grady, emigrated from Ennis, County Clare, Ireland. DNA testing performed in 2018 showed that, through his paternal grandmother, Ali was a descendant of the former slave Archer Alexander, who had been chosen from the building crew as the model of a freed man for the Emancipation Memorial, and was the subject of abolitionist William Greenleaf Eliot's book, The Story of Archer Alexander: From Slavery to Freedom. Like Ali, Alexander fought for his freedom.	Who were you named in honor of?	I was named in honor of Cassius Marcellus Clay, a 19th-century Republican politician and staunch abolitionist from Kentucky.
Cassius Marcellus Clay Jr. (/ˈkæʃəs/ KASH-əss) was born on January 17, 1942, in Louisville, Kentucky. He had one brother. He was named after his father, Cassius Marcellus Clay Sr., who had a sister and four brothers and who himself was named in honor of the 19th-century Republican politician and staunch abolitionist Cassius Marcellus Clay, also from the state of Kentucky. Clay's father's paternal grandparents were John Clay and Sallie Anne Clay; Clay's sister Eva claimed that Sallie was a native of Madagascar. He was a descendant of slaves of the antebellum South, and was predominantly of African descent, with Irish and English family heritage. Ali's maternal great-grandfather, Abe Grady, emigrated from Ennis, County Clare, Ireland. DNA testing performed in 2018 showed that, through his paternal grandmother, Ali was a descendant of the former slave Archer Alexander, who had been chosen from the building crew as the model of a freed man for the Emancipation Memorial, and was the subject of abolitionist William Greenleaf Eliot's book, The Story of Archer Alexander: From Slavery to Freedom. Like Ali, Alexander fought for his freedom.	Who were your paternal grandparents?	My paternal grandparents were John Clay and Sallie Anne Clay.
His father was a sign and billboard painter, and his mother, Odessa O'Grady Clay (1917–1994), was a domestic helper. Although Cassius Sr. was a Methodist, he allowed Odessa to bring up both Cassius Jr. and his younger brother, Rudolph "Rudy" Clay (later renamed Rahaman Ali), as Baptists. Cassius Jr. attended Central High School in Louisville. He was dyslexic, which led to difficulties in reading and writing, at school and for much of his life.	What was your father's occupation?	My father was a sign and billboard painter.
His father was a sign and billboard painter, and his mother, Odessa O'Grady Clay (1917–1994), was a domestic helper. Although Cassius Sr. was a Methodist, he allowed Odessa to bring up both Cassius Jr. and his younger brother, Rudolph "Rudy" Clay (later renamed Rahaman Ali), as Baptists. Cassius Jr. attended Central High School in Louisville. He was dyslexic, which led to difficulties in reading and writing, at school and for much of his life.	What was your mother's name?	My mother's name was Odessa O'Grady Clay.
His father was a sign and billboard painter, and his mother, Odessa O'Grady Clay (1917–1994), was a domestic helper. Although Cassius Sr. was a Methodist, he allowed Odessa to bring up both Cassius Jr. and his younger brother, Rudolph "Rudy" Clay (later renamed Rahaman Ali), as Baptists. Cassius Jr. attended Central High School in Louisville. He was dyslexic, which led to difficulties in reading and writing, at school and for much of his life.	What was your younger brother's original name?	My younger brother's original name was Rudolph "Rudy" Clay.
His father was a sign and billboard painter, and his mother, Odessa O'Grady Clay (1917–1994), was a domestic helper. Although Cassius Sr. was a Methodist, he allowed Odessa to bring up both Cassius Jr. and his younger brother, Rudolph "Rudy" Clay (later renamed Rahaman Ali), as Baptists. Cassius Jr. attended Central High School in Louisville. He was dyslexic, which led to difficulties in reading and writing, at school and for much of his life.	What school did you attend?	I attended Central High School in Louisville.
His father was a sign and billboard painter, and his mother, Odessa O'Grady Clay (1917–1994), was a domestic helper. Although Cassius Sr. was a Methodist, he allowed Odessa to bring up both Cassius Jr. and his younger brother, Rudolph "Rudy" Clay (later renamed Rahaman Ali), as Baptists. Cassius Jr. attended Central High School in Louisville. He was dyslexic, which led to difficulties in reading and writing, at school and for much of his life.	What learning difficulty did you have?	I had dyslexia, which led to difficulties in reading and writing.
Ali grew up amid racial segregation. His mother recalled one occasion when he was denied a drink of water at a store: "They wouldn't give him one because of his color. That really affected him." He was also strongly affected by the 1955 murder of Emmett Till, which led to young Clay and a friend taking out their frustration by vandalizing a local rail yard. His daughter Hana later wrote that Ali once told her, "Nothing would ever shake me up (more) than the story of Emmett Till."	What happened to you when you were denied a drink of water at a store?	I was denied a drink of water at a store because of my color.
Ali grew up amid racial segregation. His mother recalled one occasion when he was denied a drink of water at a store: "They wouldn't give him one because of his color. That really affected him." He was also strongly affected by the 1955 murder of Emmett Till, which led to young Clay and a friend taking out their frustration by vandalizing a local rail yard. His daughter Hana later wrote that Ali once told her, "Nothing would ever shake me up (more) than the story of Emmett Till."	How were you affected by the murder of Emmett Till in 1955?	I was strongly affected by the murder of Emmett Till in 1955.
Ali grew up amid racial segregation. His mother recalled one occasion when he was denied a drink of water at a store: "They wouldn't give him one because of his color. That really affected him." He was also strongly affected by the 1955 murder of Emmett Till, which led to young Clay and a friend taking out their frustration by vandalizing a local rail yard. His daughter Hana later wrote that Ali once told her, "Nothing would ever shake me up (more) than the story of Emmett Till."	What did you do after the murder of Emmett Till?	I and a friend took out our frustration by vandalizing a local rail yard.
Ali grew up amid racial segregation. His mother recalled one occasion when he was denied a drink of water at a store: "They wouldn't give him one because of his color. That really affected him." He was also strongly affected by the 1955 murder of Emmett Till, which led to young Clay and a friend taking out their frustration by vandalizing a local rail yard. His daughter Hana later wrote that Ali once told her, "Nothing would ever shake me up (more) than the story of Emmett Till."	What did your mother say about the incident when you were denied a drink of water?	My mother recalled that they wouldn't give me a drink of water because of my color and it really affected me.
Ali grew up amid racial segregation. His mother recalled one occasion when he was denied a drink of water at a store: "They wouldn't give him one because of his color. That really affected him." He was also strongly affected by the 1955 murder of Emmett Till, which led to young Clay and a friend taking out their frustration by vandalizing a local rail yard. His daughter Hana later wrote that Ali once told her, "Nothing would ever shake me up (more) than the story of Emmett Till."	What did you once tell your daughter Hana about the story of Emmett Till?	I once told my daughter Hana that nothing would ever shake me up more than the story of Emmett Till.
Clay was first directed toward boxing by Louisville police officer and boxing coach Joe E. Martin, who encountered the 12-year-old fuming over a thief's having taken his bicycle. He told the officer he was going to "whup" the thief. The officer told Clay he had better learn how to box first. Initially, Clay did not take up Martin's offer, but after seeing amateur boxers on a local television boxing program called Tomorrow's Champions, Clay was interested in the prospect of fighting. He then began to work with trainer Fred Stoner, whom he credits with giving him the "real training", eventually molding "my style, my stamina and my system." For the last four years of Clay's amateur career he was trained by boxing cutman Chuck Bodak.	Who directed you toward boxing?	A Louisville police officer and boxing coach Joe E. Martin directed me.
Clay was first directed toward boxing by Louisville police officer and boxing coach Joe E. Martin, who encountered the 12-year-old fuming over a thief's having taken his bicycle. He told the officer he was going to "whup" the thief. The officer told Clay he had better learn how to box first. Initially, Clay did not take up Martin's offer, but after seeing amateur boxers on a local television boxing program called Tomorrow's Champions, Clay was interested in the prospect of fighting. He then began to work with trainer Fred Stoner, whom he credits with giving him the "real training", eventually molding "my style, my stamina and my system." For the last four years of Clay's amateur career he was trained by boxing cutman Chuck Bodak.	How did you become interested in boxing?	After seeing amateur boxers on a local television boxing program called Tomorrow's Champions.
Clay was first directed toward boxing by Louisville police officer and boxing coach Joe E. Martin, who encountered the 12-year-old fuming over a thief's having taken his bicycle. He told the officer he was going to "whup" the thief. The officer told Clay he had better learn how to box first. Initially, Clay did not take up Martin's offer, but after seeing amateur boxers on a local television boxing program called Tomorrow's Champions, Clay was interested in the prospect of fighting. He then began to work with trainer Fred Stoner, whom he credits with giving him the "real training", eventually molding "my style, my stamina and my system." For the last four years of Clay's amateur career he was trained by boxing cutman Chuck Bodak.	Who did you work with for "real training"?	Trainer Fred Stoner.
Clay was first directed toward boxing by Louisville police officer and boxing coach Joe E. Martin, who encountered the 12-year-old fuming over a thief's having taken his bicycle. He told the officer he was going to "whup" the thief. The officer told Clay he had better learn how to box first. Initially, Clay did not take up Martin's offer, but after seeing amateur boxers on a local television boxing program called Tomorrow's Champions, Clay was interested in the prospect of fighting. He then began to work with trainer Fred Stoner, whom he credits with giving him the "real training", eventually molding "my style, my stamina and my system." For the last four years of Clay's amateur career he was trained by boxing cutman Chuck Bodak.	Who trained you for the last four years of your amateur career?	Boxing cutman Chuck Bodak trained me.
Clay was first directed toward boxing by Louisville police officer and boxing coach Joe E. Martin, who encountered the 12-year-old fuming over a thief's having taken his bicycle. He told the officer he was going to "whup" the thief. The officer told Clay he had better learn how to box first. Initially, Clay did not take up Martin's offer, but after seeing amateur boxers on a local television boxing program called Tomorrow's Champions, Clay was interested in the prospect of fighting. He then began to work with trainer Fred Stoner, whom he credits with giving him the "real training", eventually molding "my style, my stamina and my system." For the last four years of Clay's amateur career he was trained by boxing cutman Chuck Bodak.	What was your motivation for taking up boxing?	My bicycle being stolen and wanting to "whup" the thief.
Clay made his amateur boxing debut in 1954 against local amateur boxer Ronnie O'Keefe. He won by split decision. He went on to win six Kentucky Golden Gloves titles, two national Golden Gloves titles, an Amateur Athletic Union national title, and the light heavyweight gold medal in the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome. Clay's amateur record was 100 wins with five losses. Ali said in his 1975 autobiography that shortly after his return from the Rome Olympics, he threw his gold medal into the Ohio River after he and a friend were refused service at a "whites-only" restaurant and fought with a white gang. The story was later disputed, and several of Ali's friends, including Bundini Brown and photographer Howard Bingham, denied it. Brown told Sports Illustrated writer Mark Kram, "Honkies sure bought into that one!" Thomas Hauser's biography of Ali stated that Ali was refused service at the diner but that he lost his medal a year after he won it. Ali received a replacement medal at the Georgia Dome during the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta, where he lit the torch to start the Games.	When did you make your amateur boxing debut?	I made my amateur boxing debut in 1954.
Clay made his amateur boxing debut in 1954 against local amateur boxer Ronnie O'Keefe. He won by split decision. He went on to win six Kentucky Golden Gloves titles, two national Golden Gloves titles, an Amateur Athletic Union national title, and the light heavyweight gold medal in the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome. Clay's amateur record was 100 wins with five losses. Ali said in his 1975 autobiography that shortly after his return from the Rome Olympics, he threw his gold medal into the Ohio River after he and a friend were refused service at a "whites-only" restaurant and fought with a white gang. The story was later disputed, and several of Ali's friends, including Bundini Brown and photographer Howard Bingham, denied it. Brown told Sports Illustrated writer Mark Kram, "Honkies sure bought into that one!" Thomas Hauser's biography of Ali stated that Ali was refused service at the diner but that he lost his medal a year after he won it. Ali received a replacement medal at the Georgia Dome during the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta, where he lit the torch to start the Games.	How many Kentucky Golden Gloves titles did you win?	I won six Kentucky Golden Gloves titles.
Clay made his amateur boxing debut in 1954 against local amateur boxer Ronnie O'Keefe. He won by split decision. He went on to win six Kentucky Golden Gloves titles, two national Golden Gloves titles, an Amateur Athletic Union national title, and the light heavyweight gold medal in the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome. Clay's amateur record was 100 wins with five losses. Ali said in his 1975 autobiography that shortly after his return from the Rome Olympics, he threw his gold medal into the Ohio River after he and a friend were refused service at a "whites-only" restaurant and fought with a white gang. The story was later disputed, and several of Ali's friends, including Bundini Brown and photographer Howard Bingham, denied it. Brown told Sports Illustrated writer Mark Kram, "Honkies sure bought into that one!" Thomas Hauser's biography of Ali stated that Ali was refused service at the diner but that he lost his medal a year after he won it. Ali received a replacement medal at the Georgia Dome during the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta, where he lit the torch to start the Games.	What was your amateur record?	My amateur record was 100 wins with five losses.
Clay made his amateur boxing debut in 1954 against local amateur boxer Ronnie O'Keefe. He won by split decision. He went on to win six Kentucky Golden Gloves titles, two national Golden Gloves titles, an Amateur Athletic Union national title, and the light heavyweight gold medal in the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome. Clay's amateur record was 100 wins with five losses. Ali said in his 1975 autobiography that shortly after his return from the Rome Olympics, he threw his gold medal into the Ohio River after he and a friend were refused service at a "whites-only" restaurant and fought with a white gang. The story was later disputed, and several of Ali's friends, including Bundini Brown and photographer Howard Bingham, denied it. Brown told Sports Illustrated writer Mark Kram, "Honkies sure bought into that one!" Thomas Hauser's biography of Ali stated that Ali was refused service at the diner but that he lost his medal a year after he won it. Ali received a replacement medal at the Georgia Dome during the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta, where he lit the torch to start the Games.	Why did you throw your gold medal into the Ohio River?	I threw my gold medal into the Ohio River after me and a friend were refused service at a "whites-only" restaurant and fought with a white gang.
Clay made his amateur boxing debut in 1954 against local amateur boxer Ronnie O'Keefe. He won by split decision. He went on to win six Kentucky Golden Gloves titles, two national Golden Gloves titles, an Amateur Athletic Union national title, and the light heavyweight gold medal in the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome. Clay's amateur record was 100 wins with five losses. Ali said in his 1975 autobiography that shortly after his return from the Rome Olympics, he threw his gold medal into the Ohio River after he and a friend were refused service at a "whites-only" restaurant and fought with a white gang. The story was later disputed, and several of Ali's friends, including Bundini Brown and photographer Howard Bingham, denied it. Brown told Sports Illustrated writer Mark Kram, "Honkies sure bought into that one!" Thomas Hauser's biography of Ali stated that Ali was refused service at the diner but that he lost his medal a year after he won it. Ali received a replacement medal at the Georgia Dome during the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta, where he lit the torch to start the Games.	Where did you receive a replacement medal?	I received a replacement medal at the Georgia Dome during the 1996 Olympics in Atlanta.
Clay made his professional debut on October 29, 1960, winning a six-round decision over Tunney Hunsaker. From then until the end of 1963, Clay amassed a record of 19–0 with 15 wins by knockout. He defeated boxers including Tony Esperti, Jim Robinson, Donnie Fleeman, Alonzo Johnson, George Logan, Willi Besmanoff, LaMar Clark, Doug Jones, and Henry Cooper. Clay also beat his former trainer and veteran boxer Archie Moore in a 1962 match.	When did you make your professional debut?	I made my professional debut on October 29, 1960.
Clay made his professional debut on October 29, 1960, winning a six-round decision over Tunney Hunsaker. From then until the end of 1963, Clay amassed a record of 19–0 with 15 wins by knockout. He defeated boxers including Tony Esperti, Jim Robinson, Donnie Fleeman, Alonzo Johnson, George Logan, Willi Besmanoff, LaMar Clark, Doug Jones, and Henry Cooper. Clay also beat his former trainer and veteran boxer Archie Moore in a 1962 match.	How many wins did you have by knockout during 1960-1963?	During 1960-1963, I had 15 wins by knockout.
Clay made his professional debut on October 29, 1960, winning a six-round decision over Tunney Hunsaker. From then until the end of 1963, Clay amassed a record of 19–0 with 15 wins by knockout. He defeated boxers including Tony Esperti, Jim Robinson, Donnie Fleeman, Alonzo Johnson, George Logan, Willi Besmanoff, LaMar Clark, Doug Jones, and Henry Cooper. Clay also beat his former trainer and veteran boxer Archie Moore in a 1962 match.	Who did you defeat in your professional career?	I defeated boxers including Tony Esperti, Jim Robinson, Donnie Fleeman, Alonzo Johnson, George Logan, Willi Besmanoff, LaMar Clark, Doug Jones, and Henry Cooper.
Clay made his professional debut on October 29, 1960, winning a six-round decision over Tunney Hunsaker. From then until the end of 1963, Clay amassed a record of 19–0 with 15 wins by knockout. He defeated boxers including Tony Esperti, Jim Robinson, Donnie Fleeman, Alonzo Johnson, George Logan, Willi Besmanoff, LaMar Clark, Doug Jones, and Henry Cooper. Clay also beat his former trainer and veteran boxer Archie Moore in a 1962 match.	Did you defeat your former trainer in a match?	Yes, I defeated my former trainer and veteran boxer Archie Moore in a 1962 match.
Clay made his professional debut on October 29, 1960, winning a six-round decision over Tunney Hunsaker. From then until the end of 1963, Clay amassed a record of 19–0 with 15 wins by knockout. He defeated boxers including Tony Esperti, Jim Robinson, Donnie Fleeman, Alonzo Johnson, George Logan, Willi Besmanoff, LaMar Clark, Doug Jones, and Henry Cooper. Clay also beat his former trainer and veteran boxer Archie Moore in a 1962 match.	What was your overall record from 1960-1963?	My overall record from 1960-1963 was 19-0.
Ali fought Terrell in Houston on February 6 , 1967 . Terrell , who was unbeaten in five years and had defeated many of the boxers Ali had faced , was billed as Ali ' s toughest opponent since Liston ; he was big , strong and had a three - inch reach advantage over Ali . During the lead up to the bout , Terrell repeatedly called Ali " Clay " , much to Ali ' s annoyance . The two almost came to blows over the name issue in a pre - fight interview with Howard Cosell . Ali seemed intent on humiliating Terrell . " I want to torture him " , he said . " A clean knockout is too good for him . " The fight was close until the seventh round , when Ali bloodied Terrell and almost knocked him out . In the eighth round , Ali taunted Terrell , hitting him with jabs and shouting between punches , " What ' s my name , Uncle Tom ... what ' s my name ? " Ali won a unanimous 15 - round decision . Terrell claimed that early in the fight Ali deliberately thumbed him in the eye , forcing him to fight half - blind , and then , in a clinch , rubbed the wounded eye against the ropes . Because of Ali ' s apparent intent to prolong the fight to inflict maximum punishment , critics described the bout as " one of the ugliest boxing fights . " Tex Maule later wrote : " It was a wonderful demonstration of boxing skill and a barbarous display of cruelty . " Ali denied the accusations of cruelty but , for Ali ' s critics , the fight provided more evidence of his arrogance .	When did you fight Terrell in Houston?	On February 6, 1967.
Ali fought Terrell in Houston on February 6 , 1967 . Terrell , who was unbeaten in five years and had defeated many of the boxers Ali had faced , was billed as Ali ' s toughest opponent since Liston ; he was big , strong and had a three - inch reach advantage over Ali . During the lead up to the bout , Terrell repeatedly called Ali " Clay " , much to Ali ' s annoyance . The two almost came to blows over the name issue in a pre - fight interview with Howard Cosell . Ali seemed intent on humiliating Terrell . " I want to torture him " , he said . " A clean knockout is too good for him . " The fight was close until the seventh round , when Ali bloodied Terrell and almost knocked him out . In the eighth round , Ali taunted Terrell , hitting him with jabs and shouting between punches , " What ' s my name , Uncle Tom ... what ' s my name ? " Ali won a unanimous 15 - round decision . Terrell claimed that early in the fight Ali deliberately thumbed him in the eye , forcing him to fight half - blind , and then , in a clinch , rubbed the wounded eye against the ropes . Because of Ali ' s apparent intent to prolong the fight to inflict maximum punishment , critics described the bout as " one of the ugliest boxing fights . " Tex Maule later wrote : " It was a wonderful demonstration of boxing skill and a barbarous display of cruelty . " Ali denied the accusations of cruelty but , for Ali ' s critics , the fight provided more evidence of his arrogance .	How long did the fight between you and Terrell last?	The fight lasted for 15 rounds.
Ali fought Terrell in Houston on February 6 , 1967 . Terrell , who was unbeaten in five years and had defeated many of the boxers Ali had faced , was billed as Ali ' s toughest opponent since Liston ; he was big , strong and had a three - inch reach advantage over Ali . During the lead up to the bout , Terrell repeatedly called Ali " Clay " , much to Ali ' s annoyance . The two almost came to blows over the name issue in a pre - fight interview with Howard Cosell . Ali seemed intent on humiliating Terrell . " I want to torture him " , he said . " A clean knockout is too good for him . " The fight was close until the seventh round , when Ali bloodied Terrell and almost knocked him out . In the eighth round , Ali taunted Terrell , hitting him with jabs and shouting between punches , " What ' s my name , Uncle Tom ... what ' s my name ? " Ali won a unanimous 15 - round decision . Terrell claimed that early in the fight Ali deliberately thumbed him in the eye , forcing him to fight half - blind , and then , in a clinch , rubbed the wounded eye against the ropes . Because of Ali ' s apparent intent to prolong the fight to inflict maximum punishment , critics described the bout as " one of the ugliest boxing fights . " Tex Maule later wrote : " It was a wonderful demonstration of boxing skill and a barbarous display of cruelty . " Ali denied the accusations of cruelty but , for Ali ' s critics , the fight provided more evidence of his arrogance .	Did you have any advantages over me in the fight?	Yes, I had a three-inch reach advantage over you.
Ali fought Terrell in Houston on February 6 , 1967 . Terrell , who was unbeaten in five years and had defeated many of the boxers Ali had faced , was billed as Ali ' s toughest opponent since Liston ; he was big , strong and had a three - inch reach advantage over Ali . During the lead up to the bout , Terrell repeatedly called Ali " Clay " , much to Ali ' s annoyance . The two almost came to blows over the name issue in a pre - fight interview with Howard Cosell . Ali seemed intent on humiliating Terrell . " I want to torture him " , he said . " A clean knockout is too good for him . " The fight was close until the seventh round , when Ali bloodied Terrell and almost knocked him out . In the eighth round , Ali taunted Terrell , hitting him with jabs and shouting between punches , " What ' s my name , Uncle Tom ... what ' s my name ? " Ali won a unanimous 15 - round decision . Terrell claimed that early in the fight Ali deliberately thumbed him in the eye , forcing him to fight half - blind , and then , in a clinch , rubbed the wounded eye against the ropes . Because of Ali ' s apparent intent to prolong the fight to inflict maximum punishment , critics described the bout as " one of the ugliest boxing fights . " Tex Maule later wrote : " It was a wonderful demonstration of boxing skill and a barbarous display of cruelty . " Ali denied the accusations of cruelty but , for Ali ' s critics , the fight provided more evidence of his arrogance .	Did you win the fight against Terrell?	Yes, I won the fight with a unanimous decision.
Ali fought Terrell in Houston on February 6 , 1967 . Terrell , who was unbeaten in five years and had defeated many of the boxers Ali had faced , was billed as Ali ' s toughest opponent since Liston ; he was big , strong and had a three - inch reach advantage over Ali . During the lead up to the bout , Terrell repeatedly called Ali " Clay " , much to Ali ' s annoyance . The two almost came to blows over the name issue in a pre - fight interview with Howard Cosell . Ali seemed intent on humiliating Terrell . " I want to torture him " , he said . " A clean knockout is too good for him . " The fight was close until the seventh round , when Ali bloodied Terrell and almost knocked him out . In the eighth round , Ali taunted Terrell , hitting him with jabs and shouting between punches , " What ' s my name , Uncle Tom ... what ' s my name ? " Ali won a unanimous 15 - round decision . Terrell claimed that early in the fight Ali deliberately thumbed him in the eye , forcing him to fight half - blind , and then , in a clinch , rubbed the wounded eye against the ropes . Because of Ali ' s apparent intent to prolong the fight to inflict maximum punishment , critics described the bout as " one of the ugliest boxing fights . " Tex Maule later wrote : " It was a wonderful demonstration of boxing skill and a barbarous display of cruelty . " Ali denied the accusations of cruelty but , for Ali ' s critics , the fight provided more evidence of his arrogance .	How did you taunt Terrell in the eighth round?	I taunted Terrell by hitting him with jabs and shouting between punches, asking "What's my name, Uncle Tom... what's my name?"
On April 28 , 1967 , Ali appeared in Houston for his scheduled induction into the U . S . Armed Forces , but he refused three times to step forward when his name was called . An officer warned him that he was committing a felony punishable by five years in prison and a fine of $ 10 , 000 . Once more , Ali refused to budge when his name was called , and he was arrested . Later that same day , the New York State Athletic Commission suspended his boxing license and the World Boxing Association stripped him of his title . Other boxing commissions followed suit . Ali remained unable to obtain a license to box in any state for over three years . [ page   needed ] On June 4 , 1967 , in a first for sports professionals , a group of high - profile African - American athletes including Jim Brown , Bill Russell , and Kareem Abdul - Jabbar , as well as one political leader , Carl Stokes , assembled at the Negro Industrial Economic Union in Cleveland for what became known as the " Cleveland Summit " or the " Muhammad Ali Summit . " The meeting was organized by Brown for his peers to question Ali about the seriousness of his convictions , and to decide whether to support him , which they ultimately did .	When did you refuse to step forward for your induction into the U.S. Armed Forces?	On April 28, 1967.
On April 28 , 1967 , Ali appeared in Houston for his scheduled induction into the U . S . Armed Forces , but he refused three times to step forward when his name was called . An officer warned him that he was committing a felony punishable by five years in prison and a fine of $ 10 , 000 . Once more , Ali refused to budge when his name was called , and he was arrested . Later that same day , the New York State Athletic Commission suspended his boxing license and the World Boxing Association stripped him of his title . Other boxing commissions followed suit . Ali remained unable to obtain a license to box in any state for over three years . [ page   needed ] On June 4 , 1967 , in a first for sports professionals , a group of high - profile African - American athletes including Jim Brown , Bill Russell , and Kareem Abdul - Jabbar , as well as one political leader , Carl Stokes , assembled at the Negro Industrial Economic Union in Cleveland for what became known as the " Cleveland Summit " or the " Muhammad Ali Summit . " The meeting was organized by Brown for his peers to question Ali about the seriousness of his convictions , and to decide whether to support him , which they ultimately did .	What were the consequences of you refusing to step forward when your name was called?	I was warned that I was committing a felony punishable by five years in prison and a fine of $10,000. Later, my boxing license was suspended by the New York State Athletic Commission and I was stripped of my title by the World Boxing Association. Other boxing commissions also followed suit.
On April 28 , 1967 , Ali appeared in Houston for his scheduled induction into the U . S . Armed Forces , but he refused three times to step forward when his name was called . An officer warned him that he was committing a felony punishable by five years in prison and a fine of $ 10 , 000 . Once more , Ali refused to budge when his name was called , and he was arrested . Later that same day , the New York State Athletic Commission suspended his boxing license and the World Boxing Association stripped him of his title . Other boxing commissions followed suit . Ali remained unable to obtain a license to box in any state for over three years . [ page   needed ] On June 4 , 1967 , in a first for sports professionals , a group of high - profile African - American athletes including Jim Brown , Bill Russell , and Kareem Abdul - Jabbar , as well as one political leader , Carl Stokes , assembled at the Negro Industrial Economic Union in Cleveland for what became known as the " Cleveland Summit " or the " Muhammad Ali Summit . " The meeting was organized by Brown for his peers to question Ali about the seriousness of his convictions , and to decide whether to support him , which they ultimately did .	How long were you unable to obtain a license to box in any state?	I remained unable to obtain a license to box in any state for over three years.
On April 28 , 1967 , Ali appeared in Houston for his scheduled induction into the U . S . Armed Forces , but he refused three times to step forward when his name was called . An officer warned him that he was committing a felony punishable by five years in prison and a fine of $ 10 , 000 . Once more , Ali refused to budge when his name was called , and he was arrested . Later that same day , the New York State Athletic Commission suspended his boxing license and the World Boxing Association stripped him of his title . Other boxing commissions followed suit . Ali remained unable to obtain a license to box in any state for over three years . [ page   needed ] On June 4 , 1967 , in a first for sports professionals , a group of high - profile African - American athletes including Jim Brown , Bill Russell , and Kareem Abdul - Jabbar , as well as one political leader , Carl Stokes , assembled at the Negro Industrial Economic Union in Cleveland for what became known as the " Cleveland Summit " or the " Muhammad Ali Summit . " The meeting was organized by Brown for his peers to question Ali about the seriousness of his convictions , and to decide whether to support him , which they ultimately did .	When did the "Cleveland Summit" or the "Muhammad Ali Summit" take place?	The "Cleveland Summit" or the "Muhammad Ali Summit" took place on June 4, 1967.
On April 28 , 1967 , Ali appeared in Houston for his scheduled induction into the U . S . Armed Forces , but he refused three times to step forward when his name was called . An officer warned him that he was committing a felony punishable by five years in prison and a fine of $ 10 , 000 . Once more , Ali refused to budge when his name was called , and he was arrested . Later that same day , the New York State Athletic Commission suspended his boxing license and the World Boxing Association stripped him of his title . Other boxing commissions followed suit . Ali remained unable to obtain a license to box in any state for over three years . [ page   needed ] On June 4 , 1967 , in a first for sports professionals , a group of high - profile African - American athletes including Jim Brown , Bill Russell , and Kareem Abdul - Jabbar , as well as one political leader , Carl Stokes , assembled at the Negro Industrial Economic Union in Cleveland for what became known as the " Cleveland Summit " or the " Muhammad Ali Summit . " The meeting was organized by Brown for his peers to question Ali about the seriousness of his convictions , and to decide whether to support him , which they ultimately did .	Who organized the "Cleveland Summit" and why?	The "Cleveland Summit" was organized by Jim Brown for high-profile African-American athletes including Bill Russell and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, as well as political leader Carl Stokes. They wanted to question Ali about the seriousness of his convictions and decide whether to support him, which they ultimately did.
The Monday night fight lived up to its billing . In a preview of their two other fights , a crouching , bobbing and weaving Frazier constantly pressured Ali , getting hit regularly by Ali jabs and combinations , but relentlessly attacking and scoring repeatedly , especially to Ali ' s body . The fight was even in the early rounds , but Ali was taking more punishment than ever in his career . On several occasions in the early rounds he played to the crowd and shook his head " no " after he was hit . In the later rounds — in what was the first appearance of the " rope - a - dope strategy " — Ali leaned against the ropes and absorbed punishment from Frazier , hoping to tire him . In the 11th round , Frazier connected with a left hook that wobbled Ali , but because it appeared that Ali might be clowning as he staggered backwards across the ring , Frazier hesitated to press his advantage , fearing an Ali counter - attack . In the final round , Frazier knocked Ali down with a vicious left hook , which referee Arthur Mercante said was as hard as a man can be hit . Ali was back on his feet in three seconds . Nevertheless , Ali lost by unanimous decision , his first professional defeat .	Who were the fighters in the Monday night fight?	The fighters in the Monday night fight were Frazier and I.
The Monday night fight lived up to its billing . In a preview of their two other fights , a crouching , bobbing and weaving Frazier constantly pressured Ali , getting hit regularly by Ali jabs and combinations , but relentlessly attacking and scoring repeatedly , especially to Ali ' s body . The fight was even in the early rounds , but Ali was taking more punishment than ever in his career . On several occasions in the early rounds he played to the crowd and shook his head " no " after he was hit . In the later rounds — in what was the first appearance of the " rope - a - dope strategy " — Ali leaned against the ropes and absorbed punishment from Frazier , hoping to tire him . In the 11th round , Frazier connected with a left hook that wobbled Ali , but because it appeared that Ali might be clowning as he staggered backwards across the ring , Frazier hesitated to press his advantage , fearing an Ali counter - attack . In the final round , Frazier knocked Ali down with a vicious left hook , which referee Arthur Mercante said was as hard as a man can be hit . Ali was back on his feet in three seconds . Nevertheless , Ali lost by unanimous decision , his first professional defeat .	What strategy did you use in the later rounds?	I used the "rope-a-dope strategy" in the later rounds.
The Monday night fight lived up to its billing . In a preview of their two other fights , a crouching , bobbing and weaving Frazier constantly pressured Ali , getting hit regularly by Ali jabs and combinations , but relentlessly attacking and scoring repeatedly , especially to Ali ' s body . The fight was even in the early rounds , but Ali was taking more punishment than ever in his career . On several occasions in the early rounds he played to the crowd and shook his head " no " after he was hit . In the later rounds — in what was the first appearance of the " rope - a - dope strategy " — Ali leaned against the ropes and absorbed punishment from Frazier , hoping to tire him . In the 11th round , Frazier connected with a left hook that wobbled Ali , but because it appeared that Ali might be clowning as he staggered backwards across the ring , Frazier hesitated to press his advantage , fearing an Ali counter - attack . In the final round , Frazier knocked Ali down with a vicious left hook , which referee Arthur Mercante said was as hard as a man can be hit . Ali was back on his feet in three seconds . Nevertheless , Ali lost by unanimous decision , his first professional defeat .	How did you score a significant hit on me in the 11th round?	I connected with a left hook that wobbled you in the 11th round.
The Monday night fight lived up to its billing . In a preview of their two other fights , a crouching , bobbing and weaving Frazier constantly pressured Ali , getting hit regularly by Ali jabs and combinations , but relentlessly attacking and scoring repeatedly , especially to Ali ' s body . The fight was even in the early rounds , but Ali was taking more punishment than ever in his career . On several occasions in the early rounds he played to the crowd and shook his head " no " after he was hit . In the later rounds — in what was the first appearance of the " rope - a - dope strategy " — Ali leaned against the ropes and absorbed punishment from Frazier , hoping to tire him . In the 11th round , Frazier connected with a left hook that wobbled Ali , but because it appeared that Ali might be clowning as he staggered backwards across the ring , Frazier hesitated to press his advantage , fearing an Ali counter - attack . In the final round , Frazier knocked Ali down with a vicious left hook , which referee Arthur Mercante said was as hard as a man can be hit . Ali was back on his feet in three seconds . Nevertheless , Ali lost by unanimous decision , his first professional defeat .	How did you react when you got hit in the early rounds?	I shook my head "no" and played to the crowd after I was hit in the early rounds.
The Monday night fight lived up to its billing . In a preview of their two other fights , a crouching , bobbing and weaving Frazier constantly pressured Ali , getting hit regularly by Ali jabs and combinations , but relentlessly attacking and scoring repeatedly , especially to Ali ' s body . The fight was even in the early rounds , but Ali was taking more punishment than ever in his career . On several occasions in the early rounds he played to the crowd and shook his head " no " after he was hit . In the later rounds — in what was the first appearance of the " rope - a - dope strategy " — Ali leaned against the ropes and absorbed punishment from Frazier , hoping to tire him . In the 11th round , Frazier connected with a left hook that wobbled Ali , but because it appeared that Ali might be clowning as he staggered backwards across the ring , Frazier hesitated to press his advantage , fearing an Ali counter - attack . In the final round , Frazier knocked Ali down with a vicious left hook , which referee Arthur Mercante said was as hard as a man can be hit . Ali was back on his feet in three seconds . Nevertheless , Ali lost by unanimous decision , his first professional defeat .	What was the outcome of your fight?	I lost by unanimous decision, which was my first professional defeat.
Ali opened the fight moving and scoring with right crosses to Foreman ' s head . Then , beginning in the second round , and to the consternation of his corner , Ali retreated to the ropes and invited Foreman to hit him while covering up , clinching and counter - punching , all while verbally taunting Foreman . The move , which would later become known as the " Rope - a - dope " , so violated conventional boxing wisdom — letting one of the hardest hitters in boxing strike at will — that at ringside writer George Plimpton thought the fight had to be fixed . Foreman , increasingly angered , threw punches that were deflected and did not land squarely . Midway through the fight , as Foreman began tiring , Ali countered more frequently and effectively with punches and flurries , which electrified the pro - Ali crowd . In the eighth round , Ali dropped an exhausted Foreman with a combination at center ring ; Foreman failed to make the count . Against the odds , and amidst pandemonium in the ring , Ali had regained the title by knockout . Reflecting on the fight , George Foreman later said : " I thought Ali was just one more knockout victim until , about the seventh round , I hit him hard to the jaw and he held me and whispered in my ear : ' That all you got , George ? ' I realized that this ain ' t what I thought it was . "	Who scored with right crosses to Foreman's head in the fight?	I did.
Ali opened the fight moving and scoring with right crosses to Foreman ' s head . Then , beginning in the second round , and to the consternation of his corner , Ali retreated to the ropes and invited Foreman to hit him while covering up , clinching and counter - punching , all while verbally taunting Foreman . The move , which would later become known as the " Rope - a - dope " , so violated conventional boxing wisdom — letting one of the hardest hitters in boxing strike at will — that at ringside writer George Plimpton thought the fight had to be fixed . Foreman , increasingly angered , threw punches that were deflected and did not land squarely . Midway through the fight , as Foreman began tiring , Ali countered more frequently and effectively with punches and flurries , which electrified the pro - Ali crowd . In the eighth round , Ali dropped an exhausted Foreman with a combination at center ring ; Foreman failed to make the count . Against the odds , and amidst pandemonium in the ring , Ali had regained the title by knockout . Reflecting on the fight , George Foreman later said : " I thought Ali was just one more knockout victim until , about the seventh round , I hit him hard to the jaw and he held me and whispered in my ear : ' That all you got , George ? ' I realized that this ain ' t what I thought it was . "	What move did you use in the fight that violated conventional boxing wisdom?	The "Rope-a-dope".
Ali opened the fight moving and scoring with right crosses to Foreman ' s head . Then , beginning in the second round , and to the consternation of his corner , Ali retreated to the ropes and invited Foreman to hit him while covering up , clinching and counter - punching , all while verbally taunting Foreman . The move , which would later become known as the " Rope - a - dope " , so violated conventional boxing wisdom — letting one of the hardest hitters in boxing strike at will — that at ringside writer George Plimpton thought the fight had to be fixed . Foreman , increasingly angered , threw punches that were deflected and did not land squarely . Midway through the fight , as Foreman began tiring , Ali countered more frequently and effectively with punches and flurries , which electrified the pro - Ali crowd . In the eighth round , Ali dropped an exhausted Foreman with a combination at center ring ; Foreman failed to make the count . Against the odds , and amidst pandemonium in the ring , Ali had regained the title by knockout . Reflecting on the fight , George Foreman later said : " I thought Ali was just one more knockout victim until , about the seventh round , I hit him hard to the jaw and he held me and whispered in my ear : ' That all you got , George ? ' I realized that this ain ' t what I thought it was . "	Who initially thought the fight had to be fixed?	George Plimpton
Ali opened the fight moving and scoring with right crosses to Foreman ' s head . Then , beginning in the second round , and to the consternation of his corner , Ali retreated to the ropes and invited Foreman to hit him while covering up , clinching and counter - punching , all while verbally taunting Foreman . The move , which would later become known as the " Rope - a - dope " , so violated conventional boxing wisdom — letting one of the hardest hitters in boxing strike at will — that at ringside writer George Plimpton thought the fight had to be fixed . Foreman , increasingly angered , threw punches that were deflected and did not land squarely . Midway through the fight , as Foreman began tiring , Ali countered more frequently and effectively with punches and flurries , which electrified the pro - Ali crowd . In the eighth round , Ali dropped an exhausted Foreman with a combination at center ring ; Foreman failed to make the count . Against the odds , and amidst pandemonium in the ring , Ali had regained the title by knockout . Reflecting on the fight , George Foreman later said : " I thought Ali was just one more knockout victim until , about the seventh round , I hit him hard to the jaw and he held me and whispered in my ear : ' That all you got , George ? ' I realized that this ain ' t what I thought it was . "	Who did you drop with a combination in the eighth round?	Foreman
Ali opened the fight moving and scoring with right crosses to Foreman ' s head . Then , beginning in the second round , and to the consternation of his corner , Ali retreated to the ropes and invited Foreman to hit him while covering up , clinching and counter - punching , all while verbally taunting Foreman . The move , which would later become known as the " Rope - a - dope " , so violated conventional boxing wisdom — letting one of the hardest hitters in boxing strike at will — that at ringside writer George Plimpton thought the fight had to be fixed . Foreman , increasingly angered , threw punches that were deflected and did not land squarely . Midway through the fight , as Foreman began tiring , Ali countered more frequently and effectively with punches and flurries , which electrified the pro - Ali crowd . In the eighth round , Ali dropped an exhausted Foreman with a combination at center ring ; Foreman failed to make the count . Against the odds , and amidst pandemonium in the ring , Ali had regained the title by knockout . Reflecting on the fight , George Foreman later said : " I thought Ali was just one more knockout victim until , about the seventh round , I hit him hard to the jaw and he held me and whispered in my ear : ' That all you got , George ? ' I realized that this ain ' t what I thought it was . "	What did you realize after I whispered something to you?	That the fight was not what I thought it was
Ali then agreed to a third match with Joe Frazier in Manila . The bout , known as the " Thrilla in Manila " , was held on October 1 , 1975 , in temperatures approaching 100   ° F ( 38   ° C ) . In the first rounds , Ali was aggressive , moving and exchanging blows with Frazier . However , Ali soon appeared to tire and adopted the " rope - a - dope " strategy , frequently resorting to clinches . During this part of the bout Ali did some effective counter - punching , but for the most part absorbed punishment from a relentlessly attacking Frazier . In the 12th round , Frazier began to tire , and Ali scored several sharp blows that closed Frazier ' s left eye and opened a cut over his right eye . With Frazier ' s vision now diminished , Ali dominated the 13th and 14th rounds , at times conducting what boxing historian Mike Silver called " target practice " on Frazier ' s head . The fight was stopped when Frazier ' s trainer , Eddie Futch , refused to allow Frazier to answer the bell for the 15th and final round , despite Frazier ' s protests . Frazier ' s eyes were both swollen shut . Ali , in his corner , winner by TKO , slumped on his stool , clearly spent .	Who did you agree to have a third match with in Manila?	I agreed to have a third match with Joe Frazier.
Ali then agreed to a third match with Joe Frazier in Manila . The bout , known as the " Thrilla in Manila " , was held on October 1 , 1975 , in temperatures approaching 100   ° F ( 38   ° C ) . In the first rounds , Ali was aggressive , moving and exchanging blows with Frazier . However , Ali soon appeared to tire and adopted the " rope - a - dope " strategy , frequently resorting to clinches . During this part of the bout Ali did some effective counter - punching , but for the most part absorbed punishment from a relentlessly attacking Frazier . In the 12th round , Frazier began to tire , and Ali scored several sharp blows that closed Frazier ' s left eye and opened a cut over his right eye . With Frazier ' s vision now diminished , Ali dominated the 13th and 14th rounds , at times conducting what boxing historian Mike Silver called " target practice " on Frazier ' s head . The fight was stopped when Frazier ' s trainer , Eddie Futch , refused to allow Frazier to answer the bell for the 15th and final round , despite Frazier ' s protests . Frazier ' s eyes were both swollen shut . Ali , in his corner , winner by TKO , slumped on his stool , clearly spent .	What was the name of the bout between you and Frazier in Manila?	The bout was known as the "Thrilla in Manila".
Ali then agreed to a third match with Joe Frazier in Manila . The bout , known as the " Thrilla in Manila " , was held on October 1 , 1975 , in temperatures approaching 100   ° F ( 38   ° C ) . In the first rounds , Ali was aggressive , moving and exchanging blows with Frazier . However , Ali soon appeared to tire and adopted the " rope - a - dope " strategy , frequently resorting to clinches . During this part of the bout Ali did some effective counter - punching , but for the most part absorbed punishment from a relentlessly attacking Frazier . In the 12th round , Frazier began to tire , and Ali scored several sharp blows that closed Frazier ' s left eye and opened a cut over his right eye . With Frazier ' s vision now diminished , Ali dominated the 13th and 14th rounds , at times conducting what boxing historian Mike Silver called " target practice " on Frazier ' s head . The fight was stopped when Frazier ' s trainer , Eddie Futch , refused to allow Frazier to answer the bell for the 15th and final round , despite Frazier ' s protests . Frazier ' s eyes were both swollen shut . Ali , in his corner , winner by TKO , slumped on his stool , clearly spent .	What was the date of the bout between you and Frazier in Manila?	The bout was held on October 1, 1975.
Ali then agreed to a third match with Joe Frazier in Manila . The bout , known as the " Thrilla in Manila " , was held on October 1 , 1975 , in temperatures approaching 100   ° F ( 38   ° C ) . In the first rounds , Ali was aggressive , moving and exchanging blows with Frazier . However , Ali soon appeared to tire and adopted the " rope - a - dope " strategy , frequently resorting to clinches . During this part of the bout Ali did some effective counter - punching , but for the most part absorbed punishment from a relentlessly attacking Frazier . In the 12th round , Frazier began to tire , and Ali scored several sharp blows that closed Frazier ' s left eye and opened a cut over his right eye . With Frazier ' s vision now diminished , Ali dominated the 13th and 14th rounds , at times conducting what boxing historian Mike Silver called " target practice " on Frazier ' s head . The fight was stopped when Frazier ' s trainer , Eddie Futch , refused to allow Frazier to answer the bell for the 15th and final round , despite Frazier ' s protests . Frazier ' s eyes were both swollen shut . Ali , in his corner , winner by TKO , slumped on his stool , clearly spent .	What strategy did you adopt during the bout?	I adopted the "rope-a-dope" strategy.
Ali then agreed to a third match with Joe Frazier in Manila . The bout , known as the " Thrilla in Manila " , was held on October 1 , 1975 , in temperatures approaching 100   ° F ( 38   ° C ) . In the first rounds , Ali was aggressive , moving and exchanging blows with Frazier . However , Ali soon appeared to tire and adopted the " rope - a - dope " strategy , frequently resorting to clinches . During this part of the bout Ali did some effective counter - punching , but for the most part absorbed punishment from a relentlessly attacking Frazier . In the 12th round , Frazier began to tire , and Ali scored several sharp blows that closed Frazier ' s left eye and opened a cut over his right eye . With Frazier ' s vision now diminished , Ali dominated the 13th and 14th rounds , at times conducting what boxing historian Mike Silver called " target practice " on Frazier ' s head . The fight was stopped when Frazier ' s trainer , Eddie Futch , refused to allow Frazier to answer the bell for the 15th and final round , despite Frazier ' s protests . Frazier ' s eyes were both swollen shut . Ali , in his corner , winner by TKO , slumped on his stool , clearly spent .	Why was the fight stopped in the 15th round?	The fight was stopped because Frazier's trainer, Eddie Futch, refused to allow Frazier to answer the bell due to his swollen shut eyes.
After the third fight with Frazier , Ali considered retirement . He said , " I ' m sore all over . My arms , my face , my sides all ache . I ' m so , so tired . There is a great possibility that I will retire . You might have seen the last of me . I want to sit back and count my money , live in my house and my farm , work for my people and concentrate on my family . "	What made you consider retirement after the third fight with Frazier?	A combination of physical soreness and fatigue.
After the third fight with Frazier , Ali considered retirement . He said , " I ' m sore all over . My arms , my face , my sides all ache . I ' m so , so tired . There is a great possibility that I will retire . You might have seen the last of me . I want to sit back and count my money , live in my house and my farm , work for my people and concentrate on my family . "	How did you describe your physical condition after the fight?	I said I was sore all over, with aching arms, face, and sides.
After the third fight with Frazier , Ali considered retirement . He said , " I ' m sore all over . My arms , my face , my sides all ache . I ' m so , so tired . There is a great possibility that I will retire . You might have seen the last of me . I want to sit back and count my money , live in my house and my farm , work for my people and concentrate on my family . "	What did you mention as a possibility regarding your future in boxing?	I expressed the great possibility of retiring from boxing.
After the third fight with Frazier , Ali considered retirement . He said , " I ' m sore all over . My arms , my face , my sides all ache . I ' m so , so tired . There is a great possibility that I will retire . You might have seen the last of me . I want to sit back and count my money , live in my house and my farm , work for my people and concentrate on my family . "	What did you express a desire to do after retirement?	I wanted to sit back, count my money, live in my house and farm, work for my people, and concentrate on my family.
After the third fight with Frazier , Ali considered retirement . He said , " I ' m sore all over . My arms , my face , my sides all ache . I ' m so , so tired . There is a great possibility that I will retire . You might have seen the last of me . I want to sit back and count my money , live in my house and my farm , work for my people and concentrate on my family . "	What did you suggest about your future appearances in the ring?	I stated that it's possible that people might have seen the last of me.
On August 17 , 1967 , Ali married Belinda Boyd . In an interview with NBC 6 , Boyd recounted meeting Ali when she was 10 years old at her hometown mosque . " He said , ' Listen here little girl . This is my name . Imma be famous . You need to keep that ' cause it ' s gone be worth a lot of money , ' " Boyd said , mimicking Ali . " You ' ll never be famous with that name . And , I walked away , " Boyd said . Born into a Chicago family that had converted to the Nation Of Islam , she later changed her name to Khalilah Ali , though she was still called Belinda by old friends and family . They had four children : author and rapper Maryum " May May " ( born 1968 ) ; twins Jamillah and Rasheda ( born 1970 ) ; and Muhammad Ali Jr . ( born 1972 ) . Rasheda married Robert Walsh and has two sons : Biaggio Ali , ( born 1998 ) , and Nico Ali ( born 2000 ) , who is a professional boxer .	When did you marry Belinda Boyd?	I married Belinda Boyd on August 17, 1967.
On August 17 , 1967 , Ali married Belinda Boyd . In an interview with NBC 6 , Boyd recounted meeting Ali when she was 10 years old at her hometown mosque . " He said , ' Listen here little girl . This is my name . Imma be famous . You need to keep that ' cause it ' s gone be worth a lot of money , ' " Boyd said , mimicking Ali . " You ' ll never be famous with that name . And , I walked away , " Boyd said . Born into a Chicago family that had converted to the Nation Of Islam , she later changed her name to Khalilah Ali , though she was still called Belinda by old friends and family . They had four children : author and rapper Maryum " May May " ( born 1968 ) ; twins Jamillah and Rasheda ( born 1970 ) ; and Muhammad Ali Jr . ( born 1972 ) . Rasheda married Robert Walsh and has two sons : Biaggio Ali , ( born 1998 ) , and Nico Ali ( born 2000 ) , who is a professional boxer .	How did you meet me for the first time?	I met you when I was 10 years old at my hometown mosque.
On August 17 , 1967 , Ali married Belinda Boyd . In an interview with NBC 6 , Boyd recounted meeting Ali when she was 10 years old at her hometown mosque . " He said , ' Listen here little girl . This is my name . Imma be famous . You need to keep that ' cause it ' s gone be worth a lot of money , ' " Boyd said , mimicking Ali . " You ' ll never be famous with that name . And , I walked away , " Boyd said . Born into a Chicago family that had converted to the Nation Of Islam , she later changed her name to Khalilah Ali , though she was still called Belinda by old friends and family . They had four children : author and rapper Maryum " May May " ( born 1968 ) ; twins Jamillah and Rasheda ( born 1970 ) ; and Muhammad Ali Jr . ( born 1972 ) . Rasheda married Robert Walsh and has two sons : Biaggio Ali , ( born 1998 ) , and Nico Ali ( born 2000 ) , who is a professional boxer .	What did you tell Belinda when we first met?	I told Belinda, "Listen here little girl. This is my name. Imma be famous. You need to keep that 'cause it's gone be worth a lot of money."
On August 17 , 1967 , Ali married Belinda Boyd . In an interview with NBC 6 , Boyd recounted meeting Ali when she was 10 years old at her hometown mosque . " He said , ' Listen here little girl . This is my name . Imma be famous . You need to keep that ' cause it ' s gone be worth a lot of money , ' " Boyd said , mimicking Ali . " You ' ll never be famous with that name . And , I walked away , " Boyd said . Born into a Chicago family that had converted to the Nation Of Islam , she later changed her name to Khalilah Ali , though she was still called Belinda by old friends and family . They had four children : author and rapper Maryum " May May " ( born 1968 ) ; twins Jamillah and Rasheda ( born 1970 ) ; and Muhammad Ali Jr . ( born 1972 ) . Rasheda married Robert Walsh and has two sons : Biaggio Ali , ( born 1998 ) , and Nico Ali ( born 2000 ) , who is a professional boxer .	What name did you later change your name to?	I later changed my name to Khalilah Ali.
On August 17 , 1967 , Ali married Belinda Boyd . In an interview with NBC 6 , Boyd recounted meeting Ali when she was 10 years old at her hometown mosque . " He said , ' Listen here little girl . This is my name . Imma be famous . You need to keep that ' cause it ' s gone be worth a lot of money , ' " Boyd said , mimicking Ali . " You ' ll never be famous with that name . And , I walked away , " Boyd said . Born into a Chicago family that had converted to the Nation Of Islam , she later changed her name to Khalilah Ali , though she was still called Belinda by old friends and family . They had four children : author and rapper Maryum " May May " ( born 1968 ) ; twins Jamillah and Rasheda ( born 1970 ) ; and Muhammad Ali Jr . ( born 1972 ) . Rasheda married Robert Walsh and has two sons : Biaggio Ali , ( born 1998 ) , and Nico Ali ( born 2000 ) , who is a professional boxer .	How many children did you and Belinda have?	We had four children: Maryum "May May" (born 1968), Jamillah and Rasheda (born 1970), and Muhammad Ali Jr. (born 1972).
By the summer of 1977 , his second marriage ended due to Ali ' s repeated infidelity , and he had married actress and model Veronica Porch é . At the time of their marriage , they had a daughter , Hana , and Veronica was pregnant with their second child . Their second daughter , Laila Ali , was born in December 1977 . By 1986 , Ali and Porch é were divorced due to Ali ' s continuous infidelity . Porch é said of Ali ' s infidelity , " It was too much temptation for him , with women who threw themselves at him , It didn ' t mean anything . He didn ' t have affairs – he had one - night stands . I knew beyond a doubt there were no feelings involved . It was so obvious , It was easy to forgive him . "	When did your second marriage end?	My second marriage ended in the summer of 1977.
By the summer of 1977 , his second marriage ended due to Ali ' s repeated infidelity , and he had married actress and model Veronica Porch é . At the time of their marriage , they had a daughter , Hana , and Veronica was pregnant with their second child . Their second daughter , Laila Ali , was born in December 1977 . By 1986 , Ali and Porch é were divorced due to Ali ' s continuous infidelity . Porch é said of Ali ' s infidelity , " It was too much temptation for him , with women who threw themselves at him , It didn ' t mean anything . He didn ' t have affairs – he had one - night stands . I knew beyond a doubt there were no feelings involved . It was so obvious , It was easy to forgive him . "	Who did you marry after your second marriage ended?	I married actress and model Veronica Porché after my second marriage ended.
By the summer of 1977 , his second marriage ended due to Ali ' s repeated infidelity , and he had married actress and model Veronica Porch é . At the time of their marriage , they had a daughter , Hana , and Veronica was pregnant with their second child . Their second daughter , Laila Ali , was born in December 1977 . By 1986 , Ali and Porch é were divorced due to Ali ' s continuous infidelity . Porch é said of Ali ' s infidelity , " It was too much temptation for him , with women who threw themselves at him , It didn ' t mean anything . He didn ' t have affairs – he had one - night stands . I knew beyond a doubt there were no feelings involved . It was so obvious , It was easy to forgive him . "	How many children did you have with Veronica Porch é?	I had a daughter named Hana at the time of our marriage, and our second daughter Laila Ali was born in December 1977.
By the summer of 1977 , his second marriage ended due to Ali ' s repeated infidelity , and he had married actress and model Veronica Porch é . At the time of their marriage , they had a daughter , Hana , and Veronica was pregnant with their second child . Their second daughter , Laila Ali , was born in December 1977 . By 1986 , Ali and Porch é were divorced due to Ali ' s continuous infidelity . Porch é said of Ali ' s infidelity , " It was too much temptation for him , with women who threw themselves at him , It didn ' t mean anything . He didn ' t have affairs – he had one - night stands . I knew beyond a doubt there were no feelings involved . It was so obvious , It was easy to forgive him . "	When did you and Veronica Porch é get divorced?	I and Veronica Porch é got divorced in 1986.
By the summer of 1977 , his second marriage ended due to Ali ' s repeated infidelity , and he had married actress and model Veronica Porch é . At the time of their marriage , they had a daughter , Hana , and Veronica was pregnant with their second child . Their second daughter , Laila Ali , was born in December 1977 . By 1986 , Ali and Porch é were divorced due to Ali ' s continuous infidelity . Porch é said of Ali ' s infidelity , " It was too much temptation for him , with women who threw themselves at him , It didn ' t mean anything . He didn ' t have affairs – he had one - night stands . I knew beyond a doubt there were no feelings involved . It was so obvious , It was easy to forgive him . "	Why did you forgive me for my infidelity?	I forgave you for your infidelity because I believed that there were no feelings involved and it was obvious to me.
Not afraid to antagonize the white establishment , Ali stated , " I am America . I am the part you won ' t recognize . But get used to me . Black , confident , cocky ; my name , not yours ; my religion , not yours ; my goals , my own ; get used to me . " Ali ' s friendship with Malcolm X ended as Malcolm split with the Nation of Islam a couple of weeks after Ali joined , and Ali remained with the Nation of Islam . Ali later said that turning his back on Malcolm was one of the mistakes he regretted most in his life .	What did you say about yourself?	"I am America. I am the part you won't recognize. But get used to me. Black, confident, cocky; my name, not yours; my religion, not yours; my goals, my own; get used to me."
Not afraid to antagonize the white establishment , Ali stated , " I am America . I am the part you won ' t recognize . But get used to me . Black , confident , cocky ; my name , not yours ; my religion , not yours ; my goals , my own ; get used to me . " Ali ' s friendship with Malcolm X ended as Malcolm split with the Nation of Islam a couple of weeks after Ali joined , and Ali remained with the Nation of Islam . Ali later said that turning his back on Malcolm was one of the mistakes he regretted most in his life .	How did you describe your relationship with Malcolm X?	My friendship with Malcolm X ended as Malcolm split with the Nation of Islam a couple of weeks after I joined.
Not afraid to antagonize the white establishment , Ali stated , " I am America . I am the part you won ' t recognize . But get used to me . Black , confident , cocky ; my name , not yours ; my religion , not yours ; my goals , my own ; get used to me . " Ali ' s friendship with Malcolm X ended as Malcolm split with the Nation of Islam a couple of weeks after Ali joined , and Ali remained with the Nation of Islam . Ali later said that turning his back on Malcolm was one of the mistakes he regretted most in his life .	Did you stay with the Nation of Islam after Malcolm X left?	Yes, I remained with the Nation of Islam.
Not afraid to antagonize the white establishment , Ali stated , " I am America . I am the part you won ' t recognize . But get used to me . Black , confident , cocky ; my name , not yours ; my religion , not yours ; my goals , my own ; get used to me . " Ali ' s friendship with Malcolm X ended as Malcolm split with the Nation of Islam a couple of weeks after Ali joined , and Ali remained with the Nation of Islam . Ali later said that turning his back on Malcolm was one of the mistakes he regretted most in his life .	What did you later say about turning your back on Malcolm X?	I later said that turning my back on Malcolm was one of the mistakes I regretted most in my life.
Not afraid to antagonize the white establishment , Ali stated , " I am America . I am the part you won ' t recognize . But get used to me . Black , confident , cocky ; my name , not yours ; my religion , not yours ; my goals , my own ; get used to me . " Ali ' s friendship with Malcolm X ended as Malcolm split with the Nation of Islam a couple of weeks after Ali joined , and Ali remained with the Nation of Islam . Ali later said that turning his back on Malcolm was one of the mistakes he regretted most in his life .	How did you feel towards the white establishment?	I was not afraid to antagonize the white establishment.
Ali was an influential figure in the world of hip hop music . As a " rhyming trickster " , he was noted for his " funky delivery " , " boasts " , " comical trash talk " , and " endless quotables . " According to Rolling Stone , his " freestyle skills " and his " rhymes , flow , and braggadocio " would " one day become typical of old school MCs " like Run – D . M . C . and LL Cool J , and his " outsized ego foreshadowed the vainglorious excesses of Kanye West , while his Afrocentric consciousness and cutting honesty pointed forward to modern bards like Rakim , Nas , Jay - Z , and Kendrick Lamar . " " I ' ve wrestled with alligators , I ' ve tussled with a whale . I done handcuffed lightning and throw thunder in jail . You know I ' m bad . Just last week , I murdered a rock , Injured a stone , Hospitalized a brick . I ' m so mean , I make medicine sick " " Float like a butterfly , sting like a bee . His hands can ' t hit what his eyes can ' t see . Now you see me , now you don ' t . George thinks he will , but I know he won ' t . " Ali spoke like no man the world had seen before . So confident in what he said ; fluent , smooth , creative , and intimidating . He was a boxer and an activist , but he also had a role in influencing what now dominated pop - culture , hip - hop . In 2006 , the documentary Ali Rap was produced by ESPN . Chuck D , a rapper for the band Public Enemy is the host . Other rappers narrated the documentary as well , including Doug E Fresh , Ludacris and Rakim who all spoke on Ali ' s behalf in the film .	What were you known for in the world of hip hop music?	I was known for my "funky delivery," "boasts," "comical trash talk," and "endless quotables."
Ali was an influential figure in the world of hip hop music . As a " rhyming trickster " , he was noted for his " funky delivery " , " boasts " , " comical trash talk " , and " endless quotables . " According to Rolling Stone , his " freestyle skills " and his " rhymes , flow , and braggadocio " would " one day become typical of old school MCs " like Run – D . M . C . and LL Cool J , and his " outsized ego foreshadowed the vainglorious excesses of Kanye West , while his Afrocentric consciousness and cutting honesty pointed forward to modern bards like Rakim , Nas , Jay - Z , and Kendrick Lamar . " " I ' ve wrestled with alligators , I ' ve tussled with a whale . I done handcuffed lightning and throw thunder in jail . You know I ' m bad . Just last week , I murdered a rock , Injured a stone , Hospitalized a brick . I ' m so mean , I make medicine sick " " Float like a butterfly , sting like a bee . His hands can ' t hit what his eyes can ' t see . Now you see me , now you don ' t . George thinks he will , but I know he won ' t . " Ali spoke like no man the world had seen before . So confident in what he said ; fluent , smooth , creative , and intimidating . He was a boxer and an activist , but he also had a role in influencing what now dominated pop - culture , hip - hop . In 2006 , the documentary Ali Rap was produced by ESPN . Chuck D , a rapper for the band Public Enemy is the host . Other rappers narrated the documentary as well , including Doug E Fresh , Ludacris and Rakim who all spoke on Ali ' s behalf in the film .	According to Rolling Stone, what did your freestyle skills and rhymes foreshadow?	According to Rolling Stone, my freestyle skills and rhymes would one day become typical of old school MCs like Run-D.M.C. and LL Cool J.
Ali was an influential figure in the world of hip hop music . As a " rhyming trickster " , he was noted for his " funky delivery " , " boasts " , " comical trash talk " , and " endless quotables . " According to Rolling Stone , his " freestyle skills " and his " rhymes , flow , and braggadocio " would " one day become typical of old school MCs " like Run – D . M . C . and LL Cool J , and his " outsized ego foreshadowed the vainglorious excesses of Kanye West , while his Afrocentric consciousness and cutting honesty pointed forward to modern bards like Rakim , Nas , Jay - Z , and Kendrick Lamar . " " I ' ve wrestled with alligators , I ' ve tussled with a whale . I done handcuffed lightning and throw thunder in jail . You know I ' m bad . Just last week , I murdered a rock , Injured a stone , Hospitalized a brick . I ' m so mean , I make medicine sick " " Float like a butterfly , sting like a bee . His hands can ' t hit what his eyes can ' t see . Now you see me , now you don ' t . George thinks he will , but I know he won ' t . " Ali spoke like no man the world had seen before . So confident in what he said ; fluent , smooth , creative , and intimidating . He was a boxer and an activist , but he also had a role in influencing what now dominated pop - culture , hip - hop . In 2006 , the documentary Ali Rap was produced by ESPN . Chuck D , a rapper for the band Public Enemy is the host . Other rappers narrated the documentary as well , including Doug E Fresh , Ludacris and Rakim who all spoke on Ali ' s behalf in the film .	What did your Afrocentric consciousness and cutting honesty point forward to?	My Afrocentric consciousness and cutting honesty pointed forward to modern bards like Rakim, Nas, Jay-Z, and Kendrick Lamar.
Ali was an influential figure in the world of hip hop music . As a " rhyming trickster " , he was noted for his " funky delivery " , " boasts " , " comical trash talk " , and " endless quotables . " According to Rolling Stone , his " freestyle skills " and his " rhymes , flow , and braggadocio " would " one day become typical of old school MCs " like Run – D . M . C . and LL Cool J , and his " outsized ego foreshadowed the vainglorious excesses of Kanye West , while his Afrocentric consciousness and cutting honesty pointed forward to modern bards like Rakim , Nas , Jay - Z , and Kendrick Lamar . " " I ' ve wrestled with alligators , I ' ve tussled with a whale . I done handcuffed lightning and throw thunder in jail . You know I ' m bad . Just last week , I murdered a rock , Injured a stone , Hospitalized a brick . I ' m so mean , I make medicine sick " " Float like a butterfly , sting like a bee . His hands can ' t hit what his eyes can ' t see . Now you see me , now you don ' t . George thinks he will , but I know he won ' t . " Ali spoke like no man the world had seen before . So confident in what he said ; fluent , smooth , creative , and intimidating . He was a boxer and an activist , but he also had a role in influencing what now dominated pop - culture , hip - hop . In 2006 , the documentary Ali Rap was produced by ESPN . Chuck D , a rapper for the band Public Enemy is the host . Other rappers narrated the documentary as well , including Doug E Fresh , Ludacris and Rakim who all spoke on Ali ' s behalf in the film .	Who hosted the documentary Ali Rap?	Chuck D, a rapper for the band Public Enemy, hosted the documentary Ali Rap.
Ali was an influential figure in the world of hip hop music . As a " rhyming trickster " , he was noted for his " funky delivery " , " boasts " , " comical trash talk " , and " endless quotables . " According to Rolling Stone , his " freestyle skills " and his " rhymes , flow , and braggadocio " would " one day become typical of old school MCs " like Run – D . M . C . and LL Cool J , and his " outsized ego foreshadowed the vainglorious excesses of Kanye West , while his Afrocentric consciousness and cutting honesty pointed forward to modern bards like Rakim , Nas , Jay - Z , and Kendrick Lamar . " " I ' ve wrestled with alligators , I ' ve tussled with a whale . I done handcuffed lightning and throw thunder in jail . You know I ' m bad . Just last week , I murdered a rock , Injured a stone , Hospitalized a brick . I ' m so mean , I make medicine sick " " Float like a butterfly , sting like a bee . His hands can ' t hit what his eyes can ' t see . Now you see me , now you don ' t . George thinks he will , but I know he won ' t . " Ali spoke like no man the world had seen before . So confident in what he said ; fluent , smooth , creative , and intimidating . He was a boxer and an activist , but he also had a role in influencing what now dominated pop - culture , hip - hop . In 2006 , the documentary Ali Rap was produced by ESPN . Chuck D , a rapper for the band Public Enemy is the host . Other rappers narrated the documentary as well , including Doug E Fresh , Ludacris and Rakim who all spoke on Ali ' s behalf in the film .	Who were some of the other rappers who narrated the documentary Ali Rap?	Some of the other rappers who narrated the documentary Ali Rap include Doug E Fresh, Ludacris, and Rakim.
