Natalie Portman (born Natalie Hershlag, Hebrew: נטע-לי הרשלג,[a] (1981-06-09)June 9, 1981) is an Israeli-born American actress. She has had a prolific film career since her teenage years and has starred in various blockbusters and independent films, receiving multiple accolades, including an Academy Award and two Golden Globe Awards.	What is your real name?	Natalie Hershlag
Natalie Portman (born Natalie Hershlag, Hebrew: נטע-לי הרשלג,[a] (1981-06-09)June 9, 1981) is an Israeli-born American actress. She has had a prolific film career since her teenage years and has starred in various blockbusters and independent films, receiving multiple accolades, including an Academy Award and two Golden Globe Awards.	When were you born?	June 9, 1981
Natalie Portman (born Natalie Hershlag, Hebrew: נטע-לי הרשלג,[a] (1981-06-09)June 9, 1981) is an Israeli-born American actress. She has had a prolific film career since her teenage years and has starred in various blockbusters and independent films, receiving multiple accolades, including an Academy Award and two Golden Globe Awards.	Where were you born?	Israel
Natalie Portman (born Natalie Hershlag, Hebrew: נטע-לי הרשלג,[a] (1981-06-09)June 9, 1981) is an Israeli-born American actress. She has had a prolific film career since her teenage years and has starred in various blockbusters and independent films, receiving multiple accolades, including an Academy Award and two Golden Globe Awards.	What nationality do you hold?	I am an Israeli-born American.
Natalie Portman (born Natalie Hershlag, Hebrew: נטע-לי הרשלג,[a] (1981-06-09)June 9, 1981) is an Israeli-born American actress. She has had a prolific film career since her teenage years and has starred in various blockbusters and independent films, receiving multiple accolades, including an Academy Award and two Golden Globe Awards.	What awards have you received?	I have received an Academy Award and two Golden Globe Awards.
Portman began her acting career at age twelve, when she starred as the young protégée of a hitman in the action film Léon: The Professional (1994). While in high school, she made her Broadway debut in a 1998 production of The Diary of a Young Girl and gained international recognition for starring as Padmé Amidala in Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999). From 1999 to 2003, Portman attended Harvard University, graduating with a bachelor's degree in psychology. She reduced her number of acting roles, but continued to act in the Star Wars prequel trilogy (2002, 2005) and in The Public Theater's 2001 revival of Anton Chekhov's play The Seagull.	How old were you when you started your acting career?	I began my acting career at age twelve.
Portman began her acting career at age twelve, when she starred as the young protégée of a hitman in the action film Léon: The Professional (1994). While in high school, she made her Broadway debut in a 1998 production of The Diary of a Young Girl and gained international recognition for starring as Padmé Amidala in Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999). From 1999 to 2003, Portman attended Harvard University, graduating with a bachelor's degree in psychology. She reduced her number of acting roles, but continued to act in the Star Wars prequel trilogy (2002, 2005) and in The Public Theater's 2001 revival of Anton Chekhov's play The Seagull.	In which film did you star as a young protégée of a hitman?	I starred as the young protégée of a hitman in the action film Léon: The Professional (1994).
Portman began her acting career at age twelve, when she starred as the young protégée of a hitman in the action film Léon: The Professional (1994). While in high school, she made her Broadway debut in a 1998 production of The Diary of a Young Girl and gained international recognition for starring as Padmé Amidala in Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999). From 1999 to 2003, Portman attended Harvard University, graduating with a bachelor's degree in psychology. She reduced her number of acting roles, but continued to act in the Star Wars prequel trilogy (2002, 2005) and in The Public Theater's 2001 revival of Anton Chekhov's play The Seagull.	What was your role in Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace?	I gained international recognition for starring as Padmé Amidala in Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999).
Portman began her acting career at age twelve, when she starred as the young protégée of a hitman in the action film Léon: The Professional (1994). While in high school, she made her Broadway debut in a 1998 production of The Diary of a Young Girl and gained international recognition for starring as Padmé Amidala in Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999). From 1999 to 2003, Portman attended Harvard University, graduating with a bachelor's degree in psychology. She reduced her number of acting roles, but continued to act in the Star Wars prequel trilogy (2002, 2005) and in The Public Theater's 2001 revival of Anton Chekhov's play The Seagull.	Where did you make your Broadway debut?	I made my Broadway debut in a 1998 production of The Diary of a Young Girl.
Portman began her acting career at age twelve, when she starred as the young protégée of a hitman in the action film Léon: The Professional (1994). While in high school, she made her Broadway debut in a 1998 production of The Diary of a Young Girl and gained international recognition for starring as Padmé Amidala in Star Wars: Episode I – The Phantom Menace (1999). From 1999 to 2003, Portman attended Harvard University, graduating with a bachelor's degree in psychology. She reduced her number of acting roles, but continued to act in the Star Wars prequel trilogy (2002, 2005) and in The Public Theater's 2001 revival of Anton Chekhov's play The Seagull.	What degree did you graduate with from Harvard University?	I graduated with a bachelor's degree in psychology from Harvard University.
In 2004, Portman was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress and won a Golden Globe Award for playing a mysterious stripper in the romantic drama Closer. Portman's career further advanced with her starring roles as Evey Hammond in V for Vendetta (2005), Anne Boleyn in The Other Boleyn Girl (2008), and a troubled ballerina in the psychological horror film Black Swan (2010), for which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress. She went on to star in the romantic comedy No Strings Attached (2011) and portrayed Jacqueline Kennedy in the biopic Jackie (2016), which earned her a third Academy Award nomination. Portman has also featured as Jane Foster in the Marvel Cinematic Universe superhero films Thor (2011), Thor: The Dark World (2013), and Thor: Love and Thunder (2022), which established her as one of the world's highest-paid actresses.	In which movie did you win an Academy Award for Best Actress?	I won an Academy Award for Best Actress for my role in the movie Black Swan.
In 2004, Portman was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress and won a Golden Globe Award for playing a mysterious stripper in the romantic drama Closer. Portman's career further advanced with her starring roles as Evey Hammond in V for Vendetta (2005), Anne Boleyn in The Other Boleyn Girl (2008), and a troubled ballerina in the psychological horror film Black Swan (2010), for which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress. She went on to star in the romantic comedy No Strings Attached (2011) and portrayed Jacqueline Kennedy in the biopic Jackie (2016), which earned her a third Academy Award nomination. Portman has also featured as Jane Foster in the Marvel Cinematic Universe superhero films Thor (2011), Thor: The Dark World (2013), and Thor: Love and Thunder (2022), which established her as one of the world's highest-paid actresses.	What is the name of the character you portrayed in the movie V for Vendetta?	I portrayed the character Evey Hammond in the movie V for Vendetta.
In 2004, Portman was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress and won a Golden Globe Award for playing a mysterious stripper in the romantic drama Closer. Portman's career further advanced with her starring roles as Evey Hammond in V for Vendetta (2005), Anne Boleyn in The Other Boleyn Girl (2008), and a troubled ballerina in the psychological horror film Black Swan (2010), for which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress. She went on to star in the romantic comedy No Strings Attached (2011) and portrayed Jacqueline Kennedy in the biopic Jackie (2016), which earned her a third Academy Award nomination. Portman has also featured as Jane Foster in the Marvel Cinematic Universe superhero films Thor (2011), Thor: The Dark World (2013), and Thor: Love and Thunder (2022), which established her as one of the world's highest-paid actresses.	Which movie earned you a third Academy Award nomination?	The movie Jackie earned me a third Academy Award nomination.
In 2004, Portman was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress and won a Golden Globe Award for playing a mysterious stripper in the romantic drama Closer. Portman's career further advanced with her starring roles as Evey Hammond in V for Vendetta (2005), Anne Boleyn in The Other Boleyn Girl (2008), and a troubled ballerina in the psychological horror film Black Swan (2010), for which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress. She went on to star in the romantic comedy No Strings Attached (2011) and portrayed Jacqueline Kennedy in the biopic Jackie (2016), which earned her a third Academy Award nomination. Portman has also featured as Jane Foster in the Marvel Cinematic Universe superhero films Thor (2011), Thor: The Dark World (2013), and Thor: Love and Thunder (2022), which established her as one of the world's highest-paid actresses.	In which genre does the movie Closer fall under?	The movie Closer falls under the genre of romantic drama.
In 2004, Portman was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actress and won a Golden Globe Award for playing a mysterious stripper in the romantic drama Closer. Portman's career further advanced with her starring roles as Evey Hammond in V for Vendetta (2005), Anne Boleyn in The Other Boleyn Girl (2008), and a troubled ballerina in the psychological horror film Black Swan (2010), for which she won the Academy Award for Best Actress. She went on to star in the romantic comedy No Strings Attached (2011) and portrayed Jacqueline Kennedy in the biopic Jackie (2016), which earned her a third Academy Award nomination. Portman has also featured as Jane Foster in the Marvel Cinematic Universe superhero films Thor (2011), Thor: The Dark World (2013), and Thor: Love and Thunder (2022), which established her as one of the world's highest-paid actresses.	Which character did you portray in the Marvel Cinematic Universe superhero films?	I portrayed the character Jane Foster in the Marvel Cinematic Universe superhero films.
Portman's directorial ventures include the short film Eve (2008) and the biographical drama A Tale of Love and Darkness (2015). She is vocal about the politics of the United States and Israel, and is an advocate for animal rights and environmental causes. She is married to dancer and choreographer Benjamin Millepied, with whom she has two children.	What are some of your directorial ventures?	My directorial ventures include the short film Eve (2008) and the biographical drama A Tale of Love and Darkness (2015).
Portman's directorial ventures include the short film Eve (2008) and the biographical drama A Tale of Love and Darkness (2015). She is vocal about the politics of the United States and Israel, and is an advocate for animal rights and environmental causes. She is married to dancer and choreographer Benjamin Millepied, with whom she has two children.	What are you vocal about?	I am vocal about the politics of the United States and Israel.
Portman's directorial ventures include the short film Eve (2008) and the biographical drama A Tale of Love and Darkness (2015). She is vocal about the politics of the United States and Israel, and is an advocate for animal rights and environmental causes. She is married to dancer and choreographer Benjamin Millepied, with whom she has two children.	What causes are you an advocate for?	I am an advocate for animal rights and environmental causes.
Portman's directorial ventures include the short film Eve (2008) and the biographical drama A Tale of Love and Darkness (2015). She is vocal about the politics of the United States and Israel, and is an advocate for animal rights and environmental causes. She is married to dancer and choreographer Benjamin Millepied, with whom she has two children.	Who are you married to?	I am married to dancer and choreographer Benjamin Millepied.
Portman's directorial ventures include the short film Eve (2008) and the biographical drama A Tale of Love and Darkness (2015). She is vocal about the politics of the United States and Israel, and is an advocate for animal rights and environmental causes. She is married to dancer and choreographer Benjamin Millepied, with whom she has two children.	How many children do you have?	I have two children.
Natalie Hershlag was born on June 9, 1981, in Jerusalem, to Jewish parents with roots in Poland, Austria, and Russia. She is the only child of Shelley (née Stevens), an American homemaker who works as Portman's agent, and Avner Hershlag, an Israeli-born gynecologist. Her maternal grandparents were American Jews, whereas her paternal grandparents were Jewish immigrants to Israel.	When were you born?	I was born on June 9, 1981.
Natalie Hershlag was born on June 9, 1981, in Jerusalem, to Jewish parents with roots in Poland, Austria, and Russia. She is the only child of Shelley (née Stevens), an American homemaker who works as Portman's agent, and Avner Hershlag, an Israeli-born gynecologist. Her maternal grandparents were American Jews, whereas her paternal grandparents were Jewish immigrants to Israel.	Where were you born?	I was born in Jerusalem.
Natalie Hershlag was born on June 9, 1981, in Jerusalem, to Jewish parents with roots in Poland, Austria, and Russia. She is the only child of Shelley (née Stevens), an American homemaker who works as Portman's agent, and Avner Hershlag, an Israeli-born gynecologist. Her maternal grandparents were American Jews, whereas her paternal grandparents were Jewish immigrants to Israel.	Who are your parents?	My parents are Shelley (née Stevens) and Avner Hershlag.
Natalie Hershlag was born on June 9, 1981, in Jerusalem, to Jewish parents with roots in Poland, Austria, and Russia. She is the only child of Shelley (née Stevens), an American homemaker who works as Portman's agent, and Avner Hershlag, an Israeli-born gynecologist. Her maternal grandparents were American Jews, whereas her paternal grandparents were Jewish immigrants to Israel.	What is your mother's profession?	My mother is an American homemaker who works as my agent.
Natalie Hershlag was born on June 9, 1981, in Jerusalem, to Jewish parents with roots in Poland, Austria, and Russia. She is the only child of Shelley (née Stevens), an American homemaker who works as Portman's agent, and Avner Hershlag, an Israeli-born gynecologist. Her maternal grandparents were American Jews, whereas her paternal grandparents were Jewish immigrants to Israel.	What is your father's profession?	My father is an Israeli-born gynecologist.
Natalie Hershlag was born on June 9, 1981, in Jerusalem, to Jewish parents with roots in Poland, Austria, and Russia. She is the only child of Shelley (née Stevens), an American homemaker who works as Portman's agent, and Avner Hershlag, an Israeli-born gynecologist. Her maternal grandparents were American Jews, whereas her paternal grandparents were Jewish immigrants to Israel.	What are the roots of your parents?	My parents have roots in Poland, Austria, and Russia.
Natalie Hershlag was born on June 9, 1981, in Jerusalem, to Jewish parents with roots in Poland, Austria, and Russia. She is the only child of Shelley (née Stevens), an American homemaker who works as Portman's agent, and Avner Hershlag, an Israeli-born gynecologist. Her maternal grandparents were American Jews, whereas her paternal grandparents were Jewish immigrants to Israel.	What is the nationality of your maternal grandparents?	My maternal grandparents were American Jews.
Natalie Hershlag was born on June 9, 1981, in Jerusalem, to Jewish parents with roots in Poland, Austria, and Russia. She is the only child of Shelley (née Stevens), an American homemaker who works as Portman's agent, and Avner Hershlag, an Israeli-born gynecologist. Her maternal grandparents were American Jews, whereas her paternal grandparents were Jewish immigrants to Israel.	What is the nationality of your paternal grandparents?	My paternal grandparents were Jewish immigrants to Israel.
Portman and her family first lived in Washington, D.C., but relocated to Connecticut in 1988 and then moved to Long Island in 1990. While living in Washington Portman attended Charles E. Smith Jewish Day School in Rockville, Maryland. Her native language is Hebrew. While living on Long Island, she attended a Jewish elementary school, the Solomon Schechter Day School of Nassau County. She studied ballet and modern dance at the American Theater Dance Workshop, and regularly attended the Usdan Center for the Creative and Performing Arts. Describing her early life, Portman has said that she was "different from the other kids. I was more ambitious. I knew what I liked and what I wanted, and I worked very hard. I was a very serious kid."	Where did you live before moving to Connecticut?	I and my family first lived in Washington, D.C.
Portman and her family first lived in Washington, D.C., but relocated to Connecticut in 1988 and then moved to Long Island in 1990. While living in Washington Portman attended Charles E. Smith Jewish Day School in Rockville, Maryland. Her native language is Hebrew. While living on Long Island, she attended a Jewish elementary school, the Solomon Schechter Day School of Nassau County. She studied ballet and modern dance at the American Theater Dance Workshop, and regularly attended the Usdan Center for the Creative and Performing Arts. Describing her early life, Portman has said that she was "different from the other kids. I was more ambitious. I knew what I liked and what I wanted, and I worked very hard. I was a very serious kid."	What is your native language?	My native language is Hebrew.
Portman and her family first lived in Washington, D.C., but relocated to Connecticut in 1988 and then moved to Long Island in 1990. While living in Washington Portman attended Charles E. Smith Jewish Day School in Rockville, Maryland. Her native language is Hebrew. While living on Long Island, she attended a Jewish elementary school, the Solomon Schechter Day School of Nassau County. She studied ballet and modern dance at the American Theater Dance Workshop, and regularly attended the Usdan Center for the Creative and Performing Arts. Describing her early life, Portman has said that she was "different from the other kids. I was more ambitious. I knew what I liked and what I wanted, and I worked very hard. I was a very serious kid."	Where did you attend elementary school while living on Long Island?	I attended the Solomon Schechter Day School of Nassau County.
Portman and her family first lived in Washington, D.C., but relocated to Connecticut in 1988 and then moved to Long Island in 1990. While living in Washington Portman attended Charles E. Smith Jewish Day School in Rockville, Maryland. Her native language is Hebrew. While living on Long Island, she attended a Jewish elementary school, the Solomon Schechter Day School of Nassau County. She studied ballet and modern dance at the American Theater Dance Workshop, and regularly attended the Usdan Center for the Creative and Performing Arts. Describing her early life, Portman has said that she was "different from the other kids. I was more ambitious. I knew what I liked and what I wanted, and I worked very hard. I was a very serious kid."	What type of dance did you study?	I studied ballet and modern dance.
Portman and her family first lived in Washington, D.C., but relocated to Connecticut in 1988 and then moved to Long Island in 1990. While living in Washington Portman attended Charles E. Smith Jewish Day School in Rockville, Maryland. Her native language is Hebrew. While living on Long Island, she attended a Jewish elementary school, the Solomon Schechter Day School of Nassau County. She studied ballet and modern dance at the American Theater Dance Workshop, and regularly attended the Usdan Center for the Creative and Performing Arts. Describing her early life, Portman has said that she was "different from the other kids. I was more ambitious. I knew what I liked and what I wanted, and I worked very hard. I was a very serious kid."	How would you describe your early life?	I would describe my early life as being "different from the other kids" and being "more ambitious." I said I knew what I liked and what I wanted and worked very hard. I was a very serious kid.
When Portman was ten years old, a Revlon agent spotted her at a pizza restaurant and asked her to become a child model. She turned down the offer but used the opportunity to get an acting agent. She auditioned for the 1992 off-Broadway Ruthless!, a musical about a girl who is prepared to commit murder to get the lead in a school play. Portman and Britney Spears were chosen as understudies for star Laura Bell Bundy.	How did you become a child model?	When I was ten years old, a Revlon agent spotted me at a pizza restaurant and asked me to become a child model.
When Portman was ten years old, a Revlon agent spotted her at a pizza restaurant and asked her to become a child model. She turned down the offer but used the opportunity to get an acting agent. She auditioned for the 1992 off-Broadway Ruthless!, a musical about a girl who is prepared to commit murder to get the lead in a school play. Portman and Britney Spears were chosen as understudies for star Laura Bell Bundy.	Did you accept the offer to become a child model?	No, I turned down the offer.
When Portman was ten years old, a Revlon agent spotted her at a pizza restaurant and asked her to become a child model. She turned down the offer but used the opportunity to get an acting agent. She auditioned for the 1992 off-Broadway Ruthless!, a musical about a girl who is prepared to commit murder to get the lead in a school play. Portman and Britney Spears were chosen as understudies for star Laura Bell Bundy.	What did you do after turning down the offer to become a child model?	I used the opportunity to get an acting agent.
When Portman was ten years old, a Revlon agent spotted her at a pizza restaurant and asked her to become a child model. She turned down the offer but used the opportunity to get an acting agent. She auditioned for the 1992 off-Broadway Ruthless!, a musical about a girl who is prepared to commit murder to get the lead in a school play. Portman and Britney Spears were chosen as understudies for star Laura Bell Bundy.	What did you audition for in 1992?	I auditioned for the 1992 off-Broadway Ruthless!, a musical.
When Portman was ten years old, a Revlon agent spotted her at a pizza restaurant and asked her to become a child model. She turned down the offer but used the opportunity to get an acting agent. She auditioned for the 1992 off-Broadway Ruthless!, a musical about a girl who is prepared to commit murder to get the lead in a school play. Portman and Britney Spears were chosen as understudies for star Laura Bell Bundy.	What is Ruthless! about?	Ruthless! is a musical about a girl who is prepared to commit murder to get the lead in a school play.
Six months after Ruthless! ended, Portman auditioned for and secured a leading role in Luc Besson's action drama Léon: The Professional (1994). To protect her privacy, she adopted her paternal grandmother's maiden name, Portman, as her stage name. She played Mathilda, an orphan child who befriends a middle-aged hitman (played by Jean Reno). Her parents were reluctant to let her do the part due to the explicit sexual and violent nature of the script, but agreed after Besson took out the nudity and the killings committed by Portman's character. Portman herself said that after those scenes were removed, she found nothing objectionable about the content. Even so, her mother was displeased with some of the "sexual twists and turns" in the finished film, which were not part of the script. Hal Hinson of The Washington Post commended Portman for bringing a "genuine sense of tragedy" to her part, but Peter Rainer of the Los Angeles Times believed that she wasn't "enough of an actress to unfold Mathilda's pain" and criticized Besson's sexualization of her character.	What role did you play in Léon: The Professional?	I played the role of Mathilda, an orphan child.
Six months after Ruthless! ended, Portman auditioned for and secured a leading role in Luc Besson's action drama Léon: The Professional (1994). To protect her privacy, she adopted her paternal grandmother's maiden name, Portman, as her stage name. She played Mathilda, an orphan child who befriends a middle-aged hitman (played by Jean Reno). Her parents were reluctant to let her do the part due to the explicit sexual and violent nature of the script, but agreed after Besson took out the nudity and the killings committed by Portman's character. Portman herself said that after those scenes were removed, she found nothing objectionable about the content. Even so, her mother was displeased with some of the "sexual twists and turns" in the finished film, which were not part of the script. Hal Hinson of The Washington Post commended Portman for bringing a "genuine sense of tragedy" to her part, but Peter Rainer of the Los Angeles Times believed that she wasn't "enough of an actress to unfold Mathilda's pain" and criticized Besson's sexualization of her character.	Who played the middle-aged hitman in Léon: The Professional?	Jean Reno played the middle-aged hitman in Léon: The Professional.
Six months after Ruthless! ended, Portman auditioned for and secured a leading role in Luc Besson's action drama Léon: The Professional (1994). To protect her privacy, she adopted her paternal grandmother's maiden name, Portman, as her stage name. She played Mathilda, an orphan child who befriends a middle-aged hitman (played by Jean Reno). Her parents were reluctant to let her do the part due to the explicit sexual and violent nature of the script, but agreed after Besson took out the nudity and the killings committed by Portman's character. Portman herself said that after those scenes were removed, she found nothing objectionable about the content. Even so, her mother was displeased with some of the "sexual twists and turns" in the finished film, which were not part of the script. Hal Hinson of The Washington Post commended Portman for bringing a "genuine sense of tragedy" to her part, but Peter Rainer of the Los Angeles Times believed that she wasn't "enough of an actress to unfold Mathilda's pain" and criticized Besson's sexualization of her character.	What kind of objections did your parents initially have about your role in Léon: The Professional?	My parents were reluctant to let me do the part due to the explicit sexual and violent nature of the script.
Six months after Ruthless! ended, Portman auditioned for and secured a leading role in Luc Besson's action drama Léon: The Professional (1994). To protect her privacy, she adopted her paternal grandmother's maiden name, Portman, as her stage name. She played Mathilda, an orphan child who befriends a middle-aged hitman (played by Jean Reno). Her parents were reluctant to let her do the part due to the explicit sexual and violent nature of the script, but agreed after Besson took out the nudity and the killings committed by Portman's character. Portman herself said that after those scenes were removed, she found nothing objectionable about the content. Even so, her mother was displeased with some of the "sexual twists and turns" in the finished film, which were not part of the script. Hal Hinson of The Washington Post commended Portman for bringing a "genuine sense of tragedy" to her part, but Peter Rainer of the Los Angeles Times believed that she wasn't "enough of an actress to unfold Mathilda's pain" and criticized Besson's sexualization of her character.	How did Luc Besson address your parents' objections?	Luc Besson took out the nudity and the killings committed by my character in order to address my parents' objections.
Six months after Ruthless! ended, Portman auditioned for and secured a leading role in Luc Besson's action drama Léon: The Professional (1994). To protect her privacy, she adopted her paternal grandmother's maiden name, Portman, as her stage name. She played Mathilda, an orphan child who befriends a middle-aged hitman (played by Jean Reno). Her parents were reluctant to let her do the part due to the explicit sexual and violent nature of the script, but agreed after Besson took out the nudity and the killings committed by Portman's character. Portman herself said that after those scenes were removed, she found nothing objectionable about the content. Even so, her mother was displeased with some of the "sexual twists and turns" in the finished film, which were not part of the script. Hal Hinson of The Washington Post commended Portman for bringing a "genuine sense of tragedy" to her part, but Peter Rainer of the Los Angeles Times believed that she wasn't "enough of an actress to unfold Mathilda's pain" and criticized Besson's sexualization of her character.	What were some of the concerns your mother had about the finished film?	My mother was displeased with some of the "sexual twists and turns" in the finished film, which were not part of the script.
After filming The Professional, Portman went back to school and during the summer break of 1994, she filmed a part in Marya Cohn's short film Developing. In it she played a young girl coping with her mother's (played by Frances Conroy) cancer. She also enrolled at the Stagedoor Manor performing arts camp, where she played Anne Shirley in a staging of Anne of Green Gables. Michael Mann offered her the small part of the suicidal stepdaughter of Al Pacino's character in the action film Heat (1995) for her ability to portray dysfunction without hysteria. Impressed by her performance in The Professional, the director Ted Demme cast her as a precocious teenager who flirts with her much-older neighbor (played by Timothy Hutton) in the ensemble comedy-drama Beautiful Girls (1996). Janet Maslin of The New York Times wrote, "Portman, a budding knockout, is scene-stealingly good even in an overly showy role." She subsequently went back to Stagedoor Manor to appear in a production of the musical Cabaret. Also in 1996, Portman had brief roles in Woody Allen's musical Everyone Says I Love You and Tim Burton's comic science fiction film Mars Attacks!.	What short film did you film during the summer break of 1994?	I filmed a part in Marya Cohn's short film Developing.
After filming The Professional, Portman went back to school and during the summer break of 1994, she filmed a part in Marya Cohn's short film Developing. In it she played a young girl coping with her mother's (played by Frances Conroy) cancer. She also enrolled at the Stagedoor Manor performing arts camp, where she played Anne Shirley in a staging of Anne of Green Gables. Michael Mann offered her the small part of the suicidal stepdaughter of Al Pacino's character in the action film Heat (1995) for her ability to portray dysfunction without hysteria. Impressed by her performance in The Professional, the director Ted Demme cast her as a precocious teenager who flirts with her much-older neighbor (played by Timothy Hutton) in the ensemble comedy-drama Beautiful Girls (1996). Janet Maslin of The New York Times wrote, "Portman, a budding knockout, is scene-stealingly good even in an overly showy role." She subsequently went back to Stagedoor Manor to appear in a production of the musical Cabaret. Also in 1996, Portman had brief roles in Woody Allen's musical Everyone Says I Love You and Tim Burton's comic science fiction film Mars Attacks!.	What role did you play in Developing?	I played a young girl coping with her mother's cancer.
After filming The Professional, Portman went back to school and during the summer break of 1994, she filmed a part in Marya Cohn's short film Developing. In it she played a young girl coping with her mother's (played by Frances Conroy) cancer. She also enrolled at the Stagedoor Manor performing arts camp, where she played Anne Shirley in a staging of Anne of Green Gables. Michael Mann offered her the small part of the suicidal stepdaughter of Al Pacino's character in the action film Heat (1995) for her ability to portray dysfunction without hysteria. Impressed by her performance in The Professional, the director Ted Demme cast her as a precocious teenager who flirts with her much-older neighbor (played by Timothy Hutton) in the ensemble comedy-drama Beautiful Girls (1996). Janet Maslin of The New York Times wrote, "Portman, a budding knockout, is scene-stealingly good even in an overly showy role." She subsequently went back to Stagedoor Manor to appear in a production of the musical Cabaret. Also in 1996, Portman had brief roles in Woody Allen's musical Everyone Says I Love You and Tim Burton's comic science fiction film Mars Attacks!.	In which film did you portray the suicidal stepdaughter of Al Pacino's character?	I portrayed the suicidal stepdaughter in the action film Heat (1995).
After filming The Professional, Portman went back to school and during the summer break of 1994, she filmed a part in Marya Cohn's short film Developing. In it she played a young girl coping with her mother's (played by Frances Conroy) cancer. She also enrolled at the Stagedoor Manor performing arts camp, where she played Anne Shirley in a staging of Anne of Green Gables. Michael Mann offered her the small part of the suicidal stepdaughter of Al Pacino's character in the action film Heat (1995) for her ability to portray dysfunction without hysteria. Impressed by her performance in The Professional, the director Ted Demme cast her as a precocious teenager who flirts with her much-older neighbor (played by Timothy Hutton) in the ensemble comedy-drama Beautiful Girls (1996). Janet Maslin of The New York Times wrote, "Portman, a budding knockout, is scene-stealingly good even in an overly showy role." She subsequently went back to Stagedoor Manor to appear in a production of the musical Cabaret. Also in 1996, Portman had brief roles in Woody Allen's musical Everyone Says I Love You and Tim Burton's comic science fiction film Mars Attacks!.	Who directed the ensemble comedy-drama Beautiful Girls?	The ensemble comedy-drama Beautiful Girls was directed by Ted Demme.
After filming The Professional, Portman went back to school and during the summer break of 1994, she filmed a part in Marya Cohn's short film Developing. In it she played a young girl coping with her mother's (played by Frances Conroy) cancer. She also enrolled at the Stagedoor Manor performing arts camp, where she played Anne Shirley in a staging of Anne of Green Gables. Michael Mann offered her the small part of the suicidal stepdaughter of Al Pacino's character in the action film Heat (1995) for her ability to portray dysfunction without hysteria. Impressed by her performance in The Professional, the director Ted Demme cast her as a precocious teenager who flirts with her much-older neighbor (played by Timothy Hutton) in the ensemble comedy-drama Beautiful Girls (1996). Janet Maslin of The New York Times wrote, "Portman, a budding knockout, is scene-stealingly good even in an overly showy role." She subsequently went back to Stagedoor Manor to appear in a production of the musical Cabaret. Also in 1996, Portman had brief roles in Woody Allen's musical Everyone Says I Love You and Tim Burton's comic science fiction film Mars Attacks!.	What role did you play in Beautiful Girls?	I played a precocious teenager who flirts with her much-older neighbor.
Portman was cast opposite Leonardo DiCaprio in Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet (1996), but she dropped out during rehearsals when studio executives found her too young for the role. Luhrmann said "Natalie was amazing in the footage, but it was too much of a burden for her at that age". She was also offered Adrian Lyne's Lolita, based on the novel of the same name, but she turned down the part due to its excessive sexual content. She later bemoaned that her parts in The Professional and Beautiful Girls prompted a series of offers to play a sexualized youngster, adding that it "dictated a lot of my choices afterwards 'cos it scared me ... it made me reluctant to do sexy stuff". Portman instead signed on to star as Anne Frank in a Broadway adaptation of The Diary of Anne Frank, which was staged at the Music Box Theatre from December 1997 to May 1998. In preparation, she twice visited the Anne Frank House in Amsterdam and interacted with Miep Gies, who had preserved Anne's diary after the family was captured; she found a connection with Frank's story, given her own family's history with the Holocaust. Reviewing the production for Variety, Greg Evans disliked her portrayal, which he thought had "little of the charm, budding genius or even brittle intelligence that the diary itself reveals". Conversely, Ben Brantley found an "ineffable grace in her awkwardness". The experience of performing the play was emotionally draining for her, as she attended high school during the day and performed at night; she wrote personal essays in Time and Seventeen magazines about her experience.	Who were you cast opposite in Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet?	I was cast opposite Leonardo DiCaprio.
Portman was cast opposite Leonardo DiCaprio in Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet (1996), but she dropped out during rehearsals when studio executives found her too young for the role. Luhrmann said "Natalie was amazing in the footage, but it was too much of a burden for her at that age". She was also offered Adrian Lyne's Lolita, based on the novel of the same name, but she turned down the part due to its excessive sexual content. She later bemoaned that her parts in The Professional and Beautiful Girls prompted a series of offers to play a sexualized youngster, adding that it "dictated a lot of my choices afterwards 'cos it scared me ... it made me reluctant to do sexy stuff". Portman instead signed on to star as Anne Frank in a Broadway adaptation of The Diary of Anne Frank, which was staged at the Music Box Theatre from December 1997 to May 1998. In preparation, she twice visited the Anne Frank House in Amsterdam and interacted with Miep Gies, who had preserved Anne's diary after the family was captured; she found a connection with Frank's story, given her own family's history with the Holocaust. Reviewing the production for Variety, Greg Evans disliked her portrayal, which he thought had "little of the charm, budding genius or even brittle intelligence that the diary itself reveals". Conversely, Ben Brantley found an "ineffable grace in her awkwardness". The experience of performing the play was emotionally draining for her, as she attended high school during the day and performed at night; she wrote personal essays in Time and Seventeen magazines about her experience.	Why did you drop out of Romeo + Juliet during rehearsals?	I dropped out because studio executives found me too young for the role.
Portman was cast opposite Leonardo DiCaprio in Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet (1996), but she dropped out during rehearsals when studio executives found her too young for the role. Luhrmann said "Natalie was amazing in the footage, but it was too much of a burden for her at that age". She was also offered Adrian Lyne's Lolita, based on the novel of the same name, but she turned down the part due to its excessive sexual content. She later bemoaned that her parts in The Professional and Beautiful Girls prompted a series of offers to play a sexualized youngster, adding that it "dictated a lot of my choices afterwards 'cos it scared me ... it made me reluctant to do sexy stuff". Portman instead signed on to star as Anne Frank in a Broadway adaptation of The Diary of Anne Frank, which was staged at the Music Box Theatre from December 1997 to May 1998. In preparation, she twice visited the Anne Frank House in Amsterdam and interacted with Miep Gies, who had preserved Anne's diary after the family was captured; she found a connection with Frank's story, given her own family's history with the Holocaust. Reviewing the production for Variety, Greg Evans disliked her portrayal, which he thought had "little of the charm, budding genius or even brittle intelligence that the diary itself reveals". Conversely, Ben Brantley found an "ineffable grace in her awkwardness". The experience of performing the play was emotionally draining for her, as she attended high school during the day and performed at night; she wrote personal essays in Time and Seventeen magazines about her experience.	Which role did you turn down in Adrian Lyne's Lolita?	I turned down the role in Adrian Lyne's Lolita due to its excessive sexual content.
Portman was cast opposite Leonardo DiCaprio in Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet (1996), but she dropped out during rehearsals when studio executives found her too young for the role. Luhrmann said "Natalie was amazing in the footage, but it was too much of a burden for her at that age". She was also offered Adrian Lyne's Lolita, based on the novel of the same name, but she turned down the part due to its excessive sexual content. She later bemoaned that her parts in The Professional and Beautiful Girls prompted a series of offers to play a sexualized youngster, adding that it "dictated a lot of my choices afterwards 'cos it scared me ... it made me reluctant to do sexy stuff". Portman instead signed on to star as Anne Frank in a Broadway adaptation of The Diary of Anne Frank, which was staged at the Music Box Theatre from December 1997 to May 1998. In preparation, she twice visited the Anne Frank House in Amsterdam and interacted with Miep Gies, who had preserved Anne's diary after the family was captured; she found a connection with Frank's story, given her own family's history with the Holocaust. Reviewing the production for Variety, Greg Evans disliked her portrayal, which he thought had "little of the charm, budding genius or even brittle intelligence that the diary itself reveals". Conversely, Ben Brantley found an "ineffable grace in her awkwardness". The experience of performing the play was emotionally draining for her, as she attended high school during the day and performed at night; she wrote personal essays in Time and Seventeen magazines about her experience.	What did you say about your parts in The Professional and Beautiful Girls?	I mentioned that my parts in The Professional and Beautiful Girls led to offers to play sexualized youngster roles, which scared me and made me reluctant to do similar roles.
Portman was cast opposite Leonardo DiCaprio in Baz Luhrmann's Romeo + Juliet (1996), but she dropped out during rehearsals when studio executives found her too young for the role. Luhrmann said "Natalie was amazing in the footage, but it was too much of a burden for her at that age". She was also offered Adrian Lyne's Lolita, based on the novel of the same name, but she turned down the part due to its excessive sexual content. She later bemoaned that her parts in The Professional and Beautiful Girls prompted a series of offers to play a sexualized youngster, adding that it "dictated a lot of my choices afterwards 'cos it scared me ... it made me reluctant to do sexy stuff". Portman instead signed on to star as Anne Frank in a Broadway adaptation of The Diary of Anne Frank, which was staged at the Music Box Theatre from December 1997 to May 1998. In preparation, she twice visited the Anne Frank House in Amsterdam and interacted with Miep Gies, who had preserved Anne's diary after the family was captured; she found a connection with Frank's story, given her own family's history with the Holocaust. Reviewing the production for Variety, Greg Evans disliked her portrayal, which he thought had "little of the charm, budding genius or even brittle intelligence that the diary itself reveals". Conversely, Ben Brantley found an "ineffable grace in her awkwardness". The experience of performing the play was emotionally draining for her, as she attended high school during the day and performed at night; she wrote personal essays in Time and Seventeen magazines about her experience.	Which role did you sign on to star as in a Broadway adaptation?	I signed on to star as Anne Frank in a Broadway adaptation of The Diary of Anne Frank.
Portman ' s sole screen appearance in 2000 was in Where the Heart Is , a romantic drama filmed in Texas , in which she played a pregnant teenager . After finishing work on the film , she began attending Harvard University to pursue her bachelor ' s degree in psychology , and significantly reduced her acting roles over the next few years . She studied advanced Hebrew literature and neurobiology , and she served as Alan Dershowitz ' s research assistant . In the summer of 2001 , she returned to Broadway ( at the Delacorte Theater ) to perform Chekhov ' s drama The Seagull , which was directed by Mike Nichols and co - starred Meryl Streep and Philip Seymour Hoffman . Linda Winer of Newsday wrote that the " major surprises come from Portman , whose Nina transforms with astonishing lyricism from the girl with ambition to Chekhov ' s most difficult symbol of destruction " . Also in 2001 , Portman was among several celebrities who made cameo appearances in the comedy Zoolander . The following year she reprised her role of Amidala in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones , which she had filmed in Sydney and London during her summer break of 2000 . She was excited by the opportunity to play a confident young woman who did not depend on the male lead . When asked about balancing her career and education , she said , " I don ' t care if [ college ] ruins my career . I ' d rather be smart than a movie star . " In 2002 , she contributed to a study on memory called " Frontal lobe activation during object permanence : data from near - infrared spectroscopy " . Portman graduated from Harvard in 2003 and her sole screen appearance that year was in the brief part of a young mother in the war film Cold Mountain .	What was your sole screen appearance in 2000?	My sole screen appearance in 2000 was in the romantic drama film "Where the Heart Is".
Portman ' s sole screen appearance in 2000 was in Where the Heart Is , a romantic drama filmed in Texas , in which she played a pregnant teenager . After finishing work on the film , she began attending Harvard University to pursue her bachelor ' s degree in psychology , and significantly reduced her acting roles over the next few years . She studied advanced Hebrew literature and neurobiology , and she served as Alan Dershowitz ' s research assistant . In the summer of 2001 , she returned to Broadway ( at the Delacorte Theater ) to perform Chekhov ' s drama The Seagull , which was directed by Mike Nichols and co - starred Meryl Streep and Philip Seymour Hoffman . Linda Winer of Newsday wrote that the " major surprises come from Portman , whose Nina transforms with astonishing lyricism from the girl with ambition to Chekhov ' s most difficult symbol of destruction " . Also in 2001 , Portman was among several celebrities who made cameo appearances in the comedy Zoolander . The following year she reprised her role of Amidala in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones , which she had filmed in Sydney and London during her summer break of 2000 . She was excited by the opportunity to play a confident young woman who did not depend on the male lead . When asked about balancing her career and education , she said , " I don ' t care if [ college ] ruins my career . I ' d rather be smart than a movie star . " In 2002 , she contributed to a study on memory called " Frontal lobe activation during object permanence : data from near - infrared spectroscopy " . Portman graduated from Harvard in 2003 and her sole screen appearance that year was in the brief part of a young mother in the war film Cold Mountain .	What did you study at Harvard University?	I studied advanced Hebrew literature and neurobiology at Harvard University.
Portman ' s sole screen appearance in 2000 was in Where the Heart Is , a romantic drama filmed in Texas , in which she played a pregnant teenager . After finishing work on the film , she began attending Harvard University to pursue her bachelor ' s degree in psychology , and significantly reduced her acting roles over the next few years . She studied advanced Hebrew literature and neurobiology , and she served as Alan Dershowitz ' s research assistant . In the summer of 2001 , she returned to Broadway ( at the Delacorte Theater ) to perform Chekhov ' s drama The Seagull , which was directed by Mike Nichols and co - starred Meryl Streep and Philip Seymour Hoffman . Linda Winer of Newsday wrote that the " major surprises come from Portman , whose Nina transforms with astonishing lyricism from the girl with ambition to Chekhov ' s most difficult symbol of destruction " . Also in 2001 , Portman was among several celebrities who made cameo appearances in the comedy Zoolander . The following year she reprised her role of Amidala in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones , which she had filmed in Sydney and London during her summer break of 2000 . She was excited by the opportunity to play a confident young woman who did not depend on the male lead . When asked about balancing her career and education , she said , " I don ' t care if [ college ] ruins my career . I ' d rather be smart than a movie star . " In 2002 , she contributed to a study on memory called " Frontal lobe activation during object permanence : data from near - infrared spectroscopy " . Portman graduated from Harvard in 2003 and her sole screen appearance that year was in the brief part of a young mother in the war film Cold Mountain .	In which Broadway play did you perform in the summer of 2001?	I performed in Chekhov's drama "The Seagull" at the Delacorte Theater in the summer of 2001.
Portman ' s sole screen appearance in 2000 was in Where the Heart Is , a romantic drama filmed in Texas , in which she played a pregnant teenager . After finishing work on the film , she began attending Harvard University to pursue her bachelor ' s degree in psychology , and significantly reduced her acting roles over the next few years . She studied advanced Hebrew literature and neurobiology , and she served as Alan Dershowitz ' s research assistant . In the summer of 2001 , she returned to Broadway ( at the Delacorte Theater ) to perform Chekhov ' s drama The Seagull , which was directed by Mike Nichols and co - starred Meryl Streep and Philip Seymour Hoffman . Linda Winer of Newsday wrote that the " major surprises come from Portman , whose Nina transforms with astonishing lyricism from the girl with ambition to Chekhov ' s most difficult symbol of destruction " . Also in 2001 , Portman was among several celebrities who made cameo appearances in the comedy Zoolander . The following year she reprised her role of Amidala in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones , which she had filmed in Sydney and London during her summer break of 2000 . She was excited by the opportunity to play a confident young woman who did not depend on the male lead . When asked about balancing her career and education , she said , " I don ' t care if [ college ] ruins my career . I ' d rather be smart than a movie star . " In 2002 , she contributed to a study on memory called " Frontal lobe activation during object permanence : data from near - infrared spectroscopy " . Portman graduated from Harvard in 2003 and her sole screen appearance that year was in the brief part of a young mother in the war film Cold Mountain .	Who directed the Broadway play "The Seagull"?	The Broadway play "The Seagull" was directed by Mike Nichols.
Portman ' s sole screen appearance in 2000 was in Where the Heart Is , a romantic drama filmed in Texas , in which she played a pregnant teenager . After finishing work on the film , she began attending Harvard University to pursue her bachelor ' s degree in psychology , and significantly reduced her acting roles over the next few years . She studied advanced Hebrew literature and neurobiology , and she served as Alan Dershowitz ' s research assistant . In the summer of 2001 , she returned to Broadway ( at the Delacorte Theater ) to perform Chekhov ' s drama The Seagull , which was directed by Mike Nichols and co - starred Meryl Streep and Philip Seymour Hoffman . Linda Winer of Newsday wrote that the " major surprises come from Portman , whose Nina transforms with astonishing lyricism from the girl with ambition to Chekhov ' s most difficult symbol of destruction " . Also in 2001 , Portman was among several celebrities who made cameo appearances in the comedy Zoolander . The following year she reprised her role of Amidala in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones , which she had filmed in Sydney and London during her summer break of 2000 . She was excited by the opportunity to play a confident young woman who did not depend on the male lead . When asked about balancing her career and education , she said , " I don ' t care if [ college ] ruins my career . I ' d rather be smart than a movie star . " In 2002 , she contributed to a study on memory called " Frontal lobe activation during object permanence : data from near - infrared spectroscopy " . Portman graduated from Harvard in 2003 and her sole screen appearance that year was in the brief part of a young mother in the war film Cold Mountain .	In which Star Wars film did you reprise your role as Amidala?	I reprised my role as Amidala in "Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones".
Portman began 2004 by featuring in the romantic comedy Garden State , which was written and directed by its star Zach Braff . She was the first actor to sign on to the film after finding a connection with her part : a spirited young girl suffering from epilepsy . Her role in it was described by Nathan Rabin of The A . V . Club . as a prime example of the Manic Pixie Dream Girl character type – a stereotypical female role designed to spiritually help a male protagonist . Portman later said she found it upsetting to have contributed to the trope . She followed it by playing a mysterious stripper in Closer , a romantic drama directed by Mike Nichols based on the play of the same name , and co - starring Julia Roberts , Jude Law , and Clive Owen . Portman agreed to her first sexually explicit adult role after turning down such parts in the past , saying it reflected her own maturity as a person . She had also performed her first nude scenes for the film , but they were deleted from the final cut when she insisted that they were inessential to the story . Closer grossed over $ 115 million worldwide against a $ 27   million budget , and the critic Peter Travers took note of Portman ' s " blazing , breakthrough performance " , writing that she " digs so deep into the bruised core of her character that they seem to wear the same skin . " She won the Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actress and received an Academy Award nomination in the same category .	What was your first film in 2004?	Garden State.
Portman began 2004 by featuring in the romantic comedy Garden State , which was written and directed by its star Zach Braff . She was the first actor to sign on to the film after finding a connection with her part : a spirited young girl suffering from epilepsy . Her role in it was described by Nathan Rabin of The A . V . Club . as a prime example of the Manic Pixie Dream Girl character type – a stereotypical female role designed to spiritually help a male protagonist . Portman later said she found it upsetting to have contributed to the trope . She followed it by playing a mysterious stripper in Closer , a romantic drama directed by Mike Nichols based on the play of the same name , and co - starring Julia Roberts , Jude Law , and Clive Owen . Portman agreed to her first sexually explicit adult role after turning down such parts in the past , saying it reflected her own maturity as a person . She had also performed her first nude scenes for the film , but they were deleted from the final cut when she insisted that they were inessential to the story . Closer grossed over $ 115 million worldwide against a $ 27   million budget , and the critic Peter Travers took note of Portman ' s " blazing , breakthrough performance " , writing that she " digs so deep into the bruised core of her character that they seem to wear the same skin . " She won the Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actress and received an Academy Award nomination in the same category .	Who wrote and directed Garden State?	Zach Braff.
Portman began 2004 by featuring in the romantic comedy Garden State , which was written and directed by its star Zach Braff . She was the first actor to sign on to the film after finding a connection with her part : a spirited young girl suffering from epilepsy . Her role in it was described by Nathan Rabin of The A . V . Club . as a prime example of the Manic Pixie Dream Girl character type – a stereotypical female role designed to spiritually help a male protagonist . Portman later said she found it upsetting to have contributed to the trope . She followed it by playing a mysterious stripper in Closer , a romantic drama directed by Mike Nichols based on the play of the same name , and co - starring Julia Roberts , Jude Law , and Clive Owen . Portman agreed to her first sexually explicit adult role after turning down such parts in the past , saying it reflected her own maturity as a person . She had also performed her first nude scenes for the film , but they were deleted from the final cut when she insisted that they were inessential to the story . Closer grossed over $ 115 million worldwide against a $ 27   million budget , and the critic Peter Travers took note of Portman ' s " blazing , breakthrough performance " , writing that she " digs so deep into the bruised core of her character that they seem to wear the same skin . " She won the Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actress and received an Academy Award nomination in the same category .	What was your role in Garden State?	I played a spirited young girl suffering from epilepsy.
Portman began 2004 by featuring in the romantic comedy Garden State , which was written and directed by its star Zach Braff . She was the first actor to sign on to the film after finding a connection with her part : a spirited young girl suffering from epilepsy . Her role in it was described by Nathan Rabin of The A . V . Club . as a prime example of the Manic Pixie Dream Girl character type – a stereotypical female role designed to spiritually help a male protagonist . Portman later said she found it upsetting to have contributed to the trope . She followed it by playing a mysterious stripper in Closer , a romantic drama directed by Mike Nichols based on the play of the same name , and co - starring Julia Roberts , Jude Law , and Clive Owen . Portman agreed to her first sexually explicit adult role after turning down such parts in the past , saying it reflected her own maturity as a person . She had also performed her first nude scenes for the film , but they were deleted from the final cut when she insisted that they were inessential to the story . Closer grossed over $ 115 million worldwide against a $ 27   million budget , and the critic Peter Travers took note of Portman ' s " blazing , breakthrough performance " , writing that she " digs so deep into the bruised core of her character that they seem to wear the same skin . " She won the Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actress and received an Academy Award nomination in the same category .	How was your role in Garden State described by Nathan Rabin?	As a prime example of the Manic Pixie Dream Girl character type.
Portman began 2004 by featuring in the romantic comedy Garden State , which was written and directed by its star Zach Braff . She was the first actor to sign on to the film after finding a connection with her part : a spirited young girl suffering from epilepsy . Her role in it was described by Nathan Rabin of The A . V . Club . as a prime example of the Manic Pixie Dream Girl character type – a stereotypical female role designed to spiritually help a male protagonist . Portman later said she found it upsetting to have contributed to the trope . She followed it by playing a mysterious stripper in Closer , a romantic drama directed by Mike Nichols based on the play of the same name , and co - starring Julia Roberts , Jude Law , and Clive Owen . Portman agreed to her first sexually explicit adult role after turning down such parts in the past , saying it reflected her own maturity as a person . She had also performed her first nude scenes for the film , but they were deleted from the final cut when she insisted that they were inessential to the story . Closer grossed over $ 115 million worldwide against a $ 27   million budget , and the critic Peter Travers took note of Portman ' s " blazing , breakthrough performance " , writing that she " digs so deep into the bruised core of her character that they seem to wear the same skin . " She won the Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actress and received an Academy Award nomination in the same category .	What was your next film after Garden State?	Closer.
Star Wars : Episode III – Revenge of the Sith , the final installment of the Star Wars prequel trilogy , was Portman ' s first film release of 2005 . It earned over $ 848   million to rank as the second - highest - grossing film of the year . She next played a Jewish - American girl in Free Zone , a drama from Israeli filmmaker Amos Gitai . To prepare , she studied at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and read memoirs of Yitzhak Rabin , which she said allowed her to explore both the role and her own heritage . Controversy arose when she filmed a kissing scene at the Western Wall , where gender segregation is enforced , and she later issued an apology . Critics disliked the film for its heavy - handed approach to the conflicts in the Middle East . Portman ' s final film role in 2005 was that of Evey Hammond in the political thriller V for Vendetta , based on the comics of the same name , about an alternative future where a neo - fascist regime has subjugated the United Kingdom . She was drawn to the provocative nature of the script , and worked with a dialect coach to speak in an English accent . In a scene in which her character is tortured , her head was shaved on camera ; she considered it an opportunity to rid herself of vanity . Ruthe Stein of the San Francisco Chronicle deemed it Portman ' s strongest performance to that point , and remarked that she " keeps you focused on her words and actions instead of her bald head . " She was awarded the Saturn Award for Best Actress .	What was your first film release of 2005?	Star Wars: Episode III - Revenge of the Sith.
Star Wars : Episode III – Revenge of the Sith , the final installment of the Star Wars prequel trilogy , was Portman ' s first film release of 2005 . It earned over $ 848   million to rank as the second - highest - grossing film of the year . She next played a Jewish - American girl in Free Zone , a drama from Israeli filmmaker Amos Gitai . To prepare , she studied at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and read memoirs of Yitzhak Rabin , which she said allowed her to explore both the role and her own heritage . Controversy arose when she filmed a kissing scene at the Western Wall , where gender segregation is enforced , and she later issued an apology . Critics disliked the film for its heavy - handed approach to the conflicts in the Middle East . Portman ' s final film role in 2005 was that of Evey Hammond in the political thriller V for Vendetta , based on the comics of the same name , about an alternative future where a neo - fascist regime has subjugated the United Kingdom . She was drawn to the provocative nature of the script , and worked with a dialect coach to speak in an English accent . In a scene in which her character is tortured , her head was shaved on camera ; she considered it an opportunity to rid herself of vanity . Ruthe Stein of the San Francisco Chronicle deemed it Portman ' s strongest performance to that point , and remarked that she " keeps you focused on her words and actions instead of her bald head . " She was awarded the Saturn Award for Best Actress .	How much money did Star Wars: Episode III - Revenge of the Sith earn?	It earned over $848 million.
Star Wars : Episode III – Revenge of the Sith , the final installment of the Star Wars prequel trilogy , was Portman ' s first film release of 2005 . It earned over $ 848   million to rank as the second - highest - grossing film of the year . She next played a Jewish - American girl in Free Zone , a drama from Israeli filmmaker Amos Gitai . To prepare , she studied at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and read memoirs of Yitzhak Rabin , which she said allowed her to explore both the role and her own heritage . Controversy arose when she filmed a kissing scene at the Western Wall , where gender segregation is enforced , and she later issued an apology . Critics disliked the film for its heavy - handed approach to the conflicts in the Middle East . Portman ' s final film role in 2005 was that of Evey Hammond in the political thriller V for Vendetta , based on the comics of the same name , about an alternative future where a neo - fascist regime has subjugated the United Kingdom . She was drawn to the provocative nature of the script , and worked with a dialect coach to speak in an English accent . In a scene in which her character is tortured , her head was shaved on camera ; she considered it an opportunity to rid herself of vanity . Ruthe Stein of the San Francisco Chronicle deemed it Portman ' s strongest performance to that point , and remarked that she " keeps you focused on her words and actions instead of her bald head . " She was awarded the Saturn Award for Best Actress .	What role did you play in Free Zone?	I played a Jewish-American girl.
Star Wars : Episode III – Revenge of the Sith , the final installment of the Star Wars prequel trilogy , was Portman ' s first film release of 2005 . It earned over $ 848   million to rank as the second - highest - grossing film of the year . She next played a Jewish - American girl in Free Zone , a drama from Israeli filmmaker Amos Gitai . To prepare , she studied at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and read memoirs of Yitzhak Rabin , which she said allowed her to explore both the role and her own heritage . Controversy arose when she filmed a kissing scene at the Western Wall , where gender segregation is enforced , and she later issued an apology . Critics disliked the film for its heavy - handed approach to the conflicts in the Middle East . Portman ' s final film role in 2005 was that of Evey Hammond in the political thriller V for Vendetta , based on the comics of the same name , about an alternative future where a neo - fascist regime has subjugated the United Kingdom . She was drawn to the provocative nature of the script , and worked with a dialect coach to speak in an English accent . In a scene in which her character is tortured , her head was shaved on camera ; she considered it an opportunity to rid herself of vanity . Ruthe Stein of the San Francisco Chronicle deemed it Portman ' s strongest performance to that point , and remarked that she " keeps you focused on her words and actions instead of her bald head . " She was awarded the Saturn Award for Best Actress .	What did you do to prepare for your role in Free Zone?	I studied at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and read memoirs of Yitzhak Rabin.
Star Wars : Episode III – Revenge of the Sith , the final installment of the Star Wars prequel trilogy , was Portman ' s first film release of 2005 . It earned over $ 848   million to rank as the second - highest - grossing film of the year . She next played a Jewish - American girl in Free Zone , a drama from Israeli filmmaker Amos Gitai . To prepare , she studied at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and read memoirs of Yitzhak Rabin , which she said allowed her to explore both the role and her own heritage . Controversy arose when she filmed a kissing scene at the Western Wall , where gender segregation is enforced , and she later issued an apology . Critics disliked the film for its heavy - handed approach to the conflicts in the Middle East . Portman ' s final film role in 2005 was that of Evey Hammond in the political thriller V for Vendetta , based on the comics of the same name , about an alternative future where a neo - fascist regime has subjugated the United Kingdom . She was drawn to the provocative nature of the script , and worked with a dialect coach to speak in an English accent . In a scene in which her character is tortured , her head was shaved on camera ; she considered it an opportunity to rid herself of vanity . Ruthe Stein of the San Francisco Chronicle deemed it Portman ' s strongest performance to that point , and remarked that she " keeps you focused on her words and actions instead of her bald head . " She was awarded the Saturn Award for Best Actress .	What controversy arose during the filming of Free Zone?	The controversy arose when I filmed a kissing scene at the Western Wall, where gender segregation is enforced.
Portman began 2006 by hosting an episode of the television sketch comedy show Saturday Night Live . One of her sketches , a song named " Natalie ' s Rap " , was released later in 2009 on Incredibad , an album by the Lonely Island . In the anthology film Paris , je t ' aime , consisting of eighteen short films , she had a role in the segment named " Faubourg Saint - Denis " from director Tom Tykwer . Later that year , she starred in Milo š Forman ' s Goya ' s Ghosts , about the painter Francisco Goya . Forman cast her in the film after finding a resemblance between her and Goya ' s portrait The Milkmaid of Bordeaux . She insisted on using a body double for her nude scenes after discovering on set that she had to perform them when they were not originally in the script . It received predominantly negative reviews , but Roger Ebert was appreciative of Portman for playing her dual role " with fearless conviction " .	What television show did you host in 2006?	I hosted Saturday Night Live.
Portman began 2006 by hosting an episode of the television sketch comedy show Saturday Night Live . One of her sketches , a song named " Natalie ' s Rap " , was released later in 2009 on Incredibad , an album by the Lonely Island . In the anthology film Paris , je t ' aime , consisting of eighteen short films , she had a role in the segment named " Faubourg Saint - Denis " from director Tom Tykwer . Later that year , she starred in Milo š Forman ' s Goya ' s Ghosts , about the painter Francisco Goya . Forman cast her in the film after finding a resemblance between her and Goya ' s portrait The Milkmaid of Bordeaux . She insisted on using a body double for her nude scenes after discovering on set that she had to perform them when they were not originally in the script . It received predominantly negative reviews , but Roger Ebert was appreciative of Portman for playing her dual role " with fearless conviction " .	What was the name of the song that you released in 2009?	The song was named "Natalie's Rap".
Portman began 2006 by hosting an episode of the television sketch comedy show Saturday Night Live . One of her sketches , a song named " Natalie ' s Rap " , was released later in 2009 on Incredibad , an album by the Lonely Island . In the anthology film Paris , je t ' aime , consisting of eighteen short films , she had a role in the segment named " Faubourg Saint - Denis " from director Tom Tykwer . Later that year , she starred in Milo š Forman ' s Goya ' s Ghosts , about the painter Francisco Goya . Forman cast her in the film after finding a resemblance between her and Goya ' s portrait The Milkmaid of Bordeaux . She insisted on using a body double for her nude scenes after discovering on set that she had to perform them when they were not originally in the script . It received predominantly negative reviews , but Roger Ebert was appreciative of Portman for playing her dual role " with fearless conviction " .	In which film did you have a role in the segment named "Faubourg Saint-Denis"?	I had a role in the segment named "Faubourg Saint-Denis" in the anthology film Paris, je t'aime.
Portman began 2006 by hosting an episode of the television sketch comedy show Saturday Night Live . One of her sketches , a song named " Natalie ' s Rap " , was released later in 2009 on Incredibad , an album by the Lonely Island . In the anthology film Paris , je t ' aime , consisting of eighteen short films , she had a role in the segment named " Faubourg Saint - Denis " from director Tom Tykwer . Later that year , she starred in Milo š Forman ' s Goya ' s Ghosts , about the painter Francisco Goya . Forman cast her in the film after finding a resemblance between her and Goya ' s portrait The Milkmaid of Bordeaux . She insisted on using a body double for her nude scenes after discovering on set that she had to perform them when they were not originally in the script . It received predominantly negative reviews , but Roger Ebert was appreciative of Portman for playing her dual role " with fearless conviction " .	Who directed the film Goya's Ghosts, in which you starred?	Miloš Forman directed the film Goya's Ghosts.
Portman began 2006 by hosting an episode of the television sketch comedy show Saturday Night Live . One of her sketches , a song named " Natalie ' s Rap " , was released later in 2009 on Incredibad , an album by the Lonely Island . In the anthology film Paris , je t ' aime , consisting of eighteen short films , she had a role in the segment named " Faubourg Saint - Denis " from director Tom Tykwer . Later that year , she starred in Milo š Forman ' s Goya ' s Ghosts , about the painter Francisco Goya . Forman cast her in the film after finding a resemblance between her and Goya ' s portrait The Milkmaid of Bordeaux . She insisted on using a body double for her nude scenes after discovering on set that she had to perform them when they were not originally in the script . It received predominantly negative reviews , but Roger Ebert was appreciative of Portman for playing her dual role " with fearless conviction " .	Why did you insist on using a body double for your nude scenes in Goya's Ghosts?	I insisted on using a body double for my nude scenes in Goya's Ghosts after discovering on set that they were not originally in the script.
Portman began 2007 by replacing Jodie Foster in Wong Kar - wai ' s romantic drama My Blueberry Nights , which was his first English - language film . For her role as a gambler , she trained with a poker coach . Richard Corliss of Time magazine believed that " for once she ' s not playing a waif or a child princess but a mature , full - bodied woman " and commended her " vibrancy , grittiness and ache , all performed with a virtuosa ' s easy assurance " . Her next appearance was in Hotel Chevalier , a short film from Wes Anderson , which served as a prologue to his feature The Darjeeling Limited ( in which Portman had a cameo ) . In the short , she and Jason Schwartzman play former lovers who reunite in a Paris hotel room . For the first time , Portman performed an extended nude scene ; she was later disappointed at the undue focus on it and she subsequently swore off appearing nude again . Keen to work in different genres , Portman accepted a role in the children ' s film Mr . Magorium ' s Wonder Emporium , playing an employee of a magical toy store . She also appeared in Paul McCartney ' s music video " Dance Tonight " from his album Memory Almost Full , directed by Michel Gondry .	Who did you replace in Wong Kar-wai's romantic drama, My Blueberry Nights?	Jodie Foster
Portman began 2007 by replacing Jodie Foster in Wong Kar - wai ' s romantic drama My Blueberry Nights , which was his first English - language film . For her role as a gambler , she trained with a poker coach . Richard Corliss of Time magazine believed that " for once she ' s not playing a waif or a child princess but a mature , full - bodied woman " and commended her " vibrancy , grittiness and ache , all performed with a virtuosa ' s easy assurance " . Her next appearance was in Hotel Chevalier , a short film from Wes Anderson , which served as a prologue to his feature The Darjeeling Limited ( in which Portman had a cameo ) . In the short , she and Jason Schwartzman play former lovers who reunite in a Paris hotel room . For the first time , Portman performed an extended nude scene ; she was later disappointed at the undue focus on it and she subsequently swore off appearing nude again . Keen to work in different genres , Portman accepted a role in the children ' s film Mr . Magorium ' s Wonder Emporium , playing an employee of a magical toy store . She also appeared in Paul McCartney ' s music video " Dance Tonight " from his album Memory Almost Full , directed by Michel Gondry .	What type of coach did you train with for your role as a gambler?	A poker coach
Portman began 2007 by replacing Jodie Foster in Wong Kar - wai ' s romantic drama My Blueberry Nights , which was his first English - language film . For her role as a gambler , she trained with a poker coach . Richard Corliss of Time magazine believed that " for once she ' s not playing a waif or a child princess but a mature , full - bodied woman " and commended her " vibrancy , grittiness and ache , all performed with a virtuosa ' s easy assurance " . Her next appearance was in Hotel Chevalier , a short film from Wes Anderson , which served as a prologue to his feature The Darjeeling Limited ( in which Portman had a cameo ) . In the short , she and Jason Schwartzman play former lovers who reunite in a Paris hotel room . For the first time , Portman performed an extended nude scene ; she was later disappointed at the undue focus on it and she subsequently swore off appearing nude again . Keen to work in different genres , Portman accepted a role in the children ' s film Mr . Magorium ' s Wonder Emporium , playing an employee of a magical toy store . She also appeared in Paul McCartney ' s music video " Dance Tonight " from his album Memory Almost Full , directed by Michel Gondry .	According to Richard Corliss, what kind of character did you portray in My Blueberry Nights?	A mature, full-bodied woman
Portman began 2007 by replacing Jodie Foster in Wong Kar - wai ' s romantic drama My Blueberry Nights , which was his first English - language film . For her role as a gambler , she trained with a poker coach . Richard Corliss of Time magazine believed that " for once she ' s not playing a waif or a child princess but a mature , full - bodied woman " and commended her " vibrancy , grittiness and ache , all performed with a virtuosa ' s easy assurance " . Her next appearance was in Hotel Chevalier , a short film from Wes Anderson , which served as a prologue to his feature The Darjeeling Limited ( in which Portman had a cameo ) . In the short , she and Jason Schwartzman play former lovers who reunite in a Paris hotel room . For the first time , Portman performed an extended nude scene ; she was later disappointed at the undue focus on it and she subsequently swore off appearing nude again . Keen to work in different genres , Portman accepted a role in the children ' s film Mr . Magorium ' s Wonder Emporium , playing an employee of a magical toy store . She also appeared in Paul McCartney ' s music video " Dance Tonight " from his album Memory Almost Full , directed by Michel Gondry .	Who directed the short film Hotel Chevalier in which you appeared?	Wes Anderson
Portman began 2007 by replacing Jodie Foster in Wong Kar - wai ' s romantic drama My Blueberry Nights , which was his first English - language film . For her role as a gambler , she trained with a poker coach . Richard Corliss of Time magazine believed that " for once she ' s not playing a waif or a child princess but a mature , full - bodied woman " and commended her " vibrancy , grittiness and ache , all performed with a virtuosa ' s easy assurance " . Her next appearance was in Hotel Chevalier , a short film from Wes Anderson , which served as a prologue to his feature The Darjeeling Limited ( in which Portman had a cameo ) . In the short , she and Jason Schwartzman play former lovers who reunite in a Paris hotel room . For the first time , Portman performed an extended nude scene ; she was later disappointed at the undue focus on it and she subsequently swore off appearing nude again . Keen to work in different genres , Portman accepted a role in the children ' s film Mr . Magorium ' s Wonder Emporium , playing an employee of a magical toy store . She also appeared in Paul McCartney ' s music video " Dance Tonight " from his album Memory Almost Full , directed by Michel Gondry .	In what type of store did your character work in the film Mr. Magorium's Wonder Emporium?	A magical toy store
In 2015 , Portman appeared alongside an ensemble cast , including Christian Bale , in Terrence Malick ' s experimental drama film Knight of Cups , which marked her first project after giving birth . She shot for it within a week of returning to work and she did not receive a traditional script or dialogues , improvising most of her scenes with Bale . She said that shooting with Malick influenced her own directorial venture , A Tale of Love and Darkness which was released in the same year . Based on Israeli author Amos Oz ' s autobiographical novel of the same name which is set in Jerusalem during the last years of the British Mandate of Palestine , the Hebrew - language film starred Portman who also produced and co - wrote it . She had wanted to adapt the book since she first read it a decade ago , but postponed it until she was old enough to play the leading role of a mother herself . She collaborated closely with Amos , showing him drafts of her script as she adapted the book . A . O . Scott of The New York Times found it to be a " conscientious adaptation of a difficult book " and was appreciative of Portman ' s potential as a filmmaker . She next produced and starred in the western film Jane Got a Gun about a young mother seeking vengeance . Initially scheduled to be directed by Lynne Ramsay , the production was plagued with numerous difficulties . Ramsay did not turn up on set for the first day of filming and was eventually replaced with Gavin O ' Connor . Michael Fassbender , Jude Law , and Bradley Cooper were all cast as the male lead , before Ewan McGregor played the part . Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian reviewed that Portman ' s " stately performance " was not enough to save the " laborious and solemn western " , and it grossed less than $ 4   million against its $ 25   million budget .	In what year did you appear in the film Knight of Cups?	In 2015.
In 2015 , Portman appeared alongside an ensemble cast , including Christian Bale , in Terrence Malick ' s experimental drama film Knight of Cups , which marked her first project after giving birth . She shot for it within a week of returning to work and she did not receive a traditional script or dialogues , improvising most of her scenes with Bale . She said that shooting with Malick influenced her own directorial venture , A Tale of Love and Darkness which was released in the same year . Based on Israeli author Amos Oz ' s autobiographical novel of the same name which is set in Jerusalem during the last years of the British Mandate of Palestine , the Hebrew - language film starred Portman who also produced and co - wrote it . She had wanted to adapt the book since she first read it a decade ago , but postponed it until she was old enough to play the leading role of a mother herself . She collaborated closely with Amos , showing him drafts of her script as she adapted the book . A . O . Scott of The New York Times found it to be a " conscientious adaptation of a difficult book " and was appreciative of Portman ' s potential as a filmmaker . She next produced and starred in the western film Jane Got a Gun about a young mother seeking vengeance . Initially scheduled to be directed by Lynne Ramsay , the production was plagued with numerous difficulties . Ramsay did not turn up on set for the first day of filming and was eventually replaced with Gavin O ' Connor . Michael Fassbender , Jude Law , and Bradley Cooper were all cast as the male lead , before Ewan McGregor played the part . Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian reviewed that Portman ' s " stately performance " was not enough to save the " laborious and solemn western " , and it grossed less than $ 4   million against its $ 25   million budget .	Who was the director of the film Knight of Cups?	Terrence Malick.
In 2015 , Portman appeared alongside an ensemble cast , including Christian Bale , in Terrence Malick ' s experimental drama film Knight of Cups , which marked her first project after giving birth . She shot for it within a week of returning to work and she did not receive a traditional script or dialogues , improvising most of her scenes with Bale . She said that shooting with Malick influenced her own directorial venture , A Tale of Love and Darkness which was released in the same year . Based on Israeli author Amos Oz ' s autobiographical novel of the same name which is set in Jerusalem during the last years of the British Mandate of Palestine , the Hebrew - language film starred Portman who also produced and co - wrote it . She had wanted to adapt the book since she first read it a decade ago , but postponed it until she was old enough to play the leading role of a mother herself . She collaborated closely with Amos , showing him drafts of her script as she adapted the book . A . O . Scott of The New York Times found it to be a " conscientious adaptation of a difficult book " and was appreciative of Portman ' s potential as a filmmaker . She next produced and starred in the western film Jane Got a Gun about a young mother seeking vengeance . Initially scheduled to be directed by Lynne Ramsay , the production was plagued with numerous difficulties . Ramsay did not turn up on set for the first day of filming and was eventually replaced with Gavin O ' Connor . Michael Fassbender , Jude Law , and Bradley Cooper were all cast as the male lead , before Ewan McGregor played the part . Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian reviewed that Portman ' s " stately performance " was not enough to save the " laborious and solemn western " , and it grossed less than $ 4   million against its $ 25   million budget .	What role did you play in the film Knight of Cups?	The specific role of mine in the film Knight of Cups is not mentioned.
In 2015 , Portman appeared alongside an ensemble cast , including Christian Bale , in Terrence Malick ' s experimental drama film Knight of Cups , which marked her first project after giving birth . She shot for it within a week of returning to work and she did not receive a traditional script or dialogues , improvising most of her scenes with Bale . She said that shooting with Malick influenced her own directorial venture , A Tale of Love and Darkness which was released in the same year . Based on Israeli author Amos Oz ' s autobiographical novel of the same name which is set in Jerusalem during the last years of the British Mandate of Palestine , the Hebrew - language film starred Portman who also produced and co - wrote it . She had wanted to adapt the book since she first read it a decade ago , but postponed it until she was old enough to play the leading role of a mother herself . She collaborated closely with Amos , showing him drafts of her script as she adapted the book . A . O . Scott of The New York Times found it to be a " conscientious adaptation of a difficult book " and was appreciative of Portman ' s potential as a filmmaker . She next produced and starred in the western film Jane Got a Gun about a young mother seeking vengeance . Initially scheduled to be directed by Lynne Ramsay , the production was plagued with numerous difficulties . Ramsay did not turn up on set for the first day of filming and was eventually replaced with Gavin O ' Connor . Michael Fassbender , Jude Law , and Bradley Cooper were all cast as the male lead , before Ewan McGregor played the part . Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian reviewed that Portman ' s " stately performance " was not enough to save the " laborious and solemn western " , and it grossed less than $ 4   million against its $ 25   million budget .	What was the name of your directorial venture released in the same year as Knight of Cups?	A Tale of Love and Darkness.
In 2015 , Portman appeared alongside an ensemble cast , including Christian Bale , in Terrence Malick ' s experimental drama film Knight of Cups , which marked her first project after giving birth . She shot for it within a week of returning to work and she did not receive a traditional script or dialogues , improvising most of her scenes with Bale . She said that shooting with Malick influenced her own directorial venture , A Tale of Love and Darkness which was released in the same year . Based on Israeli author Amos Oz ' s autobiographical novel of the same name which is set in Jerusalem during the last years of the British Mandate of Palestine , the Hebrew - language film starred Portman who also produced and co - wrote it . She had wanted to adapt the book since she first read it a decade ago , but postponed it until she was old enough to play the leading role of a mother herself . She collaborated closely with Amos , showing him drafts of her script as she adapted the book . A . O . Scott of The New York Times found it to be a " conscientious adaptation of a difficult book " and was appreciative of Portman ' s potential as a filmmaker . She next produced and starred in the western film Jane Got a Gun about a young mother seeking vengeance . Initially scheduled to be directed by Lynne Ramsay , the production was plagued with numerous difficulties . Ramsay did not turn up on set for the first day of filming and was eventually replaced with Gavin O ' Connor . Michael Fassbender , Jude Law , and Bradley Cooper were all cast as the male lead , before Ewan McGregor played the part . Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian reviewed that Portman ' s " stately performance " was not enough to save the " laborious and solemn western " , and it grossed less than $ 4   million against its $ 25   million budget .	Whose autobiographical novel was A Tale of Love and Darkness based on?	The autobiographical novel was based on the book by Israeli author Amos Oz.
In 2018 , Portman starred in the science fiction film Annihilation , based on Jeff VanderMeer ' s novel . She played a biologist and former soldier who studies a mysterious quarantined zone of mutating organisms . She was pleased to headline a rare female - led science fiction film , and she moved her family near Pinewood Studios during filming . For the action sequences , she underwent movement training with the dancer Bobbi Jene Smith . Benjamin Lee of The Guardian took note of Portman ' s " strong , fiercely compelling presence " and commended her for playing the part without unnecessary sentimentality . It only received a limited theatrical release and was distributed on Netflix internationally . Her next appearance was in Xavier Dolan ' s first English - language film , the ensemble drama The Death & Life of John F . Donovan ( 2018 ) , which was termed a " shocking misfire " by Eric Kohn of IndieWire . She then starred as a troubled pop singer in Vox Lux , sharing the part with Raffey Cassidy . She was drawn to the idea of showcasing the negative effects of fame , and in preparation , she watched documentaries on musicians and listened to the music of Sia , who wrote her songs in the film . For the climactic dance routines , she trained with her husband , Benjamin Millepied , who choreographed the sequence . It received mixed reviews from critics , but Portman ' s performance earned unanimous praise . Comparing it to her performances in Black Swan and Jackie , Robbie Collin of The Daily Telegraph wrote that " this role has a similar audacity and extravagance that few actresses would dare attempt , let alone be allowed to get away with " .	What science fiction film did you star in in 2018?	I starred in the film Annihilation in 2018.
In 2018 , Portman starred in the science fiction film Annihilation , based on Jeff VanderMeer ' s novel . She played a biologist and former soldier who studies a mysterious quarantined zone of mutating organisms . She was pleased to headline a rare female - led science fiction film , and she moved her family near Pinewood Studios during filming . For the action sequences , she underwent movement training with the dancer Bobbi Jene Smith . Benjamin Lee of The Guardian took note of Portman ' s " strong , fiercely compelling presence " and commended her for playing the part without unnecessary sentimentality . It only received a limited theatrical release and was distributed on Netflix internationally . Her next appearance was in Xavier Dolan ' s first English - language film , the ensemble drama The Death & Life of John F . Donovan ( 2018 ) , which was termed a " shocking misfire " by Eric Kohn of IndieWire . She then starred as a troubled pop singer in Vox Lux , sharing the part with Raffey Cassidy . She was drawn to the idea of showcasing the negative effects of fame , and in preparation , she watched documentaries on musicians and listened to the music of Sia , who wrote her songs in the film . For the climactic dance routines , she trained with her husband , Benjamin Millepied , who choreographed the sequence . It received mixed reviews from critics , but Portman ' s performance earned unanimous praise . Comparing it to her performances in Black Swan and Jackie , Robbie Collin of The Daily Telegraph wrote that " this role has a similar audacity and extravagance that few actresses would dare attempt , let alone be allowed to get away with " .	What was your role in Annihilation?	I played a biologist and former soldier in the film Annihilation.
In 2018 , Portman starred in the science fiction film Annihilation , based on Jeff VanderMeer ' s novel . She played a biologist and former soldier who studies a mysterious quarantined zone of mutating organisms . She was pleased to headline a rare female - led science fiction film , and she moved her family near Pinewood Studios during filming . For the action sequences , she underwent movement training with the dancer Bobbi Jene Smith . Benjamin Lee of The Guardian took note of Portman ' s " strong , fiercely compelling presence " and commended her for playing the part without unnecessary sentimentality . It only received a limited theatrical release and was distributed on Netflix internationally . Her next appearance was in Xavier Dolan ' s first English - language film , the ensemble drama The Death & Life of John F . Donovan ( 2018 ) , which was termed a " shocking misfire " by Eric Kohn of IndieWire . She then starred as a troubled pop singer in Vox Lux , sharing the part with Raffey Cassidy . She was drawn to the idea of showcasing the negative effects of fame , and in preparation , she watched documentaries on musicians and listened to the music of Sia , who wrote her songs in the film . For the climactic dance routines , she trained with her husband , Benjamin Millepied , who choreographed the sequence . It received mixed reviews from critics , but Portman ' s performance earned unanimous praise . Comparing it to her performances in Black Swan and Jackie , Robbie Collin of The Daily Telegraph wrote that " this role has a similar audacity and extravagance that few actresses would dare attempt , let alone be allowed to get away with " .	Why were you pleased to star in Annihilation?	I was pleased to headline a rare female-led science fiction film.
In 2018 , Portman starred in the science fiction film Annihilation , based on Jeff VanderMeer ' s novel . She played a biologist and former soldier who studies a mysterious quarantined zone of mutating organisms . She was pleased to headline a rare female - led science fiction film , and she moved her family near Pinewood Studios during filming . For the action sequences , she underwent movement training with the dancer Bobbi Jene Smith . Benjamin Lee of The Guardian took note of Portman ' s " strong , fiercely compelling presence " and commended her for playing the part without unnecessary sentimentality . It only received a limited theatrical release and was distributed on Netflix internationally . Her next appearance was in Xavier Dolan ' s first English - language film , the ensemble drama The Death & Life of John F . Donovan ( 2018 ) , which was termed a " shocking misfire " by Eric Kohn of IndieWire . She then starred as a troubled pop singer in Vox Lux , sharing the part with Raffey Cassidy . She was drawn to the idea of showcasing the negative effects of fame , and in preparation , she watched documentaries on musicians and listened to the music of Sia , who wrote her songs in the film . For the climactic dance routines , she trained with her husband , Benjamin Millepied , who choreographed the sequence . It received mixed reviews from critics , but Portman ' s performance earned unanimous praise . Comparing it to her performances in Black Swan and Jackie , Robbie Collin of The Daily Telegraph wrote that " this role has a similar audacity and extravagance that few actresses would dare attempt , let alone be allowed to get away with " .	What was your next appearance after Annihilation?	My next appearance was in Xavier Dolan's film The Death & Life of John F. Donovan.
In 2018 , Portman starred in the science fiction film Annihilation , based on Jeff VanderMeer ' s novel . She played a biologist and former soldier who studies a mysterious quarantined zone of mutating organisms . She was pleased to headline a rare female - led science fiction film , and she moved her family near Pinewood Studios during filming . For the action sequences , she underwent movement training with the dancer Bobbi Jene Smith . Benjamin Lee of The Guardian took note of Portman ' s " strong , fiercely compelling presence " and commended her for playing the part without unnecessary sentimentality . It only received a limited theatrical release and was distributed on Netflix internationally . Her next appearance was in Xavier Dolan ' s first English - language film , the ensemble drama The Death & Life of John F . Donovan ( 2018 ) , which was termed a " shocking misfire " by Eric Kohn of IndieWire . She then starred as a troubled pop singer in Vox Lux , sharing the part with Raffey Cassidy . She was drawn to the idea of showcasing the negative effects of fame , and in preparation , she watched documentaries on musicians and listened to the music of Sia , who wrote her songs in the film . For the climactic dance routines , she trained with her husband , Benjamin Millepied , who choreographed the sequence . It received mixed reviews from critics , but Portman ' s performance earned unanimous praise . Comparing it to her performances in Black Swan and Jackie , Robbie Collin of The Daily Telegraph wrote that " this role has a similar audacity and extravagance that few actresses would dare attempt , let alone be allowed to get away with " .	Who did you train with for the dance routines in Vox Lux?	I trained with my husband, Benjamin Millepied, for the dance routines in Vox Lux.
Unused footage from Thor : The Dark World and a new voice - over was used for Portman ' s brief appearance in the 2019 superhero film Avengers : Endgame . She then portrayed a psychologically troubled astronaut ( based on Lisa Nowak ) in the drama Lucy in the Sky , directed by Noah Hawley . She replaced the film ' s producer Reese Witherspoon , who backed out due to a scheduling conflict . The film was poorly received , though Portman ' s performance was praised . The following year , she narrated the Disney + nature documentary Dolphin Reef and voiced Jane Foster in the animated series What If ... ? . In 2022 , Portman reprised her role as Foster in the sequel Thor : Love and Thunder , in which her character becomes Mighty Thor . She agreed to return to the franchise after meeting with director Taika Waititi , who offered to portray her character in an " adventurous and fun and funny " way . Nick Allen at RogerEbert . com opined , " In both her human and her heroic state , Portman ’ s performance conveys why it ' s great to see Jane again . " In a 2022 readers ' poll by Empire magazine , Portman was voted one of the 50 greatest actors of all time .	What film did you briefly appear in by using unused footage from Thor: The Dark World?	I briefly appeared in Avengers: Endgame.
Unused footage from Thor : The Dark World and a new voice - over was used for Portman ' s brief appearance in the 2019 superhero film Avengers : Endgame . She then portrayed a psychologically troubled astronaut ( based on Lisa Nowak ) in the drama Lucy in the Sky , directed by Noah Hawley . She replaced the film ' s producer Reese Witherspoon , who backed out due to a scheduling conflict . The film was poorly received , though Portman ' s performance was praised . The following year , she narrated the Disney + nature documentary Dolphin Reef and voiced Jane Foster in the animated series What If ... ? . In 2022 , Portman reprised her role as Foster in the sequel Thor : Love and Thunder , in which her character becomes Mighty Thor . She agreed to return to the franchise after meeting with director Taika Waititi , who offered to portray her character in an " adventurous and fun and funny " way . Nick Allen at RogerEbert . com opined , " In both her human and her heroic state , Portman ’ s performance conveys why it ' s great to see Jane again . " In a 2022 readers ' poll by Empire magazine , Portman was voted one of the 50 greatest actors of all time .	Who directed the film Lucy in the Sky?	Noah Hawley directed the film Lucy in the Sky.
Unused footage from Thor : The Dark World and a new voice - over was used for Portman ' s brief appearance in the 2019 superhero film Avengers : Endgame . She then portrayed a psychologically troubled astronaut ( based on Lisa Nowak ) in the drama Lucy in the Sky , directed by Noah Hawley . She replaced the film ' s producer Reese Witherspoon , who backed out due to a scheduling conflict . The film was poorly received , though Portman ' s performance was praised . The following year , she narrated the Disney + nature documentary Dolphin Reef and voiced Jane Foster in the animated series What If ... ? . In 2022 , Portman reprised her role as Foster in the sequel Thor : Love and Thunder , in which her character becomes Mighty Thor . She agreed to return to the franchise after meeting with director Taika Waititi , who offered to portray her character in an " adventurous and fun and funny " way . Nick Allen at RogerEbert . com opined , " In both her human and her heroic state , Portman ’ s performance conveys why it ' s great to see Jane again . " In a 2022 readers ' poll by Empire magazine , Portman was voted one of the 50 greatest actors of all time .	Who did you replace as the producer of Lucy in the Sky?	I replaced Reese Witherspoon as the producer of Lucy in the Sky.
Unused footage from Thor : The Dark World and a new voice - over was used for Portman ' s brief appearance in the 2019 superhero film Avengers : Endgame . She then portrayed a psychologically troubled astronaut ( based on Lisa Nowak ) in the drama Lucy in the Sky , directed by Noah Hawley . She replaced the film ' s producer Reese Witherspoon , who backed out due to a scheduling conflict . The film was poorly received , though Portman ' s performance was praised . The following year , she narrated the Disney + nature documentary Dolphin Reef and voiced Jane Foster in the animated series What If ... ? . In 2022 , Portman reprised her role as Foster in the sequel Thor : Love and Thunder , in which her character becomes Mighty Thor . She agreed to return to the franchise after meeting with director Taika Waititi , who offered to portray her character in an " adventurous and fun and funny " way . Nick Allen at RogerEbert . com opined , " In both her human and her heroic state , Portman ’ s performance conveys why it ' s great to see Jane again . " In a 2022 readers ' poll by Empire magazine , Portman was voted one of the 50 greatest actors of all time .	What was the response to your film Lucy in the Sky?	My film Lucy in the Sky was poorly received.
Unused footage from Thor : The Dark World and a new voice - over was used for Portman ' s brief appearance in the 2019 superhero film Avengers : Endgame . She then portrayed a psychologically troubled astronaut ( based on Lisa Nowak ) in the drama Lucy in the Sky , directed by Noah Hawley . She replaced the film ' s producer Reese Witherspoon , who backed out due to a scheduling conflict . The film was poorly received , though Portman ' s performance was praised . The following year , she narrated the Disney + nature documentary Dolphin Reef and voiced Jane Foster in the animated series What If ... ? . In 2022 , Portman reprised her role as Foster in the sequel Thor : Love and Thunder , in which her character becomes Mighty Thor . She agreed to return to the franchise after meeting with director Taika Waititi , who offered to portray her character in an " adventurous and fun and funny " way . Nick Allen at RogerEbert . com opined , " In both her human and her heroic state , Portman ’ s performance conveys why it ' s great to see Jane again . " In a 2022 readers ' poll by Empire magazine , Portman was voted one of the 50 greatest actors of all time .	What nature documentary did you narrate?	I narrated the Disney+ nature documentary Dolphin Reef.
Portman has also supported anti - poverty causes . In 2004 and 2005 , she traveled to Uganda , Guatemala , and Ecuador as the Ambassador of Hope for FINCA International , an organization that promotes micro - lending to help finance women - owned businesses in developing countries . In an interview appearing on the PBS program Foreign Exchange with Fareed Zakaria , she discussed microfinance . Host Fareed Zakaria said that he was " generally wary of celebrities with fashionable causes " , but included the segment with Portman because " she really knew her stuff " . On This Week with George Stephanopoulos in April 2007 , Portman discussed her work with FINCA and how it can benefit women and children in Third World countries . In fall - 2007 , she visited several university campuses , including Harvard , USC , UCLA , UC Berkeley , Stanford , Princeton , New York University , and Columbia , to inspire students with the power of microfinance and to encourage them to join the Village Banking Campaign to help families and communities lift themselves out of poverty .	Where did you travel to as the Ambassador of Hope for FINCA International?	I traveled to Uganda, Guatemala, and Ecuador.
Portman has also supported anti - poverty causes . In 2004 and 2005 , she traveled to Uganda , Guatemala , and Ecuador as the Ambassador of Hope for FINCA International , an organization that promotes micro - lending to help finance women - owned businesses in developing countries . In an interview appearing on the PBS program Foreign Exchange with Fareed Zakaria , she discussed microfinance . Host Fareed Zakaria said that he was " generally wary of celebrities with fashionable causes " , but included the segment with Portman because " she really knew her stuff " . On This Week with George Stephanopoulos in April 2007 , Portman discussed her work with FINCA and how it can benefit women and children in Third World countries . In fall - 2007 , she visited several university campuses , including Harvard , USC , UCLA , UC Berkeley , Stanford , Princeton , New York University , and Columbia , to inspire students with the power of microfinance and to encourage them to join the Village Banking Campaign to help families and communities lift themselves out of poverty .	Which PBS program did you appear on to discuss microfinance?	Foreign Exchange with Fareed Zakaria.
Portman has also supported anti - poverty causes . In 2004 and 2005 , she traveled to Uganda , Guatemala , and Ecuador as the Ambassador of Hope for FINCA International , an organization that promotes micro - lending to help finance women - owned businesses in developing countries . In an interview appearing on the PBS program Foreign Exchange with Fareed Zakaria , she discussed microfinance . Host Fareed Zakaria said that he was " generally wary of celebrities with fashionable causes " , but included the segment with Portman because " she really knew her stuff " . On This Week with George Stephanopoulos in April 2007 , Portman discussed her work with FINCA and how it can benefit women and children in Third World countries . In fall - 2007 , she visited several university campuses , including Harvard , USC , UCLA , UC Berkeley , Stanford , Princeton , New York University , and Columbia , to inspire students with the power of microfinance and to encourage them to join the Village Banking Campaign to help families and communities lift themselves out of poverty .	Who interviewed you on the PBS program?	Fareed Zakaria.
Portman has also supported anti - poverty causes . In 2004 and 2005 , she traveled to Uganda , Guatemala , and Ecuador as the Ambassador of Hope for FINCA International , an organization that promotes micro - lending to help finance women - owned businesses in developing countries . In an interview appearing on the PBS program Foreign Exchange with Fareed Zakaria , she discussed microfinance . Host Fareed Zakaria said that he was " generally wary of celebrities with fashionable causes " , but included the segment with Portman because " she really knew her stuff " . On This Week with George Stephanopoulos in April 2007 , Portman discussed her work with FINCA and how it can benefit women and children in Third World countries . In fall - 2007 , she visited several university campuses , including Harvard , USC , UCLA , UC Berkeley , Stanford , Princeton , New York University , and Columbia , to inspire students with the power of microfinance and to encourage them to join the Village Banking Campaign to help families and communities lift themselves out of poverty .	What organization does FINCA International promote?	FINCA International promotes micro-lending.
Portman has also supported anti - poverty causes . In 2004 and 2005 , she traveled to Uganda , Guatemala , and Ecuador as the Ambassador of Hope for FINCA International , an organization that promotes micro - lending to help finance women - owned businesses in developing countries . In an interview appearing on the PBS program Foreign Exchange with Fareed Zakaria , she discussed microfinance . Host Fareed Zakaria said that he was " generally wary of celebrities with fashionable causes " , but included the segment with Portman because " she really knew her stuff " . On This Week with George Stephanopoulos in April 2007 , Portman discussed her work with FINCA and how it can benefit women and children in Third World countries . In fall - 2007 , she visited several university campuses , including Harvard , USC , UCLA , UC Berkeley , Stanford , Princeton , New York University , and Columbia , to inspire students with the power of microfinance and to encourage them to join the Village Banking Campaign to help families and communities lift themselves out of poverty .	What did you discuss on This Week with George Stephanopoulos?	I discussed my work with FINCA and how it can benefit women and children in Third World countries.
At Harvard , Portman wrote a letter to The Harvard Crimson in response to an essay critical of Israeli actions toward Palestinians . She has nevertheless criticized the Israeli government , specifically Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . Portman was critical of Netanyahu ' s re - election in 2015 , saying she was " disappointed " and often found his comments racist . In November 2017 , Portman was announced as the Genesis Prize recipient for 2018 , which includes $ 2 , 000 , 000 in prize money . The following April , Portman announced that she did not plan to attend the awards ceremony scheduled for June , citing " recent events in Israel " that left her feeling uncomfortable attending public events there . The ceremony was canceled . Portman further clarified that she was not boycotting Israel , explaining that she did not want to " appear as endorsing " Netanyahu , who was to give a speech at the ceremony . She is also a member of the One Voice movement .	Who wrote a letter to The Harvard Crimson?	I wrote a letter to The Harvard Crimson.
At Harvard , Portman wrote a letter to The Harvard Crimson in response to an essay critical of Israeli actions toward Palestinians . She has nevertheless criticized the Israeli government , specifically Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . Portman was critical of Netanyahu ' s re - election in 2015 , saying she was " disappointed " and often found his comments racist . In November 2017 , Portman was announced as the Genesis Prize recipient for 2018 , which includes $ 2 , 000 , 000 in prize money . The following April , Portman announced that she did not plan to attend the awards ceremony scheduled for June , citing " recent events in Israel " that left her feeling uncomfortable attending public events there . The ceremony was canceled . Portman further clarified that she was not boycotting Israel , explaining that she did not want to " appear as endorsing " Netanyahu , who was to give a speech at the ceremony . She is also a member of the One Voice movement .	What were you critical of?	I was critical of Netanyahu's re-election in 2015.
At Harvard , Portman wrote a letter to The Harvard Crimson in response to an essay critical of Israeli actions toward Palestinians . She has nevertheless criticized the Israeli government , specifically Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . Portman was critical of Netanyahu ' s re - election in 2015 , saying she was " disappointed " and often found his comments racist . In November 2017 , Portman was announced as the Genesis Prize recipient for 2018 , which includes $ 2 , 000 , 000 in prize money . The following April , Portman announced that she did not plan to attend the awards ceremony scheduled for June , citing " recent events in Israel " that left her feeling uncomfortable attending public events there . The ceremony was canceled . Portman further clarified that she was not boycotting Israel , explaining that she did not want to " appear as endorsing " Netanyahu , who was to give a speech at the ceremony . She is also a member of the One Voice movement .	What was your reason for not attending the awards ceremony?	I cited "recent events in Israel" that left me feeling uncomfortable attending public events there as my reason for not attending the awards ceremony.
At Harvard , Portman wrote a letter to The Harvard Crimson in response to an essay critical of Israeli actions toward Palestinians . She has nevertheless criticized the Israeli government , specifically Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . Portman was critical of Netanyahu ' s re - election in 2015 , saying she was " disappointed " and often found his comments racist . In November 2017 , Portman was announced as the Genesis Prize recipient for 2018 , which includes $ 2 , 000 , 000 in prize money . The following April , Portman announced that she did not plan to attend the awards ceremony scheduled for June , citing " recent events in Israel " that left her feeling uncomfortable attending public events there . The ceremony was canceled . Portman further clarified that she was not boycotting Israel , explaining that she did not want to " appear as endorsing " Netanyahu , who was to give a speech at the ceremony . She is also a member of the One Voice movement .	Did you boycott Israel?	I clarified that I was not boycotting Israel.
At Harvard , Portman wrote a letter to The Harvard Crimson in response to an essay critical of Israeli actions toward Palestinians . She has nevertheless criticized the Israeli government , specifically Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . Portman was critical of Netanyahu ' s re - election in 2015 , saying she was " disappointed " and often found his comments racist . In November 2017 , Portman was announced as the Genesis Prize recipient for 2018 , which includes $ 2 , 000 , 000 in prize money . The following April , Portman announced that she did not plan to attend the awards ceremony scheduled for June , citing " recent events in Israel " that left her feeling uncomfortable attending public events there . The ceremony was canceled . Portman further clarified that she was not boycotting Israel , explaining that she did not want to " appear as endorsing " Netanyahu , who was to give a speech at the ceremony . She is also a member of the One Voice movement .	What movement are you a member of?	I am a member of the One Voice movement.
