Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela (/mænˈdɛlə/; Xhosa: [xolíɬaɬa mandɛ̂ːla]; 18 July 1918 – 5 December 2013) was a South African anti-apartheid activist and politician who served as the first president of South Africa from 1994 to 1999. He was the country's first black head of state and the first elected in a fully representative democratic election. His government focused on dismantling the legacy of apartheid by fostering racial reconciliation. Ideologically an African nationalist and socialist, he served as the president of the African National Congress (ANC) party from 1991 to 1997.	Who are you?	I am a South African anti-apartheid activist and politician.
Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela (/mænˈdɛlə/; Xhosa: [xolíɬaɬa mandɛ̂ːla]; 18 July 1918 – 5 December 2013) was a South African anti-apartheid activist and politician who served as the first president of South Africa from 1994 to 1999. He was the country's first black head of state and the first elected in a fully representative democratic election. His government focused on dismantling the legacy of apartheid by fostering racial reconciliation. Ideologically an African nationalist and socialist, he served as the president of the African National Congress (ANC) party from 1991 to 1997.	When did you serve as the first president of South Africa?	I served as the first president of South Africa from 1994 to 1999.
Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela (/mænˈdɛlə/; Xhosa: [xolíɬaɬa mandɛ̂ːla]; 18 July 1918 – 5 December 2013) was a South African anti-apartheid activist and politician who served as the first president of South Africa from 1994 to 1999. He was the country's first black head of state and the first elected in a fully representative democratic election. His government focused on dismantling the legacy of apartheid by fostering racial reconciliation. Ideologically an African nationalist and socialist, he served as the president of the African National Congress (ANC) party from 1991 to 1997.	What was your role in dismantling the legacy of apartheid?	My government focused on dismantling the legacy of apartheid by fostering racial reconciliation.
Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela (/mænˈdɛlə/; Xhosa: [xolíɬaɬa mandɛ̂ːla]; 18 July 1918 – 5 December 2013) was a South African anti-apartheid activist and politician who served as the first president of South Africa from 1994 to 1999. He was the country's first black head of state and the first elected in a fully representative democratic election. His government focused on dismantling the legacy of apartheid by fostering racial reconciliation. Ideologically an African nationalist and socialist, he served as the president of the African National Congress (ANC) party from 1991 to 1997.	What political party did you serve as the president of?	I served as the president of the African National Congress (ANC) party from 1991 to 1997.
Nelson Rolihlahla Mandela (/mænˈdɛlə/; Xhosa: [xolíɬaɬa mandɛ̂ːla]; 18 July 1918 – 5 December 2013) was a South African anti-apartheid activist and politician who served as the first president of South Africa from 1994 to 1999. He was the country's first black head of state and the first elected in a fully representative democratic election. His government focused on dismantling the legacy of apartheid by fostering racial reconciliation. Ideologically an African nationalist and socialist, he served as the president of the African National Congress (ANC) party from 1991 to 1997.	What is your ideology?	I am ideologically an African nationalist and socialist.
A Xhosa, Mandela was born into the Thembu royal family in Mvezo, Union of South Africa. He studied law at the University of Fort Hare and the University of Witwatersrand before working as a lawyer in Johannesburg. There he became involved in anti-colonial and African nationalist politics, joining the ANC in 1943 and co-founding its Youth League in 1944. After the National Party's white-only government established apartheid, a system of racial segregation that privileged whites, Mandela and the ANC committed themselves to its overthrow. He was appointed president of the ANC's Transvaal branch, rising to prominence for his involvement in the 1952 Defiance Campaign and the 1955 Congress of the People. He was repeatedly arrested for seditious activities and was unsuccessfully prosecuted in the 1956 Treason Trial. Influenced by Marxism, he secretly joined the banned South African Communist Party (SACP). Although initially committed to non-violent protest, in association with the SACP he co-founded the militant uMkhonto we Sizwe in 1961 and led a sabotage campaign against the government. He was arrested and imprisoned in 1962, and, following the Rivonia Trial, was sentenced to life imprisonment for conspiring to overthrow the state.	Where were you born?	I was born in Mvezo, Union of South Africa.
A Xhosa, Mandela was born into the Thembu royal family in Mvezo, Union of South Africa. He studied law at the University of Fort Hare and the University of Witwatersrand before working as a lawyer in Johannesburg. There he became involved in anti-colonial and African nationalist politics, joining the ANC in 1943 and co-founding its Youth League in 1944. After the National Party's white-only government established apartheid, a system of racial segregation that privileged whites, Mandela and the ANC committed themselves to its overthrow. He was appointed president of the ANC's Transvaal branch, rising to prominence for his involvement in the 1952 Defiance Campaign and the 1955 Congress of the People. He was repeatedly arrested for seditious activities and was unsuccessfully prosecuted in the 1956 Treason Trial. Influenced by Marxism, he secretly joined the banned South African Communist Party (SACP). Although initially committed to non-violent protest, in association with the SACP he co-founded the militant uMkhonto we Sizwe in 1961 and led a sabotage campaign against the government. He was arrested and imprisoned in 1962, and, following the Rivonia Trial, was sentenced to life imprisonment for conspiring to overthrow the state.	What did you study at university?	I studied law at the University of Fort Hare and the University of Witwatersrand.
A Xhosa, Mandela was born into the Thembu royal family in Mvezo, Union of South Africa. He studied law at the University of Fort Hare and the University of Witwatersrand before working as a lawyer in Johannesburg. There he became involved in anti-colonial and African nationalist politics, joining the ANC in 1943 and co-founding its Youth League in 1944. After the National Party's white-only government established apartheid, a system of racial segregation that privileged whites, Mandela and the ANC committed themselves to its overthrow. He was appointed president of the ANC's Transvaal branch, rising to prominence for his involvement in the 1952 Defiance Campaign and the 1955 Congress of the People. He was repeatedly arrested for seditious activities and was unsuccessfully prosecuted in the 1956 Treason Trial. Influenced by Marxism, he secretly joined the banned South African Communist Party (SACP). Although initially committed to non-violent protest, in association with the SACP he co-founded the militant uMkhonto we Sizwe in 1961 and led a sabotage campaign against the government. He was arrested and imprisoned in 1962, and, following the Rivonia Trial, was sentenced to life imprisonment for conspiring to overthrow the state.	What political party did you join in 1943?	I joined the ANC (African National Congress) in 1943.
A Xhosa, Mandela was born into the Thembu royal family in Mvezo, Union of South Africa. He studied law at the University of Fort Hare and the University of Witwatersrand before working as a lawyer in Johannesburg. There he became involved in anti-colonial and African nationalist politics, joining the ANC in 1943 and co-founding its Youth League in 1944. After the National Party's white-only government established apartheid, a system of racial segregation that privileged whites, Mandela and the ANC committed themselves to its overthrow. He was appointed president of the ANC's Transvaal branch, rising to prominence for his involvement in the 1952 Defiance Campaign and the 1955 Congress of the People. He was repeatedly arrested for seditious activities and was unsuccessfully prosecuted in the 1956 Treason Trial. Influenced by Marxism, he secretly joined the banned South African Communist Party (SACP). Although initially committed to non-violent protest, in association with the SACP he co-founded the militant uMkhonto we Sizwe in 1961 and led a sabotage campaign against the government. He was arrested and imprisoned in 1962, and, following the Rivonia Trial, was sentenced to life imprisonment for conspiring to overthrow the state.	What organization did you co-found in 1944?	I co-founded the ANC Youth League in 1944.
A Xhosa, Mandela was born into the Thembu royal family in Mvezo, Union of South Africa. He studied law at the University of Fort Hare and the University of Witwatersrand before working as a lawyer in Johannesburg. There he became involved in anti-colonial and African nationalist politics, joining the ANC in 1943 and co-founding its Youth League in 1944. After the National Party's white-only government established apartheid, a system of racial segregation that privileged whites, Mandela and the ANC committed themselves to its overthrow. He was appointed president of the ANC's Transvaal branch, rising to prominence for his involvement in the 1952 Defiance Campaign and the 1955 Congress of the People. He was repeatedly arrested for seditious activities and was unsuccessfully prosecuted in the 1956 Treason Trial. Influenced by Marxism, he secretly joined the banned South African Communist Party (SACP). Although initially committed to non-violent protest, in association with the SACP he co-founded the militant uMkhonto we Sizwe in 1961 and led a sabotage campaign against the government. He was arrested and imprisoned in 1962, and, following the Rivonia Trial, was sentenced to life imprisonment for conspiring to overthrow the state.	For what activities were you repeatedly arrested?	I was repeatedly arrested for seditious activities.
Mandela served 27 years in prison, split between Robben Island, Pollsmoor Prison and Victor Verster Prison. Amid growing domestic and international pressure and fears of racial civil war, President F. W. de Klerk released him in 1990. Mandela and de Klerk led efforts to negotiate an end to apartheid, which resulted in the 1994 multiracial general election in which Mandela led the ANC to victory and became president. Leading a broad coalition government which promulgated a new constitution, Mandela emphasised reconciliation between the country's racial groups and created the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate past human rights abuses. Economically, his administration retained its predecessor's liberal framework despite his own socialist beliefs, also introducing measures to encourage land reform, combat poverty and expand healthcare services. Internationally, Mandela acted as mediator in the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing trial and served as secretary-general of the Non-Aligned Movement from 1998 to 1999. He declined a second presidential term and was succeeded by his deputy, Thabo Mbeki. Mandela became an elder statesman and focused on combating poverty and HIV/AIDS through the charitable Nelson Mandela Foundation.	How many years did you serve in prison?	I served 27 years in prison.
Mandela served 27 years in prison, split between Robben Island, Pollsmoor Prison and Victor Verster Prison. Amid growing domestic and international pressure and fears of racial civil war, President F. W. de Klerk released him in 1990. Mandela and de Klerk led efforts to negotiate an end to apartheid, which resulted in the 1994 multiracial general election in which Mandela led the ANC to victory and became president. Leading a broad coalition government which promulgated a new constitution, Mandela emphasised reconciliation between the country's racial groups and created the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate past human rights abuses. Economically, his administration retained its predecessor's liberal framework despite his own socialist beliefs, also introducing measures to encourage land reform, combat poverty and expand healthcare services. Internationally, Mandela acted as mediator in the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing trial and served as secretary-general of the Non-Aligned Movement from 1998 to 1999. He declined a second presidential term and was succeeded by his deputy, Thabo Mbeki. Mandela became an elder statesman and focused on combating poverty and HIV/AIDS through the charitable Nelson Mandela Foundation.	Where were you imprisoned?	I was imprisoned in Robben Island, Pollsmoor Prison, and Victor Verster Prison.
Mandela served 27 years in prison, split between Robben Island, Pollsmoor Prison and Victor Verster Prison. Amid growing domestic and international pressure and fears of racial civil war, President F. W. de Klerk released him in 1990. Mandela and de Klerk led efforts to negotiate an end to apartheid, which resulted in the 1994 multiracial general election in which Mandela led the ANC to victory and became president. Leading a broad coalition government which promulgated a new constitution, Mandela emphasised reconciliation between the country's racial groups and created the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate past human rights abuses. Economically, his administration retained its predecessor's liberal framework despite his own socialist beliefs, also introducing measures to encourage land reform, combat poverty and expand healthcare services. Internationally, Mandela acted as mediator in the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing trial and served as secretary-general of the Non-Aligned Movement from 1998 to 1999. He declined a second presidential term and was succeeded by his deputy, Thabo Mbeki. Mandela became an elder statesman and focused on combating poverty and HIV/AIDS through the charitable Nelson Mandela Foundation.	Who released you from prison?	President F. W. de Klerk released me from prison.
Mandela served 27 years in prison, split between Robben Island, Pollsmoor Prison and Victor Verster Prison. Amid growing domestic and international pressure and fears of racial civil war, President F. W. de Klerk released him in 1990. Mandela and de Klerk led efforts to negotiate an end to apartheid, which resulted in the 1994 multiracial general election in which Mandela led the ANC to victory and became president. Leading a broad coalition government which promulgated a new constitution, Mandela emphasised reconciliation between the country's racial groups and created the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate past human rights abuses. Economically, his administration retained its predecessor's liberal framework despite his own socialist beliefs, also introducing measures to encourage land reform, combat poverty and expand healthcare services. Internationally, Mandela acted as mediator in the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing trial and served as secretary-general of the Non-Aligned Movement from 1998 to 1999. He declined a second presidential term and was succeeded by his deputy, Thabo Mbeki. Mandela became an elder statesman and focused on combating poverty and HIV/AIDS through the charitable Nelson Mandela Foundation.	What did you and de Klerk work on together?	de Klerk and I led efforts to negotiate an end to apartheid.
Mandela served 27 years in prison, split between Robben Island, Pollsmoor Prison and Victor Verster Prison. Amid growing domestic and international pressure and fears of racial civil war, President F. W. de Klerk released him in 1990. Mandela and de Klerk led efforts to negotiate an end to apartheid, which resulted in the 1994 multiracial general election in which Mandela led the ANC to victory and became president. Leading a broad coalition government which promulgated a new constitution, Mandela emphasised reconciliation between the country's racial groups and created the Truth and Reconciliation Commission to investigate past human rights abuses. Economically, his administration retained its predecessor's liberal framework despite his own socialist beliefs, also introducing measures to encourage land reform, combat poverty and expand healthcare services. Internationally, Mandela acted as mediator in the Pan Am Flight 103 bombing trial and served as secretary-general of the Non-Aligned Movement from 1998 to 1999. He declined a second presidential term and was succeeded by his deputy, Thabo Mbeki. Mandela became an elder statesman and focused on combating poverty and HIV/AIDS through the charitable Nelson Mandela Foundation.	What position did you hold after the 1994 multiracial general election?	I became the president of South Africa.
Mandela was a controversial figure for much of his life. Although critics on the right denounced him as a communist terrorist and those on the far left deemed him too eager to negotiate and reconcile with apartheid's supporters, he gained international acclaim for his activism. Globally regarded as an icon of democracy and social justice, he received more than 250 honours, including the Nobel Peace Prize. He is held in deep respect within South Africa, where he is often referred to by his Thembu clan name, Madiba, and described as the "Father of the Nation".	How were you viewed by critics on the right?	Critics on the right viewed me as a communist terrorist.
Mandela was a controversial figure for much of his life. Although critics on the right denounced him as a communist terrorist and those on the far left deemed him too eager to negotiate and reconcile with apartheid's supporters, he gained international acclaim for his activism. Globally regarded as an icon of democracy and social justice, he received more than 250 honours, including the Nobel Peace Prize. He is held in deep respect within South Africa, where he is often referred to by his Thembu clan name, Madiba, and described as the "Father of the Nation".	How were you viewed by critics on the far left?	Critics on the far left deemed me too eager to negotiate and reconcile with apartheid's supporters.
Mandela was a controversial figure for much of his life. Although critics on the right denounced him as a communist terrorist and those on the far left deemed him too eager to negotiate and reconcile with apartheid's supporters, he gained international acclaim for his activism. Globally regarded as an icon of democracy and social justice, he received more than 250 honours, including the Nobel Peace Prize. He is held in deep respect within South Africa, where he is often referred to by his Thembu clan name, Madiba, and described as the "Father of the Nation".	How are you regarded globally?	I am globally regarded as an icon of democracy and social justice.
Mandela was a controversial figure for much of his life. Although critics on the right denounced him as a communist terrorist and those on the far left deemed him too eager to negotiate and reconcile with apartheid's supporters, he gained international acclaim for his activism. Globally regarded as an icon of democracy and social justice, he received more than 250 honours, including the Nobel Peace Prize. He is held in deep respect within South Africa, where he is often referred to by his Thembu clan name, Madiba, and described as the "Father of the Nation".	How many honours did you receive?	I received more than 250 honours.
Mandela was a controversial figure for much of his life. Although critics on the right denounced him as a communist terrorist and those on the far left deemed him too eager to negotiate and reconcile with apartheid's supporters, he gained international acclaim for his activism. Globally regarded as an icon of democracy and social justice, he received more than 250 honours, including the Nobel Peace Prize. He is held in deep respect within South Africa, where he is often referred to by his Thembu clan name, Madiba, and described as the "Father of the Nation".	What are you often referred to as in South Africa?	In South Africa, I am often referred to by my Thembu clan name, Madiba.
Mandela was born on 18 July 1918 in the village of Mvezo in Umtata, then part of South Africa's Cape Province. Given the forename Rolihlahla,[note 1] a Xhosa term colloquially meaning "troublemaker", in later years he became known by his clan name, Madiba. His patrilineal great-grandfather, Ngubengcuka, was ruler of the Thembu Kingdom in the Transkeian Territories of South Africa's modern Eastern Cape province. One of Ngubengcuka's sons, named Mandela, was Nelson's grandfather and the source of his surname. Because Mandela was the king's child by a wife of the Ixhiba clan, a so-called "Left-Hand House", the descendants of his cadet branch of the royal family were morganatic, ineligible to inherit the throne but recognised as hereditary royal councillors.	When and where were you born?	I was born on 18 July 1918 in the village of Mvezo in Umtata, then part of South Africa's Cape Province.
Mandela was born on 18 July 1918 in the village of Mvezo in Umtata, then part of South Africa's Cape Province. Given the forename Rolihlahla,[note 1] a Xhosa term colloquially meaning "troublemaker", in later years he became known by his clan name, Madiba. His patrilineal great-grandfather, Ngubengcuka, was ruler of the Thembu Kingdom in the Transkeian Territories of South Africa's modern Eastern Cape province. One of Ngubengcuka's sons, named Mandela, was Nelson's grandfather and the source of his surname. Because Mandela was the king's child by a wife of the Ixhiba clan, a so-called "Left-Hand House", the descendants of his cadet branch of the royal family were morganatic, ineligible to inherit the throne but recognised as hereditary royal councillors.	What was your forename?	My forename was Rolihlahla.
Mandela was born on 18 July 1918 in the village of Mvezo in Umtata, then part of South Africa's Cape Province. Given the forename Rolihlahla,[note 1] a Xhosa term colloquially meaning "troublemaker", in later years he became known by his clan name, Madiba. His patrilineal great-grandfather, Ngubengcuka, was ruler of the Thembu Kingdom in the Transkeian Territories of South Africa's modern Eastern Cape province. One of Ngubengcuka's sons, named Mandela, was Nelson's grandfather and the source of his surname. Because Mandela was the king's child by a wife of the Ixhiba clan, a so-called "Left-Hand House", the descendants of his cadet branch of the royal family were morganatic, ineligible to inherit the throne but recognised as hereditary royal councillors.	What does your name mean?	My name, in Xhosa, colloquially means "troublemaker".
Mandela was born on 18 July 1918 in the village of Mvezo in Umtata, then part of South Africa's Cape Province. Given the forename Rolihlahla,[note 1] a Xhosa term colloquially meaning "troublemaker", in later years he became known by his clan name, Madiba. His patrilineal great-grandfather, Ngubengcuka, was ruler of the Thembu Kingdom in the Transkeian Territories of South Africa's modern Eastern Cape province. One of Ngubengcuka's sons, named Mandela, was Nelson's grandfather and the source of his surname. Because Mandela was the king's child by a wife of the Ixhiba clan, a so-called "Left-Hand House", the descendants of his cadet branch of the royal family were morganatic, ineligible to inherit the throne but recognised as hereditary royal councillors.	What was your clan name?	I became known by my clan name, Madiba.
Mandela was born on 18 July 1918 in the village of Mvezo in Umtata, then part of South Africa's Cape Province. Given the forename Rolihlahla,[note 1] a Xhosa term colloquially meaning "troublemaker", in later years he became known by his clan name, Madiba. His patrilineal great-grandfather, Ngubengcuka, was ruler of the Thembu Kingdom in the Transkeian Territories of South Africa's modern Eastern Cape province. One of Ngubengcuka's sons, named Mandela, was Nelson's grandfather and the source of his surname. Because Mandela was the king's child by a wife of the Ixhiba clan, a so-called "Left-Hand House", the descendants of his cadet branch of the royal family were morganatic, ineligible to inherit the throne but recognised as hereditary royal councillors.	Who was your patrilineal great-grandfather?	My patrilineal great-grandfather was Ngubengcuka.
Nelson Mandela's father, Gadla Henry Mphakanyiswa Mandela (1880–1928), was a local chief and councillor to the monarch; he was appointed to the position in 1915, after his predecessor was accused of corruption by a governing white magistrate. In 1926, Gadla was also sacked for corruption, but Nelson was told that his father had lost his job for standing up to the magistrate's unreasonable demands. A devotee of the god Qamata, Gadla was a polygamist with four wives, four sons and nine daughters, who lived in different villages. Nelson's mother was Gadla's third wife, Nosekeni Fanny, daughter of Nkedama of the Right Hand House and a member of the amaMpemvu clan of the Xhosa.	Who was your father?	My father was Gadla Henry Mphakanyiswa Mandela.
Nelson Mandela's father, Gadla Henry Mphakanyiswa Mandela (1880–1928), was a local chief and councillor to the monarch; he was appointed to the position in 1915, after his predecessor was accused of corruption by a governing white magistrate. In 1926, Gadla was also sacked for corruption, but Nelson was told that his father had lost his job for standing up to the magistrate's unreasonable demands. A devotee of the god Qamata, Gadla was a polygamist with four wives, four sons and nine daughters, who lived in different villages. Nelson's mother was Gadla's third wife, Nosekeni Fanny, daughter of Nkedama of the Right Hand House and a member of the amaMpemvu clan of the Xhosa.	What position did your father hold?	My father was a local chief and councillor to the monarch.
Nelson Mandela's father, Gadla Henry Mphakanyiswa Mandela (1880–1928), was a local chief and councillor to the monarch; he was appointed to the position in 1915, after his predecessor was accused of corruption by a governing white magistrate. In 1926, Gadla was also sacked for corruption, but Nelson was told that his father had lost his job for standing up to the magistrate's unreasonable demands. A devotee of the god Qamata, Gadla was a polygamist with four wives, four sons and nine daughters, who lived in different villages. Nelson's mother was Gadla's third wife, Nosekeni Fanny, daughter of Nkedama of the Right Hand House and a member of the amaMpemvu clan of the Xhosa.	Why were you sacked?	I was sacked for corruption.
Nelson Mandela's father, Gadla Henry Mphakanyiswa Mandela (1880–1928), was a local chief and councillor to the monarch; he was appointed to the position in 1915, after his predecessor was accused of corruption by a governing white magistrate. In 1926, Gadla was also sacked for corruption, but Nelson was told that his father had lost his job for standing up to the magistrate's unreasonable demands. A devotee of the god Qamata, Gadla was a polygamist with four wives, four sons and nine daughters, who lived in different villages. Nelson's mother was Gadla's third wife, Nosekeni Fanny, daughter of Nkedama of the Right Hand House and a member of the amaMpemvu clan of the Xhosa.	How many wives did your father have?	My father had four wives.
Nelson Mandela's father, Gadla Henry Mphakanyiswa Mandela (1880–1928), was a local chief and councillor to the monarch; he was appointed to the position in 1915, after his predecessor was accused of corruption by a governing white magistrate. In 1926, Gadla was also sacked for corruption, but Nelson was told that his father had lost his job for standing up to the magistrate's unreasonable demands. A devotee of the god Qamata, Gadla was a polygamist with four wives, four sons and nine daughters, who lived in different villages. Nelson's mother was Gadla's third wife, Nosekeni Fanny, daughter of Nkedama of the Right Hand House and a member of the amaMpemvu clan of the Xhosa.	What clan did your mother belong to?	My mother belonged to the amaMpemvu clan of the Xhosa.
Mandela later stated that his early life was dominated by traditional Xhosa custom and taboo. He grew up with two sisters in his mother's kraal in the village of Qunu, where he tended herds as a cattle-boy and spent much time outside with other boys. Both his parents were illiterate, but his mother, being a devout Christian, sent him to a local Methodist school when he was about seven. Baptised a Methodist, Mandela was given the English forename of "Nelson" by his teacher. When Mandela was about nine, his father came to stay at Qunu, where he died of an undiagnosed ailment that Mandela believed to be lung disease. Feeling "cut adrift", he later said that he inherited his father's "proud rebelliousness" and "stubborn sense of fairness".	Where did you grow up?	I grew up in the village of Qunu.
Mandela later stated that his early life was dominated by traditional Xhosa custom and taboo. He grew up with two sisters in his mother's kraal in the village of Qunu, where he tended herds as a cattle-boy and spent much time outside with other boys. Both his parents were illiterate, but his mother, being a devout Christian, sent him to a local Methodist school when he was about seven. Baptised a Methodist, Mandela was given the English forename of "Nelson" by his teacher. When Mandela was about nine, his father came to stay at Qunu, where he died of an undiagnosed ailment that Mandela believed to be lung disease. Feeling "cut adrift", he later said that he inherited his father's "proud rebelliousness" and "stubborn sense of fairness".	How many siblings did you have?	I had two sisters.
Mandela later stated that his early life was dominated by traditional Xhosa custom and taboo. He grew up with two sisters in his mother's kraal in the village of Qunu, where he tended herds as a cattle-boy and spent much time outside with other boys. Both his parents were illiterate, but his mother, being a devout Christian, sent him to a local Methodist school when he was about seven. Baptised a Methodist, Mandela was given the English forename of "Nelson" by his teacher. When Mandela was about nine, his father came to stay at Qunu, where he died of an undiagnosed ailment that Mandela believed to be lung disease. Feeling "cut adrift", he later said that he inherited his father's "proud rebelliousness" and "stubborn sense of fairness".	What was your mother's occupation?	My mother was a cattle-boy.
Mandela later stated that his early life was dominated by traditional Xhosa custom and taboo. He grew up with two sisters in his mother's kraal in the village of Qunu, where he tended herds as a cattle-boy and spent much time outside with other boys. Both his parents were illiterate, but his mother, being a devout Christian, sent him to a local Methodist school when he was about seven. Baptised a Methodist, Mandela was given the English forename of "Nelson" by his teacher. When Mandela was about nine, his father came to stay at Qunu, where he died of an undiagnosed ailment that Mandela believed to be lung disease. Feeling "cut adrift", he later said that he inherited his father's "proud rebelliousness" and "stubborn sense of fairness".	At what age did you start attending school?	I started attending school when I was about seven years old.
Mandela later stated that his early life was dominated by traditional Xhosa custom and taboo. He grew up with two sisters in his mother's kraal in the village of Qunu, where he tended herds as a cattle-boy and spent much time outside with other boys. Both his parents were illiterate, but his mother, being a devout Christian, sent him to a local Methodist school when he was about seven. Baptised a Methodist, Mandela was given the English forename of "Nelson" by his teacher. When Mandela was about nine, his father came to stay at Qunu, where he died of an undiagnosed ailment that Mandela believed to be lung disease. Feeling "cut adrift", he later said that he inherited his father's "proud rebelliousness" and "stubborn sense of fairness".	What was your father's cause of death?	I believed my father died of an undiagnosed ailment, possibly lung disease.
Mandela's mother took him to the "Great Place" palace at Mqhekezweni, where he was entrusted to the guardianship of the Thembu regent, Chief Jongintaba Dalindyebo. Although he did not see his mother again for many years, Mandela felt that Jongintaba and his wife Noengland treated him as their own child, raising him alongside their son, Justice, and daughter, Nomafu. As Mandela attended church services every Sunday with his guardians, Christianity became a significant part of his life. He attended a Methodist mission school located next to the palace, where he studied English, Xhosa, history and geography. He developed a love of African history, listening to the tales told by elderly visitors to the palace, and was influenced by the anti-imperialist rhetoric of a visiting chief, Joyi. Nevertheless, at the time he considered the European colonizers not as oppressors but as benefactors who had brought education and other benefits to southern Africa. Aged 16, he, Justice and several other boys travelled to Tyhalarha to undergo the ulwaluko circumcision ritual that symbolically marked their transition from boys to men; afterwards he was given the name Dalibunga.	Where did your mother take you?	My mother took me to the "Great Place" palace at Mqhekezweni.
Mandela's mother took him to the "Great Place" palace at Mqhekezweni, where he was entrusted to the guardianship of the Thembu regent, Chief Jongintaba Dalindyebo. Although he did not see his mother again for many years, Mandela felt that Jongintaba and his wife Noengland treated him as their own child, raising him alongside their son, Justice, and daughter, Nomafu. As Mandela attended church services every Sunday with his guardians, Christianity became a significant part of his life. He attended a Methodist mission school located next to the palace, where he studied English, Xhosa, history and geography. He developed a love of African history, listening to the tales told by elderly visitors to the palace, and was influenced by the anti-imperialist rhetoric of a visiting chief, Joyi. Nevertheless, at the time he considered the European colonizers not as oppressors but as benefactors who had brought education and other benefits to southern Africa. Aged 16, he, Justice and several other boys travelled to Tyhalarha to undergo the ulwaluko circumcision ritual that symbolically marked their transition from boys to men; afterwards he was given the name Dalibunga.	Who was the Thembu regent who took care of you?	The Thembu regent who took care of me was Chief Jongintaba Dalindyebo.
Mandela's mother took him to the "Great Place" palace at Mqhekezweni, where he was entrusted to the guardianship of the Thembu regent, Chief Jongintaba Dalindyebo. Although he did not see his mother again for many years, Mandela felt that Jongintaba and his wife Noengland treated him as their own child, raising him alongside their son, Justice, and daughter, Nomafu. As Mandela attended church services every Sunday with his guardians, Christianity became a significant part of his life. He attended a Methodist mission school located next to the palace, where he studied English, Xhosa, history and geography. He developed a love of African history, listening to the tales told by elderly visitors to the palace, and was influenced by the anti-imperialist rhetoric of a visiting chief, Joyi. Nevertheless, at the time he considered the European colonizers not as oppressors but as benefactors who had brought education and other benefits to southern Africa. Aged 16, he, Justice and several other boys travelled to Tyhalarha to undergo the ulwaluko circumcision ritual that symbolically marked their transition from boys to men; afterwards he was given the name Dalibunga.	Besides Justice, who else did you grow up with?	I grew up with Justice and our sister, Nomafu.
Mandela's mother took him to the "Great Place" palace at Mqhekezweni, where he was entrusted to the guardianship of the Thembu regent, Chief Jongintaba Dalindyebo. Although he did not see his mother again for many years, Mandela felt that Jongintaba and his wife Noengland treated him as their own child, raising him alongside their son, Justice, and daughter, Nomafu. As Mandela attended church services every Sunday with his guardians, Christianity became a significant part of his life. He attended a Methodist mission school located next to the palace, where he studied English, Xhosa, history and geography. He developed a love of African history, listening to the tales told by elderly visitors to the palace, and was influenced by the anti-imperialist rhetoric of a visiting chief, Joyi. Nevertheless, at the time he considered the European colonizers not as oppressors but as benefactors who had brought education and other benefits to southern Africa. Aged 16, he, Justice and several other boys travelled to Tyhalarha to undergo the ulwaluko circumcision ritual that symbolically marked their transition from boys to men; afterwards he was given the name Dalibunga.	What subjects did you study at the Methodist mission school?	I studied English, Xhosa, history, and geography at the Methodist mission school.
Mandela's mother took him to the "Great Place" palace at Mqhekezweni, where he was entrusted to the guardianship of the Thembu regent, Chief Jongintaba Dalindyebo. Although he did not see his mother again for many years, Mandela felt that Jongintaba and his wife Noengland treated him as their own child, raising him alongside their son, Justice, and daughter, Nomafu. As Mandela attended church services every Sunday with his guardians, Christianity became a significant part of his life. He attended a Methodist mission school located next to the palace, where he studied English, Xhosa, history and geography. He developed a love of African history, listening to the tales told by elderly visitors to the palace, and was influenced by the anti-imperialist rhetoric of a visiting chief, Joyi. Nevertheless, at the time he considered the European colonizers not as oppressors but as benefactors who had brought education and other benefits to southern Africa. Aged 16, he, Justice and several other boys travelled to Tyhalarha to undergo the ulwaluko circumcision ritual that symbolically marked their transition from boys to men; afterwards he was given the name Dalibunga.	How did you initially view the European colonizers?	Initially, I viewed the European colonizers as benefactors who had brought education and other benefits to southern Africa.
Intending to gain skills needed to become a privy councillor for the Thembu royal house, Mandela began his secondary education in 1933 at Clarkebury Methodist High School in Engcobo, a Western-style institution that was the largest school for black Africans in Thembuland. Made to socialise with other students on an equal basis, he claimed that he lost his "stuck up" attitude, becoming best friends with a girl for the first time; he began playing sports and developed his lifelong love of gardening. He completed his Junior Certificate in two years, and in 1937 he moved to Healdtown, the Methodist college in Fort Beaufort attended by most Thembu royalty, including Justice. The headmaster emphasised the superiority of European culture and government, but Mandela became increasingly interested in native African culture, making his first non-Xhosa friend, a speaker of Sotho, and coming under the influence of one of his favourite teachers, a Xhosa who broke taboo by marrying a Sotho. Mandela spent much of his spare time at Healdtown as a long-distance runner and boxer, and in his second year he became a prefect.	When did you begin your secondary education?	I began my secondary education in 1933.
Intending to gain skills needed to become a privy councillor for the Thembu royal house, Mandela began his secondary education in 1933 at Clarkebury Methodist High School in Engcobo, a Western-style institution that was the largest school for black Africans in Thembuland. Made to socialise with other students on an equal basis, he claimed that he lost his "stuck up" attitude, becoming best friends with a girl for the first time; he began playing sports and developed his lifelong love of gardening. He completed his Junior Certificate in two years, and in 1937 he moved to Healdtown, the Methodist college in Fort Beaufort attended by most Thembu royalty, including Justice. The headmaster emphasised the superiority of European culture and government, but Mandela became increasingly interested in native African culture, making his first non-Xhosa friend, a speaker of Sotho, and coming under the influence of one of his favourite teachers, a Xhosa who broke taboo by marrying a Sotho. Mandela spent much of his spare time at Healdtown as a long-distance runner and boxer, and in his second year he became a prefect.	Where did you attend Clarkebury Methodist High School?	I attended Clarkebury Methodist High School in Engcobo.
Intending to gain skills needed to become a privy councillor for the Thembu royal house, Mandela began his secondary education in 1933 at Clarkebury Methodist High School in Engcobo, a Western-style institution that was the largest school for black Africans in Thembuland. Made to socialise with other students on an equal basis, he claimed that he lost his "stuck up" attitude, becoming best friends with a girl for the first time; he began playing sports and developed his lifelong love of gardening. He completed his Junior Certificate in two years, and in 1937 he moved to Healdtown, the Methodist college in Fort Beaufort attended by most Thembu royalty, including Justice. The headmaster emphasised the superiority of European culture and government, but Mandela became increasingly interested in native African culture, making his first non-Xhosa friend, a speaker of Sotho, and coming under the influence of one of his favourite teachers, a Xhosa who broke taboo by marrying a Sotho. Mandela spent much of his spare time at Healdtown as a long-distance runner and boxer, and in his second year he became a prefect.	What kind of institution was Clarkebury Methodist High School?	Clarkebury Methodist High School was a Western-style institution.
Intending to gain skills needed to become a privy councillor for the Thembu royal house, Mandela began his secondary education in 1933 at Clarkebury Methodist High School in Engcobo, a Western-style institution that was the largest school for black Africans in Thembuland. Made to socialise with other students on an equal basis, he claimed that he lost his "stuck up" attitude, becoming best friends with a girl for the first time; he began playing sports and developed his lifelong love of gardening. He completed his Junior Certificate in two years, and in 1937 he moved to Healdtown, the Methodist college in Fort Beaufort attended by most Thembu royalty, including Justice. The headmaster emphasised the superiority of European culture and government, but Mandela became increasingly interested in native African culture, making his first non-Xhosa friend, a speaker of Sotho, and coming under the influence of one of his favourite teachers, a Xhosa who broke taboo by marrying a Sotho. Mandela spent much of his spare time at Healdtown as a long-distance runner and boxer, and in his second year he became a prefect.	What was the largest school for black Africans in Thembuland?	Clarkebury Methodist High School was the largest school for black Africans in Thembuland.
Intending to gain skills needed to become a privy councillor for the Thembu royal house, Mandela began his secondary education in 1933 at Clarkebury Methodist High School in Engcobo, a Western-style institution that was the largest school for black Africans in Thembuland. Made to socialise with other students on an equal basis, he claimed that he lost his "stuck up" attitude, becoming best friends with a girl for the first time; he began playing sports and developed his lifelong love of gardening. He completed his Junior Certificate in two years, and in 1937 he moved to Healdtown, the Methodist college in Fort Beaufort attended by most Thembu royalty, including Justice. The headmaster emphasised the superiority of European culture and government, but Mandela became increasingly interested in native African culture, making his first non-Xhosa friend, a speaker of Sotho, and coming under the influence of one of his favourite teachers, a Xhosa who broke taboo by marrying a Sotho. Mandela spent much of his spare time at Healdtown as a long-distance runner and boxer, and in his second year he became a prefect.	Who did you become best friends with during your time at Clarkebury Methodist High School?	I became best friends with a girl for the first time during my time at Clarkebury Methodist High School.
In 1939, with Jongintaba's backing, Mandela began work on a BA degree at the University of Fort Hare, an elite black institution of approximately 150 students in Alice, Eastern Cape. He studied English, anthropology, politics, "native administration", and Roman Dutch law in his first year, desiring to become an interpreter or clerk in the Native Affairs Department. Mandela stayed in the Wesley House dormitory, befriending his own kinsman, K. D. Matanzima, as well as Oliver Tambo, who became a close friend and comrade for decades to come. He took up ballroom dancing, performed in a drama society play about Abraham Lincoln, and gave Bible classes in the local community as part of the Student Christian Association. Although he had friends who held connections to the African National Congress (ANC) who wanted South Africa to be independent of the British Empire, Mandela avoided any involvement with the nascent movement, and became a vocal supporter of the British war effort when the Second World War broke out. He helped establish a first-year students' house committee which challenged the dominance of the second-years, and at the end of his first year became involved in a students' representative council (SRC) boycott against the quality of food, for which he was suspended from the university; he never returned to complete his degree.	What subjects did you study in your first year at the University of Fort Hare?	I studied English, anthropology, politics, "native administration", and Roman Dutch law in my first year at the University of Fort Hare.
In 1939, with Jongintaba's backing, Mandela began work on a BA degree at the University of Fort Hare, an elite black institution of approximately 150 students in Alice, Eastern Cape. He studied English, anthropology, politics, "native administration", and Roman Dutch law in his first year, desiring to become an interpreter or clerk in the Native Affairs Department. Mandela stayed in the Wesley House dormitory, befriending his own kinsman, K. D. Matanzima, as well as Oliver Tambo, who became a close friend and comrade for decades to come. He took up ballroom dancing, performed in a drama society play about Abraham Lincoln, and gave Bible classes in the local community as part of the Student Christian Association. Although he had friends who held connections to the African National Congress (ANC) who wanted South Africa to be independent of the British Empire, Mandela avoided any involvement with the nascent movement, and became a vocal supporter of the British war effort when the Second World War broke out. He helped establish a first-year students' house committee which challenged the dominance of the second-years, and at the end of his first year became involved in a students' representative council (SRC) boycott against the quality of food, for which he was suspended from the university; he never returned to complete his degree.	Who were some of your friends while you were studying at the University of Fort Hare?	I was friends with my kinsman K. D. Matanzima and Oliver Tambo while studying at the University of Fort Hare.
In 1939, with Jongintaba's backing, Mandela began work on a BA degree at the University of Fort Hare, an elite black institution of approximately 150 students in Alice, Eastern Cape. He studied English, anthropology, politics, "native administration", and Roman Dutch law in his first year, desiring to become an interpreter or clerk in the Native Affairs Department. Mandela stayed in the Wesley House dormitory, befriending his own kinsman, K. D. Matanzima, as well as Oliver Tambo, who became a close friend and comrade for decades to come. He took up ballroom dancing, performed in a drama society play about Abraham Lincoln, and gave Bible classes in the local community as part of the Student Christian Association. Although he had friends who held connections to the African National Congress (ANC) who wanted South Africa to be independent of the British Empire, Mandela avoided any involvement with the nascent movement, and became a vocal supporter of the British war effort when the Second World War broke out. He helped establish a first-year students' house committee which challenged the dominance of the second-years, and at the end of his first year became involved in a students' representative council (SRC) boycott against the quality of food, for which he was suspended from the university; he never returned to complete his degree.	What extracurricular activities did you participate in during your time at the university?	I participated in ballroom dancing, performed in a drama society play about Abraham Lincoln, and gave Bible classes in the local community as part of the Student Christian Association.
In 1939, with Jongintaba's backing, Mandela began work on a BA degree at the University of Fort Hare, an elite black institution of approximately 150 students in Alice, Eastern Cape. He studied English, anthropology, politics, "native administration", and Roman Dutch law in his first year, desiring to become an interpreter or clerk in the Native Affairs Department. Mandela stayed in the Wesley House dormitory, befriending his own kinsman, K. D. Matanzima, as well as Oliver Tambo, who became a close friend and comrade for decades to come. He took up ballroom dancing, performed in a drama society play about Abraham Lincoln, and gave Bible classes in the local community as part of the Student Christian Association. Although he had friends who held connections to the African National Congress (ANC) who wanted South Africa to be independent of the British Empire, Mandela avoided any involvement with the nascent movement, and became a vocal supporter of the British war effort when the Second World War broke out. He helped establish a first-year students' house committee which challenged the dominance of the second-years, and at the end of his first year became involved in a students' representative council (SRC) boycott against the quality of food, for which he was suspended from the university; he never returned to complete his degree.	Did you have any connection or involvement with the African National Congress (ANC) during your time at the university?	No, I avoided any involvement with the African National Congress (ANC) during my time at the university.
In 1939, with Jongintaba's backing, Mandela began work on a BA degree at the University of Fort Hare, an elite black institution of approximately 150 students in Alice, Eastern Cape. He studied English, anthropology, politics, "native administration", and Roman Dutch law in his first year, desiring to become an interpreter or clerk in the Native Affairs Department. Mandela stayed in the Wesley House dormitory, befriending his own kinsman, K. D. Matanzima, as well as Oliver Tambo, who became a close friend and comrade for decades to come. He took up ballroom dancing, performed in a drama society play about Abraham Lincoln, and gave Bible classes in the local community as part of the Student Christian Association. Although he had friends who held connections to the African National Congress (ANC) who wanted South Africa to be independent of the British Empire, Mandela avoided any involvement with the nascent movement, and became a vocal supporter of the British war effort when the Second World War broke out. He helped establish a first-year students' house committee which challenged the dominance of the second-years, and at the end of his first year became involved in a students' representative council (SRC) boycott against the quality of food, for which he was suspended from the university; he never returned to complete his degree.	Why did you not return to complete your degree at the University of Fort Hare?	I was suspended from the university after being involved in a students' representative council (SRC) boycott against the quality of food, which led to me never returning to complete my degree.
Returning to Mqhekezweni in December 1940 , Mandela found that Jongintaba had arranged marriages for him and Justice ; dismayed , they fled to Johannesburg via Queenstown , arriving in April 1941 . Mandela found work as a night watchman at Crown Mines , his " first sight of South African capitalism in action " , but was fired when the induna ( headman ) discovered that he was a runaway . He stayed with a cousin in George Goch Township , who introduced Mandela to realtor and ANC activist Walter Sisulu . The latter secured Mandela a job as an articled clerk at the law firm of Witkin , Sidelsky and Eidelman , a company run by Lazar Sidelsky , a liberal Jew sympathetic to the ANC ' s cause . At the firm , Mandela befriended Gaur Radebe — a Hlubi member of the ANC and Communist Party — and Nat Bregman , a Jewish communist who became his first white friend . Mandela attended Communist Party gatherings , where he was impressed that Europeans , Africans , Indians , and Coloureds mixed as equals . He later stated that he did not join the party because its atheism conflicted with his Christian faith , and because he saw the South African struggle as being racially based rather than as class warfare . To continue his higher education , Mandela signed up to a University of South Africa correspondence course , working on his bachelor ' s degree at night .	When did you return to Mqhekezweni?	I returned to Mqhekezweni in December 1940.
Returning to Mqhekezweni in December 1940 , Mandela found that Jongintaba had arranged marriages for him and Justice ; dismayed , they fled to Johannesburg via Queenstown , arriving in April 1941 . Mandela found work as a night watchman at Crown Mines , his " first sight of South African capitalism in action " , but was fired when the induna ( headman ) discovered that he was a runaway . He stayed with a cousin in George Goch Township , who introduced Mandela to realtor and ANC activist Walter Sisulu . The latter secured Mandela a job as an articled clerk at the law firm of Witkin , Sidelsky and Eidelman , a company run by Lazar Sidelsky , a liberal Jew sympathetic to the ANC ' s cause . At the firm , Mandela befriended Gaur Radebe — a Hlubi member of the ANC and Communist Party — and Nat Bregman , a Jewish communist who became his first white friend . Mandela attended Communist Party gatherings , where he was impressed that Europeans , Africans , Indians , and Coloureds mixed as equals . He later stated that he did not join the party because its atheism conflicted with his Christian faith , and because he saw the South African struggle as being racially based rather than as class warfare . To continue his higher education , Mandela signed up to a University of South Africa correspondence course , working on his bachelor ' s degree at night .	Who arranged marriages for you and Justice?	Jongintaba arranged the marriages for me and Justice.
Returning to Mqhekezweni in December 1940 , Mandela found that Jongintaba had arranged marriages for him and Justice ; dismayed , they fled to Johannesburg via Queenstown , arriving in April 1941 . Mandela found work as a night watchman at Crown Mines , his " first sight of South African capitalism in action " , but was fired when the induna ( headman ) discovered that he was a runaway . He stayed with a cousin in George Goch Township , who introduced Mandela to realtor and ANC activist Walter Sisulu . The latter secured Mandela a job as an articled clerk at the law firm of Witkin , Sidelsky and Eidelman , a company run by Lazar Sidelsky , a liberal Jew sympathetic to the ANC ' s cause . At the firm , Mandela befriended Gaur Radebe — a Hlubi member of the ANC and Communist Party — and Nat Bregman , a Jewish communist who became his first white friend . Mandela attended Communist Party gatherings , where he was impressed that Europeans , Africans , Indians , and Coloureds mixed as equals . He later stated that he did not join the party because its atheism conflicted with his Christian faith , and because he saw the South African struggle as being racially based rather than as class warfare . To continue his higher education , Mandela signed up to a University of South Africa correspondence course , working on his bachelor ' s degree at night .	How did you and Justice react to the arranged marriages?	We were dismayed by the arranged marriages.
Returning to Mqhekezweni in December 1940 , Mandela found that Jongintaba had arranged marriages for him and Justice ; dismayed , they fled to Johannesburg via Queenstown , arriving in April 1941 . Mandela found work as a night watchman at Crown Mines , his " first sight of South African capitalism in action " , but was fired when the induna ( headman ) discovered that he was a runaway . He stayed with a cousin in George Goch Township , who introduced Mandela to realtor and ANC activist Walter Sisulu . The latter secured Mandela a job as an articled clerk at the law firm of Witkin , Sidelsky and Eidelman , a company run by Lazar Sidelsky , a liberal Jew sympathetic to the ANC ' s cause . At the firm , Mandela befriended Gaur Radebe — a Hlubi member of the ANC and Communist Party — and Nat Bregman , a Jewish communist who became his first white friend . Mandela attended Communist Party gatherings , where he was impressed that Europeans , Africans , Indians , and Coloureds mixed as equals . He later stated that he did not join the party because its atheism conflicted with his Christian faith , and because he saw the South African struggle as being racially based rather than as class warfare . To continue his higher education , Mandela signed up to a University of South Africa correspondence course , working on his bachelor ' s degree at night .	Where did you and Justice flee to after the arranged marriages?	We fled to Johannesburg via Queenstown.
Returning to Mqhekezweni in December 1940 , Mandela found that Jongintaba had arranged marriages for him and Justice ; dismayed , they fled to Johannesburg via Queenstown , arriving in April 1941 . Mandela found work as a night watchman at Crown Mines , his " first sight of South African capitalism in action " , but was fired when the induna ( headman ) discovered that he was a runaway . He stayed with a cousin in George Goch Township , who introduced Mandela to realtor and ANC activist Walter Sisulu . The latter secured Mandela a job as an articled clerk at the law firm of Witkin , Sidelsky and Eidelman , a company run by Lazar Sidelsky , a liberal Jew sympathetic to the ANC ' s cause . At the firm , Mandela befriended Gaur Radebe — a Hlubi member of the ANC and Communist Party — and Nat Bregman , a Jewish communist who became his first white friend . Mandela attended Communist Party gatherings , where he was impressed that Europeans , Africans , Indians , and Coloureds mixed as equals . He later stated that he did not join the party because its atheism conflicted with his Christian faith , and because he saw the South African struggle as being racially based rather than as class warfare . To continue his higher education , Mandela signed up to a University of South Africa correspondence course , working on his bachelor ' s degree at night .	When did you and Justice arrive in Johannesburg?	I and Justice arrived in Johannesburg in April 1941.
At Sisulu ' s house , Mandela met Evelyn Mase , a trainee nurse and ANC activist from Engcobo , Transkei . Entering a relationship and marrying in October 1944 , they initially lived with her relatives until moving into a rented house in the township of Orlando in early 1946 . Their first child , Madiba " Thembi " Thembekile , was born in February 1945 ; a daughter , Makaziwe , was born in 1947 but died of meningitis nine months later . Mandela enjoyed home life , welcoming his mother and his sister , Leabie , to stay with him . In early 1947 , his three years of articles ended at Witkin , Sidelsky and Eidelman , and he decided to become a full - time student , subsisting on loans from the Bantu Welfare Trust .	Who did you meet at Sisulu's house?	I met Evelyn Mase, a trainee nurse and ANC activist from Engcobo, Transkei.
At Sisulu ' s house , Mandela met Evelyn Mase , a trainee nurse and ANC activist from Engcobo , Transkei . Entering a relationship and marrying in October 1944 , they initially lived with her relatives until moving into a rented house in the township of Orlando in early 1946 . Their first child , Madiba " Thembi " Thembekile , was born in February 1945 ; a daughter , Makaziwe , was born in 1947 but died of meningitis nine months later . Mandela enjoyed home life , welcoming his mother and his sister , Leabie , to stay with him . In early 1947 , his three years of articles ended at Witkin , Sidelsky and Eidelman , and he decided to become a full - time student , subsisting on loans from the Bantu Welfare Trust .	When did you and Evelyn Mase get married?	We got married in October 1944.
At Sisulu ' s house , Mandela met Evelyn Mase , a trainee nurse and ANC activist from Engcobo , Transkei . Entering a relationship and marrying in October 1944 , they initially lived with her relatives until moving into a rented house in the township of Orlando in early 1946 . Their first child , Madiba " Thembi " Thembekile , was born in February 1945 ; a daughter , Makaziwe , was born in 1947 but died of meningitis nine months later . Mandela enjoyed home life , welcoming his mother and his sister , Leabie , to stay with him . In early 1947 , his three years of articles ended at Witkin , Sidelsky and Eidelman , and he decided to become a full - time student , subsisting on loans from the Bantu Welfare Trust .	Where did you and Evelyn initially live after getting married?	After getting married, we initially lived with her relatives.
At Sisulu ' s house , Mandela met Evelyn Mase , a trainee nurse and ANC activist from Engcobo , Transkei . Entering a relationship and marrying in October 1944 , they initially lived with her relatives until moving into a rented house in the township of Orlando in early 1946 . Their first child , Madiba " Thembi " Thembekile , was born in February 1945 ; a daughter , Makaziwe , was born in 1947 but died of meningitis nine months later . Mandela enjoyed home life , welcoming his mother and his sister , Leabie , to stay with him . In early 1947 , his three years of articles ended at Witkin , Sidelsky and Eidelman , and he decided to become a full - time student , subsisting on loans from the Bantu Welfare Trust .	When did you and Evelyn move into a rented house in Orlando?	I and Evelyn moved into a rented house in the township of Orlando in early 1946.
At Sisulu ' s house , Mandela met Evelyn Mase , a trainee nurse and ANC activist from Engcobo , Transkei . Entering a relationship and marrying in October 1944 , they initially lived with her relatives until moving into a rented house in the township of Orlando in early 1946 . Their first child , Madiba " Thembi " Thembekile , was born in February 1945 ; a daughter , Makaziwe , was born in 1947 but died of meningitis nine months later . Mandela enjoyed home life , welcoming his mother and his sister , Leabie , to stay with him . In early 1947 , his three years of articles ended at Witkin , Sidelsky and Eidelman , and he decided to become a full - time student , subsisting on loans from the Bantu Welfare Trust .	How many children did you and Evelyn have?	I and Evelyn had two children. Our first child, Madiba "Thembi" Thembekile, was born in February 1945, and a daughter named Makaziwe was born in 1947 but died of meningitis nine months later.
Mandela obtained work as an attorney for the firm Terblanche and Briggish , before moving to the liberal - run Helman and Michel , passing qualification exams to become a full - fledged attorney . In August 1953 , Mandela and Tambo opened their own law firm , Mandela and Tambo , operating in downtown Johannesburg . The only African - run law firm in the country , it was popular with aggrieved black people , often dealing with cases of police brutality . Disliked by the authorities , the firm was forced to relocate to a remote location after their office permit was removed under the Group Areas Act ; as a result , their clientele dwindled . As a lawyer of aristocratic heritage , Mandela was part of Johannesburg ' s elite black middle - class , and accorded much respect from the black community . Although a second daughter , Makaziwe Phumia , was born in May 1954 , Mandela ' s relationship with Evelyn became strained , and she accused him of adultery . He may have had affairs with ANC member Lillian Ngoyi and secretary Ruth Mompati ; various individuals close to Mandela in this period have stated that the latter bore him a child . Disgusted by her son ' s behaviour , Nosekeni returned to Transkei , while Evelyn embraced the Jehovah ' s Witnesses and rejected Mandela ' s preoccupation with politics .	Where did you work as an attorney before opening your own law firm?	I obtained work as an attorney for the firm Terblanche and Briggish.
Mandela obtained work as an attorney for the firm Terblanche and Briggish , before moving to the liberal - run Helman and Michel , passing qualification exams to become a full - fledged attorney . In August 1953 , Mandela and Tambo opened their own law firm , Mandela and Tambo , operating in downtown Johannesburg . The only African - run law firm in the country , it was popular with aggrieved black people , often dealing with cases of police brutality . Disliked by the authorities , the firm was forced to relocate to a remote location after their office permit was removed under the Group Areas Act ; as a result , their clientele dwindled . As a lawyer of aristocratic heritage , Mandela was part of Johannesburg ' s elite black middle - class , and accorded much respect from the black community . Although a second daughter , Makaziwe Phumia , was born in May 1954 , Mandela ' s relationship with Evelyn became strained , and she accused him of adultery . He may have had affairs with ANC member Lillian Ngoyi and secretary Ruth Mompati ; various individuals close to Mandela in this period have stated that the latter bore him a child . Disgusted by her son ' s behaviour , Nosekeni returned to Transkei , while Evelyn embraced the Jehovah ' s Witnesses and rejected Mandela ' s preoccupation with politics .	When did you and Tambo open your own law firm?	We opened our own law firm in August 1953.
Mandela obtained work as an attorney for the firm Terblanche and Briggish , before moving to the liberal - run Helman and Michel , passing qualification exams to become a full - fledged attorney . In August 1953 , Mandela and Tambo opened their own law firm , Mandela and Tambo , operating in downtown Johannesburg . The only African - run law firm in the country , it was popular with aggrieved black people , often dealing with cases of police brutality . Disliked by the authorities , the firm was forced to relocate to a remote location after their office permit was removed under the Group Areas Act ; as a result , their clientele dwindled . As a lawyer of aristocratic heritage , Mandela was part of Johannesburg ' s elite black middle - class , and accorded much respect from the black community . Although a second daughter , Makaziwe Phumia , was born in May 1954 , Mandela ' s relationship with Evelyn became strained , and she accused him of adultery . He may have had affairs with ANC member Lillian Ngoyi and secretary Ruth Mompati ; various individuals close to Mandela in this period have stated that the latter bore him a child . Disgusted by her son ' s behaviour , Nosekeni returned to Transkei , while Evelyn embraced the Jehovah ' s Witnesses and rejected Mandela ' s preoccupation with politics .	Why did our law firm have to relocate?	Our office permit was removed under the Group Areas Act, so we were forced to relocate.
Mandela obtained work as an attorney for the firm Terblanche and Briggish , before moving to the liberal - run Helman and Michel , passing qualification exams to become a full - fledged attorney . In August 1953 , Mandela and Tambo opened their own law firm , Mandela and Tambo , operating in downtown Johannesburg . The only African - run law firm in the country , it was popular with aggrieved black people , often dealing with cases of police brutality . Disliked by the authorities , the firm was forced to relocate to a remote location after their office permit was removed under the Group Areas Act ; as a result , their clientele dwindled . As a lawyer of aristocratic heritage , Mandela was part of Johannesburg ' s elite black middle - class , and accorded much respect from the black community . Although a second daughter , Makaziwe Phumia , was born in May 1954 , Mandela ' s relationship with Evelyn became strained , and she accused him of adultery . He may have had affairs with ANC member Lillian Ngoyi and secretary Ruth Mompati ; various individuals close to Mandela in this period have stated that the latter bore him a child . Disgusted by her son ' s behaviour , Nosekeni returned to Transkei , while Evelyn embraced the Jehovah ' s Witnesses and rejected Mandela ' s preoccupation with politics .	What kind of cases did your and Tambo's law firm often deal with?	We often dealt with cases of police brutality.
Mandela obtained work as an attorney for the firm Terblanche and Briggish , before moving to the liberal - run Helman and Michel , passing qualification exams to become a full - fledged attorney . In August 1953 , Mandela and Tambo opened their own law firm , Mandela and Tambo , operating in downtown Johannesburg . The only African - run law firm in the country , it was popular with aggrieved black people , often dealing with cases of police brutality . Disliked by the authorities , the firm was forced to relocate to a remote location after their office permit was removed under the Group Areas Act ; as a result , their clientele dwindled . As a lawyer of aristocratic heritage , Mandela was part of Johannesburg ' s elite black middle - class , and accorded much respect from the black community . Although a second daughter , Makaziwe Phumia , was born in May 1954 , Mandela ' s relationship with Evelyn became strained , and she accused him of adultery . He may have had affairs with ANC member Lillian Ngoyi and secretary Ruth Mompati ; various individuals close to Mandela in this period have stated that the latter bore him a child . Disgusted by her son ' s behaviour , Nosekeni returned to Transkei , while Evelyn embraced the Jehovah ' s Witnesses and rejected Mandela ' s preoccupation with politics .	How was your law firm viewed by the black community?	My law firm was popular and respected among the black community.
The ANC decided to send Mandela as a delegate to the February 1962 meeting of the Pan - African Freedom Movement for East , Central and Southern Africa ( PAFMECSA ) in Addis Ababa , Ethiopia . Leaving South Africa in secret via Bechuanaland , on his way Mandela visited Tanganyika and met with its president , Julius Nyerere . Arriving in Ethiopia , Mandela met with Emperor Haile Selassie I , and gave his speech after Selassie ' s at the conference . After the symposium , he travelled to Cairo , Egypt , admiring the political reforms of President Gamal Abdel Nasser , and on April 1962 he went to Morocco where asked El Khatib to meet the king to ask him to give him £ 5 , 000 . The next day he got the £ 5 , 000 along with some weapons and training to Mandels ' s soldier , and then went to Tunis , Tunisia , where President Habib Bourguiba gave him £ 5 , 000 for weaponry . He proceeded to Morocco , Mali , Guinea , Sierra Leone , Liberia and Senegal , receiving funds from Liberian president William Tubman and Guinean president Ahmed S é kou Tour é . He left Africa for London , England , where he met anti - apartheid activists , reporters and prominent politicians . Upon returning to Ethiopia , he began a six - month course in guerrilla warfare , but completed only two months before being recalled to South Africa by the ANC ' s leadership .	Where did you visit before arriving in Ethiopia?	I visited Tanganyika and met with its president, Julius Nyerere.
The ANC decided to send Mandela as a delegate to the February 1962 meeting of the Pan - African Freedom Movement for East , Central and Southern Africa ( PAFMECSA ) in Addis Ababa , Ethiopia . Leaving South Africa in secret via Bechuanaland , on his way Mandela visited Tanganyika and met with its president , Julius Nyerere . Arriving in Ethiopia , Mandela met with Emperor Haile Selassie I , and gave his speech after Selassie ' s at the conference . After the symposium , he travelled to Cairo , Egypt , admiring the political reforms of President Gamal Abdel Nasser , and on April 1962 he went to Morocco where asked El Khatib to meet the king to ask him to give him £ 5 , 000 . The next day he got the £ 5 , 000 along with some weapons and training to Mandels ' s soldier , and then went to Tunis , Tunisia , where President Habib Bourguiba gave him £ 5 , 000 for weaponry . He proceeded to Morocco , Mali , Guinea , Sierra Leone , Liberia and Senegal , receiving funds from Liberian president William Tubman and Guinean president Ahmed S é kou Tour é . He left Africa for London , England , where he met anti - apartheid activists , reporters and prominent politicians . Upon returning to Ethiopia , he began a six - month course in guerrilla warfare , but completed only two months before being recalled to South Africa by the ANC ' s leadership .	Who did you meet with in Ethiopia?	I met with Emperor Haile Selassie I in Ethiopia.
The ANC decided to send Mandela as a delegate to the February 1962 meeting of the Pan - African Freedom Movement for East , Central and Southern Africa ( PAFMECSA ) in Addis Ababa , Ethiopia . Leaving South Africa in secret via Bechuanaland , on his way Mandela visited Tanganyika and met with its president , Julius Nyerere . Arriving in Ethiopia , Mandela met with Emperor Haile Selassie I , and gave his speech after Selassie ' s at the conference . After the symposium , he travelled to Cairo , Egypt , admiring the political reforms of President Gamal Abdel Nasser , and on April 1962 he went to Morocco where asked El Khatib to meet the king to ask him to give him £ 5 , 000 . The next day he got the £ 5 , 000 along with some weapons and training to Mandels ' s soldier , and then went to Tunis , Tunisia , where President Habib Bourguiba gave him £ 5 , 000 for weaponry . He proceeded to Morocco , Mali , Guinea , Sierra Leone , Liberia and Senegal , receiving funds from Liberian president William Tubman and Guinean president Ahmed S é kou Tour é . He left Africa for London , England , where he met anti - apartheid activists , reporters and prominent politicians . Upon returning to Ethiopia , he began a six - month course in guerrilla warfare , but completed only two months before being recalled to South Africa by the ANC ' s leadership .	What political reforms do you admire in Egypt?	I admire the political reforms of President Gamal Abdel Nasser in Egypt.
The ANC decided to send Mandela as a delegate to the February 1962 meeting of the Pan - African Freedom Movement for East , Central and Southern Africa ( PAFMECSA ) in Addis Ababa , Ethiopia . Leaving South Africa in secret via Bechuanaland , on his way Mandela visited Tanganyika and met with its president , Julius Nyerere . Arriving in Ethiopia , Mandela met with Emperor Haile Selassie I , and gave his speech after Selassie ' s at the conference . After the symposium , he travelled to Cairo , Egypt , admiring the political reforms of President Gamal Abdel Nasser , and on April 1962 he went to Morocco where asked El Khatib to meet the king to ask him to give him £ 5 , 000 . The next day he got the £ 5 , 000 along with some weapons and training to Mandels ' s soldier , and then went to Tunis , Tunisia , where President Habib Bourguiba gave him £ 5 , 000 for weaponry . He proceeded to Morocco , Mali , Guinea , Sierra Leone , Liberia and Senegal , receiving funds from Liberian president William Tubman and Guinean president Ahmed S é kou Tour é . He left Africa for London , England , where he met anti - apartheid activists , reporters and prominent politicians . Upon returning to Ethiopia , he began a six - month course in guerrilla warfare , but completed only two months before being recalled to South Africa by the ANC ' s leadership .	Where did you receive funds from Liberian president William Tubman and Guinean president Ahmed S é kou Tour é?	I received funds from Liberian president William Tubman and Guinean president Ahmed S é kou Tour é in Sierra Leone and Liberia.
The ANC decided to send Mandela as a delegate to the February 1962 meeting of the Pan - African Freedom Movement for East , Central and Southern Africa ( PAFMECSA ) in Addis Ababa , Ethiopia . Leaving South Africa in secret via Bechuanaland , on his way Mandela visited Tanganyika and met with its president , Julius Nyerere . Arriving in Ethiopia , Mandela met with Emperor Haile Selassie I , and gave his speech after Selassie ' s at the conference . After the symposium , he travelled to Cairo , Egypt , admiring the political reforms of President Gamal Abdel Nasser , and on April 1962 he went to Morocco where asked El Khatib to meet the king to ask him to give him £ 5 , 000 . The next day he got the £ 5 , 000 along with some weapons and training to Mandels ' s soldier , and then went to Tunis , Tunisia , where President Habib Bourguiba gave him £ 5 , 000 for weaponry . He proceeded to Morocco , Mali , Guinea , Sierra Leone , Liberia and Senegal , receiving funds from Liberian president William Tubman and Guinean president Ahmed S é kou Tour é . He left Africa for London , England , where he met anti - apartheid activists , reporters and prominent politicians . Upon returning to Ethiopia , he began a six - month course in guerrilla warfare , but completed only two months before being recalled to South Africa by the ANC ' s leadership .	Where did you go after leaving Africa for London, England?	I returned to Ethiopia after leaving Africa for London, England.
On 5 August 1962 , police captured Mandela along with fellow activist Cecil Williams near Howick . Many MK members suspected that the authorities had been tipped off with regard to Mandela ' s whereabouts , although Mandela himself gave these ideas little credence . In later years , Donald Rickard , a former American diplomat , revealed that the Central Intelligence Agency , which feared Mandela ' s associations with communists , had informed the South African police of his location . Jailed in Johannesburg ' s Marshall Square prison , Mandela was charged with inciting workers ' strikes and leaving the country without permission . Representing himself with Slovo as legal advisor , Mandela intended to use the trial to showcase " the ANC ' s moral opposition to racism " while supporters demonstrated outside the court . Moved to Pretoria , where Winnie could visit him , he began correspondence studies for a Bachelor of Laws ( LLB ) degree from the University of London International Programmes . His hearing began in October , but he disrupted proceedings by wearing a traditional kaross , refusing to call any witnesses , and turning his plea of mitigation into a political speech . Found guilty , he was sentenced to five years ' imprisonment ; as he left the courtroom , supporters sang " Nkosi Sikelel iAfrika " .	When were you captured by the police?	I was captured by the police on 5 August 1962.
On 5 August 1962 , police captured Mandela along with fellow activist Cecil Williams near Howick . Many MK members suspected that the authorities had been tipped off with regard to Mandela ' s whereabouts , although Mandela himself gave these ideas little credence . In later years , Donald Rickard , a former American diplomat , revealed that the Central Intelligence Agency , which feared Mandela ' s associations with communists , had informed the South African police of his location . Jailed in Johannesburg ' s Marshall Square prison , Mandela was charged with inciting workers ' strikes and leaving the country without permission . Representing himself with Slovo as legal advisor , Mandela intended to use the trial to showcase " the ANC ' s moral opposition to racism " while supporters demonstrated outside the court . Moved to Pretoria , where Winnie could visit him , he began correspondence studies for a Bachelor of Laws ( LLB ) degree from the University of London International Programmes . His hearing began in October , but he disrupted proceedings by wearing a traditional kaross , refusing to call any witnesses , and turning his plea of mitigation into a political speech . Found guilty , he was sentenced to five years ' imprisonment ; as he left the courtroom , supporters sang " Nkosi Sikelel iAfrika " .	Who were you captured with?	I was captured with fellow activist Cecil Williams.
On 5 August 1962 , police captured Mandela along with fellow activist Cecil Williams near Howick . Many MK members suspected that the authorities had been tipped off with regard to Mandela ' s whereabouts , although Mandela himself gave these ideas little credence . In later years , Donald Rickard , a former American diplomat , revealed that the Central Intelligence Agency , which feared Mandela ' s associations with communists , had informed the South African police of his location . Jailed in Johannesburg ' s Marshall Square prison , Mandela was charged with inciting workers ' strikes and leaving the country without permission . Representing himself with Slovo as legal advisor , Mandela intended to use the trial to showcase " the ANC ' s moral opposition to racism " while supporters demonstrated outside the court . Moved to Pretoria , where Winnie could visit him , he began correspondence studies for a Bachelor of Laws ( LLB ) degree from the University of London International Programmes . His hearing began in October , but he disrupted proceedings by wearing a traditional kaross , refusing to call any witnesses , and turning his plea of mitigation into a political speech . Found guilty , he was sentenced to five years ' imprisonment ; as he left the courtroom , supporters sang " Nkosi Sikelel iAfrika " .	Why were many MK members suspicious about the authorities being tipped off about your whereabouts?	Many MK members suspected that the authorities had been tipped off about my whereabouts because they believed that my location was revealed to the South African police by the Central Intelligence Agency (CIA).
On 5 August 1962 , police captured Mandela along with fellow activist Cecil Williams near Howick . Many MK members suspected that the authorities had been tipped off with regard to Mandela ' s whereabouts , although Mandela himself gave these ideas little credence . In later years , Donald Rickard , a former American diplomat , revealed that the Central Intelligence Agency , which feared Mandela ' s associations with communists , had informed the South African police of his location . Jailed in Johannesburg ' s Marshall Square prison , Mandela was charged with inciting workers ' strikes and leaving the country without permission . Representing himself with Slovo as legal advisor , Mandela intended to use the trial to showcase " the ANC ' s moral opposition to racism " while supporters demonstrated outside the court . Moved to Pretoria , where Winnie could visit him , he began correspondence studies for a Bachelor of Laws ( LLB ) degree from the University of London International Programmes . His hearing began in October , but he disrupted proceedings by wearing a traditional kaross , refusing to call any witnesses , and turning his plea of mitigation into a political speech . Found guilty , he was sentenced to five years ' imprisonment ; as he left the courtroom , supporters sang " Nkosi Sikelel iAfrika " .	What were the charges against you?	I was charged with inciting workers' strikes and leaving the country without permission.
On 5 August 1962 , police captured Mandela along with fellow activist Cecil Williams near Howick . Many MK members suspected that the authorities had been tipped off with regard to Mandela ' s whereabouts , although Mandela himself gave these ideas little credence . In later years , Donald Rickard , a former American diplomat , revealed that the Central Intelligence Agency , which feared Mandela ' s associations with communists , had informed the South African police of his location . Jailed in Johannesburg ' s Marshall Square prison , Mandela was charged with inciting workers ' strikes and leaving the country without permission . Representing himself with Slovo as legal advisor , Mandela intended to use the trial to showcase " the ANC ' s moral opposition to racism " while supporters demonstrated outside the court . Moved to Pretoria , where Winnie could visit him , he began correspondence studies for a Bachelor of Laws ( LLB ) degree from the University of London International Programmes . His hearing began in October , but he disrupted proceedings by wearing a traditional kaross , refusing to call any witnesses , and turning his plea of mitigation into a political speech . Found guilty , he was sentenced to five years ' imprisonment ; as he left the courtroom , supporters sang " Nkosi Sikelel iAfrika " .	What did you intend to showcase during your trial?	I intended to use the trial to showcase "the ANC's moral opposition to racism" while supporters demonstrated outside the court.
By the late 1960s , Mandela ' s fame had been eclipsed by Steve Biko and the Black Consciousness Movement ( BCM ) . Seeing the ANC as ineffectual , the BCM called for militant action , but , following the Soweto uprising of 1976 , many BCM activists were imprisoned on Robben Island . Mandela tried to build a relationship with these young radicals , although he was critical of their racialism and contempt for white anti - apartheid activists . Renewed international interest in his plight came in July 1978 , when he celebrated his 60th birthday . He was awarded an honorary doctorate in Lesotho , the Jawaharlal Nehru Award for International Understanding in India in 1979 , and the Freedom of the City of Glasgow , Scotland in 1981 . In March 1980 , the slogan " Free Mandela ! " was developed by journalist Percy Qoboza , sparking an international campaign that led the UN Security Council to call for his release . Despite increasing foreign pressure , the government refused , relying on its Cold War allies US president Ronald Reagan and British prime minister Margaret Thatcher ; both considered Mandela ' s ANC a terrorist organisation sympathetic to communism and supported its suppression .	What happened to your fame in the late 1960s?	My fame was eclipsed by Steve Biko and the Black Consciousness Movement (BCM).
By the late 1960s , Mandela ' s fame had been eclipsed by Steve Biko and the Black Consciousness Movement ( BCM ) . Seeing the ANC as ineffectual , the BCM called for militant action , but , following the Soweto uprising of 1976 , many BCM activists were imprisoned on Robben Island . Mandela tried to build a relationship with these young radicals , although he was critical of their racialism and contempt for white anti - apartheid activists . Renewed international interest in his plight came in July 1978 , when he celebrated his 60th birthday . He was awarded an honorary doctorate in Lesotho , the Jawaharlal Nehru Award for International Understanding in India in 1979 , and the Freedom of the City of Glasgow , Scotland in 1981 . In March 1980 , the slogan " Free Mandela ! " was developed by journalist Percy Qoboza , sparking an international campaign that led the UN Security Council to call for his release . Despite increasing foreign pressure , the government refused , relying on its Cold War allies US president Ronald Reagan and British prime minister Margaret Thatcher ; both considered Mandela ' s ANC a terrorist organisation sympathetic to communism and supported its suppression .	What did the Black Consciousness Movement (BCM) call for?	The BCM called for militant action.
By the late 1960s , Mandela ' s fame had been eclipsed by Steve Biko and the Black Consciousness Movement ( BCM ) . Seeing the ANC as ineffectual , the BCM called for militant action , but , following the Soweto uprising of 1976 , many BCM activists were imprisoned on Robben Island . Mandela tried to build a relationship with these young radicals , although he was critical of their racialism and contempt for white anti - apartheid activists . Renewed international interest in his plight came in July 1978 , when he celebrated his 60th birthday . He was awarded an honorary doctorate in Lesotho , the Jawaharlal Nehru Award for International Understanding in India in 1979 , and the Freedom of the City of Glasgow , Scotland in 1981 . In March 1980 , the slogan " Free Mandela ! " was developed by journalist Percy Qoboza , sparking an international campaign that led the UN Security Council to call for his release . Despite increasing foreign pressure , the government refused , relying on its Cold War allies US president Ronald Reagan and British prime minister Margaret Thatcher ; both considered Mandela ' s ANC a terrorist organisation sympathetic to communism and supported its suppression .	What happened to many BCM activists after the Soweto uprising of 1976?	Many BCM activists were imprisoned on Robben Island.
By the late 1960s , Mandela ' s fame had been eclipsed by Steve Biko and the Black Consciousness Movement ( BCM ) . Seeing the ANC as ineffectual , the BCM called for militant action , but , following the Soweto uprising of 1976 , many BCM activists were imprisoned on Robben Island . Mandela tried to build a relationship with these young radicals , although he was critical of their racialism and contempt for white anti - apartheid activists . Renewed international interest in his plight came in July 1978 , when he celebrated his 60th birthday . He was awarded an honorary doctorate in Lesotho , the Jawaharlal Nehru Award for International Understanding in India in 1979 , and the Freedom of the City of Glasgow , Scotland in 1981 . In March 1980 , the slogan " Free Mandela ! " was developed by journalist Percy Qoboza , sparking an international campaign that led the UN Security Council to call for his release . Despite increasing foreign pressure , the government refused , relying on its Cold War allies US president Ronald Reagan and British prime minister Margaret Thatcher ; both considered Mandela ' s ANC a terrorist organisation sympathetic to communism and supported its suppression .	How did you view the young radicals imprisoned on Robben Island?	I tried to build a relationship with them, although I was critical of their racialism and contempt for white anti-apartheid activists.
By the late 1960s , Mandela ' s fame had been eclipsed by Steve Biko and the Black Consciousness Movement ( BCM ) . Seeing the ANC as ineffectual , the BCM called for militant action , but , following the Soweto uprising of 1976 , many BCM activists were imprisoned on Robben Island . Mandela tried to build a relationship with these young radicals , although he was critical of their racialism and contempt for white anti - apartheid activists . Renewed international interest in his plight came in July 1978 , when he celebrated his 60th birthday . He was awarded an honorary doctorate in Lesotho , the Jawaharlal Nehru Award for International Understanding in India in 1979 , and the Freedom of the City of Glasgow , Scotland in 1981 . In March 1980 , the slogan " Free Mandela ! " was developed by journalist Percy Qoboza , sparking an international campaign that led the UN Security Council to call for his release . Despite increasing foreign pressure , the government refused , relying on its Cold War allies US president Ronald Reagan and British prime minister Margaret Thatcher ; both considered Mandela ' s ANC a terrorist organisation sympathetic to communism and supported its suppression .	When did international interest in your plight increase?	International interest in my plight increased in July 1978, when I celebrated my 60th birthday.
Mandela proceeded on an African tour , meeting supporters and politicians in Zambia , Zimbabwe , Namibia , Libya and Algeria , and continuing to Sweden , where he was reunited with Tambo , and London , where he appeared at the Nelson Mandela : An International Tribute for a Free South Africa concert at Wembley Stadium . Encouraging foreign countries to support sanctions against the apartheid government , he met President Fran ç ois Mitterrand in France , Pope John Paul II in the Vatican , and Thatcher in the United Kingdom . In the United States , he met President George H . W . Bush , addressed both Houses of Congress and visited eight cities , being particularly popular among the African - American community . In Cuba , he became friends with President Castro , whom he had long admired . He met President R . Venkataraman in India , President Suharto in Indonesia , Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in Malaysia , and Prime Minister Bob Hawke in Australia . He visited Japan , but not the Soviet Union , a longtime ANC supporter .	Who did you meet during your African tour?	I met supporters and politicians in Zambia, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Libya, and Algeria.
Mandela proceeded on an African tour , meeting supporters and politicians in Zambia , Zimbabwe , Namibia , Libya and Algeria , and continuing to Sweden , where he was reunited with Tambo , and London , where he appeared at the Nelson Mandela : An International Tribute for a Free South Africa concert at Wembley Stadium . Encouraging foreign countries to support sanctions against the apartheid government , he met President Fran ç ois Mitterrand in France , Pope John Paul II in the Vatican , and Thatcher in the United Kingdom . In the United States , he met President George H . W . Bush , addressed both Houses of Congress and visited eight cities , being particularly popular among the African - American community . In Cuba , he became friends with President Castro , whom he had long admired . He met President R . Venkataraman in India , President Suharto in Indonesia , Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in Malaysia , and Prime Minister Bob Hawke in Australia . He visited Japan , but not the Soviet Union , a longtime ANC supporter .	Where were you reunited with Tambo?	I was reunited with Tambo in Sweden.
Mandela proceeded on an African tour , meeting supporters and politicians in Zambia , Zimbabwe , Namibia , Libya and Algeria , and continuing to Sweden , where he was reunited with Tambo , and London , where he appeared at the Nelson Mandela : An International Tribute for a Free South Africa concert at Wembley Stadium . Encouraging foreign countries to support sanctions against the apartheid government , he met President Fran ç ois Mitterrand in France , Pope John Paul II in the Vatican , and Thatcher in the United Kingdom . In the United States , he met President George H . W . Bush , addressed both Houses of Congress and visited eight cities , being particularly popular among the African - American community . In Cuba , he became friends with President Castro , whom he had long admired . He met President R . Venkataraman in India , President Suharto in Indonesia , Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in Malaysia , and Prime Minister Bob Hawke in Australia . He visited Japan , but not the Soviet Union , a longtime ANC supporter .	Where did you appear at a concert?	I appeared at the Nelson Mandela: An International Tribute for a Free South Africa concert at Wembley Stadium in London.
Mandela proceeded on an African tour , meeting supporters and politicians in Zambia , Zimbabwe , Namibia , Libya and Algeria , and continuing to Sweden , where he was reunited with Tambo , and London , where he appeared at the Nelson Mandela : An International Tribute for a Free South Africa concert at Wembley Stadium . Encouraging foreign countries to support sanctions against the apartheid government , he met President Fran ç ois Mitterrand in France , Pope John Paul II in the Vatican , and Thatcher in the United Kingdom . In the United States , he met President George H . W . Bush , addressed both Houses of Congress and visited eight cities , being particularly popular among the African - American community . In Cuba , he became friends with President Castro , whom he had long admired . He met President R . Venkataraman in India , President Suharto in Indonesia , Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in Malaysia , and Prime Minister Bob Hawke in Australia . He visited Japan , but not the Soviet Union , a longtime ANC supporter .	Who did you meet in France?	I met President François Mitterrand in France.
Mandela proceeded on an African tour , meeting supporters and politicians in Zambia , Zimbabwe , Namibia , Libya and Algeria , and continuing to Sweden , where he was reunited with Tambo , and London , where he appeared at the Nelson Mandela : An International Tribute for a Free South Africa concert at Wembley Stadium . Encouraging foreign countries to support sanctions against the apartheid government , he met President Fran ç ois Mitterrand in France , Pope John Paul II in the Vatican , and Thatcher in the United Kingdom . In the United States , he met President George H . W . Bush , addressed both Houses of Congress and visited eight cities , being particularly popular among the African - American community . In Cuba , he became friends with President Castro , whom he had long admired . He met President R . Venkataraman in India , President Suharto in Indonesia , Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in Malaysia , and Prime Minister Bob Hawke in Australia . He visited Japan , but not the Soviet Union , a longtime ANC supporter .	Who did you meet in the Vatican?	I met Pope John Paul II in the Vatican.
Mandela was given an office in the newly purchased ANC headquarters at Shell House , Johannesburg , and moved into Winnie ' s large Soweto home . Their marriage was increasingly strained as he learned of her affair with Dali Mpofu , but he supported her during her trial for kidnapping and assault . He gained funding for her defence from the International Defence and Aid Fund for Southern Africa and from Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi , but , in June 1991 , she was found guilty and sentenced to six years in prison , reduced to two on appeal . On 13 April 1992 , Mandela publicly announced his separation from Winnie . The ANC forced her to step down from the national executive for misappropriating ANC funds ; Mandela moved into the mostly white Johannesburg suburb of Houghton . Mandela ' s prospects for a peaceful transition were further damaged by an increase in " black - on - black " violence , particularly between ANC and Inkatha supporters in KwaZulu - Natal , which resulted in thousands of deaths . Mandela met with Inkatha leader Buthelezi , but the ANC prevented further negotiations on the issue . Mandela argued that there was a " third force " within the state intelligence services fuelling the " slaughter of the people " and openly blamed de Klerk — whom he increasingly distrusted — for the Sebokeng massacre . In September 1991 , a national peace conference was held in Johannesburg at which Mandela , Buthelezi and de Klerk signed a peace accord , though the violence continued .	Where were you given an office?	I was given an office at Shell House in Johannesburg.
Mandela was given an office in the newly purchased ANC headquarters at Shell House , Johannesburg , and moved into Winnie ' s large Soweto home . Their marriage was increasingly strained as he learned of her affair with Dali Mpofu , but he supported her during her trial for kidnapping and assault . He gained funding for her defence from the International Defence and Aid Fund for Southern Africa and from Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi , but , in June 1991 , she was found guilty and sentenced to six years in prison , reduced to two on appeal . On 13 April 1992 , Mandela publicly announced his separation from Winnie . The ANC forced her to step down from the national executive for misappropriating ANC funds ; Mandela moved into the mostly white Johannesburg suburb of Houghton . Mandela ' s prospects for a peaceful transition were further damaged by an increase in " black - on - black " violence , particularly between ANC and Inkatha supporters in KwaZulu - Natal , which resulted in thousands of deaths . Mandela met with Inkatha leader Buthelezi , but the ANC prevented further negotiations on the issue . Mandela argued that there was a " third force " within the state intelligence services fuelling the " slaughter of the people " and openly blamed de Klerk — whom he increasingly distrusted — for the Sebokeng massacre . In September 1991 , a national peace conference was held in Johannesburg at which Mandela , Buthelezi and de Klerk signed a peace accord , though the violence continued .	Where did you move into?	I moved into Winnie's large Soweto home.
Mandela was given an office in the newly purchased ANC headquarters at Shell House , Johannesburg , and moved into Winnie ' s large Soweto home . Their marriage was increasingly strained as he learned of her affair with Dali Mpofu , but he supported her during her trial for kidnapping and assault . He gained funding for her defence from the International Defence and Aid Fund for Southern Africa and from Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi , but , in June 1991 , she was found guilty and sentenced to six years in prison , reduced to two on appeal . On 13 April 1992 , Mandela publicly announced his separation from Winnie . The ANC forced her to step down from the national executive for misappropriating ANC funds ; Mandela moved into the mostly white Johannesburg suburb of Houghton . Mandela ' s prospects for a peaceful transition were further damaged by an increase in " black - on - black " violence , particularly between ANC and Inkatha supporters in KwaZulu - Natal , which resulted in thousands of deaths . Mandela met with Inkatha leader Buthelezi , but the ANC prevented further negotiations on the issue . Mandela argued that there was a " third force " within the state intelligence services fuelling the " slaughter of the people " and openly blamed de Klerk — whom he increasingly distrusted — for the Sebokeng massacre . In September 1991 , a national peace conference was held in Johannesburg at which Mandela , Buthelezi and de Klerk signed a peace accord , though the violence continued .	Who did you have an affair with?	I had an affair with Dali Mpofu.
Mandela was given an office in the newly purchased ANC headquarters at Shell House , Johannesburg , and moved into Winnie ' s large Soweto home . Their marriage was increasingly strained as he learned of her affair with Dali Mpofu , but he supported her during her trial for kidnapping and assault . He gained funding for her defence from the International Defence and Aid Fund for Southern Africa and from Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi , but , in June 1991 , she was found guilty and sentenced to six years in prison , reduced to two on appeal . On 13 April 1992 , Mandela publicly announced his separation from Winnie . The ANC forced her to step down from the national executive for misappropriating ANC funds ; Mandela moved into the mostly white Johannesburg suburb of Houghton . Mandela ' s prospects for a peaceful transition were further damaged by an increase in " black - on - black " violence , particularly between ANC and Inkatha supporters in KwaZulu - Natal , which resulted in thousands of deaths . Mandela met with Inkatha leader Buthelezi , but the ANC prevented further negotiations on the issue . Mandela argued that there was a " third force " within the state intelligence services fuelling the " slaughter of the people " and openly blamed de Klerk — whom he increasingly distrusted — for the Sebokeng massacre . In September 1991 , a national peace conference was held in Johannesburg at which Mandela , Buthelezi and de Klerk signed a peace accord , though the violence continued .	Who supported me during my trial?	You supported me during my trial for kidnapping and assault.
Mandela was given an office in the newly purchased ANC headquarters at Shell House , Johannesburg , and moved into Winnie ' s large Soweto home . Their marriage was increasingly strained as he learned of her affair with Dali Mpofu , but he supported her during her trial for kidnapping and assault . He gained funding for her defence from the International Defence and Aid Fund for Southern Africa and from Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi , but , in June 1991 , she was found guilty and sentenced to six years in prison , reduced to two on appeal . On 13 April 1992 , Mandela publicly announced his separation from Winnie . The ANC forced her to step down from the national executive for misappropriating ANC funds ; Mandela moved into the mostly white Johannesburg suburb of Houghton . Mandela ' s prospects for a peaceful transition were further damaged by an increase in " black - on - black " violence , particularly between ANC and Inkatha supporters in KwaZulu - Natal , which resulted in thousands of deaths . Mandela met with Inkatha leader Buthelezi , but the ANC prevented further negotiations on the issue . Mandela argued that there was a " third force " within the state intelligence services fuelling the " slaughter of the people " and openly blamed de Klerk — whom he increasingly distrusted — for the Sebokeng massacre . In September 1991 , a national peace conference was held in Johannesburg at which Mandela , Buthelezi and de Klerk signed a peace accord , though the violence continued .	Who provided funding for your defense?	The International Defence and Aid Fund for Southern Africa and Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi provided funding for my defense.
The newly elected National Assembly ' s first act was to formally elect Mandela as South Africa ' s first black chief executive . His inauguration took place in Pretoria on 10 May 1994 , televised to a billion viewers globally . The event was attended by four thousand guests , including world leaders from a wide range of geographic and ideological backgrounds . Mandela headed a Government of National Unity dominated by the ANC — which had no experience of governing by itself — but containing representatives from the National Party and Inkatha . Under the Interim Constitution , Inkatha and the National Party were entitled to seats in the government by virtue of winning at least 20 seats . In keeping with earlier agreements , both de Klerk and Thabo Mbeki were given the position of Deputy President . Although Mbeki had not been his first choice for the job , Mandela grew to rely heavily on him throughout his presidency , allowing him to shape policy details . Moving into the presidential office at Tuynhuys in Cape Town , Mandela allowed de Klerk to retain the presidential residence in the Groote Schuur estate , instead settling into the nearby Westbrooke manor , which he renamed " Genadendal " , meaning " Valley of Mercy " in Afrikaans . Retaining his Houghton home , he also had a house built in his home village of Qunu , which he visited regularly , walking around the area , meeting with locals , and judging tribal disputes .	Who were you formally elected as?	I was formally elected as South Africa's first black chief executive.
The newly elected National Assembly ' s first act was to formally elect Mandela as South Africa ' s first black chief executive . His inauguration took place in Pretoria on 10 May 1994 , televised to a billion viewers globally . The event was attended by four thousand guests , including world leaders from a wide range of geographic and ideological backgrounds . Mandela headed a Government of National Unity dominated by the ANC — which had no experience of governing by itself — but containing representatives from the National Party and Inkatha . Under the Interim Constitution , Inkatha and the National Party were entitled to seats in the government by virtue of winning at least 20 seats . In keeping with earlier agreements , both de Klerk and Thabo Mbeki were given the position of Deputy President . Although Mbeki had not been his first choice for the job , Mandela grew to rely heavily on him throughout his presidency , allowing him to shape policy details . Moving into the presidential office at Tuynhuys in Cape Town , Mandela allowed de Klerk to retain the presidential residence in the Groote Schuur estate , instead settling into the nearby Westbrooke manor , which he renamed " Genadendal " , meaning " Valley of Mercy " in Afrikaans . Retaining his Houghton home , he also had a house built in his home village of Qunu , which he visited regularly , walking around the area , meeting with locals , and judging tribal disputes .	When did your inauguration take place?	My inauguration took place on May 10, 1994.
The newly elected National Assembly ' s first act was to formally elect Mandela as South Africa ' s first black chief executive . His inauguration took place in Pretoria on 10 May 1994 , televised to a billion viewers globally . The event was attended by four thousand guests , including world leaders from a wide range of geographic and ideological backgrounds . Mandela headed a Government of National Unity dominated by the ANC — which had no experience of governing by itself — but containing representatives from the National Party and Inkatha . Under the Interim Constitution , Inkatha and the National Party were entitled to seats in the government by virtue of winning at least 20 seats . In keeping with earlier agreements , both de Klerk and Thabo Mbeki were given the position of Deputy President . Although Mbeki had not been his first choice for the job , Mandela grew to rely heavily on him throughout his presidency , allowing him to shape policy details . Moving into the presidential office at Tuynhuys in Cape Town , Mandela allowed de Klerk to retain the presidential residence in the Groote Schuur estate , instead settling into the nearby Westbrooke manor , which he renamed " Genadendal " , meaning " Valley of Mercy " in Afrikaans . Retaining his Houghton home , he also had a house built in his home village of Qunu , which he visited regularly , walking around the area , meeting with locals , and judging tribal disputes .	How many guests attended the event?	Four thousand guests attended the event.
The newly elected National Assembly ' s first act was to formally elect Mandela as South Africa ' s first black chief executive . His inauguration took place in Pretoria on 10 May 1994 , televised to a billion viewers globally . The event was attended by four thousand guests , including world leaders from a wide range of geographic and ideological backgrounds . Mandela headed a Government of National Unity dominated by the ANC — which had no experience of governing by itself — but containing representatives from the National Party and Inkatha . Under the Interim Constitution , Inkatha and the National Party were entitled to seats in the government by virtue of winning at least 20 seats . In keeping with earlier agreements , both de Klerk and Thabo Mbeki were given the position of Deputy President . Although Mbeki had not been his first choice for the job , Mandela grew to rely heavily on him throughout his presidency , allowing him to shape policy details . Moving into the presidential office at Tuynhuys in Cape Town , Mandela allowed de Klerk to retain the presidential residence in the Groote Schuur estate , instead settling into the nearby Westbrooke manor , which he renamed " Genadendal " , meaning " Valley of Mercy " in Afrikaans . Retaining his Houghton home , he also had a house built in his home village of Qunu , which he visited regularly , walking around the area , meeting with locals , and judging tribal disputes .	Who did you rely heavily on throughout your presidency?	I relied heavily on Thabo Mbeki throughout my presidency.
The newly elected National Assembly ' s first act was to formally elect Mandela as South Africa ' s first black chief executive . His inauguration took place in Pretoria on 10 May 1994 , televised to a billion viewers globally . The event was attended by four thousand guests , including world leaders from a wide range of geographic and ideological backgrounds . Mandela headed a Government of National Unity dominated by the ANC — which had no experience of governing by itself — but containing representatives from the National Party and Inkatha . Under the Interim Constitution , Inkatha and the National Party were entitled to seats in the government by virtue of winning at least 20 seats . In keeping with earlier agreements , both de Klerk and Thabo Mbeki were given the position of Deputy President . Although Mbeki had not been his first choice for the job , Mandela grew to rely heavily on him throughout his presidency , allowing him to shape policy details . Moving into the presidential office at Tuynhuys in Cape Town , Mandela allowed de Klerk to retain the presidential residence in the Groote Schuur estate , instead settling into the nearby Westbrooke manor , which he renamed " Genadendal " , meaning " Valley of Mercy " in Afrikaans . Retaining his Houghton home , he also had a house built in his home village of Qunu , which he visited regularly , walking around the area , meeting with locals , and judging tribal disputes .	Where did you settle into after moving into the presidential office at Tuynhuys?	I settled into the nearby Westbrooke manor, which I renamed "Genadendal".
Mandela was very self - conscious about being a man and regularly made references to manhood . He was heterosexual , and biographer Fatima Meer said that he was " easily tempted " by women . Another biographer , Martin Meredith , characterised him as being " by nature a romantic " , highlighting that he had relationships with various women . Mandela was married three times , fathered six children , and had seventeen grandchildren and at least seventeen great - grandchildren . He could be stern and demanding of his children , although he was more affectionate with his grandchildren . His first marriage was to Evelyn Ntoko Mase in October 1944 ; they divorced in March 1958 under the multiple strains of his adultery and constant absences , devotion to revolutionary agitation , and the fact that she was a Jehovah ' s Witness , a religion requiring political neutrality . Mandela ' s second wife was the social worker Winnie Madikizela - Mandela , whom he married in June 1958 . They divorced in March 1996 . Mandela married his third wife , Gra ç a Machel , on his 80th birthday in July 1998 .	How many times were you married?	I was married three times.
Mandela was very self - conscious about being a man and regularly made references to manhood . He was heterosexual , and biographer Fatima Meer said that he was " easily tempted " by women . Another biographer , Martin Meredith , characterised him as being " by nature a romantic " , highlighting that he had relationships with various women . Mandela was married three times , fathered six children , and had seventeen grandchildren and at least seventeen great - grandchildren . He could be stern and demanding of his children , although he was more affectionate with his grandchildren . His first marriage was to Evelyn Ntoko Mase in October 1944 ; they divorced in March 1958 under the multiple strains of his adultery and constant absences , devotion to revolutionary agitation , and the fact that she was a Jehovah ' s Witness , a religion requiring political neutrality . Mandela ' s second wife was the social worker Winnie Madikizela - Mandela , whom he married in June 1958 . They divorced in March 1996 . Mandela married his third wife , Gra ç a Machel , on his 80th birthday in July 1998 .	How many children did you have?	I fathered six children.
Mandela was very self - conscious about being a man and regularly made references to manhood . He was heterosexual , and biographer Fatima Meer said that he was " easily tempted " by women . Another biographer , Martin Meredith , characterised him as being " by nature a romantic " , highlighting that he had relationships with various women . Mandela was married three times , fathered six children , and had seventeen grandchildren and at least seventeen great - grandchildren . He could be stern and demanding of his children , although he was more affectionate with his grandchildren . His first marriage was to Evelyn Ntoko Mase in October 1944 ; they divorced in March 1958 under the multiple strains of his adultery and constant absences , devotion to revolutionary agitation , and the fact that she was a Jehovah ' s Witness , a religion requiring political neutrality . Mandela ' s second wife was the social worker Winnie Madikizela - Mandela , whom he married in June 1958 . They divorced in March 1996 . Mandela married his third wife , Gra ç a Machel , on his 80th birthday in July 1998 .	How many grandchildren do you have?	I have seventeen grandchildren.
Mandela was very self - conscious about being a man and regularly made references to manhood . He was heterosexual , and biographer Fatima Meer said that he was " easily tempted " by women . Another biographer , Martin Meredith , characterised him as being " by nature a romantic " , highlighting that he had relationships with various women . Mandela was married three times , fathered six children , and had seventeen grandchildren and at least seventeen great - grandchildren . He could be stern and demanding of his children , although he was more affectionate with his grandchildren . His first marriage was to Evelyn Ntoko Mase in October 1944 ; they divorced in March 1958 under the multiple strains of his adultery and constant absences , devotion to revolutionary agitation , and the fact that she was a Jehovah ' s Witness , a religion requiring political neutrality . Mandela ' s second wife was the social worker Winnie Madikizela - Mandela , whom he married in June 1958 . They divorced in March 1996 . Mandela married his third wife , Gra ç a Machel , on his 80th birthday in July 1998 .	How many great-grandchildren do you have?	I have at least seventeen great-grandchildren.
Mandela was very self - conscious about being a man and regularly made references to manhood . He was heterosexual , and biographer Fatima Meer said that he was " easily tempted " by women . Another biographer , Martin Meredith , characterised him as being " by nature a romantic " , highlighting that he had relationships with various women . Mandela was married three times , fathered six children , and had seventeen grandchildren and at least seventeen great - grandchildren . He could be stern and demanding of his children , although he was more affectionate with his grandchildren . His first marriage was to Evelyn Ntoko Mase in October 1944 ; they divorced in March 1958 under the multiple strains of his adultery and constant absences , devotion to revolutionary agitation , and the fact that she was a Jehovah ' s Witness , a religion requiring political neutrality . Mandela ' s second wife was the social worker Winnie Madikizela - Mandela , whom he married in June 1958 . They divorced in March 1996 . Mandela married his third wife , Gra ç a Machel , on his 80th birthday in July 1998 .	When did you marry your third wife?	I married my third wife, Graça Machel, on my 80th birthday in July 1998.
