Onika Tanya Maraj-Petty (née Maraj; born December 8, 1982), known professionally as Nicki Minaj (/nɪki ˈmɪˈnɑːʒ/ nick-EE min-AHZH), is a Trinidadian-born[a] rapper, singer, and songwriter. She is known for her musical versatility, animated flow in her rapping, alter egos and accents. Minaj first gained recognition after releasing three mixtapes between 2007 and 2009. Her debut album, Pink Friday (2010), topped the U.S. Billboard 200 chart. Its fifth single, "Super Bass", reached number three on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart and was certified diamond by the RIAA. Minaj's follow-up album, Pink Friday: Roman Reloaded (2012) explored dance-pop. The lead single, "Starships", peaked in the top five worldwide.	When were you born?	I was born on December 8, 1982.
Onika Tanya Maraj-Petty (née Maraj; born December 8, 1982), known professionally as Nicki Minaj (/nɪki ˈmɪˈnɑːʒ/ nick-EE min-AHZH), is a Trinidadian-born[a] rapper, singer, and songwriter. She is known for her musical versatility, animated flow in her rapping, alter egos and accents. Minaj first gained recognition after releasing three mixtapes between 2007 and 2009. Her debut album, Pink Friday (2010), topped the U.S. Billboard 200 chart. Its fifth single, "Super Bass", reached number three on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart and was certified diamond by the RIAA. Minaj's follow-up album, Pink Friday: Roman Reloaded (2012) explored dance-pop. The lead single, "Starships", peaked in the top five worldwide.	What is your real name?	My real name is Onika Tanya Maraj-Petty (née Maraj).
Onika Tanya Maraj-Petty (née Maraj; born December 8, 1982), known professionally as Nicki Minaj (/nɪki ˈmɪˈnɑːʒ/ nick-EE min-AHZH), is a Trinidadian-born[a] rapper, singer, and songwriter. She is known for her musical versatility, animated flow in her rapping, alter egos and accents. Minaj first gained recognition after releasing three mixtapes between 2007 and 2009. Her debut album, Pink Friday (2010), topped the U.S. Billboard 200 chart. Its fifth single, "Super Bass", reached number three on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart and was certified diamond by the RIAA. Minaj's follow-up album, Pink Friday: Roman Reloaded (2012) explored dance-pop. The lead single, "Starships", peaked in the top five worldwide.	What are you known for?	I am known for my musical versatility, animated flow in my rapping, alter egos, and accents.
Onika Tanya Maraj-Petty (née Maraj; born December 8, 1982), known professionally as Nicki Minaj (/nɪki ˈmɪˈnɑːʒ/ nick-EE min-AHZH), is a Trinidadian-born[a] rapper, singer, and songwriter. She is known for her musical versatility, animated flow in her rapping, alter egos and accents. Minaj first gained recognition after releasing three mixtapes between 2007 and 2009. Her debut album, Pink Friday (2010), topped the U.S. Billboard 200 chart. Its fifth single, "Super Bass", reached number three on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart and was certified diamond by the RIAA. Minaj's follow-up album, Pink Friday: Roman Reloaded (2012) explored dance-pop. The lead single, "Starships", peaked in the top five worldwide.	Which of your albums topped the U.S. Billboard 200 chart?	My debut album, Pink Friday (2010), topped the U.S. Billboard 200 chart.
Onika Tanya Maraj-Petty (née Maraj; born December 8, 1982), known professionally as Nicki Minaj (/nɪki ˈmɪˈnɑːʒ/ nick-EE min-AHZH), is a Trinidadian-born[a] rapper, singer, and songwriter. She is known for her musical versatility, animated flow in her rapping, alter egos and accents. Minaj first gained recognition after releasing three mixtapes between 2007 and 2009. Her debut album, Pink Friday (2010), topped the U.S. Billboard 200 chart. Its fifth single, "Super Bass", reached number three on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart and was certified diamond by the RIAA. Minaj's follow-up album, Pink Friday: Roman Reloaded (2012) explored dance-pop. The lead single, "Starships", peaked in the top five worldwide.	Which of your singles was certified diamond by the RIAA?	The single "Super Bass" by me was certified diamond by the RIAA.
Her third album, The Pinkprint (2014) explored more personal topics and marked a return to her hip hop roots. Its second single, "Anaconda" peaked at number two on the Hot 100 and became the first music video by a solo female rapper to reach one billion views on YouTube. She released her fourth album, Queen, in 2018 and it spawned the U.S. top ten single "Chun-Li". In 2019, her collaboration with Karol G, "Tusa", became the longest-running number-one single on the Argentina Hot 100 chart. Minaj achieved her first two Hot 100 number-one singles in 2020 with "Say So" and "Trollz", and her third with the lead single of her forthcoming fifth studio album, "Super Freaky Girl" in 2022. The latter became the third solo song by a female rapper to debut at number one in the U.S. since 1998.	What is the name of your third album and when was it released?	My third album is called The Pinkprint and it was released in 2014.
Her third album, The Pinkprint (2014) explored more personal topics and marked a return to her hip hop roots. Its second single, "Anaconda" peaked at number two on the Hot 100 and became the first music video by a solo female rapper to reach one billion views on YouTube. She released her fourth album, Queen, in 2018 and it spawned the U.S. top ten single "Chun-Li". In 2019, her collaboration with Karol G, "Tusa", became the longest-running number-one single on the Argentina Hot 100 chart. Minaj achieved her first two Hot 100 number-one singles in 2020 with "Say So" and "Trollz", and her third with the lead single of her forthcoming fifth studio album, "Super Freaky Girl" in 2022. The latter became the third solo song by a female rapper to debut at number one in the U.S. since 1998.	What was the highest position reached by your single "Anaconda" on the Hot 100?	"Anaconda" peaked at number two on the Hot 100.
Her third album, The Pinkprint (2014) explored more personal topics and marked a return to her hip hop roots. Its second single, "Anaconda" peaked at number two on the Hot 100 and became the first music video by a solo female rapper to reach one billion views on YouTube. She released her fourth album, Queen, in 2018 and it spawned the U.S. top ten single "Chun-Li". In 2019, her collaboration with Karol G, "Tusa", became the longest-running number-one single on the Argentina Hot 100 chart. Minaj achieved her first two Hot 100 number-one singles in 2020 with "Say So" and "Trollz", and her third with the lead single of her forthcoming fifth studio album, "Super Freaky Girl" in 2022. The latter became the third solo song by a female rapper to debut at number one in the U.S. since 1998.	Which of your music videos reached one billion views on YouTube?	The music video of "Anaconda" became my first music video to reach one billion views on YouTube.
Her third album, The Pinkprint (2014) explored more personal topics and marked a return to her hip hop roots. Its second single, "Anaconda" peaked at number two on the Hot 100 and became the first music video by a solo female rapper to reach one billion views on YouTube. She released her fourth album, Queen, in 2018 and it spawned the U.S. top ten single "Chun-Li". In 2019, her collaboration with Karol G, "Tusa", became the longest-running number-one single on the Argentina Hot 100 chart. Minaj achieved her first two Hot 100 number-one singles in 2020 with "Say So" and "Trollz", and her third with the lead single of her forthcoming fifth studio album, "Super Freaky Girl" in 2022. The latter became the third solo song by a female rapper to debut at number one in the U.S. since 1998.	Which single from your fourth album became a top ten hit in the United States?	The single "Chun-Li" from my fourth album, Queen, became a top ten hit in the United States.
Her third album, The Pinkprint (2014) explored more personal topics and marked a return to her hip hop roots. Its second single, "Anaconda" peaked at number two on the Hot 100 and became the first music video by a solo female rapper to reach one billion views on YouTube. She released her fourth album, Queen, in 2018 and it spawned the U.S. top ten single "Chun-Li". In 2019, her collaboration with Karol G, "Tusa", became the longest-running number-one single on the Argentina Hot 100 chart. Minaj achieved her first two Hot 100 number-one singles in 2020 with "Say So" and "Trollz", and her third with the lead single of her forthcoming fifth studio album, "Super Freaky Girl" in 2022. The latter became the third solo song by a female rapper to debut at number one in the U.S. since 1998.	Which collaboration of yours became the longest-running number-one single on the Argentina Hot 100 chart?	My collaboration with Karol G, titled "Tusa", became the longest-running number-one single on the Argentina Hot 100 chart.
Referred to as the "Queen of Rap", Minaj is one of the best-selling music artists, with more than 100 million records sold worldwide. Billboard ranked her as the top selling female rapper of the 2010s. Her various accolades include eight American Music Awards, five MTV Video Music Awards (including the 2022 Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award), twelve BET Awards, four Billboard Music Awards, a Brit Award and three Guinness World Records. Outside of music, her film career has included voice roles in the animated films Ice Age: Continental Drift (2012) and The Angry Birds Movie 2 (2019) as well as supporting roles in the films The Other Woman (2014) and Barbershop: The Next Cut (2016). In 2016, Time included her on their annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world.  Throughout her career, Minaj's outspoken views and social media disputes have received significant media coverage.	What are you known as in the music industry?	I'm referred to as the "Queen of Rap"
Referred to as the "Queen of Rap", Minaj is one of the best-selling music artists, with more than 100 million records sold worldwide. Billboard ranked her as the top selling female rapper of the 2010s. Her various accolades include eight American Music Awards, five MTV Video Music Awards (including the 2022 Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award), twelve BET Awards, four Billboard Music Awards, a Brit Award and three Guinness World Records. Outside of music, her film career has included voice roles in the animated films Ice Age: Continental Drift (2012) and The Angry Birds Movie 2 (2019) as well as supporting roles in the films The Other Woman (2014) and Barbershop: The Next Cut (2016). In 2016, Time included her on their annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world.  Throughout her career, Minaj's outspoken views and social media disputes have received significant media coverage.	How many records have you sold worldwide?	More than 100 million records
Referred to as the "Queen of Rap", Minaj is one of the best-selling music artists, with more than 100 million records sold worldwide. Billboard ranked her as the top selling female rapper of the 2010s. Her various accolades include eight American Music Awards, five MTV Video Music Awards (including the 2022 Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award), twelve BET Awards, four Billboard Music Awards, a Brit Award and three Guinness World Records. Outside of music, her film career has included voice roles in the animated films Ice Age: Continental Drift (2012) and The Angry Birds Movie 2 (2019) as well as supporting roles in the films The Other Woman (2014) and Barbershop: The Next Cut (2016). In 2016, Time included her on their annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world.  Throughout her career, Minaj's outspoken views and social media disputes have received significant media coverage.	Which award did you receive in 2022?	I received the Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award.
Referred to as the "Queen of Rap", Minaj is one of the best-selling music artists, with more than 100 million records sold worldwide. Billboard ranked her as the top selling female rapper of the 2010s. Her various accolades include eight American Music Awards, five MTV Video Music Awards (including the 2022 Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award), twelve BET Awards, four Billboard Music Awards, a Brit Award and three Guinness World Records. Outside of music, her film career has included voice roles in the animated films Ice Age: Continental Drift (2012) and The Angry Birds Movie 2 (2019) as well as supporting roles in the films The Other Woman (2014) and Barbershop: The Next Cut (2016). In 2016, Time included her on their annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world.  Throughout her career, Minaj's outspoken views and social media disputes have received significant media coverage.	Can you name some of the awards you have won?	I have won eight American Music Awards, five MTV Video Music Awards, twelve BET Awards, four Billboard Music Awards, a Brit Award, and three Guinness World Records.
Referred to as the "Queen of Rap", Minaj is one of the best-selling music artists, with more than 100 million records sold worldwide. Billboard ranked her as the top selling female rapper of the 2010s. Her various accolades include eight American Music Awards, five MTV Video Music Awards (including the 2022 Michael Jackson Video Vanguard Award), twelve BET Awards, four Billboard Music Awards, a Brit Award and three Guinness World Records. Outside of music, her film career has included voice roles in the animated films Ice Age: Continental Drift (2012) and The Angry Birds Movie 2 (2019) as well as supporting roles in the films The Other Woman (2014) and Barbershop: The Next Cut (2016). In 2016, Time included her on their annual list of the 100 most influential people in the world.  Throughout her career, Minaj's outspoken views and social media disputes have received significant media coverage.	What non-music roles have you had in your film career?	I have had voice roles in the animated films Ice Age: Continental Drift (2012) and The Angry Birds Movie 2 (2019), as well as supporting roles in the films The Other Woman (2014) and Barbershop: The Next Cut (2016)
Onika Tanya Maraj was born on December 8, 1982, in the Saint James district of Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago. Her father was Robert Maraj (1956–2021), a financial executive and part-time gospel singer of Dougla (Afro-Trinidadian mother and Indo-Trinidadian father) descent. Her mother, Carol Maraj, is also a gospel singer with Afro-Trinidadian ancestry. Carol worked in payroll and accounting departments during Minaj's youth. Minaj's father was addicted to alcohol and crack cocaine and had a violent temper, burning down their house in December 1987. She has an older brother named Jelani, a younger brother named Micaiah, and a younger sister named Ming.	When and where were you born?	I was born on December 8, 1982, in the Saint James district of Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago.
Onika Tanya Maraj was born on December 8, 1982, in the Saint James district of Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago. Her father was Robert Maraj (1956–2021), a financial executive and part-time gospel singer of Dougla (Afro-Trinidadian mother and Indo-Trinidadian father) descent. Her mother, Carol Maraj, is also a gospel singer with Afro-Trinidadian ancestry. Carol worked in payroll and accounting departments during Minaj's youth. Minaj's father was addicted to alcohol and crack cocaine and had a violent temper, burning down their house in December 1987. She has an older brother named Jelani, a younger brother named Micaiah, and a younger sister named Ming.	Who was your father?	My father was Robert Maraj.
Onika Tanya Maraj was born on December 8, 1982, in the Saint James district of Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago. Her father was Robert Maraj (1956–2021), a financial executive and part-time gospel singer of Dougla (Afro-Trinidadian mother and Indo-Trinidadian father) descent. Her mother, Carol Maraj, is also a gospel singer with Afro-Trinidadian ancestry. Carol worked in payroll and accounting departments during Minaj's youth. Minaj's father was addicted to alcohol and crack cocaine and had a violent temper, burning down their house in December 1987. She has an older brother named Jelani, a younger brother named Micaiah, and a younger sister named Ming.	What was your father's profession?	My father was a financial executive and part-time gospel singer.
Onika Tanya Maraj was born on December 8, 1982, in the Saint James district of Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago. Her father was Robert Maraj (1956–2021), a financial executive and part-time gospel singer of Dougla (Afro-Trinidadian mother and Indo-Trinidadian father) descent. Her mother, Carol Maraj, is also a gospel singer with Afro-Trinidadian ancestry. Carol worked in payroll and accounting departments during Minaj's youth. Minaj's father was addicted to alcohol and crack cocaine and had a violent temper, burning down their house in December 1987. She has an older brother named Jelani, a younger brother named Micaiah, and a younger sister named Ming.	What is the ethnicity of your mother?	My mother has Afro-Trinidadian ancestry.
Onika Tanya Maraj was born on December 8, 1982, in the Saint James district of Port of Spain, Trinidad and Tobago. Her father was Robert Maraj (1956–2021), a financial executive and part-time gospel singer of Dougla (Afro-Trinidadian mother and Indo-Trinidadian father) descent. Her mother, Carol Maraj, is also a gospel singer with Afro-Trinidadian ancestry. Carol worked in payroll and accounting departments during Minaj's youth. Minaj's father was addicted to alcohol and crack cocaine and had a violent temper, burning down their house in December 1987. She has an older brother named Jelani, a younger brother named Micaiah, and a younger sister named Ming.	How many siblings do you have?	I have an older brother named Jelani, a younger brother named Micaiah, and a younger sister named Ming.
As a child, Minaj and her older brother, Jelani, grew up with her grandmother in Saint James in a household with 11 cousins. Minaj's mother, Carol Maraj, was working numerous jobs in Saint James before getting her green card at the age of 24. She then moved to the Bronx in New York City to attend Monroe College, leaving both Minaj and Jelani in Trinidad with their grandmother. Eventually, when Minaj was five, Carol got her first house, on 147th Street in South Jamaica, Queens and brought both Minaj and Jelani to live with her and their father. Minaj recalled, "I don't think I had a lot of discipline in my household. My mom motivated me, but it wasn't a strict household. I kind of wanted a strict household."  Minaj successfully auditioned for admission to Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts, which focuses on visual and performing arts. After graduation, Minaj wanted to become an actress, and she was cast in the Off-Broadway play In Case You Forget in 2001.	Where did you and your brother grow up?	We grew up with our grandmother in Saint James.
As a child, Minaj and her older brother, Jelani, grew up with her grandmother in Saint James in a household with 11 cousins. Minaj's mother, Carol Maraj, was working numerous jobs in Saint James before getting her green card at the age of 24. She then moved to the Bronx in New York City to attend Monroe College, leaving both Minaj and Jelani in Trinidad with their grandmother. Eventually, when Minaj was five, Carol got her first house, on 147th Street in South Jamaica, Queens and brought both Minaj and Jelani to live with her and their father. Minaj recalled, "I don't think I had a lot of discipline in my household. My mom motivated me, but it wasn't a strict household. I kind of wanted a strict household."  Minaj successfully auditioned for admission to Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts, which focuses on visual and performing arts. After graduation, Minaj wanted to become an actress, and she was cast in the Off-Broadway play In Case You Forget in 2001.	Where did your mother move to?	My mother moved to the Bronx in New York City.
As a child, Minaj and her older brother, Jelani, grew up with her grandmother in Saint James in a household with 11 cousins. Minaj's mother, Carol Maraj, was working numerous jobs in Saint James before getting her green card at the age of 24. She then moved to the Bronx in New York City to attend Monroe College, leaving both Minaj and Jelani in Trinidad with their grandmother. Eventually, when Minaj was five, Carol got her first house, on 147th Street in South Jamaica, Queens and brought both Minaj and Jelani to live with her and their father. Minaj recalled, "I don't think I had a lot of discipline in my household. My mom motivated me, but it wasn't a strict household. I kind of wanted a strict household."  Minaj successfully auditioned for admission to Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts, which focuses on visual and performing arts. After graduation, Minaj wanted to become an actress, and she was cast in the Off-Broadway play In Case You Forget in 2001.	Where did you and your brother live before your mother brought you to live with her?	We lived in Trinidad with our grandmother.
As a child, Minaj and her older brother, Jelani, grew up with her grandmother in Saint James in a household with 11 cousins. Minaj's mother, Carol Maraj, was working numerous jobs in Saint James before getting her green card at the age of 24. She then moved to the Bronx in New York City to attend Monroe College, leaving both Minaj and Jelani in Trinidad with their grandmother. Eventually, when Minaj was five, Carol got her first house, on 147th Street in South Jamaica, Queens and brought both Minaj and Jelani to live with her and their father. Minaj recalled, "I don't think I had a lot of discipline in my household. My mom motivated me, but it wasn't a strict household. I kind of wanted a strict household."  Minaj successfully auditioned for admission to Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts, which focuses on visual and performing arts. After graduation, Minaj wanted to become an actress, and she was cast in the Off-Broadway play In Case You Forget in 2001.	What school did you successfully audition for?	I successfully auditioned for Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts.
As a child, Minaj and her older brother, Jelani, grew up with her grandmother in Saint James in a household with 11 cousins. Minaj's mother, Carol Maraj, was working numerous jobs in Saint James before getting her green card at the age of 24. She then moved to the Bronx in New York City to attend Monroe College, leaving both Minaj and Jelani in Trinidad with their grandmother. Eventually, when Minaj was five, Carol got her first house, on 147th Street in South Jamaica, Queens and brought both Minaj and Jelani to live with her and their father. Minaj recalled, "I don't think I had a lot of discipline in my household. My mom motivated me, but it wasn't a strict household. I kind of wanted a strict household."  Minaj successfully auditioned for admission to Fiorello H. LaGuardia High School of Music & Art and Performing Arts, which focuses on visual and performing arts. After graduation, Minaj wanted to become an actress, and she was cast in the Off-Broadway play In Case You Forget in 2001.	What was your initial career aspiration?	I initially wanted to become an actress.
Minaj has revealed that she had an abortion as a teenager in her songs "All Things Go" and "Autobiography". She has said that although it has "haunted" her, she stands by her decision. At the age of 19, as she struggled with her acting career, she worked as a waitress at a Red Lobster in the Bronx, but was fired for discourtesy to customers. She said she was fired from "at least 15 jobs" for similar reasons. Other jobs included customer service representative and office management on Wall Street. Minaj recalls buying a BMW as a 19-year-old with the money from waitressing.	What information did you reveal about your past in your songs?	I revealed in my songs "All Things Go" and "Autobiography" that I had an abortion as a teenager.
Minaj has revealed that she had an abortion as a teenager in her songs "All Things Go" and "Autobiography". She has said that although it has "haunted" her, she stands by her decision. At the age of 19, as she struggled with her acting career, she worked as a waitress at a Red Lobster in the Bronx, but was fired for discourtesy to customers. She said she was fired from "at least 15 jobs" for similar reasons. Other jobs included customer service representative and office management on Wall Street. Minaj recalls buying a BMW as a 19-year-old with the money from waitressing.	How do you feel about your decision to have an abortion?	Although it has "haunted" me, I stand by my decision to have an abortion.
Minaj has revealed that she had an abortion as a teenager in her songs "All Things Go" and "Autobiography". She has said that although it has "haunted" her, she stands by her decision. At the age of 19, as she struggled with her acting career, she worked as a waitress at a Red Lobster in the Bronx, but was fired for discourtesy to customers. She said she was fired from "at least 15 jobs" for similar reasons. Other jobs included customer service representative and office management on Wall Street. Minaj recalls buying a BMW as a 19-year-old with the money from waitressing.	What job did you have when you were 19 and struggling with your acting career?	When I was 19 and struggling with my acting career, I worked as a waitress at a Red Lobster in the Bronx.
Minaj has revealed that she had an abortion as a teenager in her songs "All Things Go" and "Autobiography". She has said that although it has "haunted" her, she stands by her decision. At the age of 19, as she struggled with her acting career, she worked as a waitress at a Red Lobster in the Bronx, but was fired for discourtesy to customers. She said she was fired from "at least 15 jobs" for similar reasons. Other jobs included customer service representative and office management on Wall Street. Minaj recalls buying a BMW as a 19-year-old with the money from waitressing.	Why were you fired from your job at Red Lobster?	I was fired from my job at Red Lobster for discourtesy to customers.
Minaj has revealed that she had an abortion as a teenager in her songs "All Things Go" and "Autobiography". She has said that although it has "haunted" her, she stands by her decision. At the age of 19, as she struggled with her acting career, she worked as a waitress at a Red Lobster in the Bronx, but was fired for discourtesy to customers. She said she was fired from "at least 15 jobs" for similar reasons. Other jobs included customer service representative and office management on Wall Street. Minaj recalls buying a BMW as a 19-year-old with the money from waitressing.	How many jobs did you get fired from for similar reasons?	I was fired from "at least 15 jobs" for similar reasons like discourtesy to customers.
Minaj briefly signed with Brooklyn group Full Force, in which she rapped in a quartet called The Hoodstars composed of Lou$tar (son of "Bowlegged Lou"), Safaree Samuels (Scaff Beezy) and 7even Up. In 2004, the group recorded the entrance song for WWE Diva Victoria, "Don't Mess With", which was featured on the compilation album ThemeAddict: WWE The Music, Vol.6. Minaj later left Full Force and uploaded songs on her Myspace profile, sending several of her songs to people in the music industry. Later, Fendi, CEO of Brooklyn label Dirty Money Entertainment, signed Minaj to his label in 2007 under a 180-day contract. Originally adopting the stage name Nicki Maraj, she eventually changed it to Nicki Minaj stating that "my real name is Maraj. Fendi flipped it when he met me because I had such a nasty flow!"	Who did you briefly sign with?	I briefly signed with Brooklyn group Full Force.
Minaj briefly signed with Brooklyn group Full Force, in which she rapped in a quartet called The Hoodstars composed of Lou$tar (son of "Bowlegged Lou"), Safaree Samuels (Scaff Beezy) and 7even Up. In 2004, the group recorded the entrance song for WWE Diva Victoria, "Don't Mess With", which was featured on the compilation album ThemeAddict: WWE The Music, Vol.6. Minaj later left Full Force and uploaded songs on her Myspace profile, sending several of her songs to people in the music industry. Later, Fendi, CEO of Brooklyn label Dirty Money Entertainment, signed Minaj to his label in 2007 under a 180-day contract. Originally adopting the stage name Nicki Maraj, she eventually changed it to Nicki Minaj stating that "my real name is Maraj. Fendi flipped it when he met me because I had such a nasty flow!"	What was the name of the quartet you rapped in?	The quartet I rapped in was called The Hoodstars.
Minaj briefly signed with Brooklyn group Full Force, in which she rapped in a quartet called The Hoodstars composed of Lou$tar (son of "Bowlegged Lou"), Safaree Samuels (Scaff Beezy) and 7even Up. In 2004, the group recorded the entrance song for WWE Diva Victoria, "Don't Mess With", which was featured on the compilation album ThemeAddict: WWE The Music, Vol.6. Minaj later left Full Force and uploaded songs on her Myspace profile, sending several of her songs to people in the music industry. Later, Fendi, CEO of Brooklyn label Dirty Money Entertainment, signed Minaj to his label in 2007 under a 180-day contract. Originally adopting the stage name Nicki Maraj, she eventually changed it to Nicki Minaj stating that "my real name is Maraj. Fendi flipped it when he met me because I had such a nasty flow!"	Who were the members of The Hoodstars?	The members of The Hoodstars were Lou$tar, Safaree Samuels (Scaff Beezy), and 7even Up.
Minaj briefly signed with Brooklyn group Full Force, in which she rapped in a quartet called The Hoodstars composed of Lou$tar (son of "Bowlegged Lou"), Safaree Samuels (Scaff Beezy) and 7even Up. In 2004, the group recorded the entrance song for WWE Diva Victoria, "Don't Mess With", which was featured on the compilation album ThemeAddict: WWE The Music, Vol.6. Minaj later left Full Force and uploaded songs on her Myspace profile, sending several of her songs to people in the music industry. Later, Fendi, CEO of Brooklyn label Dirty Money Entertainment, signed Minaj to his label in 2007 under a 180-day contract. Originally adopting the stage name Nicki Maraj, she eventually changed it to Nicki Minaj stating that "my real name is Maraj. Fendi flipped it when he met me because I had such a nasty flow!"	What was the name of the song that you recorded for WWE Diva Victoria?	I recorded the entrance song for WWE Diva Victoria called "Don't Mess With".
Minaj briefly signed with Brooklyn group Full Force, in which she rapped in a quartet called The Hoodstars composed of Lou$tar (son of "Bowlegged Lou"), Safaree Samuels (Scaff Beezy) and 7even Up. In 2004, the group recorded the entrance song for WWE Diva Victoria, "Don't Mess With", which was featured on the compilation album ThemeAddict: WWE The Music, Vol.6. Minaj later left Full Force and uploaded songs on her Myspace profile, sending several of her songs to people in the music industry. Later, Fendi, CEO of Brooklyn label Dirty Money Entertainment, signed Minaj to his label in 2007 under a 180-day contract. Originally adopting the stage name Nicki Maraj, she eventually changed it to Nicki Minaj stating that "my real name is Maraj. Fendi flipped it when he met me because I had such a nasty flow!"	What was the reason for you changing your stage name from Nicki Maraj to Nicki Minaj?	I changed my stage name from Nicki Maraj to Nicki Minaj because Fendi, CEO of Brooklyn label Dirty Money Entertainment, flipped it when he met me and I liked it.
Minaj released her first mixtape, Playtime Is Over, on July 5, 2007, and her second, Sucka Free, on April 12, 2008. She released her third mixtape, Beam Me Up Scotty, on April 18, 2009; it received favorable coverage on BET and MTV. At the time, she was managed by Debra Antney. One of its tracks, "I Get Crazy", reached number 20 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Rap Songs chart and number 37 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. After Minaj was discovered by fellow rapper Lil Wayne, she signed a recording contract with his Young Money Entertainment. That November, she appeared with Gucci Mane and Trina on the remix of "5 Star Bitch" by Yo Gotti.	When did you release your first mixtape?	I released my first mixtape, Playtime Is Over, on July 5, 2007.
Minaj released her first mixtape, Playtime Is Over, on July 5, 2007, and her second, Sucka Free, on April 12, 2008. She released her third mixtape, Beam Me Up Scotty, on April 18, 2009; it received favorable coverage on BET and MTV. At the time, she was managed by Debra Antney. One of its tracks, "I Get Crazy", reached number 20 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Rap Songs chart and number 37 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. After Minaj was discovered by fellow rapper Lil Wayne, she signed a recording contract with his Young Money Entertainment. That November, she appeared with Gucci Mane and Trina on the remix of "5 Star Bitch" by Yo Gotti.	When did you release your second mixtape?	I released my second mixtape, Sucka Free, on April 12, 2008.
Minaj released her first mixtape, Playtime Is Over, on July 5, 2007, and her second, Sucka Free, on April 12, 2008. She released her third mixtape, Beam Me Up Scotty, on April 18, 2009; it received favorable coverage on BET and MTV. At the time, she was managed by Debra Antney. One of its tracks, "I Get Crazy", reached number 20 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Rap Songs chart and number 37 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. After Minaj was discovered by fellow rapper Lil Wayne, she signed a recording contract with his Young Money Entertainment. That November, she appeared with Gucci Mane and Trina on the remix of "5 Star Bitch" by Yo Gotti.	When did you release your third mixtape?	I released my third mixtape, Beam Me Up Scotty, on April 18, 2009.
Minaj released her first mixtape, Playtime Is Over, on July 5, 2007, and her second, Sucka Free, on April 12, 2008. She released her third mixtape, Beam Me Up Scotty, on April 18, 2009; it received favorable coverage on BET and MTV. At the time, she was managed by Debra Antney. One of its tracks, "I Get Crazy", reached number 20 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Rap Songs chart and number 37 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. After Minaj was discovered by fellow rapper Lil Wayne, she signed a recording contract with his Young Money Entertainment. That November, she appeared with Gucci Mane and Trina on the remix of "5 Star Bitch" by Yo Gotti.	What was the name of one of the tracks from your third mixtape that reached the Billboard charts?	One of the tracks from my third mixtape, "Beam Me Up Scotty", that reached the Billboard charts was "I Get Crazy".
Minaj released her first mixtape, Playtime Is Over, on July 5, 2007, and her second, Sucka Free, on April 12, 2008. She released her third mixtape, Beam Me Up Scotty, on April 18, 2009; it received favorable coverage on BET and MTV. At the time, she was managed by Debra Antney. One of its tracks, "I Get Crazy", reached number 20 on the U.S. Billboard Hot Rap Songs chart and number 37 on the Hot R&B/Hip-Hop Songs chart. After Minaj was discovered by fellow rapper Lil Wayne, she signed a recording contract with his Young Money Entertainment. That November, she appeared with Gucci Mane and Trina on the remix of "5 Star Bitch" by Yo Gotti.	Who did you sign a recording contract with?	I signed a recording contract with Lil Wayne's Young Money Entertainment.
In early February 2010, Minaj made her first two appearances on the U.S Billboard Hot 100 chart with her features on "Knockout" and "Up Out My Face" by Lil Wayne and Mariah Carey respectively. Minaj also appeared on "BedRock" and "Roger That" on the compilation album, We Are Young Money (2009). The singles peaked at numbers two and 56, respectively, in the U.S. Their parent album reached number nine on the U.S. Billboard 200, and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). At Jay-Z's suggestion, Robin Thicke featured Minaj on his single "Shakin' It 4 Daddy". Allison Stewart of The Washington Post stated that, during that time, she "became the go-to girl for artists who wanted to add some skank to their tracks without sullying themselves in the process". Minaj became the first female solo artist to have seven singles simultaneously charting in the U.S.	When did you make your first appearances on the U.S Billboard Hot 100 chart?	In early February 2010.
In early February 2010, Minaj made her first two appearances on the U.S Billboard Hot 100 chart with her features on "Knockout" and "Up Out My Face" by Lil Wayne and Mariah Carey respectively. Minaj also appeared on "BedRock" and "Roger That" on the compilation album, We Are Young Money (2009). The singles peaked at numbers two and 56, respectively, in the U.S. Their parent album reached number nine on the U.S. Billboard 200, and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). At Jay-Z's suggestion, Robin Thicke featured Minaj on his single "Shakin' It 4 Daddy". Allison Stewart of The Washington Post stated that, during that time, she "became the go-to girl for artists who wanted to add some skank to their tracks without sullying themselves in the process". Minaj became the first female solo artist to have seven singles simultaneously charting in the U.S.	Which songs did you appear on in the compilation album We Are Young Money?	"BedRock" and "Roger That".
In early February 2010, Minaj made her first two appearances on the U.S Billboard Hot 100 chart with her features on "Knockout" and "Up Out My Face" by Lil Wayne and Mariah Carey respectively. Minaj also appeared on "BedRock" and "Roger That" on the compilation album, We Are Young Money (2009). The singles peaked at numbers two and 56, respectively, in the U.S. Their parent album reached number nine on the U.S. Billboard 200, and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). At Jay-Z's suggestion, Robin Thicke featured Minaj on his single "Shakin' It 4 Daddy". Allison Stewart of The Washington Post stated that, during that time, she "became the go-to girl for artists who wanted to add some skank to their tracks without sullying themselves in the process". Minaj became the first female solo artist to have seven singles simultaneously charting in the U.S.	What were the peak positions of your singles "Knockout" and "Up Out My Face" on the U.S Billboard Hot 100 chart?	"Knockout" peaked at number two and "Up Out My Face" peaked at number 56.
In early February 2010, Minaj made her first two appearances on the U.S Billboard Hot 100 chart with her features on "Knockout" and "Up Out My Face" by Lil Wayne and Mariah Carey respectively. Minaj also appeared on "BedRock" and "Roger That" on the compilation album, We Are Young Money (2009). The singles peaked at numbers two and 56, respectively, in the U.S. Their parent album reached number nine on the U.S. Billboard 200, and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). At Jay-Z's suggestion, Robin Thicke featured Minaj on his single "Shakin' It 4 Daddy". Allison Stewart of The Washington Post stated that, during that time, she "became the go-to girl for artists who wanted to add some skank to their tracks without sullying themselves in the process". Minaj became the first female solo artist to have seven singles simultaneously charting in the U.S.	What was the peak position of the parent album of your singles on the U.S Billboard 200 chart?	The parent album reached number nine on the U.S. Billboard 200 chart.
In early February 2010, Minaj made her first two appearances on the U.S Billboard Hot 100 chart with her features on "Knockout" and "Up Out My Face" by Lil Wayne and Mariah Carey respectively. Minaj also appeared on "BedRock" and "Roger That" on the compilation album, We Are Young Money (2009). The singles peaked at numbers two and 56, respectively, in the U.S. Their parent album reached number nine on the U.S. Billboard 200, and was certified gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA). At Jay-Z's suggestion, Robin Thicke featured Minaj on his single "Shakin' It 4 Daddy". Allison Stewart of The Washington Post stated that, during that time, she "became the go-to girl for artists who wanted to add some skank to their tracks without sullying themselves in the process". Minaj became the first female solo artist to have seven singles simultaneously charting in the U.S.	How many of your singles were simultaneously charting in the U.S?	I became the first female solo artist to have seven singles simultaneously charting in the U.S.
On March 29, 2010, Minaj released "Massive Attack" featuring Sean Garrett. Intended as the lead single from her forthcoming debut album, Pink Friday, the song was dropped from the album due to poor commercial performance. The next single, "Your Love", later became the album's lead single. Released in June, it peaked at number 14 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 and number one on the Rap Songs chart. In September, Minaj released "Check It Out" featuring will.i.am and "Right Thru Me" as follow-up singles.	When was "Massive Attack" released?	"Massive Attack" was released on March 29, 2010.
On March 29, 2010, Minaj released "Massive Attack" featuring Sean Garrett. Intended as the lead single from her forthcoming debut album, Pink Friday, the song was dropped from the album due to poor commercial performance. The next single, "Your Love", later became the album's lead single. Released in June, it peaked at number 14 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 and number one on the Rap Songs chart. In September, Minaj released "Check It Out" featuring will.i.am and "Right Thru Me" as follow-up singles.	What was the reason for dropping "Massive Attack" from your album?	"Massive Attack" was dropped from my album due to poor commercial performance.
On March 29, 2010, Minaj released "Massive Attack" featuring Sean Garrett. Intended as the lead single from her forthcoming debut album, Pink Friday, the song was dropped from the album due to poor commercial performance. The next single, "Your Love", later became the album's lead single. Released in June, it peaked at number 14 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 and number one on the Rap Songs chart. In September, Minaj released "Check It Out" featuring will.i.am and "Right Thru Me" as follow-up singles.	Which song became the lead single for your album "Pink Friday"?	"Your Love" became the lead single for my album "Pink Friday".
On March 29, 2010, Minaj released "Massive Attack" featuring Sean Garrett. Intended as the lead single from her forthcoming debut album, Pink Friday, the song was dropped from the album due to poor commercial performance. The next single, "Your Love", later became the album's lead single. Released in June, it peaked at number 14 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 and number one on the Rap Songs chart. In September, Minaj released "Check It Out" featuring will.i.am and "Right Thru Me" as follow-up singles.	When was "Your Love" released?	"Your Love" was released in June.
On March 29, 2010, Minaj released "Massive Attack" featuring Sean Garrett. Intended as the lead single from her forthcoming debut album, Pink Friday, the song was dropped from the album due to poor commercial performance. The next single, "Your Love", later became the album's lead single. Released in June, it peaked at number 14 on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 and number one on the Rap Songs chart. In September, Minaj released "Check It Out" featuring will.i.am and "Right Thru Me" as follow-up singles.	What were your follow-up singles?	My follow-up singles were "Check It Out" featuring will.i.am and "Right Thru Me".
Pink Friday : Roman Reloaded was eventually released on April 2 , 2012 , two months later than initially planned . The album was preceded by the promotional singles " Roman in Moscow " and " Stupid Hoe " . The album debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 , with first - week sales of 253 , 000 copies , and was certified platinum by the RIAA in June 2012 . However , the mix of hip - hop songs and mainstream pop material received mixed reviews . " Pound the Alarm " and " Va Va Voom " were later released as the final singles from the album . Minaj along with fellow rapper M . I . A . joined Madonna to perform the single , " Give Me All Your Luvin " during the Super Bowl XLVI halftime show on February 6 , 2012 . Minaj was the first solo female rapper to perform at the Grammy Awards , performing " Roman Holiday " during the 2012 ceremony on February 12 . Her exorcism - themed performance was controversial , with the American Catholic League and its president criticizing her performance .	When was Pink Friday: Roman Reloaded released?	Pink Friday: Roman Reloaded was released on April 2, 2012.
Pink Friday : Roman Reloaded was eventually released on April 2 , 2012 , two months later than initially planned . The album was preceded by the promotional singles " Roman in Moscow " and " Stupid Hoe " . The album debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 , with first - week sales of 253 , 000 copies , and was certified platinum by the RIAA in June 2012 . However , the mix of hip - hop songs and mainstream pop material received mixed reviews . " Pound the Alarm " and " Va Va Voom " were later released as the final singles from the album . Minaj along with fellow rapper M . I . A . joined Madonna to perform the single , " Give Me All Your Luvin " during the Super Bowl XLVI halftime show on February 6 , 2012 . Minaj was the first solo female rapper to perform at the Grammy Awards , performing " Roman Holiday " during the 2012 ceremony on February 12 . Her exorcism - themed performance was controversial , with the American Catholic League and its president criticizing her performance .	How many copies did the album sell in its first week?	The album sold 253,000 copies in its first week.
Pink Friday : Roman Reloaded was eventually released on April 2 , 2012 , two months later than initially planned . The album was preceded by the promotional singles " Roman in Moscow " and " Stupid Hoe " . The album debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 , with first - week sales of 253 , 000 copies , and was certified platinum by the RIAA in June 2012 . However , the mix of hip - hop songs and mainstream pop material received mixed reviews . " Pound the Alarm " and " Va Va Voom " were later released as the final singles from the album . Minaj along with fellow rapper M . I . A . joined Madonna to perform the single , " Give Me All Your Luvin " during the Super Bowl XLVI halftime show on February 6 , 2012 . Minaj was the first solo female rapper to perform at the Grammy Awards , performing " Roman Holiday " during the 2012 ceremony on February 12 . Her exorcism - themed performance was controversial , with the American Catholic League and its president criticizing her performance .	Which songs were released as promotional singles before your album's release?	The promotional singles released before my album were "Roman in Moscow" and "Stupid Hoe".
Pink Friday : Roman Reloaded was eventually released on April 2 , 2012 , two months later than initially planned . The album was preceded by the promotional singles " Roman in Moscow " and " Stupid Hoe " . The album debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 , with first - week sales of 253 , 000 copies , and was certified platinum by the RIAA in June 2012 . However , the mix of hip - hop songs and mainstream pop material received mixed reviews . " Pound the Alarm " and " Va Va Voom " were later released as the final singles from the album . Minaj along with fellow rapper M . I . A . joined Madonna to perform the single , " Give Me All Your Luvin " during the Super Bowl XLVI halftime show on February 6 , 2012 . Minaj was the first solo female rapper to perform at the Grammy Awards , performing " Roman Holiday " during the 2012 ceremony on February 12 . Her exorcism - themed performance was controversial , with the American Catholic League and its president criticizing her performance .	What was the reception of your album by critics?	My album received mixed reviews due to the mix of hip-hop songs and mainstream pop material.
Pink Friday : Roman Reloaded was eventually released on April 2 , 2012 , two months later than initially planned . The album was preceded by the promotional singles " Roman in Moscow " and " Stupid Hoe " . The album debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 , with first - week sales of 253 , 000 copies , and was certified platinum by the RIAA in June 2012 . However , the mix of hip - hop songs and mainstream pop material received mixed reviews . " Pound the Alarm " and " Va Va Voom " were later released as the final singles from the album . Minaj along with fellow rapper M . I . A . joined Madonna to perform the single , " Give Me All Your Luvin " during the Super Bowl XLVI halftime show on February 6 , 2012 . Minaj was the first solo female rapper to perform at the Grammy Awards , performing " Roman Holiday " during the 2012 ceremony on February 12 . Her exorcism - themed performance was controversial , with the American Catholic League and its president criticizing her performance .	Which singles were released from your album after its initial release?	"Pound the Alarm" and "Va Va Voom" were later released as the final singles from my album.
Minaj ' s first live - action theatrical film The Other Woman was filmed in spring 2013 and premiered on April 25 , 2014 . In late 2014 , Minaj separated from her longtime boyfriend Safaree Samuels , whom she had dated since 2003 . [ b ] According to Minaj , he had proposed to her , but she declined . Several tracks on her forthcoming third album , The Pinkprint , are believed to have been heavily inspired by the end of their relationship . Minaj began dating rapper Meek Mill in early 2015 , shortly after her breakup with Samuels . As she was working on The Pinkprint , she described the album as " a continuation of The Re - Up with a lot more " and said it would focus on her " hip hop roots " . During an MTV interview , she additionally said that it would be " next level " and that she has " much to talk about " .	When was your first live-action theatrical film filmed?	My first live-action theatrical film, The Other Woman, was filmed in spring 2013.
Minaj ' s first live - action theatrical film The Other Woman was filmed in spring 2013 and premiered on April 25 , 2014 . In late 2014 , Minaj separated from her longtime boyfriend Safaree Samuels , whom she had dated since 2003 . [ b ] According to Minaj , he had proposed to her , but she declined . Several tracks on her forthcoming third album , The Pinkprint , are believed to have been heavily inspired by the end of their relationship . Minaj began dating rapper Meek Mill in early 2015 , shortly after her breakup with Samuels . As she was working on The Pinkprint , she described the album as " a continuation of The Re - Up with a lot more " and said it would focus on her " hip hop roots " . During an MTV interview , she additionally said that it would be " next level " and that she has " much to talk about " .	When did The Other Woman premiere?	The Other Woman premiered on April 25, 2014.
Minaj ' s first live - action theatrical film The Other Woman was filmed in spring 2013 and premiered on April 25 , 2014 . In late 2014 , Minaj separated from her longtime boyfriend Safaree Samuels , whom she had dated since 2003 . [ b ] According to Minaj , he had proposed to her , but she declined . Several tracks on her forthcoming third album , The Pinkprint , are believed to have been heavily inspired by the end of their relationship . Minaj began dating rapper Meek Mill in early 2015 , shortly after her breakup with Samuels . As she was working on The Pinkprint , she described the album as " a continuation of The Re - Up with a lot more " and said it would focus on her " hip hop roots " . During an MTV interview , she additionally said that it would be " next level " and that she has " much to talk about " .	When did you separate from your longtime boyfriend Safaree Samuels?	I separated from my longtime boyfriend Safaree Samuels in late 2014.
Minaj ' s first live - action theatrical film The Other Woman was filmed in spring 2013 and premiered on April 25 , 2014 . In late 2014 , Minaj separated from her longtime boyfriend Safaree Samuels , whom she had dated since 2003 . [ b ] According to Minaj , he had proposed to her , but she declined . Several tracks on her forthcoming third album , The Pinkprint , are believed to have been heavily inspired by the end of their relationship . Minaj began dating rapper Meek Mill in early 2015 , shortly after her breakup with Samuels . As she was working on The Pinkprint , she described the album as " a continuation of The Re - Up with a lot more " and said it would focus on her " hip hop roots " . During an MTV interview , she additionally said that it would be " next level " and that she has " much to talk about " .	How long had you been dating Safaree Samuels?	I had been dating Safaree Samuels since 2003.
Minaj ' s first live - action theatrical film The Other Woman was filmed in spring 2013 and premiered on April 25 , 2014 . In late 2014 , Minaj separated from her longtime boyfriend Safaree Samuels , whom she had dated since 2003 . [ b ] According to Minaj , he had proposed to her , but she declined . Several tracks on her forthcoming third album , The Pinkprint , are believed to have been heavily inspired by the end of their relationship . Minaj began dating rapper Meek Mill in early 2015 , shortly after her breakup with Samuels . As she was working on The Pinkprint , she described the album as " a continuation of The Re - Up with a lot more " and said it would focus on her " hip hop roots " . During an MTV interview , she additionally said that it would be " next level " and that she has " much to talk about " .	Did you accept Samuels' proposal?	No, according to me, I declined Samuels' proposal.
" Pills n Potions " was released as the lead single from The Pinkprint in May 2014 . In July , she appeared as a featured artist on the song " Bang Bang " with singers Jessie J and Ariana Grande , which peaked at number three on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 chart . " Anaconda " was released in August as the second single from the album , peaking at number two , which became her highest - charting single in the U . S . at the time . The music video for " Anaconda " went viral upon release online ; it set a 24 - hour Vevo record , accumulating 19.6   million views on its first day of release , breaking the record previously held by Miley Cyrus for " Wrecking Ball " . On November 9 , 2014 , Minaj hosted the 2014 MTV Europe Music Awards in Glasgow , Scotland . She also won the Best Hip - Hop Award for a second time . The Pinkprint was officially released on December 15 , 2014 , and debuted at number two in the U . S , with first week sales of 244 , 000 equivalent units ( 198 , 000 in pure album sales and 46 , 000 combined album - equivalent units and streams ) . Upon release , critics praised the production and personal lyrics .	When was "Pills n Potions" released?	"Pills n Potions" was released in May 2014.
" Pills n Potions " was released as the lead single from The Pinkprint in May 2014 . In July , she appeared as a featured artist on the song " Bang Bang " with singers Jessie J and Ariana Grande , which peaked at number three on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 chart . " Anaconda " was released in August as the second single from the album , peaking at number two , which became her highest - charting single in the U . S . at the time . The music video for " Anaconda " went viral upon release online ; it set a 24 - hour Vevo record , accumulating 19.6   million views on its first day of release , breaking the record previously held by Miley Cyrus for " Wrecking Ball " . On November 9 , 2014 , Minaj hosted the 2014 MTV Europe Music Awards in Glasgow , Scotland . She also won the Best Hip - Hop Award for a second time . The Pinkprint was officially released on December 15 , 2014 , and debuted at number two in the U . S , with first week sales of 244 , 000 equivalent units ( 198 , 000 in pure album sales and 46 , 000 combined album - equivalent units and streams ) . Upon release , critics praised the production and personal lyrics .	Which song did you appear as a featured artist on in July?	I appeared as a featured artist on the song "Bang Bang" in July.
" Pills n Potions " was released as the lead single from The Pinkprint in May 2014 . In July , she appeared as a featured artist on the song " Bang Bang " with singers Jessie J and Ariana Grande , which peaked at number three on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 chart . " Anaconda " was released in August as the second single from the album , peaking at number two , which became her highest - charting single in the U . S . at the time . The music video for " Anaconda " went viral upon release online ; it set a 24 - hour Vevo record , accumulating 19.6   million views on its first day of release , breaking the record previously held by Miley Cyrus for " Wrecking Ball " . On November 9 , 2014 , Minaj hosted the 2014 MTV Europe Music Awards in Glasgow , Scotland . She also won the Best Hip - Hop Award for a second time . The Pinkprint was officially released on December 15 , 2014 , and debuted at number two in the U . S , with first week sales of 244 , 000 equivalent units ( 198 , 000 in pure album sales and 46 , 000 combined album - equivalent units and streams ) . Upon release , critics praised the production and personal lyrics .	What was the peak position of "Bang Bang" on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart for you?	"Bang Bang" peaked at number three on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart for me.
" Pills n Potions " was released as the lead single from The Pinkprint in May 2014 . In July , she appeared as a featured artist on the song " Bang Bang " with singers Jessie J and Ariana Grande , which peaked at number three on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 chart . " Anaconda " was released in August as the second single from the album , peaking at number two , which became her highest - charting single in the U . S . at the time . The music video for " Anaconda " went viral upon release online ; it set a 24 - hour Vevo record , accumulating 19.6   million views on its first day of release , breaking the record previously held by Miley Cyrus for " Wrecking Ball " . On November 9 , 2014 , Minaj hosted the 2014 MTV Europe Music Awards in Glasgow , Scotland . She also won the Best Hip - Hop Award for a second time . The Pinkprint was officially released on December 15 , 2014 , and debuted at number two in the U . S , with first week sales of 244 , 000 equivalent units ( 198 , 000 in pure album sales and 46 , 000 combined album - equivalent units and streams ) . Upon release , critics praised the production and personal lyrics .	When was "Anaconda" released as your second single from the album?	"Anaconda" was released in August as my second single from the album.
" Pills n Potions " was released as the lead single from The Pinkprint in May 2014 . In July , she appeared as a featured artist on the song " Bang Bang " with singers Jessie J and Ariana Grande , which peaked at number three on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 chart . " Anaconda " was released in August as the second single from the album , peaking at number two , which became her highest - charting single in the U . S . at the time . The music video for " Anaconda " went viral upon release online ; it set a 24 - hour Vevo record , accumulating 19.6   million views on its first day of release , breaking the record previously held by Miley Cyrus for " Wrecking Ball " . On November 9 , 2014 , Minaj hosted the 2014 MTV Europe Music Awards in Glasgow , Scotland . She also won the Best Hip - Hop Award for a second time . The Pinkprint was officially released on December 15 , 2014 , and debuted at number two in the U . S , with first week sales of 244 , 000 equivalent units ( 198 , 000 in pure album sales and 46 , 000 combined album - equivalent units and streams ) . Upon release , critics praised the production and personal lyrics .	How many views did the music video for "Anaconda" accumulate on its first day of release?	The music video for "Anaconda" accumulated 19.6 million views on its first day of release.
In February 2017 , Minaj was featured on Jason Derulo ' s single " Swalla " which reached the top ten in several countries , including a peak of number six in the UK . The following month , Minaj signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . On March 20 , 2017 , when her singles " No Frauds " , " Changed It " , and " Regret in Your Tears " were released simultaneously , Minaj broke the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 entries for a female artist , which at the time was previously held by Aretha Franklin . In May 2017 , Minaj opened the 2017 Billboard Music Awards with a medley performance that was described by Elias Leight of Rolling Stone as " flamboyantly produced " and " dexterous " .	When were you featured on Jason Derulo's single "Swalla"?	In February 2017.
In February 2017 , Minaj was featured on Jason Derulo ' s single " Swalla " which reached the top ten in several countries , including a peak of number six in the UK . The following month , Minaj signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . On March 20 , 2017 , when her singles " No Frauds " , " Changed It " , and " Regret in Your Tears " were released simultaneously , Minaj broke the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 entries for a female artist , which at the time was previously held by Aretha Franklin . In May 2017 , Minaj opened the 2017 Billboard Music Awards with a medley performance that was described by Elias Leight of Rolling Stone as " flamboyantly produced " and " dexterous " .	What was the peak position of "Swalla" in the UK?	Number six.
In February 2017 , Minaj was featured on Jason Derulo ' s single " Swalla " which reached the top ten in several countries , including a peak of number six in the UK . The following month , Minaj signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . On March 20 , 2017 , when her singles " No Frauds " , " Changed It " , and " Regret in Your Tears " were released simultaneously , Minaj broke the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 entries for a female artist , which at the time was previously held by Aretha Franklin . In May 2017 , Minaj opened the 2017 Billboard Music Awards with a medley performance that was described by Elias Leight of Rolling Stone as " flamboyantly produced " and " dexterous " .	Which modeling agency did you sign with?	Wilhelmina Models.
In February 2017 , Minaj was featured on Jason Derulo ' s single " Swalla " which reached the top ten in several countries , including a peak of number six in the UK . The following month , Minaj signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . On March 20 , 2017 , when her singles " No Frauds " , " Changed It " , and " Regret in Your Tears " were released simultaneously , Minaj broke the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 entries for a female artist , which at the time was previously held by Aretha Franklin . In May 2017 , Minaj opened the 2017 Billboard Music Awards with a medley performance that was described by Elias Leight of Rolling Stone as " flamboyantly produced " and " dexterous " .	When did you break the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 entries for a female artist?	On March 20, 2017.
In February 2017 , Minaj was featured on Jason Derulo ' s single " Swalla " which reached the top ten in several countries , including a peak of number six in the UK . The following month , Minaj signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . On March 20 , 2017 , when her singles " No Frauds " , " Changed It " , and " Regret in Your Tears " were released simultaneously , Minaj broke the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 entries for a female artist , which at the time was previously held by Aretha Franklin . In May 2017 , Minaj opened the 2017 Billboard Music Awards with a medley performance that was described by Elias Leight of Rolling Stone as " flamboyantly produced " and " dexterous " .	Who previously held the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 entries for a female artist?	Aretha Franklin.
After a social media hiatus , Minaj released two singles from her fourth studio album Queen . She released " Chun - Li " and " Barbie Tingz " simultaneously on April 12 , 2018 , with both reaching number ten and number twenty - five in the U . S . respectively . She performed " Chun - Li " on Saturday Night Live and the 2018 BET Awards . While " Chun Li " appears on the tracklist of the album , " Barbie Tingz " is only included on the Target version of the album . On the red carpet of the 2018 Met Gala , she announced the title of the album and the original release date . The second single , " Bed " , featuring Ariana Grande was released on June 14 , 2018 , alongside the album pre - order , reaching number 42 on the Hot 100 . Additionally , Minaj appeared as a featured artist on the song " Fefe " along with Murda Beatz and Tekashi 6ix9ine . It debuted at number four in the U . S , marking Minaj ' s highest debut on the chart at the time , besting the sixth place start of " Bang Bang " in 2014 . It later peaked at number three and was added to Queen in the middle of its first tracking week . The day before the album ' s release , Minaj launched her own Beats 1 radio show , Queen Radio .	When did you release your fourth studio album?	I released my fourth studio album on a specific date which was announced on the red carpet of the 2018 Met Gala.
After a social media hiatus , Minaj released two singles from her fourth studio album Queen . She released " Chun - Li " and " Barbie Tingz " simultaneously on April 12 , 2018 , with both reaching number ten and number twenty - five in the U . S . respectively . She performed " Chun - Li " on Saturday Night Live and the 2018 BET Awards . While " Chun Li " appears on the tracklist of the album , " Barbie Tingz " is only included on the Target version of the album . On the red carpet of the 2018 Met Gala , she announced the title of the album and the original release date . The second single , " Bed " , featuring Ariana Grande was released on June 14 , 2018 , alongside the album pre - order , reaching number 42 on the Hot 100 . Additionally , Minaj appeared as a featured artist on the song " Fefe " along with Murda Beatz and Tekashi 6ix9ine . It debuted at number four in the U . S , marking Minaj ' s highest debut on the chart at the time , besting the sixth place start of " Bang Bang " in 2014 . It later peaked at number three and was added to Queen in the middle of its first tracking week . The day before the album ' s release , Minaj launched her own Beats 1 radio show , Queen Radio .	What are the titles of the two singles that you released from your fourth studio album?	The titles of the two singles that I released from my fourth studio album are "Chun-Li" and "Barbie Tingz".
After a social media hiatus , Minaj released two singles from her fourth studio album Queen . She released " Chun - Li " and " Barbie Tingz " simultaneously on April 12 , 2018 , with both reaching number ten and number twenty - five in the U . S . respectively . She performed " Chun - Li " on Saturday Night Live and the 2018 BET Awards . While " Chun Li " appears on the tracklist of the album , " Barbie Tingz " is only included on the Target version of the album . On the red carpet of the 2018 Met Gala , she announced the title of the album and the original release date . The second single , " Bed " , featuring Ariana Grande was released on June 14 , 2018 , alongside the album pre - order , reaching number 42 on the Hot 100 . Additionally , Minaj appeared as a featured artist on the song " Fefe " along with Murda Beatz and Tekashi 6ix9ine . It debuted at number four in the U . S , marking Minaj ' s highest debut on the chart at the time , besting the sixth place start of " Bang Bang " in 2014 . It later peaked at number three and was added to Queen in the middle of its first tracking week . The day before the album ' s release , Minaj launched her own Beats 1 radio show , Queen Radio .	Which two events did you perform "Chun-Li" at?	I performed "Chun-Li" at Saturday Night Live and the 2018 BET Awards.
After a social media hiatus , Minaj released two singles from her fourth studio album Queen . She released " Chun - Li " and " Barbie Tingz " simultaneously on April 12 , 2018 , with both reaching number ten and number twenty - five in the U . S . respectively . She performed " Chun - Li " on Saturday Night Live and the 2018 BET Awards . While " Chun Li " appears on the tracklist of the album , " Barbie Tingz " is only included on the Target version of the album . On the red carpet of the 2018 Met Gala , she announced the title of the album and the original release date . The second single , " Bed " , featuring Ariana Grande was released on June 14 , 2018 , alongside the album pre - order , reaching number 42 on the Hot 100 . Additionally , Minaj appeared as a featured artist on the song " Fefe " along with Murda Beatz and Tekashi 6ix9ine . It debuted at number four in the U . S , marking Minaj ' s highest debut on the chart at the time , besting the sixth place start of " Bang Bang " in 2014 . It later peaked at number three and was added to Queen in the middle of its first tracking week . The day before the album ' s release , Minaj launched her own Beats 1 radio show , Queen Radio .	On what date was your second single, "Bed" featuring Ariana Grande released?	My second single, "Bed" featuring Ariana Grande, was released on June 14, 2018.
After a social media hiatus , Minaj released two singles from her fourth studio album Queen . She released " Chun - Li " and " Barbie Tingz " simultaneously on April 12 , 2018 , with both reaching number ten and number twenty - five in the U . S . respectively . She performed " Chun - Li " on Saturday Night Live and the 2018 BET Awards . While " Chun Li " appears on the tracklist of the album , " Barbie Tingz " is only included on the Target version of the album . On the red carpet of the 2018 Met Gala , she announced the title of the album and the original release date . The second single , " Bed " , featuring Ariana Grande was released on June 14 , 2018 , alongside the album pre - order , reaching number 42 on the Hot 100 . Additionally , Minaj appeared as a featured artist on the song " Fefe " along with Murda Beatz and Tekashi 6ix9ine . It debuted at number four in the U . S , marking Minaj ' s highest debut on the chart at the time , besting the sixth place start of " Bang Bang " in 2014 . It later peaked at number three and was added to Queen in the middle of its first tracking week . The day before the album ' s release , Minaj launched her own Beats 1 radio show , Queen Radio .	What position did your song "Fefe" debut at on the U.S. chart?	My song "Fefe" debuted at number four on the U.S. chart.
In June 2019 , Minaj released a standalone single titled " Megatron " along with an accompanying music video . In the U . S , the song debuted at number twenty . A month later , she provided information on her upcoming fifth studio album , appearing on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon , stating that " there ' s definitely a new album , of course . " She featured on the song " Hot Girl Summer " alongside fellow female rapper Megan Thee Stallion in August 2019 , which reached number eleven in the U . S . Minaj began dating her childhood friend Kenneth Petty ( nicknamed " Zoo " ) in December 2018 , and after less than a year of dating , filed for a marriage license in August 2019 . She announced that they had officially married in October , hyphenating his last name to hers upon marriage .	When did you release your standalone single "Megatron"?	In June 2019.
In June 2019 , Minaj released a standalone single titled " Megatron " along with an accompanying music video . In the U . S , the song debuted at number twenty . A month later , she provided information on her upcoming fifth studio album , appearing on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon , stating that " there ' s definitely a new album , of course . " She featured on the song " Hot Girl Summer " alongside fellow female rapper Megan Thee Stallion in August 2019 , which reached number eleven in the U . S . Minaj began dating her childhood friend Kenneth Petty ( nicknamed " Zoo " ) in December 2018 , and after less than a year of dating , filed for a marriage license in August 2019 . She announced that they had officially married in October , hyphenating his last name to hers upon marriage .	Where did your song "Megatron" debut at in the U.S.?	It debuted at number twenty in the U.S.
In June 2019 , Minaj released a standalone single titled " Megatron " along with an accompanying music video . In the U . S , the song debuted at number twenty . A month later , she provided information on her upcoming fifth studio album , appearing on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon , stating that " there ' s definitely a new album , of course . " She featured on the song " Hot Girl Summer " alongside fellow female rapper Megan Thee Stallion in August 2019 , which reached number eleven in the U . S . Minaj began dating her childhood friend Kenneth Petty ( nicknamed " Zoo " ) in December 2018 , and after less than a year of dating , filed for a marriage license in August 2019 . She announced that they had officially married in October , hyphenating his last name to hers upon marriage .	What information did you provide about your upcoming fifth studio album?	I stated that there is definitely a new album.
In June 2019 , Minaj released a standalone single titled " Megatron " along with an accompanying music video . In the U . S , the song debuted at number twenty . A month later , she provided information on her upcoming fifth studio album , appearing on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon , stating that " there ' s definitely a new album , of course . " She featured on the song " Hot Girl Summer " alongside fellow female rapper Megan Thee Stallion in August 2019 , which reached number eleven in the U . S . Minaj began dating her childhood friend Kenneth Petty ( nicknamed " Zoo " ) in December 2018 , and after less than a year of dating , filed for a marriage license in August 2019 . She announced that they had officially married in October , hyphenating his last name to hers upon marriage .	Who did you feature on the song "Hot Girl Summer" with?	I featured alongside fellow female rapper Megan Thee Stallion.
In June 2019 , Minaj released a standalone single titled " Megatron " along with an accompanying music video . In the U . S , the song debuted at number twenty . A month later , she provided information on her upcoming fifth studio album , appearing on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon , stating that " there ' s definitely a new album , of course . " She featured on the song " Hot Girl Summer " alongside fellow female rapper Megan Thee Stallion in August 2019 , which reached number eleven in the U . S . Minaj began dating her childhood friend Kenneth Petty ( nicknamed " Zoo " ) in December 2018 , and after less than a year of dating , filed for a marriage license in August 2019 . She announced that they had officially married in October , hyphenating his last name to hers upon marriage .	When did you file for a marriage license with your childhood friend Kenneth Petty?	I filed for a marriage license in August 2019.
In July , Minaj announced via Instagram that she was expecting her first child . She gave birth to a son on September 30 , 2020 , whom she refers to publicly as " Papa Bear " . His real name is still unknown . She later collaborated with rappers ASAP Ferg and MadeinTYO on a song called " Move Ya Hips " . Almost a month later , Minaj featured on rapper Ty Dolla Sign ' s track " Expensive " . She continued to appear as a featured artist on several songs in late 2020 , and released " What That Speed Bout ! ? " with producer Mike Will Made It and rapper YoungBoy Never Broke Again on November 6 . On the 10th anniversary of her debut album Pink Friday ( 2010 ) , Minaj announced a six - part docuseries about her , produced by Bron Studios and was originally said to premiere on HBO Max . However , in 2022 , the streaming platform confirmed it dropped the still - unreleased project .	When did you announce that you were expecting your first child?	In July.
In July , Minaj announced via Instagram that she was expecting her first child . She gave birth to a son on September 30 , 2020 , whom she refers to publicly as " Papa Bear " . His real name is still unknown . She later collaborated with rappers ASAP Ferg and MadeinTYO on a song called " Move Ya Hips " . Almost a month later , Minaj featured on rapper Ty Dolla Sign ' s track " Expensive " . She continued to appear as a featured artist on several songs in late 2020 , and released " What That Speed Bout ! ? " with producer Mike Will Made It and rapper YoungBoy Never Broke Again on November 6 . On the 10th anniversary of her debut album Pink Friday ( 2010 ) , Minaj announced a six - part docuseries about her , produced by Bron Studios and was originally said to premiere on HBO Max . However , in 2022 , the streaming platform confirmed it dropped the still - unreleased project .	When did you give birth to your son?	On September 30, 2020.
In July , Minaj announced via Instagram that she was expecting her first child . She gave birth to a son on September 30 , 2020 , whom she refers to publicly as " Papa Bear " . His real name is still unknown . She later collaborated with rappers ASAP Ferg and MadeinTYO on a song called " Move Ya Hips " . Almost a month later , Minaj featured on rapper Ty Dolla Sign ' s track " Expensive " . She continued to appear as a featured artist on several songs in late 2020 , and released " What That Speed Bout ! ? " with producer Mike Will Made It and rapper YoungBoy Never Broke Again on November 6 . On the 10th anniversary of her debut album Pink Friday ( 2010 ) , Minaj announced a six - part docuseries about her , produced by Bron Studios and was originally said to premiere on HBO Max . However , in 2022 , the streaming platform confirmed it dropped the still - unreleased project .	What is your son referred to publicly as?	"Papa Bear".
In July , Minaj announced via Instagram that she was expecting her first child . She gave birth to a son on September 30 , 2020 , whom she refers to publicly as " Papa Bear " . His real name is still unknown . She later collaborated with rappers ASAP Ferg and MadeinTYO on a song called " Move Ya Hips " . Almost a month later , Minaj featured on rapper Ty Dolla Sign ' s track " Expensive " . She continued to appear as a featured artist on several songs in late 2020 , and released " What That Speed Bout ! ? " with producer Mike Will Made It and rapper YoungBoy Never Broke Again on November 6 . On the 10th anniversary of her debut album Pink Friday ( 2010 ) , Minaj announced a six - part docuseries about her , produced by Bron Studios and was originally said to premiere on HBO Max . However , in 2022 , the streaming platform confirmed it dropped the still - unreleased project .	Who did you collaborate with on the song "Move Ya Hips"?	ASAP Ferg and MadeinTYO.
In July , Minaj announced via Instagram that she was expecting her first child . She gave birth to a son on September 30 , 2020 , whom she refers to publicly as " Papa Bear " . His real name is still unknown . She later collaborated with rappers ASAP Ferg and MadeinTYO on a song called " Move Ya Hips " . Almost a month later , Minaj featured on rapper Ty Dolla Sign ' s track " Expensive " . She continued to appear as a featured artist on several songs in late 2020 , and released " What That Speed Bout ! ? " with producer Mike Will Made It and rapper YoungBoy Never Broke Again on November 6 . On the 10th anniversary of her debut album Pink Friday ( 2010 ) , Minaj announced a six - part docuseries about her , produced by Bron Studios and was originally said to premiere on HBO Max . However , in 2022 , the streaming platform confirmed it dropped the still - unreleased project .	When was the song "What That Speed Bout!?" released?	On November 6, 2020.
At the beginning of the year , after a social media hiatus , Minaj announced a song collaboration with rapper Lil Baby called " Do We Have a Problem ? " . The track was released on February 4 , along with a music video that featured guest appearances from actors Joseph Sikora and Cory Hardrict . The video also contained a snippet of another Lil Baby collaboration titled " Bussin " , which was officially released a week later , on February 11 . " Do We Have a Problem ? " debuted and peaked at number two on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 . It became Minaj ' s twentieth top ten entry in the U . S , extending her record as the female rapper with the most U . S . top ten singles . In a promotional Apple Music interview with DJ Zane Lowe , Minaj said her forthcoming fifth studio album is " coming very soon " . She described it as " fun , gutta , and back to the basics " . Her other ventures also include fronting the campaign for the " Heaven " Spring 2022 collection by Marc Jacobs , which launched on March 3 .	What is the name of the song collaboration between you and rapper Lil Baby?	The song collaboration is called "Do We Have a Problem?".
At the beginning of the year , after a social media hiatus , Minaj announced a song collaboration with rapper Lil Baby called " Do We Have a Problem ? " . The track was released on February 4 , along with a music video that featured guest appearances from actors Joseph Sikora and Cory Hardrict . The video also contained a snippet of another Lil Baby collaboration titled " Bussin " , which was officially released a week later , on February 11 . " Do We Have a Problem ? " debuted and peaked at number two on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 . It became Minaj ' s twentieth top ten entry in the U . S , extending her record as the female rapper with the most U . S . top ten singles . In a promotional Apple Music interview with DJ Zane Lowe , Minaj said her forthcoming fifth studio album is " coming very soon " . She described it as " fun , gutta , and back to the basics " . Her other ventures also include fronting the campaign for the " Heaven " Spring 2022 collection by Marc Jacobs , which launched on March 3 .	When was the track released along with the music video?	The track was released on February 4.
At the beginning of the year , after a social media hiatus , Minaj announced a song collaboration with rapper Lil Baby called " Do We Have a Problem ? " . The track was released on February 4 , along with a music video that featured guest appearances from actors Joseph Sikora and Cory Hardrict . The video also contained a snippet of another Lil Baby collaboration titled " Bussin " , which was officially released a week later , on February 11 . " Do We Have a Problem ? " debuted and peaked at number two on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 . It became Minaj ' s twentieth top ten entry in the U . S , extending her record as the female rapper with the most U . S . top ten singles . In a promotional Apple Music interview with DJ Zane Lowe , Minaj said her forthcoming fifth studio album is " coming very soon " . She described it as " fun , gutta , and back to the basics " . Her other ventures also include fronting the campaign for the " Heaven " Spring 2022 collection by Marc Jacobs , which launched on March 3 .	Who made guest appearances in the music video of "Do We Have a Problem?"?	Actors Joseph Sikora and Cory Hardrict made guest appearances in the music video.
At the beginning of the year , after a social media hiatus , Minaj announced a song collaboration with rapper Lil Baby called " Do We Have a Problem ? " . The track was released on February 4 , along with a music video that featured guest appearances from actors Joseph Sikora and Cory Hardrict . The video also contained a snippet of another Lil Baby collaboration titled " Bussin " , which was officially released a week later , on February 11 . " Do We Have a Problem ? " debuted and peaked at number two on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 . It became Minaj ' s twentieth top ten entry in the U . S , extending her record as the female rapper with the most U . S . top ten singles . In a promotional Apple Music interview with DJ Zane Lowe , Minaj said her forthcoming fifth studio album is " coming very soon " . She described it as " fun , gutta , and back to the basics " . Her other ventures also include fronting the campaign for the " Heaven " Spring 2022 collection by Marc Jacobs , which launched on March 3 .	What is the name of your other Lil Baby collaboration featured in the video?	The other Lil Baby collaboration featured in my video is titled "Bussin".
At the beginning of the year , after a social media hiatus , Minaj announced a song collaboration with rapper Lil Baby called " Do We Have a Problem ? " . The track was released on February 4 , along with a music video that featured guest appearances from actors Joseph Sikora and Cory Hardrict . The video also contained a snippet of another Lil Baby collaboration titled " Bussin " , which was officially released a week later , on February 11 . " Do We Have a Problem ? " debuted and peaked at number two on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 . It became Minaj ' s twentieth top ten entry in the U . S , extending her record as the female rapper with the most U . S . top ten singles . In a promotional Apple Music interview with DJ Zane Lowe , Minaj said her forthcoming fifth studio album is " coming very soon " . She described it as " fun , gutta , and back to the basics " . Her other ventures also include fronting the campaign for the " Heaven " Spring 2022 collection by Marc Jacobs , which launched on March 3 .	What is my current peak position of "Do We Have a Problem?" on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100?	"Do We Have a Problem?" debuted and peaked at number two on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 for me.
" Super Freaky Girl " debuted at number one in the U . S , making the song Minaj ' s third U . S . number one and her first unaccompanied number one . It became the first solo song by a female rapper to debut at number one in the U . S . in 22 years , after fellow rapper Lauryn Hill ' s song " Doo Wop ( That Thing ) " also debuted at number one in 1998 . On August 28 , 2022 , Minaj released a compilation album called Queen Radio : Volume 1 with one new track , " Likkle Miss ( Remix ) " with Skeng . On September 9 , 2022 , Minaj released a remix of " Super Freaky Girl " called " Queen Mix " , which features 5 other female rappers : JT , BIA , Katie Got Bandz , Akbar V , and Maliibu Miitch .	How did "Super Freaky Girl" perform in the U.S?	"Super Freaky Girl" debuted at number one in the U.S.
" Super Freaky Girl " debuted at number one in the U . S , making the song Minaj ' s third U . S . number one and her first unaccompanied number one . It became the first solo song by a female rapper to debut at number one in the U . S . in 22 years , after fellow rapper Lauryn Hill ' s song " Doo Wop ( That Thing ) " also debuted at number one in 1998 . On August 28 , 2022 , Minaj released a compilation album called Queen Radio : Volume 1 with one new track , " Likkle Miss ( Remix ) " with Skeng . On September 9 , 2022 , Minaj released a remix of " Super Freaky Girl " called " Queen Mix " , which features 5 other female rappers : JT , BIA , Katie Got Bandz , Akbar V , and Maliibu Miitch .	How does this achievement compare to your other songs?	It is my third U.S. number one and my first unaccompanied number one.
" Super Freaky Girl " debuted at number one in the U . S , making the song Minaj ' s third U . S . number one and her first unaccompanied number one . It became the first solo song by a female rapper to debut at number one in the U . S . in 22 years , after fellow rapper Lauryn Hill ' s song " Doo Wop ( That Thing ) " also debuted at number one in 1998 . On August 28 , 2022 , Minaj released a compilation album called Queen Radio : Volume 1 with one new track , " Likkle Miss ( Remix ) " with Skeng . On September 9 , 2022 , Minaj released a remix of " Super Freaky Girl " called " Queen Mix " , which features 5 other female rappers : JT , BIA , Katie Got Bandz , Akbar V , and Maliibu Miitch .	Did "Super Freaky Girl" set any records?	Yes, it became my first solo song to debut at number one in the U.S. in 22 years.
" Super Freaky Girl " debuted at number one in the U . S , making the song Minaj ' s third U . S . number one and her first unaccompanied number one . It became the first solo song by a female rapper to debut at number one in the U . S . in 22 years , after fellow rapper Lauryn Hill ' s song " Doo Wop ( That Thing ) " also debuted at number one in 1998 . On August 28 , 2022 , Minaj released a compilation album called Queen Radio : Volume 1 with one new track , " Likkle Miss ( Remix ) " with Skeng . On September 9 , 2022 , Minaj released a remix of " Super Freaky Girl " called " Queen Mix " , which features 5 other female rappers : JT , BIA , Katie Got Bandz , Akbar V , and Maliibu Miitch .	Which other female rapper had achieved a similar feat before you?	Lauryn Hill, with her song "Doo Wop (That Thing)" debuted at number one in 1998.
" Super Freaky Girl " debuted at number one in the U . S , making the song Minaj ' s third U . S . number one and her first unaccompanied number one . It became the first solo song by a female rapper to debut at number one in the U . S . in 22 years , after fellow rapper Lauryn Hill ' s song " Doo Wop ( That Thing ) " also debuted at number one in 1998 . On August 28 , 2022 , Minaj released a compilation album called Queen Radio : Volume 1 with one new track , " Likkle Miss ( Remix ) " with Skeng . On September 9 , 2022 , Minaj released a remix of " Super Freaky Girl " called " Queen Mix " , which features 5 other female rappers : JT , BIA , Katie Got Bandz , Akbar V , and Maliibu Miitch .	What other recent releases do you have?	I released a compilation album called Queen Radio: Volume 1 on August 28, 2022, with one new track called "Likkle Miss (Remix)" featuring Skeng.
" Super Freaky Girl " debuted at number one in the U . S , making the song Minaj ' s third U . S . number one and her first unaccompanied number one . It became the first solo song by a female rapper to debut at number one in the U . S . in 22 years , after fellow rapper Lauryn Hill ' s song " Doo Wop ( That Thing ) " also debuted at number one in 1998 . On August 28 , 2022 , Minaj released a compilation album called Queen Radio : Volume 1 with one new track , " Likkle Miss ( Remix ) " with Skeng . On September 9 , 2022 , Minaj released a remix of " Super Freaky Girl " called " Queen Mix " , which features 5 other female rappers : JT , BIA , Katie Got Bandz , Akbar V , and Maliibu Miitch .	Did you release any remixes of "Super Freaky Girl"?	Yes, on September 9, 2022, I released a remix of "Super Freaky Girl" called "Queen Mix" which features 5 other female rappers: JT, BIA, Katie Got Bandz, Akbar V, and Maliibu Miitch.
In March 2022 , Minaj fronted the campaign for the " Heaven " Spring 2022 collection by Marc Jacobs . In July 2022 , she collaborated with Rap Snacks and released her own potato chip flavor , " Barbie - Que Honey Truffle " . The following month , Mattel sued Rap Snacks , claiming the company violated the Barbie trademark and had made a " deliberate and calculated " choice to do so . The lawsuit was settled in September after the company changed the snack ' s name to " Bar - B - Quin " . Minaj released a " variety pack " with Rap Snacks in October , and a " Nocho Nachos " nachos flavor in March 2023 , inspired by a lyric on her 2023 single , " Red Ruby Da Sleeze " . Also in October 2022 , the rapper appeared alongside Lil Baby , Kane Brown , Pete Davidson , and Bukayo Saka in a trailer for the video game , Call of Duty : Modern Warfare II .	Who did you collaborate with for the "Heaven" Spring 2022 collection?	I collaborated with Marc Jacobs for the "Heaven" Spring 2022 collection.
In March 2022 , Minaj fronted the campaign for the " Heaven " Spring 2022 collection by Marc Jacobs . In July 2022 , she collaborated with Rap Snacks and released her own potato chip flavor , " Barbie - Que Honey Truffle " . The following month , Mattel sued Rap Snacks , claiming the company violated the Barbie trademark and had made a " deliberate and calculated " choice to do so . The lawsuit was settled in September after the company changed the snack ' s name to " Bar - B - Quin " . Minaj released a " variety pack " with Rap Snacks in October , and a " Nocho Nachos " nachos flavor in March 2023 , inspired by a lyric on her 2023 single , " Red Ruby Da Sleeze " . Also in October 2022 , the rapper appeared alongside Lil Baby , Kane Brown , Pete Davidson , and Bukayo Saka in a trailer for the video game , Call of Duty : Modern Warfare II .	What was the name of your potato chip flavor released in July 2022?	The name of my potato chip flavor released in July 2022 was "Barbie-Que Honey Truffle".
In March 2022 , Minaj fronted the campaign for the " Heaven " Spring 2022 collection by Marc Jacobs . In July 2022 , she collaborated with Rap Snacks and released her own potato chip flavor , " Barbie - Que Honey Truffle " . The following month , Mattel sued Rap Snacks , claiming the company violated the Barbie trademark and had made a " deliberate and calculated " choice to do so . The lawsuit was settled in September after the company changed the snack ' s name to " Bar - B - Quin " . Minaj released a " variety pack " with Rap Snacks in October , and a " Nocho Nachos " nachos flavor in March 2023 , inspired by a lyric on her 2023 single , " Red Ruby Da Sleeze " . Also in October 2022 , the rapper appeared alongside Lil Baby , Kane Brown , Pete Davidson , and Bukayo Saka in a trailer for the video game , Call of Duty : Modern Warfare II .	Which company did Mattel sue in August 2022?	Mattel sued Rap Snacks in August 2022.
In March 2022 , Minaj fronted the campaign for the " Heaven " Spring 2022 collection by Marc Jacobs . In July 2022 , she collaborated with Rap Snacks and released her own potato chip flavor , " Barbie - Que Honey Truffle " . The following month , Mattel sued Rap Snacks , claiming the company violated the Barbie trademark and had made a " deliberate and calculated " choice to do so . The lawsuit was settled in September after the company changed the snack ' s name to " Bar - B - Quin " . Minaj released a " variety pack " with Rap Snacks in October , and a " Nocho Nachos " nachos flavor in March 2023 , inspired by a lyric on her 2023 single , " Red Ruby Da Sleeze " . Also in October 2022 , the rapper appeared alongside Lil Baby , Kane Brown , Pete Davidson , and Bukayo Saka in a trailer for the video game , Call of Duty : Modern Warfare II .	What was the snack's name changed to after the lawsuit was settled?	The snack's name was changed to "Bar-B-Quin" after the lawsuit was settled.
In March 2022 , Minaj fronted the campaign for the " Heaven " Spring 2022 collection by Marc Jacobs . In July 2022 , she collaborated with Rap Snacks and released her own potato chip flavor , " Barbie - Que Honey Truffle " . The following month , Mattel sued Rap Snacks , claiming the company violated the Barbie trademark and had made a " deliberate and calculated " choice to do so . The lawsuit was settled in September after the company changed the snack ' s name to " Bar - B - Quin " . Minaj released a " variety pack " with Rap Snacks in October , and a " Nocho Nachos " nachos flavor in March 2023 , inspired by a lyric on her 2023 single , " Red Ruby Da Sleeze " . Also in October 2022 , the rapper appeared alongside Lil Baby , Kane Brown , Pete Davidson , and Bukayo Saka in a trailer for the video game , Call of Duty : Modern Warfare II .	What flavor of Rap Snacks did you release in March 2023?	I released the "Nocho Nachos" flavor of Rap Snacks in March 2023.
