Robyn Rihanna Fenty NH (/riˈænə/ (listen) ree-AN-ə;[n 1] born February 20, 1988) is a Barbadian singer, actress, and businesswoman. Born in Saint Michael and raised in Bridgetown, Rihanna auditioned for American record producer Evan Rogers who invited her to the United States to record demo tapes. After signing with Def Jam in 2005, she soon gained recognition with the release of her first two studio albums, Music of the Sun (2005) and A Girl Like Me (2006), both of which were influenced by Caribbean music and peaked within the top ten on the US Billboard 200 chart.	When were you born?	I was born on February 20, 1988.
Robyn Rihanna Fenty NH (/riˈænə/ (listen) ree-AN-ə;[n 1] born February 20, 1988) is a Barbadian singer, actress, and businesswoman. Born in Saint Michael and raised in Bridgetown, Rihanna auditioned for American record producer Evan Rogers who invited her to the United States to record demo tapes. After signing with Def Jam in 2005, she soon gained recognition with the release of her first two studio albums, Music of the Sun (2005) and A Girl Like Me (2006), both of which were influenced by Caribbean music and peaked within the top ten on the US Billboard 200 chart.	Where were you born and raised?	I was born in Saint Michael and raised in Bridgetown.
Robyn Rihanna Fenty NH (/riˈænə/ (listen) ree-AN-ə;[n 1] born February 20, 1988) is a Barbadian singer, actress, and businesswoman. Born in Saint Michael and raised in Bridgetown, Rihanna auditioned for American record producer Evan Rogers who invited her to the United States to record demo tapes. After signing with Def Jam in 2005, she soon gained recognition with the release of her first two studio albums, Music of the Sun (2005) and A Girl Like Me (2006), both of which were influenced by Caribbean music and peaked within the top ten on the US Billboard 200 chart.	Who did you audition for?	I auditioned for American record producer Evan Rogers.
Robyn Rihanna Fenty NH (/riˈænə/ (listen) ree-AN-ə;[n 1] born February 20, 1988) is a Barbadian singer, actress, and businesswoman. Born in Saint Michael and raised in Bridgetown, Rihanna auditioned for American record producer Evan Rogers who invited her to the United States to record demo tapes. After signing with Def Jam in 2005, she soon gained recognition with the release of her first two studio albums, Music of the Sun (2005) and A Girl Like Me (2006), both of which were influenced by Caribbean music and peaked within the top ten on the US Billboard 200 chart.	What record label did you sign with?	I signed with Def Jam in 2005.
Robyn Rihanna Fenty NH (/riˈænə/ (listen) ree-AN-ə;[n 1] born February 20, 1988) is a Barbadian singer, actress, and businesswoman. Born in Saint Michael and raised in Bridgetown, Rihanna auditioned for American record producer Evan Rogers who invited her to the United States to record demo tapes. After signing with Def Jam in 2005, she soon gained recognition with the release of her first two studio albums, Music of the Sun (2005) and A Girl Like Me (2006), both of which were influenced by Caribbean music and peaked within the top ten on the US Billboard 200 chart.	Which two albums of yours gained recognition?	The two albums of mine that gained recognition are "Music of the Sun" and "A Girl Like Me".
Rihanna's third album, Good Girl Gone Bad (2007), incorporated elements of dance-pop and established her status as a major icon in the music industry. The chart-topping single "Umbrella" earned Rihanna her first Grammy Award and catapulted her to global stardom. She continued to mix pop, dance, and R&B genres on her next studio albums, Rated R (2009), Loud (2010), Talk That Talk (2011), and Unapologetic (2012), the last of which became her first Billboard 200 number one. The albums spawned a string of chart-topping singles, including "Rude Boy", "Only Girl (In the World)", "What's My Name?", "S&M", "We Found Love", and "Diamonds". Her eighth album, Anti (2016), showcased a new creative control following her departure from Def Jam. It became her second US number one album and featured the chart-topping single "Work". During her musical career, Rihanna has collaborated with many artists, such as Drake, Eminem, Jay-Z, Kanye West, Ne-Yo, and Shakira.	What was your third album called?	Good Girl Gone Bad.
Rihanna's third album, Good Girl Gone Bad (2007), incorporated elements of dance-pop and established her status as a major icon in the music industry. The chart-topping single "Umbrella" earned Rihanna her first Grammy Award and catapulted her to global stardom. She continued to mix pop, dance, and R&B genres on her next studio albums, Rated R (2009), Loud (2010), Talk That Talk (2011), and Unapologetic (2012), the last of which became her first Billboard 200 number one. The albums spawned a string of chart-topping singles, including "Rude Boy", "Only Girl (In the World)", "What's My Name?", "S&M", "We Found Love", and "Diamonds". Her eighth album, Anti (2016), showcased a new creative control following her departure from Def Jam. It became her second US number one album and featured the chart-topping single "Work". During her musical career, Rihanna has collaborated with many artists, such as Drake, Eminem, Jay-Z, Kanye West, Ne-Yo, and Shakira.	What was the name of the chart-topping single that earned you your first Grammy Award?	"Umbrella".
Rihanna's third album, Good Girl Gone Bad (2007), incorporated elements of dance-pop and established her status as a major icon in the music industry. The chart-topping single "Umbrella" earned Rihanna her first Grammy Award and catapulted her to global stardom. She continued to mix pop, dance, and R&B genres on her next studio albums, Rated R (2009), Loud (2010), Talk That Talk (2011), and Unapologetic (2012), the last of which became her first Billboard 200 number one. The albums spawned a string of chart-topping singles, including "Rude Boy", "Only Girl (In the World)", "What's My Name?", "S&M", "We Found Love", and "Diamonds". Her eighth album, Anti (2016), showcased a new creative control following her departure from Def Jam. It became her second US number one album and featured the chart-topping single "Work". During her musical career, Rihanna has collaborated with many artists, such as Drake, Eminem, Jay-Z, Kanye West, Ne-Yo, and Shakira.	Which album became your first Billboard 200 number one?	Unapologetic.
Rihanna's third album, Good Girl Gone Bad (2007), incorporated elements of dance-pop and established her status as a major icon in the music industry. The chart-topping single "Umbrella" earned Rihanna her first Grammy Award and catapulted her to global stardom. She continued to mix pop, dance, and R&B genres on her next studio albums, Rated R (2009), Loud (2010), Talk That Talk (2011), and Unapologetic (2012), the last of which became her first Billboard 200 number one. The albums spawned a string of chart-topping singles, including "Rude Boy", "Only Girl (In the World)", "What's My Name?", "S&M", "We Found Love", and "Diamonds". Her eighth album, Anti (2016), showcased a new creative control following her departure from Def Jam. It became her second US number one album and featured the chart-topping single "Work". During her musical career, Rihanna has collaborated with many artists, such as Drake, Eminem, Jay-Z, Kanye West, Ne-Yo, and Shakira.	What was the name of your eighth album?	Anti.
Rihanna's third album, Good Girl Gone Bad (2007), incorporated elements of dance-pop and established her status as a major icon in the music industry. The chart-topping single "Umbrella" earned Rihanna her first Grammy Award and catapulted her to global stardom. She continued to mix pop, dance, and R&B genres on her next studio albums, Rated R (2009), Loud (2010), Talk That Talk (2011), and Unapologetic (2012), the last of which became her first Billboard 200 number one. The albums spawned a string of chart-topping singles, including "Rude Boy", "Only Girl (In the World)", "What's My Name?", "S&M", "We Found Love", and "Diamonds". Her eighth album, Anti (2016), showcased a new creative control following her departure from Def Jam. It became her second US number one album and featured the chart-topping single "Work". During her musical career, Rihanna has collaborated with many artists, such as Drake, Eminem, Jay-Z, Kanye West, Ne-Yo, and Shakira.	Who did you collaborate with on your music?	I have collaborated with Drake, Eminem, Jay-Z, Kanye West, Ne-Yo, and Shakira.
With sales of over 250 million records worldwide, Rihanna is the second-best-selling female music artist of all time and the highest-certified female artist of all time on the RIAA's Top Artists (Digital Singles) ranking. She has achieved 14 number-one singles, 32 top-ten singles in the US, and 31 top-ten entries in the UK. Her accolades include nine Grammy Awards, 13 American Music Awards (including the Icon Award), 12 Billboard Music Awards, five World Music Awards, six Guinness World Records, the NAACP's President's Award, and an Academy Award nomination. Her acclaimed Super Bowl halftime show performance in 2023 is the most watched in history. Time named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2012 and 2018. Forbes ranked her among the top ten highest-paid celebrities in 2012 and 2014. As of 2023, she is the wealthiest female musician, with an estimated net worth of $1.4 billion.	How many records have you sold worldwide?	I have sold over 250 million records worldwide.
With sales of over 250 million records worldwide, Rihanna is the second-best-selling female music artist of all time and the highest-certified female artist of all time on the RIAA's Top Artists (Digital Singles) ranking. She has achieved 14 number-one singles, 32 top-ten singles in the US, and 31 top-ten entries in the UK. Her accolades include nine Grammy Awards, 13 American Music Awards (including the Icon Award), 12 Billboard Music Awards, five World Music Awards, six Guinness World Records, the NAACP's President's Award, and an Academy Award nomination. Her acclaimed Super Bowl halftime show performance in 2023 is the most watched in history. Time named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2012 and 2018. Forbes ranked her among the top ten highest-paid celebrities in 2012 and 2014. As of 2023, she is the wealthiest female musician, with an estimated net worth of $1.4 billion.	Where do you rank in terms of the best-selling female music artists of all time?	I am the second-best-selling female music artist of all time.
With sales of over 250 million records worldwide, Rihanna is the second-best-selling female music artist of all time and the highest-certified female artist of all time on the RIAA's Top Artists (Digital Singles) ranking. She has achieved 14 number-one singles, 32 top-ten singles in the US, and 31 top-ten entries in the UK. Her accolades include nine Grammy Awards, 13 American Music Awards (including the Icon Award), 12 Billboard Music Awards, five World Music Awards, six Guinness World Records, the NAACP's President's Award, and an Academy Award nomination. Her acclaimed Super Bowl halftime show performance in 2023 is the most watched in history. Time named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2012 and 2018. Forbes ranked her among the top ten highest-paid celebrities in 2012 and 2014. As of 2023, she is the wealthiest female musician, with an estimated net worth of $1.4 billion.	How many number-one singles have you achieved?	I have achieved 14 number-one singles.
With sales of over 250 million records worldwide, Rihanna is the second-best-selling female music artist of all time and the highest-certified female artist of all time on the RIAA's Top Artists (Digital Singles) ranking. She has achieved 14 number-one singles, 32 top-ten singles in the US, and 31 top-ten entries in the UK. Her accolades include nine Grammy Awards, 13 American Music Awards (including the Icon Award), 12 Billboard Music Awards, five World Music Awards, six Guinness World Records, the NAACP's President's Award, and an Academy Award nomination. Her acclaimed Super Bowl halftime show performance in 2023 is the most watched in history. Time named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2012 and 2018. Forbes ranked her among the top ten highest-paid celebrities in 2012 and 2014. As of 2023, she is the wealthiest female musician, with an estimated net worth of $1.4 billion.	How many Grammy Awards have you won?	I have won nine Grammy Awards.
With sales of over 250 million records worldwide, Rihanna is the second-best-selling female music artist of all time and the highest-certified female artist of all time on the RIAA's Top Artists (Digital Singles) ranking. She has achieved 14 number-one singles, 32 top-ten singles in the US, and 31 top-ten entries in the UK. Her accolades include nine Grammy Awards, 13 American Music Awards (including the Icon Award), 12 Billboard Music Awards, five World Music Awards, six Guinness World Records, the NAACP's President's Award, and an Academy Award nomination. Her acclaimed Super Bowl halftime show performance in 2023 is the most watched in history. Time named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2012 and 2018. Forbes ranked her among the top ten highest-paid celebrities in 2012 and 2014. As of 2023, she is the wealthiest female musician, with an estimated net worth of $1.4 billion.	What is your estimated net worth as of 2023?	My estimated net worth as of 2023 is $1.4 billion.
Aside from music, Rihanna is known for her involvement in humanitarian causes, entrepreneurial ventures, and the fashion industry. She is the founder of the nonprofit organization Clara Lionel Foundation, cosmetics brand Fenty Beauty, and fashion house Fenty under LVMH; she is the first black woman to head a luxury brand for LVMH. Rihanna has also ventured into acting, appearing in major roles in Battleship (2012), Home (2015), Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets (2017), and Ocean's 8 (2018). She was appointed as an ambassador of education, tourism, and investment by the Government of Barbados in 2018 and was declared a National Hero of Barbados on the first day of the country's parliamentary republic in 2021, entitling her to the style of "The Right Excellent" for life.	What other ventures and industries are you involved in aside from music?	I am involved in humanitarian causes, entrepreneurial ventures, and the fashion industry.
Aside from music, Rihanna is known for her involvement in humanitarian causes, entrepreneurial ventures, and the fashion industry. She is the founder of the nonprofit organization Clara Lionel Foundation, cosmetics brand Fenty Beauty, and fashion house Fenty under LVMH; she is the first black woman to head a luxury brand for LVMH. Rihanna has also ventured into acting, appearing in major roles in Battleship (2012), Home (2015), Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets (2017), and Ocean's 8 (2018). She was appointed as an ambassador of education, tourism, and investment by the Government of Barbados in 2018 and was declared a National Hero of Barbados on the first day of the country's parliamentary republic in 2021, entitling her to the style of "The Right Excellent" for life.	What nonprofit organization did you found?	I founded the nonprofit organization Clara Lionel Foundation.
Aside from music, Rihanna is known for her involvement in humanitarian causes, entrepreneurial ventures, and the fashion industry. She is the founder of the nonprofit organization Clara Lionel Foundation, cosmetics brand Fenty Beauty, and fashion house Fenty under LVMH; she is the first black woman to head a luxury brand for LVMH. Rihanna has also ventured into acting, appearing in major roles in Battleship (2012), Home (2015), Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets (2017), and Ocean's 8 (2018). She was appointed as an ambassador of education, tourism, and investment by the Government of Barbados in 2018 and was declared a National Hero of Barbados on the first day of the country's parliamentary republic in 2021, entitling her to the style of "The Right Excellent" for life.	What cosmetics brand did you create?	I created the cosmetics brand Fenty Beauty.
Aside from music, Rihanna is known for her involvement in humanitarian causes, entrepreneurial ventures, and the fashion industry. She is the founder of the nonprofit organization Clara Lionel Foundation, cosmetics brand Fenty Beauty, and fashion house Fenty under LVMH; she is the first black woman to head a luxury brand for LVMH. Rihanna has also ventured into acting, appearing in major roles in Battleship (2012), Home (2015), Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets (2017), and Ocean's 8 (2018). She was appointed as an ambassador of education, tourism, and investment by the Government of Barbados in 2018 and was declared a National Hero of Barbados on the first day of the country's parliamentary republic in 2021, entitling her to the style of "The Right Excellent" for life.	What fashion house are you the founder of?	I am the founder of the fashion house Fenty under LVMH.
Aside from music, Rihanna is known for her involvement in humanitarian causes, entrepreneurial ventures, and the fashion industry. She is the founder of the nonprofit organization Clara Lionel Foundation, cosmetics brand Fenty Beauty, and fashion house Fenty under LVMH; she is the first black woman to head a luxury brand for LVMH. Rihanna has also ventured into acting, appearing in major roles in Battleship (2012), Home (2015), Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets (2017), and Ocean's 8 (2018). She was appointed as an ambassador of education, tourism, and investment by the Government of Barbados in 2018 and was declared a National Hero of Barbados on the first day of the country's parliamentary republic in 2021, entitling her to the style of "The Right Excellent" for life.	In which major films have you appeared in acting roles?	I have appeared in major roles in Battleship (2012), Home (2015), Valerian and the City of a Thousand Planets (2017), and Ocean's 8 (2018).
Robyn Rihanna Fenty was born on February 20, 1988, in Saint Michael, Barbados. She is the daughter of accountant Monica (née Braithwaite) and warehouse supervisor Ronald Fenty. Her mother is an Afro-Guyanese, while her father is a Barbadian of African, Irish, English, and Scottish descent. Rihanna has two brothers, Rorrey and Rajad Fenty, and two half-sisters and a half-brother from her father's side, each born to different mothers from his previous relationships. She grew up in a three-bedroom bungalow in Bridgetown and sold clothes with her father in a stall on the street. Her childhood was deeply affected by her father's alcoholism and crack cocaine addiction, which contributed to her parents' strained marriage. Rihanna's father used to abuse her mother physically, and Rihanna would try to get in between them to break up fights.	When and where were you born?	I was born on February 20, 1988, in Saint Michael, Barbados.
Robyn Rihanna Fenty was born on February 20, 1988, in Saint Michael, Barbados. She is the daughter of accountant Monica (née Braithwaite) and warehouse supervisor Ronald Fenty. Her mother is an Afro-Guyanese, while her father is a Barbadian of African, Irish, English, and Scottish descent. Rihanna has two brothers, Rorrey and Rajad Fenty, and two half-sisters and a half-brother from her father's side, each born to different mothers from his previous relationships. She grew up in a three-bedroom bungalow in Bridgetown and sold clothes with her father in a stall on the street. Her childhood was deeply affected by her father's alcoholism and crack cocaine addiction, which contributed to her parents' strained marriage. Rihanna's father used to abuse her mother physically, and Rihanna would try to get in between them to break up fights.	Who are your parents?	My parents are Monica (née Braithwaite), who is an Afro-Guyanese accountant, and Ronald Fenty, who is a Barbadian of African, Irish, English, and Scottish descent and works as a warehouse supervisor.
Robyn Rihanna Fenty was born on February 20, 1988, in Saint Michael, Barbados. She is the daughter of accountant Monica (née Braithwaite) and warehouse supervisor Ronald Fenty. Her mother is an Afro-Guyanese, while her father is a Barbadian of African, Irish, English, and Scottish descent. Rihanna has two brothers, Rorrey and Rajad Fenty, and two half-sisters and a half-brother from her father's side, each born to different mothers from his previous relationships. She grew up in a three-bedroom bungalow in Bridgetown and sold clothes with her father in a stall on the street. Her childhood was deeply affected by her father's alcoholism and crack cocaine addiction, which contributed to her parents' strained marriage. Rihanna's father used to abuse her mother physically, and Rihanna would try to get in between them to break up fights.	How many siblings do you have and what are their names?	I have two brothers named Rorrey and Rajad Fenty. I also have two half-sisters and a half-brother from my father's side, each born to different mothers from his previous relationships.
Robyn Rihanna Fenty was born on February 20, 1988, in Saint Michael, Barbados. She is the daughter of accountant Monica (née Braithwaite) and warehouse supervisor Ronald Fenty. Her mother is an Afro-Guyanese, while her father is a Barbadian of African, Irish, English, and Scottish descent. Rihanna has two brothers, Rorrey and Rajad Fenty, and two half-sisters and a half-brother from her father's side, each born to different mothers from his previous relationships. She grew up in a three-bedroom bungalow in Bridgetown and sold clothes with her father in a stall on the street. Her childhood was deeply affected by her father's alcoholism and crack cocaine addiction, which contributed to her parents' strained marriage. Rihanna's father used to abuse her mother physically, and Rihanna would try to get in between them to break up fights.	Where did you grow up?	I grew up in a three-bedroom bungalow in Bridgetown, Barbados.
Robyn Rihanna Fenty was born on February 20, 1988, in Saint Michael, Barbados. She is the daughter of accountant Monica (née Braithwaite) and warehouse supervisor Ronald Fenty. Her mother is an Afro-Guyanese, while her father is a Barbadian of African, Irish, English, and Scottish descent. Rihanna has two brothers, Rorrey and Rajad Fenty, and two half-sisters and a half-brother from her father's side, each born to different mothers from his previous relationships. She grew up in a three-bedroom bungalow in Bridgetown and sold clothes with her father in a stall on the street. Her childhood was deeply affected by her father's alcoholism and crack cocaine addiction, which contributed to her parents' strained marriage. Rihanna's father used to abuse her mother physically, and Rihanna would try to get in between them to break up fights.	How was your childhood influenced by your parents' relationship?	My childhood was deeply affected by my father's alcoholism and crack cocaine addiction, which contributed to my parents' strained marriage. My father used to physically abuse my mother, and I would often try to intervene and break up fights between them.
As a child, Rihanna had many CT scans for the excruciating headaches she suffered, recalling, "The doctors even thought it was a tumor, because it was that intense." By the time she was 14, her parents had divorced, and her health began to improve. She grew up listening to reggae music. She attended Charles F. Broome Memorial Primary School and Combermere School, where she studied alongside future international cricketers Chris Jordan and Carlos Brathwaite. As an 11-year-old, Rihanna was an army cadet in a sub-military programme, where the later Barbadian singer-songwriter Shontelle was her drill sergeant. Although she initially wanted to graduate from high school, she chose to pursue a musical career instead.	How did your health improve when you were 14?	My health improved when I was 14 after my parents divorced.
As a child, Rihanna had many CT scans for the excruciating headaches she suffered, recalling, "The doctors even thought it was a tumor, because it was that intense." By the time she was 14, her parents had divorced, and her health began to improve. She grew up listening to reggae music. She attended Charles F. Broome Memorial Primary School and Combermere School, where she studied alongside future international cricketers Chris Jordan and Carlos Brathwaite. As an 11-year-old, Rihanna was an army cadet in a sub-military programme, where the later Barbadian singer-songwriter Shontelle was her drill sergeant. Although she initially wanted to graduate from high school, she chose to pursue a musical career instead.	What kind of music did you grow up listening to?	I grew up listening to reggae music.
As a child, Rihanna had many CT scans for the excruciating headaches she suffered, recalling, "The doctors even thought it was a tumor, because it was that intense." By the time she was 14, her parents had divorced, and her health began to improve. She grew up listening to reggae music. She attended Charles F. Broome Memorial Primary School and Combermere School, where she studied alongside future international cricketers Chris Jordan and Carlos Brathwaite. As an 11-year-old, Rihanna was an army cadet in a sub-military programme, where the later Barbadian singer-songwriter Shontelle was her drill sergeant. Although she initially wanted to graduate from high school, she chose to pursue a musical career instead.	Which schools did you attend?	I attended Charles F. Broome Memorial Primary School and Combermere School.
As a child, Rihanna had many CT scans for the excruciating headaches she suffered, recalling, "The doctors even thought it was a tumor, because it was that intense." By the time she was 14, her parents had divorced, and her health began to improve. She grew up listening to reggae music. She attended Charles F. Broome Memorial Primary School and Combermere School, where she studied alongside future international cricketers Chris Jordan and Carlos Brathwaite. As an 11-year-old, Rihanna was an army cadet in a sub-military programme, where the later Barbadian singer-songwriter Shontelle was her drill sergeant. Although she initially wanted to graduate from high school, she chose to pursue a musical career instead.	Who were your classmates at Combermere School?	I studied alongside future international cricketers Chris Jordan and Carlos Brathwaite at Combermere School.
As a child, Rihanna had many CT scans for the excruciating headaches she suffered, recalling, "The doctors even thought it was a tumor, because it was that intense." By the time she was 14, her parents had divorced, and her health began to improve. She grew up listening to reggae music. She attended Charles F. Broome Memorial Primary School and Combermere School, where she studied alongside future international cricketers Chris Jordan and Carlos Brathwaite. As an 11-year-old, Rihanna was an army cadet in a sub-military programme, where the later Barbadian singer-songwriter Shontelle was her drill sergeant. Although she initially wanted to graduate from high school, she chose to pursue a musical career instead.	What was your role in the sub-military program when you were 11 years old?	When I was 11 years old, I was an army cadet in a sub-military program.
In 2003, Rihanna formed a musical trio with two of her classmates in her home country of Barbados. Without a name or any material, the girl group auditioned with American record producer Evan Rogers, who commented, "The minute Rihanna walked into the room, it was like the other two girls didn't exist." Rihanna went to Rogers's hotel room, where she performed renditions of Destiny's Child's "Emotion" and Mariah Carey's "Hero". Impressed, Rogers scheduled a second meeting with Rihanna's mother present and then invited Rihanna to his hometown in the United States to record some demo tapes that could be sent to record labels. Recordings were intermittent, taking about a year because she was only able to record during school holidays. "Pon de Replay" and "The Last Time" were two tracks recorded for the demo tape, which were eventually included on her debut album Music of the Sun. That same year, Rihanna was signed to Rogers's and Carl Sturken's production company, Syndicated Rhythm Productions.	Who did you form a musical trio with in 2003?	I formed a musical trio with two of my classmates in my home country of Barbados.
In 2003, Rihanna formed a musical trio with two of her classmates in her home country of Barbados. Without a name or any material, the girl group auditioned with American record producer Evan Rogers, who commented, "The minute Rihanna walked into the room, it was like the other two girls didn't exist." Rihanna went to Rogers's hotel room, where she performed renditions of Destiny's Child's "Emotion" and Mariah Carey's "Hero". Impressed, Rogers scheduled a second meeting with Rihanna's mother present and then invited Rihanna to his hometown in the United States to record some demo tapes that could be sent to record labels. Recordings were intermittent, taking about a year because she was only able to record during school holidays. "Pon de Replay" and "The Last Time" were two tracks recorded for the demo tape, which were eventually included on her debut album Music of the Sun. That same year, Rihanna was signed to Rogers's and Carl Sturken's production company, Syndicated Rhythm Productions.	Who did you audition with?	I auditioned with American record producer Evan Rogers.
In 2003, Rihanna formed a musical trio with two of her classmates in her home country of Barbados. Without a name or any material, the girl group auditioned with American record producer Evan Rogers, who commented, "The minute Rihanna walked into the room, it was like the other two girls didn't exist." Rihanna went to Rogers's hotel room, where she performed renditions of Destiny's Child's "Emotion" and Mariah Carey's "Hero". Impressed, Rogers scheduled a second meeting with Rihanna's mother present and then invited Rihanna to his hometown in the United States to record some demo tapes that could be sent to record labels. Recordings were intermittent, taking about a year because she was only able to record during school holidays. "Pon de Replay" and "The Last Time" were two tracks recorded for the demo tape, which were eventually included on her debut album Music of the Sun. That same year, Rihanna was signed to Rogers's and Carl Sturken's production company, Syndicated Rhythm Productions.	What songs did you perform in your audition?	I performed renditions of Destiny's Child's "Emotion" and Mariah Carey's "Hero" in my audition.
In 2003, Rihanna formed a musical trio with two of her classmates in her home country of Barbados. Without a name or any material, the girl group auditioned with American record producer Evan Rogers, who commented, "The minute Rihanna walked into the room, it was like the other two girls didn't exist." Rihanna went to Rogers's hotel room, where she performed renditions of Destiny's Child's "Emotion" and Mariah Carey's "Hero". Impressed, Rogers scheduled a second meeting with Rihanna's mother present and then invited Rihanna to his hometown in the United States to record some demo tapes that could be sent to record labels. Recordings were intermittent, taking about a year because she was only able to record during school holidays. "Pon de Replay" and "The Last Time" were two tracks recorded for the demo tape, which were eventually included on her debut album Music of the Sun. That same year, Rihanna was signed to Rogers's and Carl Sturken's production company, Syndicated Rhythm Productions.	How long did it take for you to record the demo tapes?	It took about a year for me to record the demo tapes because I was only able to record during school holidays.
In 2003, Rihanna formed a musical trio with two of her classmates in her home country of Barbados. Without a name or any material, the girl group auditioned with American record producer Evan Rogers, who commented, "The minute Rihanna walked into the room, it was like the other two girls didn't exist." Rihanna went to Rogers's hotel room, where she performed renditions of Destiny's Child's "Emotion" and Mariah Carey's "Hero". Impressed, Rogers scheduled a second meeting with Rihanna's mother present and then invited Rihanna to his hometown in the United States to record some demo tapes that could be sent to record labels. Recordings were intermittent, taking about a year because she was only able to record during school holidays. "Pon de Replay" and "The Last Time" were two tracks recorded for the demo tape, which were eventually included on her debut album Music of the Sun. That same year, Rihanna was signed to Rogers's and Carl Sturken's production company, Syndicated Rhythm Productions.	Which tracks were included in your debut album?	"Pon de Replay" and "The Last Time" were two tracks that were included in my debut album, Music of the Sun.
Rihanna's demo was shipped out to Def Jam Recordings, where Jay Brown, an A&R executive at the record label, was one of the first to hear the demo. Brown played the demo tape for rapper Jay-Z, who had recently been appointed as president and CEO of Def Jam. When Jay-Z first heard the track "Pon de Replay", he felt the song was too big for her. Despite being skeptical, he invited Rihanna to audition for the label. In early 2005, Rihanna auditioned for Def Jam in New York City, where Jay-Z introduced her to music mogul Antonio "L.A." Reid. At the audition, she sang Whitney Houston's cover of "For the Love of You", as well as the demo tracks "Pon de Replay" and "The Last Time". Jay-Z was absolutely certain about signing her after she performed her future single "Pon de Replay". His boss, L.A. Reid, was also impressed with her audition, telling Jay-Z not to let Rihanna leave the building until the contract was signed. Reid left it to Jay-Z and his team to close the deal which resulted in a six-album record deal with Def Jam. She waited in Jay-Z's office until 3:00 in the morning to get lawyers to draft up a contract because he wanted to prevent her from signing with another label.	Who was one of the first to hear your demo?	Jay Brown.
Rihanna's demo was shipped out to Def Jam Recordings, where Jay Brown, an A&R executive at the record label, was one of the first to hear the demo. Brown played the demo tape for rapper Jay-Z, who had recently been appointed as president and CEO of Def Jam. When Jay-Z first heard the track "Pon de Replay", he felt the song was too big for her. Despite being skeptical, he invited Rihanna to audition for the label. In early 2005, Rihanna auditioned for Def Jam in New York City, where Jay-Z introduced her to music mogul Antonio "L.A." Reid. At the audition, she sang Whitney Houston's cover of "For the Love of You", as well as the demo tracks "Pon de Replay" and "The Last Time". Jay-Z was absolutely certain about signing her after she performed her future single "Pon de Replay". His boss, L.A. Reid, was also impressed with her audition, telling Jay-Z not to let Rihanna leave the building until the contract was signed. Reid left it to Jay-Z and his team to close the deal which resulted in a six-album record deal with Def Jam. She waited in Jay-Z's office until 3:00 in the morning to get lawyers to draft up a contract because he wanted to prevent her from signing with another label.	Who did Jay Brown play the demo tape for?	Jay-Z.
Rihanna's demo was shipped out to Def Jam Recordings, where Jay Brown, an A&R executive at the record label, was one of the first to hear the demo. Brown played the demo tape for rapper Jay-Z, who had recently been appointed as president and CEO of Def Jam. When Jay-Z first heard the track "Pon de Replay", he felt the song was too big for her. Despite being skeptical, he invited Rihanna to audition for the label. In early 2005, Rihanna auditioned for Def Jam in New York City, where Jay-Z introduced her to music mogul Antonio "L.A." Reid. At the audition, she sang Whitney Houston's cover of "For the Love of You", as well as the demo tracks "Pon de Replay" and "The Last Time". Jay-Z was absolutely certain about signing her after she performed her future single "Pon de Replay". His boss, L.A. Reid, was also impressed with her audition, telling Jay-Z not to let Rihanna leave the building until the contract was signed. Reid left it to Jay-Z and his team to close the deal which resulted in a six-album record deal with Def Jam. She waited in Jay-Z's office until 3:00 in the morning to get lawyers to draft up a contract because he wanted to prevent her from signing with another label.	Who invited you to audition for the label?	Jay-Z.
Rihanna's demo was shipped out to Def Jam Recordings, where Jay Brown, an A&R executive at the record label, was one of the first to hear the demo. Brown played the demo tape for rapper Jay-Z, who had recently been appointed as president and CEO of Def Jam. When Jay-Z first heard the track "Pon de Replay", he felt the song was too big for her. Despite being skeptical, he invited Rihanna to audition for the label. In early 2005, Rihanna auditioned for Def Jam in New York City, where Jay-Z introduced her to music mogul Antonio "L.A." Reid. At the audition, she sang Whitney Houston's cover of "For the Love of You", as well as the demo tracks "Pon de Replay" and "The Last Time". Jay-Z was absolutely certain about signing her after she performed her future single "Pon de Replay". His boss, L.A. Reid, was also impressed with her audition, telling Jay-Z not to let Rihanna leave the building until the contract was signed. Reid left it to Jay-Z and his team to close the deal which resulted in a six-album record deal with Def Jam. She waited in Jay-Z's office until 3:00 in the morning to get lawyers to draft up a contract because he wanted to prevent her from signing with another label.	Who introduced you to Antonio "L.A." Reid?	Jay-Z.
Rihanna's demo was shipped out to Def Jam Recordings, where Jay Brown, an A&R executive at the record label, was one of the first to hear the demo. Brown played the demo tape for rapper Jay-Z, who had recently been appointed as president and CEO of Def Jam. When Jay-Z first heard the track "Pon de Replay", he felt the song was too big for her. Despite being skeptical, he invited Rihanna to audition for the label. In early 2005, Rihanna auditioned for Def Jam in New York City, where Jay-Z introduced her to music mogul Antonio "L.A." Reid. At the audition, she sang Whitney Houston's cover of "For the Love of You", as well as the demo tracks "Pon de Replay" and "The Last Time". Jay-Z was absolutely certain about signing her after she performed her future single "Pon de Replay". His boss, L.A. Reid, was also impressed with her audition, telling Jay-Z not to let Rihanna leave the building until the contract was signed. Reid left it to Jay-Z and his team to close the deal which resulted in a six-album record deal with Def Jam. She waited in Jay-Z's office until 3:00 in the morning to get lawyers to draft up a contract because he wanted to prevent her from signing with another label.	Who was impressed with your audition?	L.A. Reid.
Rihanna canceled other meetings with record labels and relocated from Barbados to the United States to live with Rogers and his wife.	Why did you cancel other meetings with record labels?	I canceled other meetings with record labels to relocate from Barbados to the United States to live with Rogers and his wife.
Rihanna canceled other meetings with record labels and relocated from Barbados to the United States to live with Rogers and his wife.	Where did you relocate to?	I relocated to the United States.
Rihanna canceled other meetings with record labels and relocated from Barbados to the United States to live with Rogers and his wife.	Who did you live with after relocating?	I lived with Rogers and his wife after relocating.
Rihanna canceled other meetings with record labels and relocated from Barbados to the United States to live with Rogers and his wife.	What caused you to cancel other meetings with record labels?	I canceled other meetings with record labels because I wanted to live with Rogers and his wife.
Rihanna canceled other meetings with record labels and relocated from Barbados to the United States to live with Rogers and his wife.	Where were you living before relocating?	I was living in Barbados before relocating.
After signing with Def Jam, Jay-Z and his team did the A&R for Rihanna's debut album and spent the next three months recording and completing her debut album. She worked with different producers to complete her debut studio album, primarily Rogers and his production partner Carl Sturken. With several songs to pick as a lead single, "Pon de Replay" was chosen because it seemed like the best song suited for a summer release. In May 2005, her debut single, "Pon de Replay", was released under her mononym "Rihanna". It charted successfully worldwide, peaking in the top five in fifteen countries, including at No. 2 on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart and the UK Singles Chart. The song became a club hit in the United States, peaking at No. 1 on the Billboard Dance Club Songs.	Who did the A&R for your debut album?	Jay-Z and his team.
After signing with Def Jam, Jay-Z and his team did the A&R for Rihanna's debut album and spent the next three months recording and completing her debut album. She worked with different producers to complete her debut studio album, primarily Rogers and his production partner Carl Sturken. With several songs to pick as a lead single, "Pon de Replay" was chosen because it seemed like the best song suited for a summer release. In May 2005, her debut single, "Pon de Replay", was released under her mononym "Rihanna". It charted successfully worldwide, peaking in the top five in fifteen countries, including at No. 2 on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart and the UK Singles Chart. The song became a club hit in the United States, peaking at No. 1 on the Billboard Dance Club Songs.	How long did it take to record and complete your debut album?	Three months.
After signing with Def Jam, Jay-Z and his team did the A&R for Rihanna's debut album and spent the next three months recording and completing her debut album. She worked with different producers to complete her debut studio album, primarily Rogers and his production partner Carl Sturken. With several songs to pick as a lead single, "Pon de Replay" was chosen because it seemed like the best song suited for a summer release. In May 2005, her debut single, "Pon de Replay", was released under her mononym "Rihanna". It charted successfully worldwide, peaking in the top five in fifteen countries, including at No. 2 on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart and the UK Singles Chart. The song became a club hit in the United States, peaking at No. 1 on the Billboard Dance Club Songs.	Who were the primary producers for your debut studio album?	Rogers and his production partner Carl Sturken.
After signing with Def Jam, Jay-Z and his team did the A&R for Rihanna's debut album and spent the next three months recording and completing her debut album. She worked with different producers to complete her debut studio album, primarily Rogers and his production partner Carl Sturken. With several songs to pick as a lead single, "Pon de Replay" was chosen because it seemed like the best song suited for a summer release. In May 2005, her debut single, "Pon de Replay", was released under her mononym "Rihanna". It charted successfully worldwide, peaking in the top five in fifteen countries, including at No. 2 on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart and the UK Singles Chart. The song became a club hit in the United States, peaking at No. 1 on the Billboard Dance Club Songs.	How was the lead single "Pon de Replay" chosen?	It was chosen because it seemed like the best song suited for a summer release.
After signing with Def Jam, Jay-Z and his team did the A&R for Rihanna's debut album and spent the next three months recording and completing her debut album. She worked with different producers to complete her debut studio album, primarily Rogers and his production partner Carl Sturken. With several songs to pick as a lead single, "Pon de Replay" was chosen because it seemed like the best song suited for a summer release. In May 2005, her debut single, "Pon de Replay", was released under her mononym "Rihanna". It charted successfully worldwide, peaking in the top five in fifteen countries, including at No. 2 on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart and the UK Singles Chart. The song became a club hit in the United States, peaking at No. 1 on the Billboard Dance Club Songs.	How did "Pon de Replay" perform on the charts?	It charted successfully worldwide, peaking in the top five in fifteen countries, including at No. 2 on the US Billboard Hot 100 chart and the UK Singles Chart. It also became a club hit in the United States, peaking at No. 1 on the Billboard Dance Club Songs.
A month after the release of her debut album , Rihanna began working on her second studio album . A Girl like Me was released in April 2006 . Rolling Stone felt that " the burning rock guitar " and haunted strings of some of the album ' s tracks made " A Girl like Me [ ... ] likable . " The album was a commercial success , charting in the top 10 in 13 countries . The album reached No . 1 in Canada and No . 5 in the United Kingdom and the United States , where it sold 115 , 000 copies in its first week . The album became Rihanna ' s first to be certified Platinum by the RIAA , after selling over 1 , 000 , 000 units . Its lead single , " SOS " , was an international success , charting in the top five in 11 countries . The song reached No . 1 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and in Australia , her first to reach this chart position . " Unfaithful " , the album ' s second single , reached the top 10 in 18 countries , including No . 1 in Canada and Switzerland . Two more singles were released from the album : " We Ride " and " Break It Off " .	When did you release your second studio album?	A Girl like Me was released in April 2006.
A month after the release of her debut album , Rihanna began working on her second studio album . A Girl like Me was released in April 2006 . Rolling Stone felt that " the burning rock guitar " and haunted strings of some of the album ' s tracks made " A Girl like Me [ ... ] likable . " The album was a commercial success , charting in the top 10 in 13 countries . The album reached No . 1 in Canada and No . 5 in the United Kingdom and the United States , where it sold 115 , 000 copies in its first week . The album became Rihanna ' s first to be certified Platinum by the RIAA , after selling over 1 , 000 , 000 units . Its lead single , " SOS " , was an international success , charting in the top five in 11 countries . The song reached No . 1 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and in Australia , her first to reach this chart position . " Unfaithful " , the album ' s second single , reached the top 10 in 18 countries , including No . 1 in Canada and Switzerland . Two more singles were released from the album : " We Ride " and " Break It Off " .	How did Rolling Stone describe the tracks on "A Girl like Me"?	Rolling Stone felt that "the burning rock guitar" and haunted strings of some of the album's tracks made "A Girl like Me... likable."
A month after the release of her debut album , Rihanna began working on her second studio album . A Girl like Me was released in April 2006 . Rolling Stone felt that " the burning rock guitar " and haunted strings of some of the album ' s tracks made " A Girl like Me [ ... ] likable . " The album was a commercial success , charting in the top 10 in 13 countries . The album reached No . 1 in Canada and No . 5 in the United Kingdom and the United States , where it sold 115 , 000 copies in its first week . The album became Rihanna ' s first to be certified Platinum by the RIAA , after selling over 1 , 000 , 000 units . Its lead single , " SOS " , was an international success , charting in the top five in 11 countries . The song reached No . 1 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and in Australia , her first to reach this chart position . " Unfaithful " , the album ' s second single , reached the top 10 in 18 countries , including No . 1 in Canada and Switzerland . Two more singles were released from the album : " We Ride " and " Break It Off " .	In how many countries did "A Girl like Me" chart in the top 10 for you?	The album charted in the top 10 in 13 countries for me.
A month after the release of her debut album , Rihanna began working on her second studio album . A Girl like Me was released in April 2006 . Rolling Stone felt that " the burning rock guitar " and haunted strings of some of the album ' s tracks made " A Girl like Me [ ... ] likable . " The album was a commercial success , charting in the top 10 in 13 countries . The album reached No . 1 in Canada and No . 5 in the United Kingdom and the United States , where it sold 115 , 000 copies in its first week . The album became Rihanna ' s first to be certified Platinum by the RIAA , after selling over 1 , 000 , 000 units . Its lead single , " SOS " , was an international success , charting in the top five in 11 countries . The song reached No . 1 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and in Australia , her first to reach this chart position . " Unfaithful " , the album ' s second single , reached the top 10 in 18 countries , including No . 1 in Canada and Switzerland . Two more singles were released from the album : " We Ride " and " Break It Off " .	Where did "A Girl like Me" reach No.1 on the charts?	The album reached No.1 in Canada.
A month after the release of her debut album , Rihanna began working on her second studio album . A Girl like Me was released in April 2006 . Rolling Stone felt that " the burning rock guitar " and haunted strings of some of the album ' s tracks made " A Girl like Me [ ... ] likable . " The album was a commercial success , charting in the top 10 in 13 countries . The album reached No . 1 in Canada and No . 5 in the United Kingdom and the United States , where it sold 115 , 000 copies in its first week . The album became Rihanna ' s first to be certified Platinum by the RIAA , after selling over 1 , 000 , 000 units . Its lead single , " SOS " , was an international success , charting in the top five in 11 countries . The song reached No . 1 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and in Australia , her first to reach this chart position . " Unfaithful " , the album ' s second single , reached the top 10 in 18 countries , including No . 1 in Canada and Switzerland . Two more singles were released from the album : " We Ride " and " Break It Off " .	How many copies of "A Girl like Me" were sold in the United States in your first week?	115,000 copies were sold in the United States in my album's first week.
The lead single , " Umbrella " , topped the charts in 13 countries and remained at No . 1 in the UK for 10 consecutive weeks , the longest - running No . 1 single there since Wet Wet Wet ' s single " Love Is All Around " spent 15 weeks at the top in 1994 . It was Rihanna ' s first single to be named one of the best - selling singles worldwide , with sales of over 8   million copies . The songs " Shut Up and Drive " , " Hate That I Love You " ( featuring Ne - Yo ) , and " Don ' t Stop the Music " were also released as singles , with the latter becoming an international hit . In support of the album , Rihanna began the Good Girl Gone Bad Tour in September 2007 , with 80 shows across the US , Canada , and Europe . Rihanna was nominated for several 2008 Grammy Awards for Good Girl Gone Bad , winning Best Rap / Sung Collaboration for " Umbrella " alongside Jay - Z , her first Grammy Award .	What was the name of your lead single?	The name of my lead single was "Umbrella".
The lead single , " Umbrella " , topped the charts in 13 countries and remained at No . 1 in the UK for 10 consecutive weeks , the longest - running No . 1 single there since Wet Wet Wet ' s single " Love Is All Around " spent 15 weeks at the top in 1994 . It was Rihanna ' s first single to be named one of the best - selling singles worldwide , with sales of over 8   million copies . The songs " Shut Up and Drive " , " Hate That I Love You " ( featuring Ne - Yo ) , and " Don ' t Stop the Music " were also released as singles , with the latter becoming an international hit . In support of the album , Rihanna began the Good Girl Gone Bad Tour in September 2007 , with 80 shows across the US , Canada , and Europe . Rihanna was nominated for several 2008 Grammy Awards for Good Girl Gone Bad , winning Best Rap / Sung Collaboration for " Umbrella " alongside Jay - Z , her first Grammy Award .	How many countries did "Umbrella" top the charts in?	"Umbrella" topped the charts in 13 countries.
The lead single , " Umbrella " , topped the charts in 13 countries and remained at No . 1 in the UK for 10 consecutive weeks , the longest - running No . 1 single there since Wet Wet Wet ' s single " Love Is All Around " spent 15 weeks at the top in 1994 . It was Rihanna ' s first single to be named one of the best - selling singles worldwide , with sales of over 8   million copies . The songs " Shut Up and Drive " , " Hate That I Love You " ( featuring Ne - Yo ) , and " Don ' t Stop the Music " were also released as singles , with the latter becoming an international hit . In support of the album , Rihanna began the Good Girl Gone Bad Tour in September 2007 , with 80 shows across the US , Canada , and Europe . Rihanna was nominated for several 2008 Grammy Awards for Good Girl Gone Bad , winning Best Rap / Sung Collaboration for " Umbrella " alongside Jay - Z , her first Grammy Award .	How many consecutive weeks did "Umbrella" remain at No. 1 in the UK?	"Umbrella" remained at No. 1 in the UK for 10 consecutive weeks.
The lead single , " Umbrella " , topped the charts in 13 countries and remained at No . 1 in the UK for 10 consecutive weeks , the longest - running No . 1 single there since Wet Wet Wet ' s single " Love Is All Around " spent 15 weeks at the top in 1994 . It was Rihanna ' s first single to be named one of the best - selling singles worldwide , with sales of over 8   million copies . The songs " Shut Up and Drive " , " Hate That I Love You " ( featuring Ne - Yo ) , and " Don ' t Stop the Music " were also released as singles , with the latter becoming an international hit . In support of the album , Rihanna began the Good Girl Gone Bad Tour in September 2007 , with 80 shows across the US , Canada , and Europe . Rihanna was nominated for several 2008 Grammy Awards for Good Girl Gone Bad , winning Best Rap / Sung Collaboration for " Umbrella " alongside Jay - Z , her first Grammy Award .	Which song spent 15 weeks at the top of the UK charts in 1994?	Wet Wet Wet's single "Love Is All Around" spent 15 weeks at the top of the UK charts in 1994.
The lead single , " Umbrella " , topped the charts in 13 countries and remained at No . 1 in the UK for 10 consecutive weeks , the longest - running No . 1 single there since Wet Wet Wet ' s single " Love Is All Around " spent 15 weeks at the top in 1994 . It was Rihanna ' s first single to be named one of the best - selling singles worldwide , with sales of over 8   million copies . The songs " Shut Up and Drive " , " Hate That I Love You " ( featuring Ne - Yo ) , and " Don ' t Stop the Music " were also released as singles , with the latter becoming an international hit . In support of the album , Rihanna began the Good Girl Gone Bad Tour in September 2007 , with 80 shows across the US , Canada , and Europe . Rihanna was nominated for several 2008 Grammy Awards for Good Girl Gone Bad , winning Best Rap / Sung Collaboration for " Umbrella " alongside Jay - Z , her first Grammy Award .	How many copies did your single "Umbrella" sell worldwide?	My single "Umbrella" sold over 8 million copies worldwide.
During the late 2000s , Rihanna experimented further with pop , dubstep , and rock music , officially shifting her musical style and image away from the Barbados island girl . Throughout 2008 , Rihanna performed on the Glow in the Dark Tour alongside Kanye West , Lupe Fiasco , and N . E . R . D . Her third studio album ' s reissue , Good Girl Gone Bad : Reloaded , was released in June 2008 with three new songs : " Disturbia " , " Take a Bow " and the Maroon 5 duet " If I Never See Your Face Again " , plus a Spanglish version of " Hate That I Love You " featuring Spanish pop singer David Bisbal . All four were released as singles and charted highly , reaching peak positions worldwide . In August 2008 , Rihanna and a host of other female singers recorded the charity single " Just Stand Up ! " , the theme song to the anti - cancer campaign Stand Up to Cancer . " Live Your Life " , a duet between T . I . and Rihanna , was released that November and topped the Billboard Hot 100 .	What genres did you experiment with during the late 2000s?	I experimented with pop, dubstep, and rock music during the late 2000s.
During the late 2000s , Rihanna experimented further with pop , dubstep , and rock music , officially shifting her musical style and image away from the Barbados island girl . Throughout 2008 , Rihanna performed on the Glow in the Dark Tour alongside Kanye West , Lupe Fiasco , and N . E . R . D . Her third studio album ' s reissue , Good Girl Gone Bad : Reloaded , was released in June 2008 with three new songs : " Disturbia " , " Take a Bow " and the Maroon 5 duet " If I Never See Your Face Again " , plus a Spanglish version of " Hate That I Love You " featuring Spanish pop singer David Bisbal . All four were released as singles and charted highly , reaching peak positions worldwide . In August 2008 , Rihanna and a host of other female singers recorded the charity single " Just Stand Up ! " , the theme song to the anti - cancer campaign Stand Up to Cancer . " Live Your Life " , a duet between T . I . and Rihanna , was released that November and topped the Billboard Hot 100 .	Who did you perform with on the Glow in the Dark Tour in 2008?	I performed on the Glow in the Dark Tour alongside Kanye West, Lupe Fiasco, and N.E.R.D.
During the late 2000s , Rihanna experimented further with pop , dubstep , and rock music , officially shifting her musical style and image away from the Barbados island girl . Throughout 2008 , Rihanna performed on the Glow in the Dark Tour alongside Kanye West , Lupe Fiasco , and N . E . R . D . Her third studio album ' s reissue , Good Girl Gone Bad : Reloaded , was released in June 2008 with three new songs : " Disturbia " , " Take a Bow " and the Maroon 5 duet " If I Never See Your Face Again " , plus a Spanglish version of " Hate That I Love You " featuring Spanish pop singer David Bisbal . All four were released as singles and charted highly , reaching peak positions worldwide . In August 2008 , Rihanna and a host of other female singers recorded the charity single " Just Stand Up ! " , the theme song to the anti - cancer campaign Stand Up to Cancer . " Live Your Life " , a duet between T . I . and Rihanna , was released that November and topped the Billboard Hot 100 .	When was your third studio album 's reissue, Good Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded, released?	Good Girl Gone Bad: Reloaded was released in June 2008.
During the late 2000s , Rihanna experimented further with pop , dubstep , and rock music , officially shifting her musical style and image away from the Barbados island girl . Throughout 2008 , Rihanna performed on the Glow in the Dark Tour alongside Kanye West , Lupe Fiasco , and N . E . R . D . Her third studio album ' s reissue , Good Girl Gone Bad : Reloaded , was released in June 2008 with three new songs : " Disturbia " , " Take a Bow " and the Maroon 5 duet " If I Never See Your Face Again " , plus a Spanglish version of " Hate That I Love You " featuring Spanish pop singer David Bisbal . All four were released as singles and charted highly , reaching peak positions worldwide . In August 2008 , Rihanna and a host of other female singers recorded the charity single " Just Stand Up ! " , the theme song to the anti - cancer campaign Stand Up to Cancer . " Live Your Life " , a duet between T . I . and Rihanna , was released that November and topped the Billboard Hot 100 .	Which new songs were included in the reissue of your third studio album?	The reissue of my third studio album included three new songs: "Disturbia", "Take a Bow", and the Maroon 5 duet "If I Never See Your Face Again".
During the late 2000s , Rihanna experimented further with pop , dubstep , and rock music , officially shifting her musical style and image away from the Barbados island girl . Throughout 2008 , Rihanna performed on the Glow in the Dark Tour alongside Kanye West , Lupe Fiasco , and N . E . R . D . Her third studio album ' s reissue , Good Girl Gone Bad : Reloaded , was released in June 2008 with three new songs : " Disturbia " , " Take a Bow " and the Maroon 5 duet " If I Never See Your Face Again " , plus a Spanglish version of " Hate That I Love You " featuring Spanish pop singer David Bisbal . All four were released as singles and charted highly , reaching peak positions worldwide . In August 2008 , Rihanna and a host of other female singers recorded the charity single " Just Stand Up ! " , the theme song to the anti - cancer campaign Stand Up to Cancer . " Live Your Life " , a duet between T . I . and Rihanna , was released that November and topped the Billboard Hot 100 .	What charity single did you and other female singers record in August 2008?	I and other female singers recorded the charity single "Just Stand Up!" in August 2008.
Rihanna ' s seventh studio album , Unapologetic , was released in November 2012 . In the United States , the album debuted at No . 1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart , marking Rihanna ' s first No . 1 album in the country . The lead single from the album , " Diamonds " , reached No . 1 in more than 20 countries worldwide , including on the US Billboard Hot 100 , where it became Rihanna ' s 12 No . 1 on the chart . The album ' s second single , " Stay " , featuring Mikky Ekko , reached the top five in over twenty countries , including No . 3 on the Billboard Hot 100 . As promotion prior to the album ' s release , Rihanna embarked on the 777 Tour , a mini tour of seven shows in seven countries in seven days . On May 6 , 2013 , Fox aired a documentary about the tour , with a documentary DVD being released the following day as Rihanna ' s third live long - form video release .	When was your seventh studio album, Unapologetic, released?	Unapologetic was released in November 2012.
Rihanna ' s seventh studio album , Unapologetic , was released in November 2012 . In the United States , the album debuted at No . 1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart , marking Rihanna ' s first No . 1 album in the country . The lead single from the album , " Diamonds " , reached No . 1 in more than 20 countries worldwide , including on the US Billboard Hot 100 , where it became Rihanna ' s 12 No . 1 on the chart . The album ' s second single , " Stay " , featuring Mikky Ekko , reached the top five in over twenty countries , including No . 3 on the Billboard Hot 100 . As promotion prior to the album ' s release , Rihanna embarked on the 777 Tour , a mini tour of seven shows in seven countries in seven days . On May 6 , 2013 , Fox aired a documentary about the tour , with a documentary DVD being released the following day as Rihanna ' s third live long - form video release .	What was your album Unapologetic's debut position on the Billboard 200 albums chart in the United States?	My album Unapologetic debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart in the United States.
Rihanna ' s seventh studio album , Unapologetic , was released in November 2012 . In the United States , the album debuted at No . 1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart , marking Rihanna ' s first No . 1 album in the country . The lead single from the album , " Diamonds " , reached No . 1 in more than 20 countries worldwide , including on the US Billboard Hot 100 , where it became Rihanna ' s 12 No . 1 on the chart . The album ' s second single , " Stay " , featuring Mikky Ekko , reached the top five in over twenty countries , including No . 3 on the Billboard Hot 100 . As promotion prior to the album ' s release , Rihanna embarked on the 777 Tour , a mini tour of seven shows in seven countries in seven days . On May 6 , 2013 , Fox aired a documentary about the tour , with a documentary DVD being released the following day as Rihanna ' s third live long - form video release .	Which song from your album reached No. 1 in more than 20 countries worldwide, including the US Billboard Hot 100?	The lead single from my album, "Diamonds", reached No. 1 in more than 20 countries worldwide, including the US Billboard Hot 100.
Rihanna ' s seventh studio album , Unapologetic , was released in November 2012 . In the United States , the album debuted at No . 1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart , marking Rihanna ' s first No . 1 album in the country . The lead single from the album , " Diamonds " , reached No . 1 in more than 20 countries worldwide , including on the US Billboard Hot 100 , where it became Rihanna ' s 12 No . 1 on the chart . The album ' s second single , " Stay " , featuring Mikky Ekko , reached the top five in over twenty countries , including No . 3 on the Billboard Hot 100 . As promotion prior to the album ' s release , Rihanna embarked on the 777 Tour , a mini tour of seven shows in seven countries in seven days . On May 6 , 2013 , Fox aired a documentary about the tour , with a documentary DVD being released the following day as Rihanna ' s third live long - form video release .	How many No. 1 albums did you have in the country prior to Unapologetic?	Unapologetic became my first No. 1 album in the United States.
Rihanna ' s seventh studio album , Unapologetic , was released in November 2012 . In the United States , the album debuted at No . 1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart , marking Rihanna ' s first No . 1 album in the country . The lead single from the album , " Diamonds " , reached No . 1 in more than 20 countries worldwide , including on the US Billboard Hot 100 , where it became Rihanna ' s 12 No . 1 on the chart . The album ' s second single , " Stay " , featuring Mikky Ekko , reached the top five in over twenty countries , including No . 3 on the Billboard Hot 100 . As promotion prior to the album ' s release , Rihanna embarked on the 777 Tour , a mini tour of seven shows in seven countries in seven days . On May 6 , 2013 , Fox aired a documentary about the tour , with a documentary DVD being released the following day as Rihanna ' s third live long - form video release .	What was the highest position your second single from Unapologetic, "Stay", reached on the Billboard Hot 100?	My single "Stay", featuring Mikky Ekko, reached No. 3 on the Billboard Hot 100.
In February 2013 , at the 55th Grammy Awards , Rihanna won her sixth Grammy Award , in the category Best Short Form Music Video for " We Found Love " ( 2011 ) . Also that month , the United Kingdom ' s Official Charts Company announced that Rihanna had sold 3 , 868 , 000 records in the past year in the country , ranking at No . 1 in the list of 2013 BRIT Awards artist nominees . Rihanna ' s fifth headlining concert tour , the Diamonds World Tour , began in March 2013 , in support of Unapologetic . Rihanna then appeared in the Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg comedy film This Is the End , which was released in June 2013 . That same month , American hip hop artist Wale released a remixed version of his single " Bad " featuring Rihanna . In October 2013 , Eminem released his Rihanna - assisted single , " The Monster " , as the fourth release from his eighth studio album The Marshall Mathers LP 2 ( 2013 ) .	When did you win your sixth Grammy Award?	In February 2013.
In February 2013 , at the 55th Grammy Awards , Rihanna won her sixth Grammy Award , in the category Best Short Form Music Video for " We Found Love " ( 2011 ) . Also that month , the United Kingdom ' s Official Charts Company announced that Rihanna had sold 3 , 868 , 000 records in the past year in the country , ranking at No . 1 in the list of 2013 BRIT Awards artist nominees . Rihanna ' s fifth headlining concert tour , the Diamonds World Tour , began in March 2013 , in support of Unapologetic . Rihanna then appeared in the Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg comedy film This Is the End , which was released in June 2013 . That same month , American hip hop artist Wale released a remixed version of his single " Bad " featuring Rihanna . In October 2013 , Eminem released his Rihanna - assisted single , " The Monster " , as the fourth release from his eighth studio album The Marshall Mathers LP 2 ( 2013 ) .	Which category did you win your sixth Grammy Award in?	Best Short Form Music Video.
In February 2013 , at the 55th Grammy Awards , Rihanna won her sixth Grammy Award , in the category Best Short Form Music Video for " We Found Love " ( 2011 ) . Also that month , the United Kingdom ' s Official Charts Company announced that Rihanna had sold 3 , 868 , 000 records in the past year in the country , ranking at No . 1 in the list of 2013 BRIT Awards artist nominees . Rihanna ' s fifth headlining concert tour , the Diamonds World Tour , began in March 2013 , in support of Unapologetic . Rihanna then appeared in the Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg comedy film This Is the End , which was released in June 2013 . That same month , American hip hop artist Wale released a remixed version of his single " Bad " featuring Rihanna . In October 2013 , Eminem released his Rihanna - assisted single , " The Monster " , as the fourth release from his eighth studio album The Marshall Mathers LP 2 ( 2013 ) .	Which song did you win the Grammy Award for?	"We Found Love".
In February 2013 , at the 55th Grammy Awards , Rihanna won her sixth Grammy Award , in the category Best Short Form Music Video for " We Found Love " ( 2011 ) . Also that month , the United Kingdom ' s Official Charts Company announced that Rihanna had sold 3 , 868 , 000 records in the past year in the country , ranking at No . 1 in the list of 2013 BRIT Awards artist nominees . Rihanna ' s fifth headlining concert tour , the Diamonds World Tour , began in March 2013 , in support of Unapologetic . Rihanna then appeared in the Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg comedy film This Is the End , which was released in June 2013 . That same month , American hip hop artist Wale released a remixed version of his single " Bad " featuring Rihanna . In October 2013 , Eminem released his Rihanna - assisted single , " The Monster " , as the fourth release from his eighth studio album The Marshall Mathers LP 2 ( 2013 ) .	How many records did you sell in the past year in the United Kingdom?	3,868,000 records.
In February 2013 , at the 55th Grammy Awards , Rihanna won her sixth Grammy Award , in the category Best Short Form Music Video for " We Found Love " ( 2011 ) . Also that month , the United Kingdom ' s Official Charts Company announced that Rihanna had sold 3 , 868 , 000 records in the past year in the country , ranking at No . 1 in the list of 2013 BRIT Awards artist nominees . Rihanna ' s fifth headlining concert tour , the Diamonds World Tour , began in March 2013 , in support of Unapologetic . Rihanna then appeared in the Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg comedy film This Is the End , which was released in June 2013 . That same month , American hip hop artist Wale released a remixed version of his single " Bad " featuring Rihanna . In October 2013 , Eminem released his Rihanna - assisted single , " The Monster " , as the fourth release from his eighth studio album The Marshall Mathers LP 2 ( 2013 ) .	In what category did you rank at No. 1 in the list of 2013 BRIT Awards artist nominees?	I ranked at No. 1 in the 2013 BRIT Awards artist nominees.
Rihanna released several collaborations in 2017 . First she was the featured part in Future ' s " Selfish " , the lead single from the rapper ' s sixth studio album , Hndrxx . Summer 2017 saw the release of Rihanna ' s collaborations with record producer DJ Khaled , " Wild Thoughts " , which also featured Bryson Tiller and was a worldwide success , and Kendrick Lamar ' s single , " Loyalty " , which earned Rihanna her ninth Grammy Award at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards . In November 2017 , Rihanna was part of N . E . R . D ' s comeback single " Lemon " from the band ' s album No One Ever Really Dies .	Who did you collaborate with for the lead single from Future's sixth studio album?	I collaborated with Future for the lead single "Selfish" from his album Hndrxx.
Rihanna released several collaborations in 2017 . First she was the featured part in Future ' s " Selfish " , the lead single from the rapper ' s sixth studio album , Hndrxx . Summer 2017 saw the release of Rihanna ' s collaborations with record producer DJ Khaled , " Wild Thoughts " , which also featured Bryson Tiller and was a worldwide success , and Kendrick Lamar ' s single , " Loyalty " , which earned Rihanna her ninth Grammy Award at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards . In November 2017 , Rihanna was part of N . E . R . D ' s comeback single " Lemon " from the band ' s album No One Ever Really Dies .	Which collaborations did you release in the summer of 2017?	I released collaborations with DJ Khaled and Kendrick Lamar in the summer of 2017.
Rihanna released several collaborations in 2017 . First she was the featured part in Future ' s " Selfish " , the lead single from the rapper ' s sixth studio album , Hndrxx . Summer 2017 saw the release of Rihanna ' s collaborations with record producer DJ Khaled , " Wild Thoughts " , which also featured Bryson Tiller and was a worldwide success , and Kendrick Lamar ' s single , " Loyalty " , which earned Rihanna her ninth Grammy Award at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards . In November 2017 , Rihanna was part of N . E . R . D ' s comeback single " Lemon " from the band ' s album No One Ever Really Dies .	Who were the other artists featured in the collaboration "Wild Thoughts" with DJ Khaled?	Bryson Tiller was also featured in the collaboration "Wild Thoughts" with DJ Khaled and me.
Rihanna released several collaborations in 2017 . First she was the featured part in Future ' s " Selfish " , the lead single from the rapper ' s sixth studio album , Hndrxx . Summer 2017 saw the release of Rihanna ' s collaborations with record producer DJ Khaled , " Wild Thoughts " , which also featured Bryson Tiller and was a worldwide success , and Kendrick Lamar ' s single , " Loyalty " , which earned Rihanna her ninth Grammy Award at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards . In November 2017 , Rihanna was part of N . E . R . D ' s comeback single " Lemon " from the band ' s album No One Ever Really Dies .	How many Grammy Awards did you win for your collaboration with Kendrick Lamar?	I won my ninth Grammy Award for my collaboration with Kendrick Lamar on the single "Loyalty" at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards.
Rihanna released several collaborations in 2017 . First she was the featured part in Future ' s " Selfish " , the lead single from the rapper ' s sixth studio album , Hndrxx . Summer 2017 saw the release of Rihanna ' s collaborations with record producer DJ Khaled , " Wild Thoughts " , which also featured Bryson Tiller and was a worldwide success , and Kendrick Lamar ' s single , " Loyalty " , which earned Rihanna her ninth Grammy Award at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards . In November 2017 , Rihanna was part of N . E . R . D ' s comeback single " Lemon " from the band ' s album No One Ever Really Dies .	Which band did you collaborate with for their comeback single in November 2017?	I collaborated with N.E.R.D for their comeback single "Lemon" from their album No One Ever Really Dies.
In October 2017 , Shakka revealed that he was working with Rihanna on her " absolutely insane " album . In December 2018 , Rihanna confirmed that the album would be released in 2019 , and later announced that it is a reggae project . In August 2019 , fans noticed that Rihanna and co - songwriters Collin Edwards , Monique Lawrence , and Alexander Ogunmokun registered a song titled " Private Loving " with the music publishing organization BMI . [ n 2 ] In September 2019 , it was announced she had signed with Sony / ATV Music Publishing . In December 2019 , Rihanna alluded to her album being complete and indefinitely withholding the release date in an Instagram post . She was next featured on Canadian singer PartyNextDoor ' s song " Believe It " , which was released on March 27 , 2020 . On September 25 , 2022 , Rihanna announced that she would be headlining the Super Bowl LVII halftime show , which marked her first live performance in over five years , and the end of her previously self - imposed boycott of the event , which she instigated in solidarity with Colin Kaepernick . The show was critically acclaimed . It was initially reported that the performance gained a total of 118.7 million viewers across TV and digital platforms ,	When did you reveal that you were working with me on my album?	In October 2017.
In October 2017 , Shakka revealed that he was working with Rihanna on her " absolutely insane " album . In December 2018 , Rihanna confirmed that the album would be released in 2019 , and later announced that it is a reggae project . In August 2019 , fans noticed that Rihanna and co - songwriters Collin Edwards , Monique Lawrence , and Alexander Ogunmokun registered a song titled " Private Loving " with the music publishing organization BMI . [ n 2 ] In September 2019 , it was announced she had signed with Sony / ATV Music Publishing . In December 2019 , Rihanna alluded to her album being complete and indefinitely withholding the release date in an Instagram post . She was next featured on Canadian singer PartyNextDoor ' s song " Believe It " , which was released on March 27 , 2020 . On September 25 , 2022 , Rihanna announced that she would be headlining the Super Bowl LVII halftime show , which marked her first live performance in over five years , and the end of her previously self - imposed boycott of the event , which she instigated in solidarity with Colin Kaepernick . The show was critically acclaimed . It was initially reported that the performance gained a total of 118.7 million viewers across TV and digital platforms ,	When did you confirm that your album would be released?	In December 2018.
In October 2017 , Shakka revealed that he was working with Rihanna on her " absolutely insane " album . In December 2018 , Rihanna confirmed that the album would be released in 2019 , and later announced that it is a reggae project . In August 2019 , fans noticed that Rihanna and co - songwriters Collin Edwards , Monique Lawrence , and Alexander Ogunmokun registered a song titled " Private Loving " with the music publishing organization BMI . [ n 2 ] In September 2019 , it was announced she had signed with Sony / ATV Music Publishing . In December 2019 , Rihanna alluded to her album being complete and indefinitely withholding the release date in an Instagram post . She was next featured on Canadian singer PartyNextDoor ' s song " Believe It " , which was released on March 27 , 2020 . On September 25 , 2022 , Rihanna announced that she would be headlining the Super Bowl LVII halftime show , which marked her first live performance in over five years , and the end of her previously self - imposed boycott of the event , which she instigated in solidarity with Colin Kaepernick . The show was critically acclaimed . It was initially reported that the performance gained a total of 118.7 million viewers across TV and digital platforms ,	What genre did you announce your album to be?	A reggae project.
In October 2017 , Shakka revealed that he was working with Rihanna on her " absolutely insane " album . In December 2018 , Rihanna confirmed that the album would be released in 2019 , and later announced that it is a reggae project . In August 2019 , fans noticed that Rihanna and co - songwriters Collin Edwards , Monique Lawrence , and Alexander Ogunmokun registered a song titled " Private Loving " with the music publishing organization BMI . [ n 2 ] In September 2019 , it was announced she had signed with Sony / ATV Music Publishing . In December 2019 , Rihanna alluded to her album being complete and indefinitely withholding the release date in an Instagram post . She was next featured on Canadian singer PartyNextDoor ' s song " Believe It " , which was released on March 27 , 2020 . On September 25 , 2022 , Rihanna announced that she would be headlining the Super Bowl LVII halftime show , which marked her first live performance in over five years , and the end of her previously self - imposed boycott of the event , which she instigated in solidarity with Colin Kaepernick . The show was critically acclaimed . It was initially reported that the performance gained a total of 118.7 million viewers across TV and digital platforms ,	When did you and your co-songwriters register a song titled "Private Loving"?	In August 2019.
In October 2017 , Shakka revealed that he was working with Rihanna on her " absolutely insane " album . In December 2018 , Rihanna confirmed that the album would be released in 2019 , and later announced that it is a reggae project . In August 2019 , fans noticed that Rihanna and co - songwriters Collin Edwards , Monique Lawrence , and Alexander Ogunmokun registered a song titled " Private Loving " with the music publishing organization BMI . [ n 2 ] In September 2019 , it was announced she had signed with Sony / ATV Music Publishing . In December 2019 , Rihanna alluded to her album being complete and indefinitely withholding the release date in an Instagram post . She was next featured on Canadian singer PartyNextDoor ' s song " Believe It " , which was released on March 27 , 2020 . On September 25 , 2022 , Rihanna announced that she would be headlining the Super Bowl LVII halftime show , which marked her first live performance in over five years , and the end of her previously self - imposed boycott of the event , which she instigated in solidarity with Colin Kaepernick . The show was critically acclaimed . It was initially reported that the performance gained a total of 118.7 million viewers across TV and digital platforms ,	When did you sign with Sony/ATV Music Publishing?	In September 2019.
Rihanna is a mezzo - soprano , with a range spanning from B2 to C ♯ 6 . While recording tracks for her third studio album , Good Girl Gone Bad ( 2007 ) , Rihanna took vocal lessons from Ne - Yo . She said of the experience , " I ' ve never had vocal training , so when I ' m in the studio , he ' ll tell me how to breathe and stuff ... He ' ll call out these big fancy words : ' OK , I want you to do staccato . ' And I ' m like , ' OK , I don ' t know what that is . ' " Her vocal performance on Loud ( 2010 ) received positive reviews from music critics . James Skinner from BBC praised Rihanna ' s vocals on the song " Love the Way You Lie ( Part II ) " and wrote that her voice is powerful and that " it is Rihanna ' s vocal   – at once commanding , soulful and vulnerable   – that anchors the song , and Loud itself " . Andy Gill from The Independent feels that " California King Bed " features her best vocal performance . In a review of Unapologetic , Billboard magazine wrote , " Diamonds finds Rihanna doing one of her throatiest , most impassioned vocals to date , on this inspirational pop ballad . " Jon Caramanica of the New York Times stated , " over the years , as her game face froze in place , her voice cured into a weapon of emotional chill and strategic indifference . It ' s decidedly unfriendly , made to give orders " .	What is your vocal range?	My vocal range spans from B2 to C♯6.
Rihanna is a mezzo - soprano , with a range spanning from B2 to C ♯ 6 . While recording tracks for her third studio album , Good Girl Gone Bad ( 2007 ) , Rihanna took vocal lessons from Ne - Yo . She said of the experience , " I ' ve never had vocal training , so when I ' m in the studio , he ' ll tell me how to breathe and stuff ... He ' ll call out these big fancy words : ' OK , I want you to do staccato . ' And I ' m like , ' OK , I don ' t know what that is . ' " Her vocal performance on Loud ( 2010 ) received positive reviews from music critics . James Skinner from BBC praised Rihanna ' s vocals on the song " Love the Way You Lie ( Part II ) " and wrote that her voice is powerful and that " it is Rihanna ' s vocal   – at once commanding , soulful and vulnerable   – that anchors the song , and Loud itself " . Andy Gill from The Independent feels that " California King Bed " features her best vocal performance . In a review of Unapologetic , Billboard magazine wrote , " Diamonds finds Rihanna doing one of her throatiest , most impassioned vocals to date , on this inspirational pop ballad . " Jon Caramanica of the New York Times stated , " over the years , as her game face froze in place , her voice cured into a weapon of emotional chill and strategic indifference . It ' s decidedly unfriendly , made to give orders " .	Who did you take vocal lessons from while recording your third studio album?	I took vocal lessons from Ne-Yo while recording my third studio album.
Rihanna is a mezzo - soprano , with a range spanning from B2 to C ♯ 6 . While recording tracks for her third studio album , Good Girl Gone Bad ( 2007 ) , Rihanna took vocal lessons from Ne - Yo . She said of the experience , " I ' ve never had vocal training , so when I ' m in the studio , he ' ll tell me how to breathe and stuff ... He ' ll call out these big fancy words : ' OK , I want you to do staccato . ' And I ' m like , ' OK , I don ' t know what that is . ' " Her vocal performance on Loud ( 2010 ) received positive reviews from music critics . James Skinner from BBC praised Rihanna ' s vocals on the song " Love the Way You Lie ( Part II ) " and wrote that her voice is powerful and that " it is Rihanna ' s vocal   – at once commanding , soulful and vulnerable   – that anchors the song , and Loud itself " . Andy Gill from The Independent feels that " California King Bed " features her best vocal performance . In a review of Unapologetic , Billboard magazine wrote , " Diamonds finds Rihanna doing one of her throatiest , most impassioned vocals to date , on this inspirational pop ballad . " Jon Caramanica of the New York Times stated , " over the years , as her game face froze in place , her voice cured into a weapon of emotional chill and strategic indifference . It ' s decidedly unfriendly , made to give orders " .	What did you say about your experience of receiving vocal training?	I mentioned that I had never had vocal training before, and during my studio sessions, Ne-Yo would teach me how to breathe and use certain vocal techniques.
Rihanna is a mezzo - soprano , with a range spanning from B2 to C ♯ 6 . While recording tracks for her third studio album , Good Girl Gone Bad ( 2007 ) , Rihanna took vocal lessons from Ne - Yo . She said of the experience , " I ' ve never had vocal training , so when I ' m in the studio , he ' ll tell me how to breathe and stuff ... He ' ll call out these big fancy words : ' OK , I want you to do staccato . ' And I ' m like , ' OK , I don ' t know what that is . ' " Her vocal performance on Loud ( 2010 ) received positive reviews from music critics . James Skinner from BBC praised Rihanna ' s vocals on the song " Love the Way You Lie ( Part II ) " and wrote that her voice is powerful and that " it is Rihanna ' s vocal   – at once commanding , soulful and vulnerable   – that anchors the song , and Loud itself " . Andy Gill from The Independent feels that " California King Bed " features her best vocal performance . In a review of Unapologetic , Billboard magazine wrote , " Diamonds finds Rihanna doing one of her throatiest , most impassioned vocals to date , on this inspirational pop ballad . " Jon Caramanica of the New York Times stated , " over the years , as her game face froze in place , her voice cured into a weapon of emotional chill and strategic indifference . It ' s decidedly unfriendly , made to give orders " .	Which song on your "Loud" album was praised for its vocals?	My vocals on the song "Love the Way You Lie (Part II)" were highly praised by James Skinner from BBC.
Rihanna is a mezzo - soprano , with a range spanning from B2 to C ♯ 6 . While recording tracks for her third studio album , Good Girl Gone Bad ( 2007 ) , Rihanna took vocal lessons from Ne - Yo . She said of the experience , " I ' ve never had vocal training , so when I ' m in the studio , he ' ll tell me how to breathe and stuff ... He ' ll call out these big fancy words : ' OK , I want you to do staccato . ' And I ' m like , ' OK , I don ' t know what that is . ' " Her vocal performance on Loud ( 2010 ) received positive reviews from music critics . James Skinner from BBC praised Rihanna ' s vocals on the song " Love the Way You Lie ( Part II ) " and wrote that her voice is powerful and that " it is Rihanna ' s vocal   – at once commanding , soulful and vulnerable   – that anchors the song , and Loud itself " . Andy Gill from The Independent feels that " California King Bed " features her best vocal performance . In a review of Unapologetic , Billboard magazine wrote , " Diamonds finds Rihanna doing one of her throatiest , most impassioned vocals to date , on this inspirational pop ballad . " Jon Caramanica of the New York Times stated , " over the years , as her game face froze in place , her voice cured into a weapon of emotional chill and strategic indifference . It ' s decidedly unfriendly , made to give orders " .	How did Billboard magazine describe your vocals in the song "Diamonds"?	Billboard magazine described my vocals in "Diamonds" as one of my throatiest and most impassioned performances to date.
Rihanna was also influenced by Janet Jackson , Aaliyah , Tupac , Beyonc é and Destiny ' s Child . Other musical influences and idols include Celine Dion , Grace Jones , Lil ' Kim , Alicia Keys , Prince , Fefe Dobson , and Brandy . Rihanna takes influence from the different types of music she discovered when she came to America and revealed that rock music was one of the first genres she fell in love with . She commented , " as I grow older , I want to know more about music . I want to discover more types of music " . She cited Brandy ' s fourth studio album , Afrodisiac ( 2004 ) , as her main inspiration for her third album , Good Girl Gone Bad ( 2007 ) . In her early career , her music contained strong influences of Caribbean music , including reggae and dancehall . The music video of the song " Rude Boy " featured images inspired by her Caribbean roots .	Who were some of your musical influences and idols?	Janet Jackson, Aaliyah, Tupac, Beyoncé, Destiny's Child, Celine Dion, Grace Jones, Lil' Kim, Alicia Keys, Prince, Fefe Dobson, and Brandy.
Rihanna was also influenced by Janet Jackson , Aaliyah , Tupac , Beyonc é and Destiny ' s Child . Other musical influences and idols include Celine Dion , Grace Jones , Lil ' Kim , Alicia Keys , Prince , Fefe Dobson , and Brandy . Rihanna takes influence from the different types of music she discovered when she came to America and revealed that rock music was one of the first genres she fell in love with . She commented , " as I grow older , I want to know more about music . I want to discover more types of music " . She cited Brandy ' s fourth studio album , Afrodisiac ( 2004 ) , as her main inspiration for her third album , Good Girl Gone Bad ( 2007 ) . In her early career , her music contained strong influences of Caribbean music , including reggae and dancehall . The music video of the song " Rude Boy " featured images inspired by her Caribbean roots .	What types of music did you discover when you came to America?	I discovered different types of music when I came to America.
Rihanna was also influenced by Janet Jackson , Aaliyah , Tupac , Beyonc é and Destiny ' s Child . Other musical influences and idols include Celine Dion , Grace Jones , Lil ' Kim , Alicia Keys , Prince , Fefe Dobson , and Brandy . Rihanna takes influence from the different types of music she discovered when she came to America and revealed that rock music was one of the first genres she fell in love with . She commented , " as I grow older , I want to know more about music . I want to discover more types of music " . She cited Brandy ' s fourth studio album , Afrodisiac ( 2004 ) , as her main inspiration for her third album , Good Girl Gone Bad ( 2007 ) . In her early career , her music contained strong influences of Caribbean music , including reggae and dancehall . The music video of the song " Rude Boy " featured images inspired by her Caribbean roots .	Which genre of music was one of the first that you fell in love with?	Rock music was one of the first genres that I fell in love with.
Rihanna was also influenced by Janet Jackson , Aaliyah , Tupac , Beyonc é and Destiny ' s Child . Other musical influences and idols include Celine Dion , Grace Jones , Lil ' Kim , Alicia Keys , Prince , Fefe Dobson , and Brandy . Rihanna takes influence from the different types of music she discovered when she came to America and revealed that rock music was one of the first genres she fell in love with . She commented , " as I grow older , I want to know more about music . I want to discover more types of music " . She cited Brandy ' s fourth studio album , Afrodisiac ( 2004 ) , as her main inspiration for her third album , Good Girl Gone Bad ( 2007 ) . In her early career , her music contained strong influences of Caribbean music , including reggae and dancehall . The music video of the song " Rude Boy " featured images inspired by her Caribbean roots .	Which album by Brandy inspired your third album?	Brandy's fourth studio album, Afrodisiac (2004), inspired my third album, Good Girl Gone Bad (2007).
Rihanna was also influenced by Janet Jackson , Aaliyah , Tupac , Beyonc é and Destiny ' s Child . Other musical influences and idols include Celine Dion , Grace Jones , Lil ' Kim , Alicia Keys , Prince , Fefe Dobson , and Brandy . Rihanna takes influence from the different types of music she discovered when she came to America and revealed that rock music was one of the first genres she fell in love with . She commented , " as I grow older , I want to know more about music . I want to discover more types of music " . She cited Brandy ' s fourth studio album , Afrodisiac ( 2004 ) , as her main inspiration for her third album , Good Girl Gone Bad ( 2007 ) . In her early career , her music contained strong influences of Caribbean music , including reggae and dancehall . The music video of the song " Rude Boy " featured images inspired by her Caribbean roots .	What type of music did your early career music contain influences of?	My early career music contained strong influences of Caribbean music, including reggae and dancehall.
Rihanna has an honorary title of Ambassador for Culture and Youth in Barbados . On February 22 , 2008 , former Barbados Prime Minister David Thompson launched the national " Rihanna Day " in their country . Although it is not a bank holiday , Barbadians celebrate it every year in honor of Rihanna . In February 2017 , Rihanna was named Harvard University ' s " Humanitarian of the Year " by the Harvard Foundation . During Rihanna ' s third annual " Diamond Ball " , former U . S . president Barack Obama , praised Rihanna ' s work and stated : " [ She ' s ] become a powerful force in the fight to give people dignity . " On September 20 , 2018 , Rihanna was appointed by the government of Barbados to be an Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary , with special duties of promoting " education , tourism and investment for the island . " As of 2021 , Rihanna is the world ' s wealthiest female musician with an estimated net worth of $ 1.7 billion . She was also listed among Forbes ' Top 100 Most Powerful Women of 2019 . In 2020 , she debuted on the Sunday Times Rich List , claiming third place on the list of Britain ' s richest musicians .	What honorary title do you have in Barbados?	I have the honorary title of Ambassador for Culture and Youth in Barbados.
Rihanna has an honorary title of Ambassador for Culture and Youth in Barbados . On February 22 , 2008 , former Barbados Prime Minister David Thompson launched the national " Rihanna Day " in their country . Although it is not a bank holiday , Barbadians celebrate it every year in honor of Rihanna . In February 2017 , Rihanna was named Harvard University ' s " Humanitarian of the Year " by the Harvard Foundation . During Rihanna ' s third annual " Diamond Ball " , former U . S . president Barack Obama , praised Rihanna ' s work and stated : " [ She ' s ] become a powerful force in the fight to give people dignity . " On September 20 , 2018 , Rihanna was appointed by the government of Barbados to be an Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary , with special duties of promoting " education , tourism and investment for the island . " As of 2021 , Rihanna is the world ' s wealthiest female musician with an estimated net worth of $ 1.7 billion . She was also listed among Forbes ' Top 100 Most Powerful Women of 2019 . In 2020 , she debuted on the Sunday Times Rich List , claiming third place on the list of Britain ' s richest musicians .	What is celebrated on February 22 in your country?	On February 22, my country celebrates "Rihanna Day" in my honor.
Rihanna has an honorary title of Ambassador for Culture and Youth in Barbados . On February 22 , 2008 , former Barbados Prime Minister David Thompson launched the national " Rihanna Day " in their country . Although it is not a bank holiday , Barbadians celebrate it every year in honor of Rihanna . In February 2017 , Rihanna was named Harvard University ' s " Humanitarian of the Year " by the Harvard Foundation . During Rihanna ' s third annual " Diamond Ball " , former U . S . president Barack Obama , praised Rihanna ' s work and stated : " [ She ' s ] become a powerful force in the fight to give people dignity . " On September 20 , 2018 , Rihanna was appointed by the government of Barbados to be an Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary , with special duties of promoting " education , tourism and investment for the island . " As of 2021 , Rihanna is the world ' s wealthiest female musician with an estimated net worth of $ 1.7 billion . She was also listed among Forbes ' Top 100 Most Powerful Women of 2019 . In 2020 , she debuted on the Sunday Times Rich List , claiming third place on the list of Britain ' s richest musicians .	Who named you as "Humanitarian of the Year" in February 2017?	I was named "Humanitarian of the Year" by the Harvard Foundation.
Rihanna has an honorary title of Ambassador for Culture and Youth in Barbados . On February 22 , 2008 , former Barbados Prime Minister David Thompson launched the national " Rihanna Day " in their country . Although it is not a bank holiday , Barbadians celebrate it every year in honor of Rihanna . In February 2017 , Rihanna was named Harvard University ' s " Humanitarian of the Year " by the Harvard Foundation . During Rihanna ' s third annual " Diamond Ball " , former U . S . president Barack Obama , praised Rihanna ' s work and stated : " [ She ' s ] become a powerful force in the fight to give people dignity . " On September 20 , 2018 , Rihanna was appointed by the government of Barbados to be an Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary , with special duties of promoting " education , tourism and investment for the island . " As of 2021 , Rihanna is the world ' s wealthiest female musician with an estimated net worth of $ 1.7 billion . She was also listed among Forbes ' Top 100 Most Powerful Women of 2019 . In 2020 , she debuted on the Sunday Times Rich List , claiming third place on the list of Britain ' s richest musicians .	What were your special duties after being appointed by the government of Barbados?	After being appointed by the government of Barbados, I had special duties of promoting "education, tourism and investment for the island".
Rihanna has an honorary title of Ambassador for Culture and Youth in Barbados . On February 22 , 2008 , former Barbados Prime Minister David Thompson launched the national " Rihanna Day " in their country . Although it is not a bank holiday , Barbadians celebrate it every year in honor of Rihanna . In February 2017 , Rihanna was named Harvard University ' s " Humanitarian of the Year " by the Harvard Foundation . During Rihanna ' s third annual " Diamond Ball " , former U . S . president Barack Obama , praised Rihanna ' s work and stated : " [ She ' s ] become a powerful force in the fight to give people dignity . " On September 20 , 2018 , Rihanna was appointed by the government of Barbados to be an Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary , with special duties of promoting " education , tourism and investment for the island . " As of 2021 , Rihanna is the world ' s wealthiest female musician with an estimated net worth of $ 1.7 billion . She was also listed among Forbes ' Top 100 Most Powerful Women of 2019 . In 2020 , she debuted on the Sunday Times Rich List , claiming third place on the list of Britain ' s richest musicians .	What is your estimated net worth as of 2021?	My estimated net worth as of 2021 is $1.7 billion.
