Roger Federer (German: [ˈrɔdʒər ˈfeːdərər]; born 8 August 1981) is a Swiss former professional tennis player. He was ranked world No. 1 by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) for 310 weeks, including a record 237 consecutive weeks, and finished as the year-end No. 1 five times. He won 103 singles titles on the ATP Tour, the second most of all time, including 20 major men's singles titles, a record eight men's singles Wimbledon titles, an Open Era joint-record five men's singles US Open titles, and a joint-record six year-end championships. In his home country, he is regarded as "the greatest and most successful" Swiss sportsperson in history.	When were you born?	I was born on 8 August 1981.
Roger Federer (German: [ˈrɔdʒər ˈfeːdərər]; born 8 August 1981) is a Swiss former professional tennis player. He was ranked world No. 1 by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) for 310 weeks, including a record 237 consecutive weeks, and finished as the year-end No. 1 five times. He won 103 singles titles on the ATP Tour, the second most of all time, including 20 major men's singles titles, a record eight men's singles Wimbledon titles, an Open Era joint-record five men's singles US Open titles, and a joint-record six year-end championships. In his home country, he is regarded as "the greatest and most successful" Swiss sportsperson in history.	How many weeks were you ranked world No. 1 by the ATP?	I was ranked world No. 1 by the ATP for 310 weeks.
Roger Federer (German: [ˈrɔdʒər ˈfeːdərər]; born 8 August 1981) is a Swiss former professional tennis player. He was ranked world No. 1 by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) for 310 weeks, including a record 237 consecutive weeks, and finished as the year-end No. 1 five times. He won 103 singles titles on the ATP Tour, the second most of all time, including 20 major men's singles titles, a record eight men's singles Wimbledon titles, an Open Era joint-record five men's singles US Open titles, and a joint-record six year-end championships. In his home country, he is regarded as "the greatest and most successful" Swiss sportsperson in history.	How many consecutive weeks were you ranked world No. 1?	I was ranked world No. 1 for a record 237 consecutive weeks.
Roger Federer (German: [ˈrɔdʒər ˈfeːdərər]; born 8 August 1981) is a Swiss former professional tennis player. He was ranked world No. 1 by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) for 310 weeks, including a record 237 consecutive weeks, and finished as the year-end No. 1 five times. He won 103 singles titles on the ATP Tour, the second most of all time, including 20 major men's singles titles, a record eight men's singles Wimbledon titles, an Open Era joint-record five men's singles US Open titles, and a joint-record six year-end championships. In his home country, he is regarded as "the greatest and most successful" Swiss sportsperson in history.	How many major men's singles titles did you win?	I won 20 major men's singles titles.
Roger Federer (German: [ˈrɔdʒər ˈfeːdərər]; born 8 August 1981) is a Swiss former professional tennis player. He was ranked world No. 1 by the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) for 310 weeks, including a record 237 consecutive weeks, and finished as the year-end No. 1 five times. He won 103 singles titles on the ATP Tour, the second most of all time, including 20 major men's singles titles, a record eight men's singles Wimbledon titles, an Open Era joint-record five men's singles US Open titles, and a joint-record six year-end championships. In his home country, he is regarded as "the greatest and most successful" Swiss sportsperson in history.	How many men's singles Wimbledon titles did you win?	I won a record eight men's singles Wimbledon titles.
A Wimbledon junior champion in 1998 and former ball boy, Federer won his first major singles title at Wimbledon in 2003 at age 21. Between 2003 and 2009, Federer played in 21 out of 28 major singles finals. He won three of the four majors and the ATP Finals[c] in 2004, 2006, and 2007 as well as five consecutive titles at both Wimbledon and the US Open. He completed the career Grand Slam at the 2009 French Open after three consecutive runner-up finishes to Nadal, his main rival until 2010. At age 27, he surpassed Pete Sampras' record of 14 major men's singles titles at Wimbledon in 2009.	When did you win your first major singles title at Wimbledon?	I won my first major singles title at Wimbledon in 2003 at age 21.
A Wimbledon junior champion in 1998 and former ball boy, Federer won his first major singles title at Wimbledon in 2003 at age 21. Between 2003 and 2009, Federer played in 21 out of 28 major singles finals. He won three of the four majors and the ATP Finals[c] in 2004, 2006, and 2007 as well as five consecutive titles at both Wimbledon and the US Open. He completed the career Grand Slam at the 2009 French Open after three consecutive runner-up finishes to Nadal, his main rival until 2010. At age 27, he surpassed Pete Sampras' record of 14 major men's singles titles at Wimbledon in 2009.	How many major singles finals did you play between 2003 and 2009?	Between 2003 and 2009, I played in 21 out of 28 major singles finals.
A Wimbledon junior champion in 1998 and former ball boy, Federer won his first major singles title at Wimbledon in 2003 at age 21. Between 2003 and 2009, Federer played in 21 out of 28 major singles finals. He won three of the four majors and the ATP Finals[c] in 2004, 2006, and 2007 as well as five consecutive titles at both Wimbledon and the US Open. He completed the career Grand Slam at the 2009 French Open after three consecutive runner-up finishes to Nadal, his main rival until 2010. At age 27, he surpassed Pete Sampras' record of 14 major men's singles titles at Wimbledon in 2009.	Which tournaments did you win in 2004, 2006, and 2007?	I won three of the four majors (excluding the French Open) and the ATP Finals in 2004, 2006, and 2007.
A Wimbledon junior champion in 1998 and former ball boy, Federer won his first major singles title at Wimbledon in 2003 at age 21. Between 2003 and 2009, Federer played in 21 out of 28 major singles finals. He won three of the four majors and the ATP Finals[c] in 2004, 2006, and 2007 as well as five consecutive titles at both Wimbledon and the US Open. He completed the career Grand Slam at the 2009 French Open after three consecutive runner-up finishes to Nadal, his main rival until 2010. At age 27, he surpassed Pete Sampras' record of 14 major men's singles titles at Wimbledon in 2009.	How many consecutive titles did you win at Wimbledon and the US Open?	I won five consecutive titles at both Wimbledon and the US Open.
A Wimbledon junior champion in 1998 and former ball boy, Federer won his first major singles title at Wimbledon in 2003 at age 21. Between 2003 and 2009, Federer played in 21 out of 28 major singles finals. He won three of the four majors and the ATP Finals[c] in 2004, 2006, and 2007 as well as five consecutive titles at both Wimbledon and the US Open. He completed the career Grand Slam at the 2009 French Open after three consecutive runner-up finishes to Nadal, his main rival until 2010. At age 27, he surpassed Pete Sampras' record of 14 major men's singles titles at Wimbledon in 2009.	Whose record did you surpass at Wimbledon in 2009?	At age 27, I surpassed Pete Sampras' record of 14 major men's singles titles at Wimbledon in 2009.
Federer and Stan Wawrinka led the Switzerland Davis Cup team to their first title in 2014, following their Olympic doubles gold victory at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Federer also won a silver medal in singles at the 2012 London Olympics, finishing runner-up to Andy Murray. After a half-year hiatus in late 2016 to recover from knee surgery, Federer returned to tennis, winning three more majors over the next two years, including the 2017 Australian Open over Rafael Nadal and an eighth singles title at the 2017 Wimbledon Championships. At the 2018 Australian Open, Federer became the first man to win 20 major singles titles and shortly the oldest ATP world No. 1 at age 36. In September 2022, he retired from professional tennis following the Laver Cup.	Who led your Davis Cup team to their first title in 2014?	I and Stan Wawrinka.
Federer and Stan Wawrinka led the Switzerland Davis Cup team to their first title in 2014, following their Olympic doubles gold victory at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Federer also won a silver medal in singles at the 2012 London Olympics, finishing runner-up to Andy Murray. After a half-year hiatus in late 2016 to recover from knee surgery, Federer returned to tennis, winning three more majors over the next two years, including the 2017 Australian Open over Rafael Nadal and an eighth singles title at the 2017 Wimbledon Championships. At the 2018 Australian Open, Federer became the first man to win 20 major singles titles and shortly the oldest ATP world No. 1 at age 36. In September 2022, he retired from professional tennis following the Laver Cup.	When did you win a silver medal in singles at the Olympics?	In 2012.
Federer and Stan Wawrinka led the Switzerland Davis Cup team to their first title in 2014, following their Olympic doubles gold victory at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Federer also won a silver medal in singles at the 2012 London Olympics, finishing runner-up to Andy Murray. After a half-year hiatus in late 2016 to recover from knee surgery, Federer returned to tennis, winning three more majors over the next two years, including the 2017 Australian Open over Rafael Nadal and an eighth singles title at the 2017 Wimbledon Championships. At the 2018 Australian Open, Federer became the first man to win 20 major singles titles and shortly the oldest ATP world No. 1 at age 36. In September 2022, he retired from professional tennis following the Laver Cup.	How many majors did you win over the next two years after your hiatus in 2016?	Three.
Federer and Stan Wawrinka led the Switzerland Davis Cup team to their first title in 2014, following their Olympic doubles gold victory at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Federer also won a silver medal in singles at the 2012 London Olympics, finishing runner-up to Andy Murray. After a half-year hiatus in late 2016 to recover from knee surgery, Federer returned to tennis, winning three more majors over the next two years, including the 2017 Australian Open over Rafael Nadal and an eighth singles title at the 2017 Wimbledon Championships. At the 2018 Australian Open, Federer became the first man to win 20 major singles titles and shortly the oldest ATP world No. 1 at age 36. In September 2022, he retired from professional tennis following the Laver Cup.	Which player did you defeat to win the 2017 Australian Open?	Rafael Nadal.
Federer and Stan Wawrinka led the Switzerland Davis Cup team to their first title in 2014, following their Olympic doubles gold victory at the 2008 Beijing Olympics. Federer also won a silver medal in singles at the 2012 London Olympics, finishing runner-up to Andy Murray. After a half-year hiatus in late 2016 to recover from knee surgery, Federer returned to tennis, winning three more majors over the next two years, including the 2017 Australian Open over Rafael Nadal and an eighth singles title at the 2017 Wimbledon Championships. At the 2018 Australian Open, Federer became the first man to win 20 major singles titles and shortly the oldest ATP world No. 1 at age 36. In September 2022, he retired from professional tennis following the Laver Cup.	When did you become the first man to win 20 major singles titles?	At the 2018 Australian Open.
A versatile all-court player, Federer's perceived effortlessness has made him highly popular among tennis fans. Originally lacking self-control as a junior, he transformed his on-court demeanor to become well-liked for his graciousness, winning the Stefan Edberg Sportsmanship Award 13 times. He has won the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year award a record five times. Outside of competing, he played an instrumental role in the creation of the Laver Cup team competition. He is also an active philanthropist. He established the Roger Federer Foundation, which targets impoverished children in southern Africa, and has raised funds in part through the Match for Africa exhibition series. He is routinely one of the top ten highest-paid athletes in any sport and ranked first among all athletes with $100 million in endorsement income in 2020.	How many times have you won the Stefan Edberg Sportsmanship Award?	I have won the Stefan Edberg Sportsmanship Award 13 times.
A versatile all-court player, Federer's perceived effortlessness has made him highly popular among tennis fans. Originally lacking self-control as a junior, he transformed his on-court demeanor to become well-liked for his graciousness, winning the Stefan Edberg Sportsmanship Award 13 times. He has won the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year award a record five times. Outside of competing, he played an instrumental role in the creation of the Laver Cup team competition. He is also an active philanthropist. He established the Roger Federer Foundation, which targets impoverished children in southern Africa, and has raised funds in part through the Match for Africa exhibition series. He is routinely one of the top ten highest-paid athletes in any sport and ranked first among all athletes with $100 million in endorsement income in 2020.	How many times have you won the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year award?	I have won the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year award a record five times.
A versatile all-court player, Federer's perceived effortlessness has made him highly popular among tennis fans. Originally lacking self-control as a junior, he transformed his on-court demeanor to become well-liked for his graciousness, winning the Stefan Edberg Sportsmanship Award 13 times. He has won the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year award a record five times. Outside of competing, he played an instrumental role in the creation of the Laver Cup team competition. He is also an active philanthropist. He established the Roger Federer Foundation, which targets impoverished children in southern Africa, and has raised funds in part through the Match for Africa exhibition series. He is routinely one of the top ten highest-paid athletes in any sport and ranked first among all athletes with $100 million in endorsement income in 2020.	What role did you play in the creation of the Laver Cup team competition?	I played an instrumental role in the creation of the Laver Cup team competition.
A versatile all-court player, Federer's perceived effortlessness has made him highly popular among tennis fans. Originally lacking self-control as a junior, he transformed his on-court demeanor to become well-liked for his graciousness, winning the Stefan Edberg Sportsmanship Award 13 times. He has won the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year award a record five times. Outside of competing, he played an instrumental role in the creation of the Laver Cup team competition. He is also an active philanthropist. He established the Roger Federer Foundation, which targets impoverished children in southern Africa, and has raised funds in part through the Match for Africa exhibition series. He is routinely one of the top ten highest-paid athletes in any sport and ranked first among all athletes with $100 million in endorsement income in 2020.	What philanthropic activities are you involved in?	I am an active philanthropist and I established the Roger Federer Foundation, which targets impoverished children in southern Africa. I have also raised funds through the Match for Africa exhibition series.
A versatile all-court player, Federer's perceived effortlessness has made him highly popular among tennis fans. Originally lacking self-control as a junior, he transformed his on-court demeanor to become well-liked for his graciousness, winning the Stefan Edberg Sportsmanship Award 13 times. He has won the Laureus World Sportsman of the Year award a record five times. Outside of competing, he played an instrumental role in the creation of the Laver Cup team competition. He is also an active philanthropist. He established the Roger Federer Foundation, which targets impoverished children in southern Africa, and has raised funds in part through the Match for Africa exhibition series. He is routinely one of the top ten highest-paid athletes in any sport and ranked first among all athletes with $100 million in endorsement income in 2020.	What was your endorsement income in 2020?	I ranked first among all athletes with $100 million in endorsement income in 2020.
Federer was born on 8 August 1981 in Basel, Switzerland. A member of the Federer family, his Swiss-German father, Robert Federer, is from Berneck in the canton of St. Gallen and his Afrikaner mother, Lynette Federer (née Durand), is from Kempton Park, Gauteng, in South Africa. He has one sibling, his older sister, Diana, the mother of twins. Since Federer's mother is South African, he holds both Swiss and South African citizenship. He grew up in nearby Birsfelden, Riehen, and then Münchenstein, close to the French and German borders, and speaks Swiss German, Standard German, English, and French fluently as well as functional Italian and Swedish. Swiss German is his native language. He was a ball boy at his hometown Basel event, the Swiss Indoors in 1992 and 1993.	When and where were you born?	I was born on 8 August 1981 in Basel, Switzerland.
Federer was born on 8 August 1981 in Basel, Switzerland. A member of the Federer family, his Swiss-German father, Robert Federer, is from Berneck in the canton of St. Gallen and his Afrikaner mother, Lynette Federer (née Durand), is from Kempton Park, Gauteng, in South Africa. He has one sibling, his older sister, Diana, the mother of twins. Since Federer's mother is South African, he holds both Swiss and South African citizenship. He grew up in nearby Birsfelden, Riehen, and then Münchenstein, close to the French and German borders, and speaks Swiss German, Standard German, English, and French fluently as well as functional Italian and Swedish. Swiss German is his native language. He was a ball boy at his hometown Basel event, the Swiss Indoors in 1992 and 1993.	What is the nationality of your father?	My father is Swiss-German.
Federer was born on 8 August 1981 in Basel, Switzerland. A member of the Federer family, his Swiss-German father, Robert Federer, is from Berneck in the canton of St. Gallen and his Afrikaner mother, Lynette Federer (née Durand), is from Kempton Park, Gauteng, in South Africa. He has one sibling, his older sister, Diana, the mother of twins. Since Federer's mother is South African, he holds both Swiss and South African citizenship. He grew up in nearby Birsfelden, Riehen, and then Münchenstein, close to the French and German borders, and speaks Swiss German, Standard German, English, and French fluently as well as functional Italian and Swedish. Swiss German is his native language. He was a ball boy at his hometown Basel event, the Swiss Indoors in 1992 and 1993.	Where is your mother from?	My mother is from Kempton Park, Gauteng, South Africa.
Federer was born on 8 August 1981 in Basel, Switzerland. A member of the Federer family, his Swiss-German father, Robert Federer, is from Berneck in the canton of St. Gallen and his Afrikaner mother, Lynette Federer (née Durand), is from Kempton Park, Gauteng, in South Africa. He has one sibling, his older sister, Diana, the mother of twins. Since Federer's mother is South African, he holds both Swiss and South African citizenship. He grew up in nearby Birsfelden, Riehen, and then Münchenstein, close to the French and German borders, and speaks Swiss German, Standard German, English, and French fluently as well as functional Italian and Swedish. Swiss German is his native language. He was a ball boy at his hometown Basel event, the Swiss Indoors in 1992 and 1993.	How many siblings do you have?	I have one sibling, my older sister, Diana.
Federer was born on 8 August 1981 in Basel, Switzerland. A member of the Federer family, his Swiss-German father, Robert Federer, is from Berneck in the canton of St. Gallen and his Afrikaner mother, Lynette Federer (née Durand), is from Kempton Park, Gauteng, in South Africa. He has one sibling, his older sister, Diana, the mother of twins. Since Federer's mother is South African, he holds both Swiss and South African citizenship. He grew up in nearby Birsfelden, Riehen, and then Münchenstein, close to the French and German borders, and speaks Swiss German, Standard German, English, and French fluently as well as functional Italian and Swedish. Swiss German is his native language. He was a ball boy at his hometown Basel event, the Swiss Indoors in 1992 and 1993.	In which languages can you fluently communicate?	I can fluently speak Swiss German, Standard German, English, and French.
Like all male Swiss citizens, Federer was subject to compulsory military service in the Swiss Armed Forces. However, in 2003 he was ruled "unsuitable" and was subsequently not required to fulfill his military obligation. Instead, he served in the civil protection force and was required to pay 3% of his taxable income as an alternative. Later, he revealed that he was discharged due to a chronic back problem.	When did you serve in the civil protection force?	I served in the civil protection force after being ruled "unsuitable" for compulsory military service in 2003.
Like all male Swiss citizens, Federer was subject to compulsory military service in the Swiss Armed Forces. However, in 2003 he was ruled "unsuitable" and was subsequently not required to fulfill his military obligation. Instead, he served in the civil protection force and was required to pay 3% of his taxable income as an alternative. Later, he revealed that he was discharged due to a chronic back problem.	What were you required to pay as an alternative to military service?	I was required to pay 3% of my taxable income as an alternative to military service.
Like all male Swiss citizens, Federer was subject to compulsory military service in the Swiss Armed Forces. However, in 2003 he was ruled "unsuitable" and was subsequently not required to fulfill his military obligation. Instead, he served in the civil protection force and was required to pay 3% of his taxable income as an alternative. Later, he revealed that he was discharged due to a chronic back problem.	Why were you ruled "unsuitable" for compulsory military service?	I was ruled "unsuitable" for compulsory military service due to a chronic back problem.
Like all male Swiss citizens, Federer was subject to compulsory military service in the Swiss Armed Forces. However, in 2003 he was ruled "unsuitable" and was subsequently not required to fulfill his military obligation. Instead, he served in the civil protection force and was required to pay 3% of his taxable income as an alternative. Later, he revealed that he was discharged due to a chronic back problem.	What was the reason behind your discharge from military service?	I was discharged from military service due to my chronic back problem.
Like all male Swiss citizens, Federer was subject to compulsory military service in the Swiss Armed Forces. However, in 2003 he was ruled "unsuitable" and was subsequently not required to fulfill his military obligation. Instead, he served in the civil protection force and was required to pay 3% of his taxable income as an alternative. Later, he revealed that he was discharged due to a chronic back problem.	What was your obligation in the civil protection force?	My obligation in the civil protection force was to serve instead of fulfilling my military obligation.
He grew up supporting FC Basel and the Swiss national football team. He also credits his hand-eye coordination to the wide range of sports he played as a child, including badminton and basketball.	Which football team did you grow up supporting?	I grew up supporting FC Basel.
He grew up supporting FC Basel and the Swiss national football team. He also credits his hand-eye coordination to the wide range of sports he played as a child, including badminton and basketball.	Which national football team did you grow up supporting?	I grew up supporting the Swiss national football team.
He grew up supporting FC Basel and the Swiss national football team. He also credits his hand-eye coordination to the wide range of sports he played as a child, including badminton and basketball.	What do you credit your hand-eye coordination to?	I credit my hand-eye coordination to the wide range of sports I played as a child.
He grew up supporting FC Basel and the Swiss national football team. He also credits his hand-eye coordination to the wide range of sports he played as a child, including badminton and basketball.	What are some of the sports you played as a child?	Some of the sports I played as a child include badminton and basketball.
He grew up supporting FC Basel and the Swiss national football team. He also credits his hand-eye coordination to the wide range of sports he played as a child, including badminton and basketball.	Can you give me an example of a sport you played as a child?	One example of a sport I played as a child is badminton.
Federer is married to former Women's Tennis Association player Miroslava Federer (née Vavrinec), whom he met while they were both competing for Switzerland at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. Usually called Mirka, she retired from the tour in 2002 because of a foot injury. They were married at Wenkenhof Villa in Riehen near Basel on 11 April 2009, surrounded by a small group of close friends and family. In 2009, she gave birth to identical twin girls. They had another pair of twins in 2014, this time fraternal twin boys. Their children were baptized in the Catholic faith by Federer's distant cousin Monsignor Urban Federer, who is the Abbot of Einsiedeln Abbey.	Who are you married to?	I am married to Miroslava Federer (née Vavrinec).
Federer is married to former Women's Tennis Association player Miroslava Federer (née Vavrinec), whom he met while they were both competing for Switzerland at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. Usually called Mirka, she retired from the tour in 2002 because of a foot injury. They were married at Wenkenhof Villa in Riehen near Basel on 11 April 2009, surrounded by a small group of close friends and family. In 2009, she gave birth to identical twin girls. They had another pair of twins in 2014, this time fraternal twin boys. Their children were baptized in the Catholic faith by Federer's distant cousin Monsignor Urban Federer, who is the Abbot of Einsiedeln Abbey.	When did you and Miroslava get married?	We got married on 11 April 2009.
Federer is married to former Women's Tennis Association player Miroslava Federer (née Vavrinec), whom he met while they were both competing for Switzerland at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. Usually called Mirka, she retired from the tour in 2002 because of a foot injury. They were married at Wenkenhof Villa in Riehen near Basel on 11 April 2009, surrounded by a small group of close friends and family. In 2009, she gave birth to identical twin girls. They had another pair of twins in 2014, this time fraternal twin boys. Their children were baptized in the Catholic faith by Federer's distant cousin Monsignor Urban Federer, who is the Abbot of Einsiedeln Abbey.	Where did you and Miroslava get married?	We got married at Wenkenhof Villa in Riehen near Basel.
Federer is married to former Women's Tennis Association player Miroslava Federer (née Vavrinec), whom he met while they were both competing for Switzerland at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. Usually called Mirka, she retired from the tour in 2002 because of a foot injury. They were married at Wenkenhof Villa in Riehen near Basel on 11 April 2009, surrounded by a small group of close friends and family. In 2009, she gave birth to identical twin girls. They had another pair of twins in 2014, this time fraternal twin boys. Their children were baptized in the Catholic faith by Federer's distant cousin Monsignor Urban Federer, who is the Abbot of Einsiedeln Abbey.	How many children do you and Miroslava have?	We have four children.
Federer is married to former Women's Tennis Association player Miroslava Federer (née Vavrinec), whom he met while they were both competing for Switzerland at the 2000 Sydney Olympics. Usually called Mirka, she retired from the tour in 2002 because of a foot injury. They were married at Wenkenhof Villa in Riehen near Basel on 11 April 2009, surrounded by a small group of close friends and family. In 2009, she gave birth to identical twin girls. They had another pair of twins in 2014, this time fraternal twin boys. Their children were baptized in the Catholic faith by Federer's distant cousin Monsignor Urban Federer, who is the Abbot of Einsiedeln Abbey.	Who baptized your and Miroslava's children?	My distant cousin Monsignor Urban Federer baptized our children.
Federer played his first junior match in 1996 at the age of 14 at a grade 2 tournament in Switzerland. His main accomplishments as a junior player came at Wimbledon in 1998 when he won both the boys' singles final over Irakli Labadze, and in doubles teamed with Olivier Rochus defeating the team of Michaël Llodra and Andy Ram. In addition he reached the US Open Junior final in 1998, losing to David Nalbandian. Federer won four ITF junior singles tournaments in his career, including the prestigious Orange Bowl, where he defeated Guillermo Coria in the final. By the end of 1998 he attained the No. 1 junior world ranking and was awarded ITF junior World Champion. He ended his junior career at the end of 1998 with a high-ranking of No. 1 in singles and No. 7 in doubles (both attained on December 31, 1998) and a win–loss record of 78–20 in singles and 36–21 in doubles.	When did you play your first junior match?	I played my first junior match in 1996.
Federer played his first junior match in 1996 at the age of 14 at a grade 2 tournament in Switzerland. His main accomplishments as a junior player came at Wimbledon in 1998 when he won both the boys' singles final over Irakli Labadze, and in doubles teamed with Olivier Rochus defeating the team of Michaël Llodra and Andy Ram. In addition he reached the US Open Junior final in 1998, losing to David Nalbandian. Federer won four ITF junior singles tournaments in his career, including the prestigious Orange Bowl, where he defeated Guillermo Coria in the final. By the end of 1998 he attained the No. 1 junior world ranking and was awarded ITF junior World Champion. He ended his junior career at the end of 1998 with a high-ranking of No. 1 in singles and No. 7 in doubles (both attained on December 31, 1998) and a win–loss record of 78–20 in singles and 36–21 in doubles.	Where did you play your first junior match?	I played my first junior match at a grade 2 tournament in Switzerland.
Federer played his first junior match in 1996 at the age of 14 at a grade 2 tournament in Switzerland. His main accomplishments as a junior player came at Wimbledon in 1998 when he won both the boys' singles final over Irakli Labadze, and in doubles teamed with Olivier Rochus defeating the team of Michaël Llodra and Andy Ram. In addition he reached the US Open Junior final in 1998, losing to David Nalbandian. Federer won four ITF junior singles tournaments in his career, including the prestigious Orange Bowl, where he defeated Guillermo Coria in the final. By the end of 1998 he attained the No. 1 junior world ranking and was awarded ITF junior World Champion. He ended his junior career at the end of 1998 with a high-ranking of No. 1 in singles and No. 7 in doubles (both attained on December 31, 1998) and a win–loss record of 78–20 in singles and 36–21 in doubles.	What were your main accomplishments as a junior player?	My main accomplishments as a junior player were winning the boys' singles final at Wimbledon in 1998 and winning the doubles tournament with Olivier Rochus.
Federer played his first junior match in 1996 at the age of 14 at a grade 2 tournament in Switzerland. His main accomplishments as a junior player came at Wimbledon in 1998 when he won both the boys' singles final over Irakli Labadze, and in doubles teamed with Olivier Rochus defeating the team of Michaël Llodra and Andy Ram. In addition he reached the US Open Junior final in 1998, losing to David Nalbandian. Federer won four ITF junior singles tournaments in his career, including the prestigious Orange Bowl, where he defeated Guillermo Coria in the final. By the end of 1998 he attained the No. 1 junior world ranking and was awarded ITF junior World Champion. He ended his junior career at the end of 1998 with a high-ranking of No. 1 in singles and No. 7 in doubles (both attained on December 31, 1998) and a win–loss record of 78–20 in singles and 36–21 in doubles.	Who did you defeat in the boys' singles final at Wimbledon in 1998?	I defeated Irakli Labadze in the boys' singles final at Wimbledon in 1998.
Federer played his first junior match in 1996 at the age of 14 at a grade 2 tournament in Switzerland. His main accomplishments as a junior player came at Wimbledon in 1998 when he won both the boys' singles final over Irakli Labadze, and in doubles teamed with Olivier Rochus defeating the team of Michaël Llodra and Andy Ram. In addition he reached the US Open Junior final in 1998, losing to David Nalbandian. Federer won four ITF junior singles tournaments in his career, including the prestigious Orange Bowl, where he defeated Guillermo Coria in the final. By the end of 1998 he attained the No. 1 junior world ranking and was awarded ITF junior World Champion. He ended his junior career at the end of 1998 with a high-ranking of No. 1 in singles and No. 7 in doubles (both attained on December 31, 1998) and a win–loss record of 78–20 in singles and 36–21 in doubles.	Which prestigious tournament did you win in your junior career?	I won the Orange Bowl, a prestigious tournament, in my junior career.
Federer made his ATP debut at the 1998 Swiss Open Gstaad in his home country of Switzerland losing to Lucas Arnold Ker in the first round. Later that year, he won his first ATP match in Toulouse against Guillaume Raoux. He got a wildcard into the 1998 Swiss Indoors and lost in the first round to 4th seed and former world number 1 Andre Agassi. Federer finished his career as a 10-time champion of the tournament.	When did you make your ATP debut?	I made my ATP debut at the 1998 Swiss Open Gstaad.
Federer made his ATP debut at the 1998 Swiss Open Gstaad in his home country of Switzerland losing to Lucas Arnold Ker in the first round. Later that year, he won his first ATP match in Toulouse against Guillaume Raoux. He got a wildcard into the 1998 Swiss Indoors and lost in the first round to 4th seed and former world number 1 Andre Agassi. Federer finished his career as a 10-time champion of the tournament.	Who did you lose to in your first round match at the 1998 Swiss Open Gstaad?	I lost to Lucas Arnold Ker in my first round match at the 1998 Swiss Open Gstaad.
Federer made his ATP debut at the 1998 Swiss Open Gstaad in his home country of Switzerland losing to Lucas Arnold Ker in the first round. Later that year, he won his first ATP match in Toulouse against Guillaume Raoux. He got a wildcard into the 1998 Swiss Indoors and lost in the first round to 4th seed and former world number 1 Andre Agassi. Federer finished his career as a 10-time champion of the tournament.	Where did you win your first ATP match?	I won my first ATP match in Toulouse.
Federer made his ATP debut at the 1998 Swiss Open Gstaad in his home country of Switzerland losing to Lucas Arnold Ker in the first round. Later that year, he won his first ATP match in Toulouse against Guillaume Raoux. He got a wildcard into the 1998 Swiss Indoors and lost in the first round to 4th seed and former world number 1 Andre Agassi. Federer finished his career as a 10-time champion of the tournament.	Who did you lose to in the first round of the 1998 Swiss Indoors?	I lost to 4th seed and former world number 1 Andre Agassi in the first round of the 1998 Swiss Indoors.
Federer made his ATP debut at the 1998 Swiss Open Gstaad in his home country of Switzerland losing to Lucas Arnold Ker in the first round. Later that year, he won his first ATP match in Toulouse against Guillaume Raoux. He got a wildcard into the 1998 Swiss Indoors and lost in the first round to 4th seed and former world number 1 Andre Agassi. Federer finished his career as a 10-time champion of the tournament.	How many times did you win the tournament?	I finished my career as a 10-time champion of the tournament.
In 2006 , Federer won three Grand Slam singles titles and reached the final of the other , with the only loss coming against Nadal in the French Open . This was Federer and Nadal ' s first meeting in a Grand Slam final . He was the first man to reach all four finals in a calendar year since Rod Laver in 1969 . Federer defeated Nadal in the Wimbledon Championships final . In the Australian Open , Federer defeated Marcos Baghdatis , and at the US Open , Federer defeated 2003 champion Roddick . In addition , Federer reached six Masters finals , winning four on hard surfaces and losing two on clay to Nadal . Federer , however , consistently pushed Nadal to the limit on clay throughout the season taking him to fourth - set tiebreakers in Monte - Carlo and Paris , and a thrilling match in Rome that went to a deciding fifth - set tiebreaker .	What titles did you win in 2006?	I won three Grand Slam singles titles in 2006.
In 2006 , Federer won three Grand Slam singles titles and reached the final of the other , with the only loss coming against Nadal in the French Open . This was Federer and Nadal ' s first meeting in a Grand Slam final . He was the first man to reach all four finals in a calendar year since Rod Laver in 1969 . Federer defeated Nadal in the Wimbledon Championships final . In the Australian Open , Federer defeated Marcos Baghdatis , and at the US Open , Federer defeated 2003 champion Roddick . In addition , Federer reached six Masters finals , winning four on hard surfaces and losing two on clay to Nadal . Federer , however , consistently pushed Nadal to the limit on clay throughout the season taking him to fourth - set tiebreakers in Monte - Carlo and Paris , and a thrilling match in Rome that went to a deciding fifth - set tiebreaker .	Who did you lose to in the French Open in 2006?	I lost to Nadal in the French Open in 2006.
In 2006 , Federer won three Grand Slam singles titles and reached the final of the other , with the only loss coming against Nadal in the French Open . This was Federer and Nadal ' s first meeting in a Grand Slam final . He was the first man to reach all four finals in a calendar year since Rod Laver in 1969 . Federer defeated Nadal in the Wimbledon Championships final . In the Australian Open , Federer defeated Marcos Baghdatis , and at the US Open , Federer defeated 2003 champion Roddick . In addition , Federer reached six Masters finals , winning four on hard surfaces and losing two on clay to Nadal . Federer , however , consistently pushed Nadal to the limit on clay throughout the season taking him to fourth - set tiebreakers in Monte - Carlo and Paris , and a thrilling match in Rome that went to a deciding fifth - set tiebreaker .	Who did you defeat in the Wimbledon Championships final in 2006?	I defeated Nadal in the Wimbledon Championships final in 2006.
In 2006 , Federer won three Grand Slam singles titles and reached the final of the other , with the only loss coming against Nadal in the French Open . This was Federer and Nadal ' s first meeting in a Grand Slam final . He was the first man to reach all four finals in a calendar year since Rod Laver in 1969 . Federer defeated Nadal in the Wimbledon Championships final . In the Australian Open , Federer defeated Marcos Baghdatis , and at the US Open , Federer defeated 2003 champion Roddick . In addition , Federer reached six Masters finals , winning four on hard surfaces and losing two on clay to Nadal . Federer , however , consistently pushed Nadal to the limit on clay throughout the season taking him to fourth - set tiebreakers in Monte - Carlo and Paris , and a thrilling match in Rome that went to a deciding fifth - set tiebreaker .	Who did you defeat in the Australian Open in 2006?	I defeated Marcos Baghdatis in the Australian Open in 2006.
In 2006 , Federer won three Grand Slam singles titles and reached the final of the other , with the only loss coming against Nadal in the French Open . This was Federer and Nadal ' s first meeting in a Grand Slam final . He was the first man to reach all four finals in a calendar year since Rod Laver in 1969 . Federer defeated Nadal in the Wimbledon Championships final . In the Australian Open , Federer defeated Marcos Baghdatis , and at the US Open , Federer defeated 2003 champion Roddick . In addition , Federer reached six Masters finals , winning four on hard surfaces and losing two on clay to Nadal . Federer , however , consistently pushed Nadal to the limit on clay throughout the season taking him to fourth - set tiebreakers in Monte - Carlo and Paris , and a thrilling match in Rome that went to a deciding fifth - set tiebreaker .	Who did you defeat in the US Open in 2006?	I defeated 2003 champion Roddick in the US Open in 2006.
In 2008 , Federer captured one Grand Slam , a singles title at the US Open over Andy Murray . Federer was defeated by Nadal in two Grand Slam finals , the French Open and Wimbledon , which was regarded as the best match of tennis history by many , when he was going for six straight wins to break Bj ö rn Borg ' s record . He came back from two sets down to force a fifth set , where he fell just two points from the title . At the Australian Open Federer lost in the semifinals to eventual winner Djokovic , which ended his record of 10 consecutive finals . He lost twice in Masters finals on clay to Nadal , at Monte Carlo and Hamburg . Federer captured three titles playing in 250 - level events at Estoril , Halle , and Basel .	What Grand Slam did you win in 2008?	I won the US Open in 2008.
In 2008 , Federer captured one Grand Slam , a singles title at the US Open over Andy Murray . Federer was defeated by Nadal in two Grand Slam finals , the French Open and Wimbledon , which was regarded as the best match of tennis history by many , when he was going for six straight wins to break Bj ö rn Borg ' s record . He came back from two sets down to force a fifth set , where he fell just two points from the title . At the Australian Open Federer lost in the semifinals to eventual winner Djokovic , which ended his record of 10 consecutive finals . He lost twice in Masters finals on clay to Nadal , at Monte Carlo and Hamburg . Federer captured three titles playing in 250 - level events at Estoril , Halle , and Basel .	Who did you defeat in the US Open singles final in 2008?	I defeated Andy Murray in the US Open singles final in 2008.
In 2008 , Federer captured one Grand Slam , a singles title at the US Open over Andy Murray . Federer was defeated by Nadal in two Grand Slam finals , the French Open and Wimbledon , which was regarded as the best match of tennis history by many , when he was going for six straight wins to break Bj ö rn Borg ' s record . He came back from two sets down to force a fifth set , where he fell just two points from the title . At the Australian Open Federer lost in the semifinals to eventual winner Djokovic , which ended his record of 10 consecutive finals . He lost twice in Masters finals on clay to Nadal , at Monte Carlo and Hamburg . Federer captured three titles playing in 250 - level events at Estoril , Halle , and Basel .	Who defeated you in the French Open final in 2008?	Nadal defeated me in the French Open final in 2008.
In 2008 , Federer captured one Grand Slam , a singles title at the US Open over Andy Murray . Federer was defeated by Nadal in two Grand Slam finals , the French Open and Wimbledon , which was regarded as the best match of tennis history by many , when he was going for six straight wins to break Bj ö rn Borg ' s record . He came back from two sets down to force a fifth set , where he fell just two points from the title . At the Australian Open Federer lost in the semifinals to eventual winner Djokovic , which ended his record of 10 consecutive finals . He lost twice in Masters finals on clay to Nadal , at Monte Carlo and Hamburg . Federer captured three titles playing in 250 - level events at Estoril , Halle , and Basel .	Who defeated you in the Wimbledon final in 2008?	Nadal defeated me in the Wimbledon final in 2008.
In 2008 , Federer captured one Grand Slam , a singles title at the US Open over Andy Murray . Federer was defeated by Nadal in two Grand Slam finals , the French Open and Wimbledon , which was regarded as the best match of tennis history by many , when he was going for six straight wins to break Bj ö rn Borg ' s record . He came back from two sets down to force a fifth set , where he fell just two points from the title . At the Australian Open Federer lost in the semifinals to eventual winner Djokovic , which ended his record of 10 consecutive finals . He lost twice in Masters finals on clay to Nadal , at Monte Carlo and Hamburg . Federer captured three titles playing in 250 - level events at Estoril , Halle , and Basel .	Which record were you trying to break during the Wimbledon final in 2008?	I was trying to break Björn Borg's record of six straight wins.
Federer reached the semifinal of the 2012 Australian Open , setting up a 27th career meeting with Nadal , a match he lost in four sets . He then won the Rotterdam Open for the first time since 2005 , defeating Juan Mart í n del Potro . Federer played in the 2012 Dubai Tennis Championships , where he defeated Andy Murray in the final and won the championship title for the fifth time in his career . Federer then moved on to the Indian Wells Masters , where he defeated Rafael Nadal in the semifinals , and John Isner in the final . Federer won the title for a record fourth time , and , in doing so , equalled Nadal ' s record of 19 ATP Masters titles .	Who did you play against in the semifinals of the 2012 Australian Open?	Nadal
Federer reached the semifinal of the 2012 Australian Open , setting up a 27th career meeting with Nadal , a match he lost in four sets . He then won the Rotterdam Open for the first time since 2005 , defeating Juan Mart í n del Potro . Federer played in the 2012 Dubai Tennis Championships , where he defeated Andy Murray in the final and won the championship title for the fifth time in his career . Federer then moved on to the Indian Wells Masters , where he defeated Rafael Nadal in the semifinals , and John Isner in the final . Federer won the title for a record fourth time , and , in doing so , equalled Nadal ' s record of 19 ATP Masters titles .	How many times have you won the Rotterdam Open?	Twice
Federer reached the semifinal of the 2012 Australian Open , setting up a 27th career meeting with Nadal , a match he lost in four sets . He then won the Rotterdam Open for the first time since 2005 , defeating Juan Mart í n del Potro . Federer played in the 2012 Dubai Tennis Championships , where he defeated Andy Murray in the final and won the championship title for the fifth time in his career . Federer then moved on to the Indian Wells Masters , where he defeated Rafael Nadal in the semifinals , and John Isner in the final . Federer won the title for a record fourth time , and , in doing so , equalled Nadal ' s record of 19 ATP Masters titles .	Who did you defeat in the final of the 2012 Dubai Tennis Championships?	Andy Murray
Federer reached the semifinal of the 2012 Australian Open , setting up a 27th career meeting with Nadal , a match he lost in four sets . He then won the Rotterdam Open for the first time since 2005 , defeating Juan Mart í n del Potro . Federer played in the 2012 Dubai Tennis Championships , where he defeated Andy Murray in the final and won the championship title for the fifth time in his career . Federer then moved on to the Indian Wells Masters , where he defeated Rafael Nadal in the semifinals , and John Isner in the final . Federer won the title for a record fourth time , and , in doing so , equalled Nadal ' s record of 19 ATP Masters titles .	Who did you defeat in the final of the Indian Wells Masters?	John Isner
Federer reached the semifinal of the 2012 Australian Open , setting up a 27th career meeting with Nadal , a match he lost in four sets . He then won the Rotterdam Open for the first time since 2005 , defeating Juan Mart í n del Potro . Federer played in the 2012 Dubai Tennis Championships , where he defeated Andy Murray in the final and won the championship title for the fifth time in his career . Federer then moved on to the Indian Wells Masters , where he defeated Rafael Nadal in the semifinals , and John Isner in the final . Federer won the title for a record fourth time , and , in doing so , equalled Nadal ' s record of 19 ATP Masters titles .	How many ATP Masters titles do you have?	19
At Wimbledon , Federer had a five - set match in the third round against Julien Benneteau on his way to the winning the tournament . Federer defeated Andy Murray in four sets in the 2012 Wimbledon final , regaining the No . 1 ranking in the process . " It ' s amazing . It equals me with Pete Sampras , who ' s my hero . It just feels amazing , " Federer said of winning his seventh Wimbledon championship , tying Sampras ' Open Era record . By defeating top - ranked Djokovic in the semifinals and winning in the finals , Federer returned to the top spot in the world rankings and , in doing so , broke Sampras ' record of 286 weeks atop the list .	Who did you defeat in the 2012 Wimbledon final?	I defeated Andy Murray in the 2012 Wimbledon final.
At Wimbledon , Federer had a five - set match in the third round against Julien Benneteau on his way to the winning the tournament . Federer defeated Andy Murray in four sets in the 2012 Wimbledon final , regaining the No . 1 ranking in the process . " It ' s amazing . It equals me with Pete Sampras , who ' s my hero . It just feels amazing , " Federer said of winning his seventh Wimbledon championship , tying Sampras ' Open Era record . By defeating top - ranked Djokovic in the semifinals and winning in the finals , Federer returned to the top spot in the world rankings and , in doing so , broke Sampras ' record of 286 weeks atop the list .	How many sets did you play in your match against Julien Benneteau in the third round of Wimbledon?	I had a five-set match against Julien Benneteau in the third round of Wimbledon.
At Wimbledon , Federer had a five - set match in the third round against Julien Benneteau on his way to the winning the tournament . Federer defeated Andy Murray in four sets in the 2012 Wimbledon final , regaining the No . 1 ranking in the process . " It ' s amazing . It equals me with Pete Sampras , who ' s my hero . It just feels amazing , " Federer said of winning his seventh Wimbledon championship , tying Sampras ' Open Era record . By defeating top - ranked Djokovic in the semifinals and winning in the finals , Federer returned to the top spot in the world rankings and , in doing so , broke Sampras ' record of 286 weeks atop the list .	How many Wimbledon championships have you won in total?	I have won seven Wimbledon championships in total.
At Wimbledon , Federer had a five - set match in the third round against Julien Benneteau on his way to the winning the tournament . Federer defeated Andy Murray in four sets in the 2012 Wimbledon final , regaining the No . 1 ranking in the process . " It ' s amazing . It equals me with Pete Sampras , who ' s my hero . It just feels amazing , " Federer said of winning his seventh Wimbledon championship , tying Sampras ' Open Era record . By defeating top - ranked Djokovic in the semifinals and winning in the finals , Federer returned to the top spot in the world rankings and , in doing so , broke Sampras ' record of 286 weeks atop the list .	Who did you defeat in the semifinals of Wimbledon to return to the top spot in the world rankings?	I defeated top-ranked Djokovic in the semifinals of Wimbledon to return to the top spot in the world rankings.
At Wimbledon , Federer had a five - set match in the third round against Julien Benneteau on his way to the winning the tournament . Federer defeated Andy Murray in four sets in the 2012 Wimbledon final , regaining the No . 1 ranking in the process . " It ' s amazing . It equals me with Pete Sampras , who ' s my hero . It just feels amazing , " Federer said of winning his seventh Wimbledon championship , tying Sampras ' Open Era record . By defeating top - ranked Djokovic in the semifinals and winning in the finals , Federer returned to the top spot in the world rankings and , in doing so , broke Sampras ' record of 286 weeks atop the list .	Whose record did you tie by winning your seventh Wimbledon championship?	I tied Pete Sampras' Open Era record by winning my seventh Wimbledon championship.
Federer won the Cincinnati open in August , beating Novak Djokovic in the final . In the US Open , five - time champ Federer was defeated by Tom á š Berdych in the quarterfinals . At the Shanghai Masters after defeating Wawrinka in the third round , Federer confirmed his 300th week at No . 1 . Federer made it to the finals of the ATP Finals , where he lost to Djokovic in two sets .	Who did you beat in the final of the Cincinnati open in August?	Novak Djokovic
Federer won the Cincinnati open in August , beating Novak Djokovic in the final . In the US Open , five - time champ Federer was defeated by Tom á š Berdych in the quarterfinals . At the Shanghai Masters after defeating Wawrinka in the third round , Federer confirmed his 300th week at No . 1 . Federer made it to the finals of the ATP Finals , where he lost to Djokovic in two sets .	Who defeated you in the quarterfinals of the US Open?	Tomáš Berdych
Federer won the Cincinnati open in August , beating Novak Djokovic in the final . In the US Open , five - time champ Federer was defeated by Tom á š Berdych in the quarterfinals . At the Shanghai Masters after defeating Wawrinka in the third round , Federer confirmed his 300th week at No . 1 . Federer made it to the finals of the ATP Finals , where he lost to Djokovic in two sets .	Who did you defeat in the third round of the Shanghai Masters?	Wawrinka
Federer won the Cincinnati open in August , beating Novak Djokovic in the final . In the US Open , five - time champ Federer was defeated by Tom á š Berdych in the quarterfinals . At the Shanghai Masters after defeating Wawrinka in the third round , Federer confirmed his 300th week at No . 1 . Federer made it to the finals of the ATP Finals , where he lost to Djokovic in two sets .	How many weeks did you confirm at No. 1 after the Shanghai Masters?	300 weeks
Federer won the Cincinnati open in August , beating Novak Djokovic in the final . In the US Open , five - time champ Federer was defeated by Tom á š Berdych in the quarterfinals . At the Shanghai Masters after defeating Wawrinka in the third round , Federer confirmed his 300th week at No . 1 . Federer made it to the finals of the ATP Finals , where he lost to Djokovic in two sets .	Who did you lose to in the finals of the ATP Finals?	Djokovic
In March , Federer entered the Indian Wells Masters as defending champion . He defeated Chung Hyeon in the quarterfinals , ensuring that he retained the world No . 1 ranking , and Borna Ć ori ć in the semifinals , solidifying a career - best start to a season at 17 – 0 . His previous best season start was n 16 – 0 during the 2006 season . Despite holding three championship points , Federer was defeated by Juan Mart í n del Potro in a close three - set final . At the Miami Open Federer received a first - round bye , but lost in the second round to Thanasi Kokkinakis . With this early exit from the tournament , Federer lost his No . 1 ranking to Nadal on 2 April . He announced that he would miss the clay court season , including the French Open , for the second consecutive season . Nevertheless , he regained the No . 1 ranking in May after Nadal failed to defend one of his Masters titles at the Madrid Open . He then lost the top spot the following week after Nadal won the title at the Italian Open .	When did you enter the Indian Wells Masters as defending champion?	In March.
In March , Federer entered the Indian Wells Masters as defending champion . He defeated Chung Hyeon in the quarterfinals , ensuring that he retained the world No . 1 ranking , and Borna Ć ori ć in the semifinals , solidifying a career - best start to a season at 17 – 0 . His previous best season start was n 16 – 0 during the 2006 season . Despite holding three championship points , Federer was defeated by Juan Mart í n del Potro in a close three - set final . At the Miami Open Federer received a first - round bye , but lost in the second round to Thanasi Kokkinakis . With this early exit from the tournament , Federer lost his No . 1 ranking to Nadal on 2 April . He announced that he would miss the clay court season , including the French Open , for the second consecutive season . Nevertheless , he regained the No . 1 ranking in May after Nadal failed to defend one of his Masters titles at the Madrid Open . He then lost the top spot the following week after Nadal won the title at the Italian Open .	Who did you defeat in the quarterfinals of the Indian Wells Masters?	Chung Hyeon.
In March , Federer entered the Indian Wells Masters as defending champion . He defeated Chung Hyeon in the quarterfinals , ensuring that he retained the world No . 1 ranking , and Borna Ć ori ć in the semifinals , solidifying a career - best start to a season at 17 – 0 . His previous best season start was n 16 – 0 during the 2006 season . Despite holding three championship points , Federer was defeated by Juan Mart í n del Potro in a close three - set final . At the Miami Open Federer received a first - round bye , but lost in the second round to Thanasi Kokkinakis . With this early exit from the tournament , Federer lost his No . 1 ranking to Nadal on 2 April . He announced that he would miss the clay court season , including the French Open , for the second consecutive season . Nevertheless , he regained the No . 1 ranking in May after Nadal failed to defend one of his Masters titles at the Madrid Open . He then lost the top spot the following week after Nadal won the title at the Italian Open .	How many championship points did you hold in the final of the Indian Wells Masters?	Three championship points.
In March , Federer entered the Indian Wells Masters as defending champion . He defeated Chung Hyeon in the quarterfinals , ensuring that he retained the world No . 1 ranking , and Borna Ć ori ć in the semifinals , solidifying a career - best start to a season at 17 – 0 . His previous best season start was n 16 – 0 during the 2006 season . Despite holding three championship points , Federer was defeated by Juan Mart í n del Potro in a close three - set final . At the Miami Open Federer received a first - round bye , but lost in the second round to Thanasi Kokkinakis . With this early exit from the tournament , Federer lost his No . 1 ranking to Nadal on 2 April . He announced that he would miss the clay court season , including the French Open , for the second consecutive season . Nevertheless , he regained the No . 1 ranking in May after Nadal failed to defend one of his Masters titles at the Madrid Open . He then lost the top spot the following week after Nadal won the title at the Italian Open .	Who defeated you in the final of the Indian Wells Masters?	Juan Martín del Potro defeated me.
In March , Federer entered the Indian Wells Masters as defending champion . He defeated Chung Hyeon in the quarterfinals , ensuring that he retained the world No . 1 ranking , and Borna Ć ori ć in the semifinals , solidifying a career - best start to a season at 17 – 0 . His previous best season start was n 16 – 0 during the 2006 season . Despite holding three championship points , Federer was defeated by Juan Mart í n del Potro in a close three - set final . At the Miami Open Federer received a first - round bye , but lost in the second round to Thanasi Kokkinakis . With this early exit from the tournament , Federer lost his No . 1 ranking to Nadal on 2 April . He announced that he would miss the clay court season , including the French Open , for the second consecutive season . Nevertheless , he regained the No . 1 ranking in May after Nadal failed to defend one of his Masters titles at the Madrid Open . He then lost the top spot the following week after Nadal won the title at the Italian Open .	Who did you lose to in the second round of the Miami Open?	Thanasi Kokkinakis.
Federer began his 2020 season at the 2020 Australian Open . He reached the semifinals after straight sets wins over Steve Johnson and Filip Krajinovi ć , a five - set win over John Millman and a four - set win over M á rton Fucsovics . Federer saved seven match points in his five - set quarterfinal win over Tennys Sandgren . Federer then lost his semifinal match to Djokovic in straight sets , having sustained a groin injury earlier in the tournament . In February , Federer underwent arthroscopic surgery for a right knee injury and subsequently withdrew from the Dubai Championships , Indian Wells , Miami Open , and the French Open to give time for his knee to recover , announcing that he would return in the grass season . On 10 June , due to a setback from his initial rehabilitation from the knee injury suffered earlier in the year , Federer announced that he had to have an additional arthroscopic procedure on his right knee . He officially shut down his season to take the necessary time to recover , vowing to return in 2021 . This was only the second year in Federer ' s career since he won his first title that he finished without a title .	Where did you begin your 2020 season?	I began my 2020 season at the 2020 Australian Open.
Federer began his 2020 season at the 2020 Australian Open . He reached the semifinals after straight sets wins over Steve Johnson and Filip Krajinovi ć , a five - set win over John Millman and a four - set win over M á rton Fucsovics . Federer saved seven match points in his five - set quarterfinal win over Tennys Sandgren . Federer then lost his semifinal match to Djokovic in straight sets , having sustained a groin injury earlier in the tournament . In February , Federer underwent arthroscopic surgery for a right knee injury and subsequently withdrew from the Dubai Championships , Indian Wells , Miami Open , and the French Open to give time for his knee to recover , announcing that he would return in the grass season . On 10 June , due to a setback from his initial rehabilitation from the knee injury suffered earlier in the year , Federer announced that he had to have an additional arthroscopic procedure on his right knee . He officially shut down his season to take the necessary time to recover , vowing to return in 2021 . This was only the second year in Federer ' s career since he won his first title that he finished without a title .	Who did you defeat in the quarterfinals of the Australian Open?	I defeated Tennys Sandgren in the quarterfinals of the Australian Open.
Federer began his 2020 season at the 2020 Australian Open . He reached the semifinals after straight sets wins over Steve Johnson and Filip Krajinovi ć , a five - set win over John Millman and a four - set win over M á rton Fucsovics . Federer saved seven match points in his five - set quarterfinal win over Tennys Sandgren . Federer then lost his semifinal match to Djokovic in straight sets , having sustained a groin injury earlier in the tournament . In February , Federer underwent arthroscopic surgery for a right knee injury and subsequently withdrew from the Dubai Championships , Indian Wells , Miami Open , and the French Open to give time for his knee to recover , announcing that he would return in the grass season . On 10 June , due to a setback from his initial rehabilitation from the knee injury suffered earlier in the year , Federer announced that he had to have an additional arthroscopic procedure on his right knee . He officially shut down his season to take the necessary time to recover , vowing to return in 2021 . This was only the second year in Federer ' s career since he won his first title that he finished without a title .	What injury did you sustain during the Australian Open?	I sustained a groin injury during the Australian Open.
Federer began his 2020 season at the 2020 Australian Open . He reached the semifinals after straight sets wins over Steve Johnson and Filip Krajinovi ć , a five - set win over John Millman and a four - set win over M á rton Fucsovics . Federer saved seven match points in his five - set quarterfinal win over Tennys Sandgren . Federer then lost his semifinal match to Djokovic in straight sets , having sustained a groin injury earlier in the tournament . In February , Federer underwent arthroscopic surgery for a right knee injury and subsequently withdrew from the Dubai Championships , Indian Wells , Miami Open , and the French Open to give time for his knee to recover , announcing that he would return in the grass season . On 10 June , due to a setback from his initial rehabilitation from the knee injury suffered earlier in the year , Federer announced that he had to have an additional arthroscopic procedure on his right knee . He officially shut down his season to take the necessary time to recover , vowing to return in 2021 . This was only the second year in Federer ' s career since he won his first title that he finished without a title .	Which tournaments did you withdraw from after undergoing knee surgery?	I withdrew from the Dubai Championships, Indian Wells, Miami Open, and the French Open after undergoing knee surgery.
Federer began his 2020 season at the 2020 Australian Open . He reached the semifinals after straight sets wins over Steve Johnson and Filip Krajinovi ć , a five - set win over John Millman and a four - set win over M á rton Fucsovics . Federer saved seven match points in his five - set quarterfinal win over Tennys Sandgren . Federer then lost his semifinal match to Djokovic in straight sets , having sustained a groin injury earlier in the tournament . In February , Federer underwent arthroscopic surgery for a right knee injury and subsequently withdrew from the Dubai Championships , Indian Wells , Miami Open , and the French Open to give time for his knee to recover , announcing that he would return in the grass season . On 10 June , due to a setback from his initial rehabilitation from the knee injury suffered earlier in the year , Federer announced that he had to have an additional arthroscopic procedure on his right knee . He officially shut down his season to take the necessary time to recover , vowing to return in 2021 . This was only the second year in Federer ' s career since he won his first title that he finished without a title .	When did you announce that you would return to tennis?	I announced on 10 June that I would return to tennis in 2021.
Federer and Andy Murray played 25 times , with Federer leading 14 – 11 . Federer leads 12 – 10 on hard courts , and 2 – 1 on grass ; they never met on clay . After Federer won the first professional match they played , Murray dominated the first half of the rivalry , leading 8 – 5 in 2010 , while the second half of the rivalry was dominated by Federer , who leads 9 – 3 from 2011 onwards . The two have met six times at the majors , with Federer leading 5 – 1 . Their first three major matches were finals , with Federer winning all three of these matches ; at the 2008 US Open and the 2010 Australian Open , both of which he won in straight sets , and at the 2012 Wimbledon Championships in which Murray took the opening set , but went on to lose in four sets . However , Murray won their encounter in the semifinals of the 2013 Australian Open , defeating Federer for the first time at a major in five sets . At the 2014 Australian Open , Federer reversed that result , defeating Murray in four sets in the quarterfinals . The final meeting between the two in a major was in the semifinals of the 2015 Wimbledon Championships , where a dominant Federer triumphed in straight sets .	How many times have you and Andy Murray played against each other?	Andy Murray and I have played 25 times.
Federer and Andy Murray played 25 times , with Federer leading 14 – 11 . Federer leads 12 – 10 on hard courts , and 2 – 1 on grass ; they never met on clay . After Federer won the first professional match they played , Murray dominated the first half of the rivalry , leading 8 – 5 in 2010 , while the second half of the rivalry was dominated by Federer , who leads 9 – 3 from 2011 onwards . The two have met six times at the majors , with Federer leading 5 – 1 . Their first three major matches were finals , with Federer winning all three of these matches ; at the 2008 US Open and the 2010 Australian Open , both of which he won in straight sets , and at the 2012 Wimbledon Championships in which Murray took the opening set , but went on to lose in four sets . However , Murray won their encounter in the semifinals of the 2013 Australian Open , defeating Federer for the first time at a major in five sets . At the 2014 Australian Open , Federer reversed that result , defeating Murray in four sets in the quarterfinals . The final meeting between the two in a major was in the semifinals of the 2015 Wimbledon Championships , where a dominant Federer triumphed in straight sets .	Who has the lead in our head-to-head record?	I lead with a record of 14-11.
Federer and Andy Murray played 25 times , with Federer leading 14 – 11 . Federer leads 12 – 10 on hard courts , and 2 – 1 on grass ; they never met on clay . After Federer won the first professional match they played , Murray dominated the first half of the rivalry , leading 8 – 5 in 2010 , while the second half of the rivalry was dominated by Federer , who leads 9 – 3 from 2011 onwards . The two have met six times at the majors , with Federer leading 5 – 1 . Their first three major matches were finals , with Federer winning all three of these matches ; at the 2008 US Open and the 2010 Australian Open , both of which he won in straight sets , and at the 2012 Wimbledon Championships in which Murray took the opening set , but went on to lose in four sets . However , Murray won their encounter in the semifinals of the 2013 Australian Open , defeating Federer for the first time at a major in five sets . At the 2014 Australian Open , Federer reversed that result , defeating Murray in four sets in the quarterfinals . The final meeting between the two in a major was in the semifinals of the 2015 Wimbledon Championships , where a dominant Federer triumphed in straight sets .	What is your record on hard courts against Murray?	I lead with a record of 12-10 on hard courts.
Federer and Andy Murray played 25 times , with Federer leading 14 – 11 . Federer leads 12 – 10 on hard courts , and 2 – 1 on grass ; they never met on clay . After Federer won the first professional match they played , Murray dominated the first half of the rivalry , leading 8 – 5 in 2010 , while the second half of the rivalry was dominated by Federer , who leads 9 – 3 from 2011 onwards . The two have met six times at the majors , with Federer leading 5 – 1 . Their first three major matches were finals , with Federer winning all three of these matches ; at the 2008 US Open and the 2010 Australian Open , both of which he won in straight sets , and at the 2012 Wimbledon Championships in which Murray took the opening set , but went on to lose in four sets . However , Murray won their encounter in the semifinals of the 2013 Australian Open , defeating Federer for the first time at a major in five sets . At the 2014 Australian Open , Federer reversed that result , defeating Murray in four sets in the quarterfinals . The final meeting between the two in a major was in the semifinals of the 2015 Wimbledon Championships , where a dominant Federer triumphed in straight sets .	What is your record on grass between you and Murray?	I lead with a record of 2-1 on grass.
Federer and Andy Murray played 25 times , with Federer leading 14 – 11 . Federer leads 12 – 10 on hard courts , and 2 – 1 on grass ; they never met on clay . After Federer won the first professional match they played , Murray dominated the first half of the rivalry , leading 8 – 5 in 2010 , while the second half of the rivalry was dominated by Federer , who leads 9 – 3 from 2011 onwards . The two have met six times at the majors , with Federer leading 5 – 1 . Their first three major matches were finals , with Federer winning all three of these matches ; at the 2008 US Open and the 2010 Australian Open , both of which he won in straight sets , and at the 2012 Wimbledon Championships in which Murray took the opening set , but went on to lose in four sets . However , Murray won their encounter in the semifinals of the 2013 Australian Open , defeating Federer for the first time at a major in five sets . At the 2014 Australian Open , Federer reversed that result , defeating Murray in four sets in the quarterfinals . The final meeting between the two in a major was in the semifinals of the 2015 Wimbledon Championships , where a dominant Federer triumphed in straight sets .	Have you and Murray ever met on clay?	No, we have never met on clay.
Federer and his countryman Stan Wawrinka played each other 26 times , with Federer leading 23 – 3 . Federer leads 7 – 1 in majors , 17 – 0 on hard courts , 1 – 0 on grass courts and 5 – 3 on clay courts . The pair are 1 – 1 in finals . Their first meeting in a final came at 2014 Monte - Carlo Rolex Masters where Wawrinka defeated Federer in three sets to win his first Masters title before Federer avenged his loss at the 2017 BNP Paribas Open by beating him in the final . While the rivalry is one - sided in Federer ' s favour , the two contested some close matches . Wawrinka defeated Federer in straight sets during the 2015 French Open quarterfinals en route to winning his first French Open title , although Federer then won a straight - sets victory in the 2015 US Open semifinals . Other close matches include the 2012 Shanghai Masters and the 2013 Indian Wells Masters , both of which Federer won in three sets , the 2014 Wimbledon quarterfinal , which Federer won in four sets , the 2014 ATP Finals semifinal , which Federer won in three sets after saving four match points , and the 2017 Australian Open semifinal , which Federer won in five sets . Despite their on - court rivalry , they are friends off court , and played doubles together on numerous occasions , most notably when they won the doubles Olympic gold at the 2008 Beijing Olympics and when winning the 2014 Davis Cup .	How many times have you and Wawrinka played against each other?	Wawrinka and I have played against each other 26 times.
Federer and his countryman Stan Wawrinka played each other 26 times , with Federer leading 23 – 3 . Federer leads 7 – 1 in majors , 17 – 0 on hard courts , 1 – 0 on grass courts and 5 – 3 on clay courts . The pair are 1 – 1 in finals . Their first meeting in a final came at 2014 Monte - Carlo Rolex Masters where Wawrinka defeated Federer in three sets to win his first Masters title before Federer avenged his loss at the 2017 BNP Paribas Open by beating him in the final . While the rivalry is one - sided in Federer ' s favour , the two contested some close matches . Wawrinka defeated Federer in straight sets during the 2015 French Open quarterfinals en route to winning his first French Open title , although Federer then won a straight - sets victory in the 2015 US Open semifinals . Other close matches include the 2012 Shanghai Masters and the 2013 Indian Wells Masters , both of which Federer won in three sets , the 2014 Wimbledon quarterfinal , which Federer won in four sets , the 2014 ATP Finals semifinal , which Federer won in three sets after saving four match points , and the 2017 Australian Open semifinal , which Federer won in five sets . Despite their on - court rivalry , they are friends off court , and played doubles together on numerous occasions , most notably when they won the doubles Olympic gold at the 2008 Beijing Olympics and when winning the 2014 Davis Cup .	What is your lead in our head-to-head matches?	I lead with a score of 23-3 against Wawrinka.
Federer and his countryman Stan Wawrinka played each other 26 times , with Federer leading 23 – 3 . Federer leads 7 – 1 in majors , 17 – 0 on hard courts , 1 – 0 on grass courts and 5 – 3 on clay courts . The pair are 1 – 1 in finals . Their first meeting in a final came at 2014 Monte - Carlo Rolex Masters where Wawrinka defeated Federer in three sets to win his first Masters title before Federer avenged his loss at the 2017 BNP Paribas Open by beating him in the final . While the rivalry is one - sided in Federer ' s favour , the two contested some close matches . Wawrinka defeated Federer in straight sets during the 2015 French Open quarterfinals en route to winning his first French Open title , although Federer then won a straight - sets victory in the 2015 US Open semifinals . Other close matches include the 2012 Shanghai Masters and the 2013 Indian Wells Masters , both of which Federer won in three sets , the 2014 Wimbledon quarterfinal , which Federer won in four sets , the 2014 ATP Finals semifinal , which Federer won in three sets after saving four match points , and the 2017 Australian Open semifinal , which Federer won in five sets . Despite their on - court rivalry , they are friends off court , and played doubles together on numerous occasions , most notably when they won the doubles Olympic gold at the 2008 Beijing Olympics and when winning the 2014 Davis Cup .	What is your lead in major tournaments?	I lead with a score of 7-1 against Wawrinka in major tournaments.
Federer and his countryman Stan Wawrinka played each other 26 times , with Federer leading 23 – 3 . Federer leads 7 – 1 in majors , 17 – 0 on hard courts , 1 – 0 on grass courts and 5 – 3 on clay courts . The pair are 1 – 1 in finals . Their first meeting in a final came at 2014 Monte - Carlo Rolex Masters where Wawrinka defeated Federer in three sets to win his first Masters title before Federer avenged his loss at the 2017 BNP Paribas Open by beating him in the final . While the rivalry is one - sided in Federer ' s favour , the two contested some close matches . Wawrinka defeated Federer in straight sets during the 2015 French Open quarterfinals en route to winning his first French Open title , although Federer then won a straight - sets victory in the 2015 US Open semifinals . Other close matches include the 2012 Shanghai Masters and the 2013 Indian Wells Masters , both of which Federer won in three sets , the 2014 Wimbledon quarterfinal , which Federer won in four sets , the 2014 ATP Finals semifinal , which Federer won in three sets after saving four match points , and the 2017 Australian Open semifinal , which Federer won in five sets . Despite their on - court rivalry , they are friends off court , and played doubles together on numerous occasions , most notably when they won the doubles Olympic gold at the 2008 Beijing Olympics and when winning the 2014 Davis Cup .	What is your lead on different court surfaces?	I lead with a score of 17-0 on hard courts, 1-0 on grass courts, and 5-3 on clay courts against Wawrinka.
Federer and his countryman Stan Wawrinka played each other 26 times , with Federer leading 23 – 3 . Federer leads 7 – 1 in majors , 17 – 0 on hard courts , 1 – 0 on grass courts and 5 – 3 on clay courts . The pair are 1 – 1 in finals . Their first meeting in a final came at 2014 Monte - Carlo Rolex Masters where Wawrinka defeated Federer in three sets to win his first Masters title before Federer avenged his loss at the 2017 BNP Paribas Open by beating him in the final . While the rivalry is one - sided in Federer ' s favour , the two contested some close matches . Wawrinka defeated Federer in straight sets during the 2015 French Open quarterfinals en route to winning his first French Open title , although Federer then won a straight - sets victory in the 2015 US Open semifinals . Other close matches include the 2012 Shanghai Masters and the 2013 Indian Wells Masters , both of which Federer won in three sets , the 2014 Wimbledon quarterfinal , which Federer won in four sets , the 2014 ATP Finals semifinal , which Federer won in three sets after saving four match points , and the 2017 Australian Open semifinal , which Federer won in five sets . Despite their on - court rivalry , they are friends off court , and played doubles together on numerous occasions , most notably when they won the doubles Olympic gold at the 2008 Beijing Olympics and when winning the 2014 Davis Cup .	How many times have you and Wawrinka played in finals?	Wawrinka and I have played in finals 2 times, with a score of 1-1.
Tom á š Berdych and Federer played 26 times , with Federer leading 20 – 6 . Federer leads 12 – 5 on hard courts , 3 – 1 on grass courts , 4 – 0 on clay courts , and 1 – 0 on carpet . Berdych won their first professional match , notably upsetting then - No . 1 Federer at the 2004 Summer Olympics . Federer then went on to win their next eight meetings , before Berdych ended the losing streak in 2010 . Between 2010 and 2013 , Berdych won 5 of 8 meetings . Federer again dominated the matchup after 2014 , leading 9 – 0 since then . They met ten times in Grand Slam tournaments , with Federer leading 8 – 2 , and Berdych is one of five players , along with Arnaud Cl é ment , Á lex Corretja , David Nalbandian , and Jo - Wilfried Tsonga , to defeat Federer multiple times in majors before the semifinal stage . Their most notable Grand Slam matches took place in the 2009 Australian Open , when Federer prevailed in five sets after dropping the first two sets , the 2010 Wimbledon Championships and the 2012 US Open , both of which Berdych won in four sets . Berdych went on to reach the only Grand Slam final of his career after the Wimbledon quarterfinal victory , ending Federer ' s run of seven consecutive finals at Wimbledon dating back to 2003 .	How many times have you and Tomáš Berdych played against each other?	Tomáš Berdych and I have played 26 times.
Tom á š Berdych and Federer played 26 times , with Federer leading 20 – 6 . Federer leads 12 – 5 on hard courts , 3 – 1 on grass courts , 4 – 0 on clay courts , and 1 – 0 on carpet . Berdych won their first professional match , notably upsetting then - No . 1 Federer at the 2004 Summer Olympics . Federer then went on to win their next eight meetings , before Berdych ended the losing streak in 2010 . Between 2010 and 2013 , Berdych won 5 of 8 meetings . Federer again dominated the matchup after 2014 , leading 9 – 0 since then . They met ten times in Grand Slam tournaments , with Federer leading 8 – 2 , and Berdych is one of five players , along with Arnaud Cl é ment , Á lex Corretja , David Nalbandian , and Jo - Wilfried Tsonga , to defeat Federer multiple times in majors before the semifinal stage . Their most notable Grand Slam matches took place in the 2009 Australian Open , when Federer prevailed in five sets after dropping the first two sets , the 2010 Wimbledon Championships and the 2012 US Open , both of which Berdych won in four sets . Berdych went on to reach the only Grand Slam final of his career after the Wimbledon quarterfinal victory , ending Federer ' s run of seven consecutive finals at Wimbledon dating back to 2003 .	Who has a higher number of wins between Tomáš Berdych and you?	I have a higher number of wins.
Tom á š Berdych and Federer played 26 times , with Federer leading 20 – 6 . Federer leads 12 – 5 on hard courts , 3 – 1 on grass courts , 4 – 0 on clay courts , and 1 – 0 on carpet . Berdych won their first professional match , notably upsetting then - No . 1 Federer at the 2004 Summer Olympics . Federer then went on to win their next eight meetings , before Berdych ended the losing streak in 2010 . Between 2010 and 2013 , Berdych won 5 of 8 meetings . Federer again dominated the matchup after 2014 , leading 9 – 0 since then . They met ten times in Grand Slam tournaments , with Federer leading 8 – 2 , and Berdych is one of five players , along with Arnaud Cl é ment , Á lex Corretja , David Nalbandian , and Jo - Wilfried Tsonga , to defeat Federer multiple times in majors before the semifinal stage . Their most notable Grand Slam matches took place in the 2009 Australian Open , when Federer prevailed in five sets after dropping the first two sets , the 2010 Wimbledon Championships and the 2012 US Open , both of which Berdych won in four sets . Berdych went on to reach the only Grand Slam final of his career after the Wimbledon quarterfinal victory , ending Federer ' s run of seven consecutive finals at Wimbledon dating back to 2003 .	What is your head-to-head record with Tomáš Berdych on hard courts?	I lead 12-5 on hard courts.
Tom á š Berdych and Federer played 26 times , with Federer leading 20 – 6 . Federer leads 12 – 5 on hard courts , 3 – 1 on grass courts , 4 – 0 on clay courts , and 1 – 0 on carpet . Berdych won their first professional match , notably upsetting then - No . 1 Federer at the 2004 Summer Olympics . Federer then went on to win their next eight meetings , before Berdych ended the losing streak in 2010 . Between 2010 and 2013 , Berdych won 5 of 8 meetings . Federer again dominated the matchup after 2014 , leading 9 – 0 since then . They met ten times in Grand Slam tournaments , with Federer leading 8 – 2 , and Berdych is one of five players , along with Arnaud Cl é ment , Á lex Corretja , David Nalbandian , and Jo - Wilfried Tsonga , to defeat Federer multiple times in majors before the semifinal stage . Their most notable Grand Slam matches took place in the 2009 Australian Open , when Federer prevailed in five sets after dropping the first two sets , the 2010 Wimbledon Championships and the 2012 US Open , both of which Berdych won in four sets . Berdych went on to reach the only Grand Slam final of his career after the Wimbledon quarterfinal victory , ending Federer ' s run of seven consecutive finals at Wimbledon dating back to 2003 .	How many times have you and Tomáš Berdych met in Grand Slam tournaments?	Tomáš Berdych and I have met ten times in Grand Slam tournaments.
Tom á š Berdych and Federer played 26 times , with Federer leading 20 – 6 . Federer leads 12 – 5 on hard courts , 3 – 1 on grass courts , 4 – 0 on clay courts , and 1 – 0 on carpet . Berdych won their first professional match , notably upsetting then - No . 1 Federer at the 2004 Summer Olympics . Federer then went on to win their next eight meetings , before Berdych ended the losing streak in 2010 . Between 2010 and 2013 , Berdych won 5 of 8 meetings . Federer again dominated the matchup after 2014 , leading 9 – 0 since then . They met ten times in Grand Slam tournaments , with Federer leading 8 – 2 , and Berdych is one of five players , along with Arnaud Cl é ment , Á lex Corretja , David Nalbandian , and Jo - Wilfried Tsonga , to defeat Federer multiple times in majors before the semifinal stage . Their most notable Grand Slam matches took place in the 2009 Australian Open , when Federer prevailed in five sets after dropping the first two sets , the 2010 Wimbledon Championships and the 2012 US Open , both of which Berdych won in four sets . Berdych went on to reach the only Grand Slam final of his career after the Wimbledon quarterfinal victory , ending Federer ' s run of seven consecutive finals at Wimbledon dating back to 2003 .	At which tournament did you lose to Berdych in your first professional match?	Berdych defeated me at the 2004 Summer Olympics.
