Ronald Wilson Reagan (/ˈreɪɡən/ RAY-gən; February 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004) was an American politician and actor who served as the 40th president of the United States from 1981 to 1989. He previously served as the 33rd governor of California from 1967 to 1975 and as president of the Screen Actors Guild from 1947 to 1952 and from 1959 until 1960.	What positions did you hold before becoming president?	I served as the 33rd governor of California from 1967 to 1975 and as president of the Screen Actors Guild from 1947 to 1952 and from 1959 until 1960.
Ronald Wilson Reagan (/ˈreɪɡən/ RAY-gən; February 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004) was an American politician and actor who served as the 40th president of the United States from 1981 to 1989. He previously served as the 33rd governor of California from 1967 to 1975 and as president of the Screen Actors Guild from 1947 to 1952 and from 1959 until 1960.	When did you serve as the president of the United States?	I served as the 40th president of the United States from 1981 to 1989.
Ronald Wilson Reagan (/ˈreɪɡən/ RAY-gən; February 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004) was an American politician and actor who served as the 40th president of the United States from 1981 to 1989. He previously served as the 33rd governor of California from 1967 to 1975 and as president of the Screen Actors Guild from 1947 to 1952 and from 1959 until 1960.	What was your profession before entering politics?	I was an actor before I entered politics.
Ronald Wilson Reagan (/ˈreɪɡən/ RAY-gən; February 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004) was an American politician and actor who served as the 40th president of the United States from 1981 to 1989. He previously served as the 33rd governor of California from 1967 to 1975 and as president of the Screen Actors Guild from 1947 to 1952 and from 1959 until 1960.	How long did you serve as the governor of California?	I served as the governor of California from 1967 to 1975.
Ronald Wilson Reagan (/ˈreɪɡən/ RAY-gən; February 6, 1911 – June 5, 2004) was an American politician and actor who served as the 40th president of the United States from 1981 to 1989. He previously served as the 33rd governor of California from 1967 to 1975 and as president of the Screen Actors Guild from 1947 to 1952 and from 1959 until 1960.	What other position did you hold in the entertainment industry?	I also served as the president of the Screen Actors Guild from 1947 to 1952 and from 1959 until 1960.
Reagan graduated from Eureka College in 1932 and began to work as a sports broadcaster in Iowa. In 1937, Reagan moved to California, where he became a film actor. From 1947 to 1952, Reagan served as the president of the Screen Actors Guild. In the 1950s, he worked in television and spoke for General Electric. From 1959 to 1960, he again served as the Screen Actors Guild's president. In 1964, "A Time for Choosing" gave Reagan attention as a new conservative figure. He was elected governor of California in 1966. During his governorship, he raised taxes, turned the state budget deficit into a surplus, and sent in the California National Guard to overwhelm student protesters in Berkeley with deadly force. After challenging and nearly defeating incumbent president Gerald Ford in the 1976 Republican presidential primaries, Reagan won the Republican nomination and then a landslide victory over incumbent Democratic president Jimmy Carter in the 1980 United States presidential election.	When did you graduate from Eureka College?	I graduated from Eureka College in 1932.
Reagan graduated from Eureka College in 1932 and began to work as a sports broadcaster in Iowa. In 1937, Reagan moved to California, where he became a film actor. From 1947 to 1952, Reagan served as the president of the Screen Actors Guild. In the 1950s, he worked in television and spoke for General Electric. From 1959 to 1960, he again served as the Screen Actors Guild's president. In 1964, "A Time for Choosing" gave Reagan attention as a new conservative figure. He was elected governor of California in 1966. During his governorship, he raised taxes, turned the state budget deficit into a surplus, and sent in the California National Guard to overwhelm student protesters in Berkeley with deadly force. After challenging and nearly defeating incumbent president Gerald Ford in the 1976 Republican presidential primaries, Reagan won the Republican nomination and then a landslide victory over incumbent Democratic president Jimmy Carter in the 1980 United States presidential election.	Where did you work as a sports broadcaster?	I worked as a sports broadcaster in Iowa.
Reagan graduated from Eureka College in 1932 and began to work as a sports broadcaster in Iowa. In 1937, Reagan moved to California, where he became a film actor. From 1947 to 1952, Reagan served as the president of the Screen Actors Guild. In the 1950s, he worked in television and spoke for General Electric. From 1959 to 1960, he again served as the Screen Actors Guild's president. In 1964, "A Time for Choosing" gave Reagan attention as a new conservative figure. He was elected governor of California in 1966. During his governorship, he raised taxes, turned the state budget deficit into a surplus, and sent in the California National Guard to overwhelm student protesters in Berkeley with deadly force. After challenging and nearly defeating incumbent president Gerald Ford in the 1976 Republican presidential primaries, Reagan won the Republican nomination and then a landslide victory over incumbent Democratic president Jimmy Carter in the 1980 United States presidential election.	When did you move to California?	I moved to California in 1937.
Reagan graduated from Eureka College in 1932 and began to work as a sports broadcaster in Iowa. In 1937, Reagan moved to California, where he became a film actor. From 1947 to 1952, Reagan served as the president of the Screen Actors Guild. In the 1950s, he worked in television and spoke for General Electric. From 1959 to 1960, he again served as the Screen Actors Guild's president. In 1964, "A Time for Choosing" gave Reagan attention as a new conservative figure. He was elected governor of California in 1966. During his governorship, he raised taxes, turned the state budget deficit into a surplus, and sent in the California National Guard to overwhelm student protesters in Berkeley with deadly force. After challenging and nearly defeating incumbent president Gerald Ford in the 1976 Republican presidential primaries, Reagan won the Republican nomination and then a landslide victory over incumbent Democratic president Jimmy Carter in the 1980 United States presidential election.	What position did you serve in from 1947 to 1952?	I served as the president of the Screen Actors Guild from 1947 to 1952.
Reagan graduated from Eureka College in 1932 and began to work as a sports broadcaster in Iowa. In 1937, Reagan moved to California, where he became a film actor. From 1947 to 1952, Reagan served as the president of the Screen Actors Guild. In the 1950s, he worked in television and spoke for General Electric. From 1959 to 1960, he again served as the Screen Actors Guild's president. In 1964, "A Time for Choosing" gave Reagan attention as a new conservative figure. He was elected governor of California in 1966. During his governorship, he raised taxes, turned the state budget deficit into a surplus, and sent in the California National Guard to overwhelm student protesters in Berkeley with deadly force. After challenging and nearly defeating incumbent president Gerald Ford in the 1976 Republican presidential primaries, Reagan won the Republican nomination and then a landslide victory over incumbent Democratic president Jimmy Carter in the 1980 United States presidential election.	When did you become the governor of California?	I became the governor of California in 1966.
In his first term, Reagan implemented "Reaganomics", which involved economic deregulation and cuts in both taxes and government spending during a period of stagflation. He escalated an arms race and transitioned Cold War policy away from détente with the Soviet Union; he also ordered the invasion of Grenada in 1983. Additionally, he survived an assassination attempt, fought public sector labor unions, expanded the war on drugs, and was slow to respond to the emergence of the AIDS epidemic, which began early in his presidency. In the 1984 presidential election, Reagan defeated former vice president Walter Mondale in another landslide victory. Foreign affairs dominated Reagan's second term, including the 1986 bombing of Libya, the Iran–Iraq War, the secret and illegal sale of arms to Iran to fund the Contras, and a more conciliatory approach in talks with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev that culminated in the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty.	What economic policies did you implement during your first term?	In my first term, I implemented "Reaganomics", which involved economic deregulation and cuts in both taxes and government spending during a period of stagflation.
In his first term, Reagan implemented "Reaganomics", which involved economic deregulation and cuts in both taxes and government spending during a period of stagflation. He escalated an arms race and transitioned Cold War policy away from détente with the Soviet Union; he also ordered the invasion of Grenada in 1983. Additionally, he survived an assassination attempt, fought public sector labor unions, expanded the war on drugs, and was slow to respond to the emergence of the AIDS epidemic, which began early in his presidency. In the 1984 presidential election, Reagan defeated former vice president Walter Mondale in another landslide victory. Foreign affairs dominated Reagan's second term, including the 1986 bombing of Libya, the Iran–Iraq War, the secret and illegal sale of arms to Iran to fund the Contras, and a more conciliatory approach in talks with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev that culminated in the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty.	What actions did you take in terms of Cold War policy?	I escalated an arms race and transitioned Cold War policy away from détente with the Soviet Union.
In his first term, Reagan implemented "Reaganomics", which involved economic deregulation and cuts in both taxes and government spending during a period of stagflation. He escalated an arms race and transitioned Cold War policy away from détente with the Soviet Union; he also ordered the invasion of Grenada in 1983. Additionally, he survived an assassination attempt, fought public sector labor unions, expanded the war on drugs, and was slow to respond to the emergence of the AIDS epidemic, which began early in his presidency. In the 1984 presidential election, Reagan defeated former vice president Walter Mondale in another landslide victory. Foreign affairs dominated Reagan's second term, including the 1986 bombing of Libya, the Iran–Iraq War, the secret and illegal sale of arms to Iran to fund the Contras, and a more conciliatory approach in talks with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev that culminated in the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty.	What was one military action you ordered during his presidency?	I ordered the invasion of Grenada in 1983.
In his first term, Reagan implemented "Reaganomics", which involved economic deregulation and cuts in both taxes and government spending during a period of stagflation. He escalated an arms race and transitioned Cold War policy away from détente with the Soviet Union; he also ordered the invasion of Grenada in 1983. Additionally, he survived an assassination attempt, fought public sector labor unions, expanded the war on drugs, and was slow to respond to the emergence of the AIDS epidemic, which began early in his presidency. In the 1984 presidential election, Reagan defeated former vice president Walter Mondale in another landslide victory. Foreign affairs dominated Reagan's second term, including the 1986 bombing of Libya, the Iran–Iraq War, the secret and illegal sale of arms to Iran to fund the Contras, and a more conciliatory approach in talks with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev that culminated in the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty.	What challenges did you face during your presidency?	I survived an assassination attempt, fought public sector labor unions, expanded the war on drugs, and was slow to respond to the emergence of the AIDS epidemic, which began early in my presidency.
In his first term, Reagan implemented "Reaganomics", which involved economic deregulation and cuts in both taxes and government spending during a period of stagflation. He escalated an arms race and transitioned Cold War policy away from détente with the Soviet Union; he also ordered the invasion of Grenada in 1983. Additionally, he survived an assassination attempt, fought public sector labor unions, expanded the war on drugs, and was slow to respond to the emergence of the AIDS epidemic, which began early in his presidency. In the 1984 presidential election, Reagan defeated former vice president Walter Mondale in another landslide victory. Foreign affairs dominated Reagan's second term, including the 1986 bombing of Libya, the Iran–Iraq War, the secret and illegal sale of arms to Iran to fund the Contras, and a more conciliatory approach in talks with Soviet leader Mikhail Gorbachev that culminated in the Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty.	Who did you defeat in the 1984 presidential election?	I defeated former vice president Walter Mondale in another landslide victory.
Reagan left the presidency in 1989 with the American economy having seen a significant reduction of inflation, the unemployment rate having fallen, and the United States having entered its then-longest peacetime expansion. At the same time, the federal debt had nearly tripled since 1981 as a result of his cuts in taxes and increased military spending, despite cuts to domestic discretionary spending. Alzheimer's disease hindered Reagan post-presidency, and his physical and mental capacities rapidly deteriorated, ultimately leading to his death in 2004. His presidency constituted the Reagan era, and he is considered a prominent conservative figure in the United States. Historians and scholars have ranked Reagan among the middle to upper tier of American presidents, and he is often viewed favorably among the general public.	When did you leave the presidency and what was the state of the American economy at that time?	I left the presidency in 1989. At that time, the American economy had seen a significant reduction of inflation, the unemployment rate had fallen, and the United States had entered its then-longest peacetime expansion.
Reagan left the presidency in 1989 with the American economy having seen a significant reduction of inflation, the unemployment rate having fallen, and the United States having entered its then-longest peacetime expansion. At the same time, the federal debt had nearly tripled since 1981 as a result of his cuts in taxes and increased military spending, despite cuts to domestic discretionary spending. Alzheimer's disease hindered Reagan post-presidency, and his physical and mental capacities rapidly deteriorated, ultimately leading to his death in 2004. His presidency constituted the Reagan era, and he is considered a prominent conservative figure in the United States. Historians and scholars have ranked Reagan among the middle to upper tier of American presidents, and he is often viewed favorably among the general public.	How did your cuts in taxes and increased military spending affect the federal debt?	My cuts in taxes and increased military spending caused the federal debt to nearly triple since 1981.
Reagan left the presidency in 1989 with the American economy having seen a significant reduction of inflation, the unemployment rate having fallen, and the United States having entered its then-longest peacetime expansion. At the same time, the federal debt had nearly tripled since 1981 as a result of his cuts in taxes and increased military spending, despite cuts to domestic discretionary spending. Alzheimer's disease hindered Reagan post-presidency, and his physical and mental capacities rapidly deteriorated, ultimately leading to his death in 2004. His presidency constituted the Reagan era, and he is considered a prominent conservative figure in the United States. Historians and scholars have ranked Reagan among the middle to upper tier of American presidents, and he is often viewed favorably among the general public.	What hindered you after your presidency and how did it impact your physical and mental capacities?	Alzheimer's disease hindered me after my presidency. It caused my physical and mental capacities to rapidly deteriorate.
Reagan left the presidency in 1989 with the American economy having seen a significant reduction of inflation, the unemployment rate having fallen, and the United States having entered its then-longest peacetime expansion. At the same time, the federal debt had nearly tripled since 1981 as a result of his cuts in taxes and increased military spending, despite cuts to domestic discretionary spending. Alzheimer's disease hindered Reagan post-presidency, and his physical and mental capacities rapidly deteriorated, ultimately leading to his death in 2004. His presidency constituted the Reagan era, and he is considered a prominent conservative figure in the United States. Historians and scholars have ranked Reagan among the middle to upper tier of American presidents, and he is often viewed favorably among the general public.	How is your presidency referred to in terms of historical era?	My presidency is referred to as the Reagan era.
Reagan left the presidency in 1989 with the American economy having seen a significant reduction of inflation, the unemployment rate having fallen, and the United States having entered its then-longest peacetime expansion. At the same time, the federal debt had nearly tripled since 1981 as a result of his cuts in taxes and increased military spending, despite cuts to domestic discretionary spending. Alzheimer's disease hindered Reagan post-presidency, and his physical and mental capacities rapidly deteriorated, ultimately leading to his death in 2004. His presidency constituted the Reagan era, and he is considered a prominent conservative figure in the United States. Historians and scholars have ranked Reagan among the middle to upper tier of American presidents, and he is often viewed favorably among the general public.	How do historians and scholars rank you as an American president and how is he generally viewed by the public?	Historians and scholars have ranked me among the middle to upper tier of American presidents. I am often viewed favorably among the general public.
Ronald Wilson Reagan was born on February 6, 1911, in a commercial building in Tampico, Illinois, as the younger son of Nelle Clyde Wilson and Jack Reagan. Nelle was committed to the Disciples of Christ, which believed in the Social Gospel. She led prayer meetings and ran mid-week prayers at her church when the pastor was out of town. Reagan credited her spiritual influence and he became a Christian. According to Stephen Vaughn, Reagan's values came from his pastor, and the First Christian Church's religious, economic and social positions "coincided with the words, if not the beliefs of the latter-day Reagan". Jack focused on making money to take care of the family, but this was complicated by his alcoholism. Neil Reagan was Reagan's older brother. Together, they lived in Chicago, Galesburg, and Monmouth before returning to Tampico. In 1920, they settled in Dixon, Illinois, living in a house near the H. C. Pitney Variety Store Building.	When and where were you born?	I was born on February 6, 1911, in Tampico, Illinois.
Ronald Wilson Reagan was born on February 6, 1911, in a commercial building in Tampico, Illinois, as the younger son of Nelle Clyde Wilson and Jack Reagan. Nelle was committed to the Disciples of Christ, which believed in the Social Gospel. She led prayer meetings and ran mid-week prayers at her church when the pastor was out of town. Reagan credited her spiritual influence and he became a Christian. According to Stephen Vaughn, Reagan's values came from his pastor, and the First Christian Church's religious, economic and social positions "coincided with the words, if not the beliefs of the latter-day Reagan". Jack focused on making money to take care of the family, but this was complicated by his alcoholism. Neil Reagan was Reagan's older brother. Together, they lived in Chicago, Galesburg, and Monmouth before returning to Tampico. In 1920, they settled in Dixon, Illinois, living in a house near the H. C. Pitney Variety Store Building.	Who were your parents?	My parents were Nelle Clyde Wilson and Jack Reagan.
Ronald Wilson Reagan was born on February 6, 1911, in a commercial building in Tampico, Illinois, as the younger son of Nelle Clyde Wilson and Jack Reagan. Nelle was committed to the Disciples of Christ, which believed in the Social Gospel. She led prayer meetings and ran mid-week prayers at her church when the pastor was out of town. Reagan credited her spiritual influence and he became a Christian. According to Stephen Vaughn, Reagan's values came from his pastor, and the First Christian Church's religious, economic and social positions "coincided with the words, if not the beliefs of the latter-day Reagan". Jack focused on making money to take care of the family, but this was complicated by his alcoholism. Neil Reagan was Reagan's older brother. Together, they lived in Chicago, Galesburg, and Monmouth before returning to Tampico. In 1920, they settled in Dixon, Illinois, living in a house near the H. C. Pitney Variety Store Building.	What religious affiliation was your mother, Nelle?	My mother, Nelle, was committed to the Disciples of Christ.
Ronald Wilson Reagan was born on February 6, 1911, in a commercial building in Tampico, Illinois, as the younger son of Nelle Clyde Wilson and Jack Reagan. Nelle was committed to the Disciples of Christ, which believed in the Social Gospel. She led prayer meetings and ran mid-week prayers at her church when the pastor was out of town. Reagan credited her spiritual influence and he became a Christian. According to Stephen Vaughn, Reagan's values came from his pastor, and the First Christian Church's religious, economic and social positions "coincided with the words, if not the beliefs of the latter-day Reagan". Jack focused on making money to take care of the family, but this was complicated by his alcoholism. Neil Reagan was Reagan's older brother. Together, they lived in Chicago, Galesburg, and Monmouth before returning to Tampico. In 1920, they settled in Dixon, Illinois, living in a house near the H. C. Pitney Variety Store Building.	Where did you and your brother, Neil, live before settling in Dixon, Illinois?	My brother, Neil, and I lived in Chicago, Galesburg, and Monmouth before settling in Dixon, Illinois.
Ronald Wilson Reagan was born on February 6, 1911, in a commercial building in Tampico, Illinois, as the younger son of Nelle Clyde Wilson and Jack Reagan. Nelle was committed to the Disciples of Christ, which believed in the Social Gospel. She led prayer meetings and ran mid-week prayers at her church when the pastor was out of town. Reagan credited her spiritual influence and he became a Christian. According to Stephen Vaughn, Reagan's values came from his pastor, and the First Christian Church's religious, economic and social positions "coincided with the words, if not the beliefs of the latter-day Reagan". Jack focused on making money to take care of the family, but this was complicated by his alcoholism. Neil Reagan was Reagan's older brother. Together, they lived in Chicago, Galesburg, and Monmouth before returning to Tampico. In 1920, they settled in Dixon, Illinois, living in a house near the H. C. Pitney Variety Store Building.	What was the occupation of your father, Jack?	My father, Jack, focused on making money to take care of the family.
Reagan attended Dixon High School, where he developed interests in drama and football. His first job involved working as a lifeguard at the Rock River in Lowell Park. In 1928, Reagan began attending Eureka College at Nelle's approval on religious grounds. He was a mediocre student that participated in sports, drama, and campus politics. He became student body president and joined a student strike that resulted in the college president's resignation. Reagan recalled a time when two black football teammates were refused service at a segregated hotel; he invited them to his parents' home nearby in Dixon and his parents welcomed them. At the time, his parents' stance on racial questions were unusually progressive in Dixon. Reagan himself had grown up with very few black Americans there and was unaware of a race problem.	Where did you attend high school?	I attended Dixon High School.
Reagan attended Dixon High School, where he developed interests in drama and football. His first job involved working as a lifeguard at the Rock River in Lowell Park. In 1928, Reagan began attending Eureka College at Nelle's approval on religious grounds. He was a mediocre student that participated in sports, drama, and campus politics. He became student body president and joined a student strike that resulted in the college president's resignation. Reagan recalled a time when two black football teammates were refused service at a segregated hotel; he invited them to his parents' home nearby in Dixon and his parents welcomed them. At the time, his parents' stance on racial questions were unusually progressive in Dixon. Reagan himself had grown up with very few black Americans there and was unaware of a race problem.	What were some of your interests in high school?	I had interests in drama and football.
Reagan attended Dixon High School, where he developed interests in drama and football. His first job involved working as a lifeguard at the Rock River in Lowell Park. In 1928, Reagan began attending Eureka College at Nelle's approval on religious grounds. He was a mediocre student that participated in sports, drama, and campus politics. He became student body president and joined a student strike that resulted in the college president's resignation. Reagan recalled a time when two black football teammates were refused service at a segregated hotel; he invited them to his parents' home nearby in Dixon and his parents welcomed them. At the time, his parents' stance on racial questions were unusually progressive in Dixon. Reagan himself had grown up with very few black Americans there and was unaware of a race problem.	What was your first job?	I worked as a lifeguard at the Rock River in Lowell Park.
Reagan attended Dixon High School, where he developed interests in drama and football. His first job involved working as a lifeguard at the Rock River in Lowell Park. In 1928, Reagan began attending Eureka College at Nelle's approval on religious grounds. He was a mediocre student that participated in sports, drama, and campus politics. He became student body president and joined a student strike that resulted in the college president's resignation. Reagan recalled a time when two black football teammates were refused service at a segregated hotel; he invited them to his parents' home nearby in Dixon and his parents welcomed them. At the time, his parents' stance on racial questions were unusually progressive in Dixon. Reagan himself had grown up with very few black Americans there and was unaware of a race problem.	Where did you go to college?	I attended Eureka College.
Reagan attended Dixon High School, where he developed interests in drama and football. His first job involved working as a lifeguard at the Rock River in Lowell Park. In 1928, Reagan began attending Eureka College at Nelle's approval on religious grounds. He was a mediocre student that participated in sports, drama, and campus politics. He became student body president and joined a student strike that resulted in the college president's resignation. Reagan recalled a time when two black football teammates were refused service at a segregated hotel; he invited them to his parents' home nearby in Dixon and his parents welcomed them. At the time, his parents' stance on racial questions were unusually progressive in Dixon. Reagan himself had grown up with very few black Americans there and was unaware of a race problem.	What activities did you participate in college?	I participated in sports, drama, and campus politics.
After obtaining a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology from Eureka College in 1932, Reagan took a job in Davenport, Iowa, as a sports broadcaster for four football games in the Big Ten Conference. He then worked for WHO radio in Des Moines as a broadcaster for the Chicago Cubs. His specialty was creating play-by-play accounts of games using only basic descriptions that the station received by wire as the games were in progress. Simultaneously, he often expressed his opposition to racism. In 1936, while traveling with the Cubs to their spring training in California, Reagan took a screen test that led to a seven-year contract with Warner Bros.	What was your major in college?	I obtained a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology.
After obtaining a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology from Eureka College in 1932, Reagan took a job in Davenport, Iowa, as a sports broadcaster for four football games in the Big Ten Conference. He then worked for WHO radio in Des Moines as a broadcaster for the Chicago Cubs. His specialty was creating play-by-play accounts of games using only basic descriptions that the station received by wire as the games were in progress. Simultaneously, he often expressed his opposition to racism. In 1936, while traveling with the Cubs to their spring training in California, Reagan took a screen test that led to a seven-year contract with Warner Bros.	Where did you work as a sports broadcaster?	I worked as a sports broadcaster in Davenport, Iowa for four football games in the Big Ten Conference.
After obtaining a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology from Eureka College in 1932, Reagan took a job in Davenport, Iowa, as a sports broadcaster for four football games in the Big Ten Conference. He then worked for WHO radio in Des Moines as a broadcaster for the Chicago Cubs. His specialty was creating play-by-play accounts of games using only basic descriptions that the station received by wire as the games were in progress. Simultaneously, he often expressed his opposition to racism. In 1936, while traveling with the Cubs to their spring training in California, Reagan took a screen test that led to a seven-year contract with Warner Bros.	Which radio station did you work for in Des Moines?	I worked for WHO radio in Des Moines as a broadcaster for the Chicago Cubs.
After obtaining a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology from Eureka College in 1932, Reagan took a job in Davenport, Iowa, as a sports broadcaster for four football games in the Big Ten Conference. He then worked for WHO radio in Des Moines as a broadcaster for the Chicago Cubs. His specialty was creating play-by-play accounts of games using only basic descriptions that the station received by wire as the games were in progress. Simultaneously, he often expressed his opposition to racism. In 1936, while traveling with the Cubs to their spring training in California, Reagan took a screen test that led to a seven-year contract with Warner Bros.	What kind of accounts did you create as a sports broadcaster?	I created play-by-play accounts of games using only basic descriptions that the station received by wire.
After obtaining a Bachelor of Arts degree in economics and sociology from Eureka College in 1932, Reagan took a job in Davenport, Iowa, as a sports broadcaster for four football games in the Big Ten Conference. He then worked for WHO radio in Des Moines as a broadcaster for the Chicago Cubs. His specialty was creating play-by-play accounts of games using only basic descriptions that the station received by wire as the games were in progress. Simultaneously, he often expressed his opposition to racism. In 1936, while traveling with the Cubs to their spring training in California, Reagan took a screen test that led to a seven-year contract with Warner Bros.	What did you do in 1936 while traveling with the Cubs?	In 1936, while traveling with the Cubs, I took a screen test that led to a seven-year contract with Warner Bros.
Reagan arrived at Hollywood in 1937, debuting in Love Is on the Air (1937). Using a simple and direct approach to acting and following his directors' instructions, Reagan made thirty films, mostly B films, before beginning military service in April 1942. He broke out of these types of films by portraying George Gipp in Knute Rockne, All American (1940), which would be rejuvenated when reporters called Reagan "the Gipper" while he campaigned for president of the United States. Afterward, Reagan starred in Kings Row (1942) as a leg amputee, asking, "Where's the rest of me?" His performance was considered his best by many critics. Reagan became a star, with Gallup polls placing him "in the top 100 stars" from 1941 to 1942.	When did you arrive at Hollywood?	I arrived at Hollywood in 1937.
Reagan arrived at Hollywood in 1937, debuting in Love Is on the Air (1937). Using a simple and direct approach to acting and following his directors' instructions, Reagan made thirty films, mostly B films, before beginning military service in April 1942. He broke out of these types of films by portraying George Gipp in Knute Rockne, All American (1940), which would be rejuvenated when reporters called Reagan "the Gipper" while he campaigned for president of the United States. Afterward, Reagan starred in Kings Row (1942) as a leg amputee, asking, "Where's the rest of me?" His performance was considered his best by many critics. Reagan became a star, with Gallup polls placing him "in the top 100 stars" from 1941 to 1942.	What was your debut film?	I debuted in Love Is on the Air (1937).
Reagan arrived at Hollywood in 1937, debuting in Love Is on the Air (1937). Using a simple and direct approach to acting and following his directors' instructions, Reagan made thirty films, mostly B films, before beginning military service in April 1942. He broke out of these types of films by portraying George Gipp in Knute Rockne, All American (1940), which would be rejuvenated when reporters called Reagan "the Gipper" while he campaigned for president of the United States. Afterward, Reagan starred in Kings Row (1942) as a leg amputee, asking, "Where's the rest of me?" His performance was considered his best by many critics. Reagan became a star, with Gallup polls placing him "in the top 100 stars" from 1941 to 1942.	How many films did you make before beginning military service?	I made thirty films before beginning military service.
Reagan arrived at Hollywood in 1937, debuting in Love Is on the Air (1937). Using a simple and direct approach to acting and following his directors' instructions, Reagan made thirty films, mostly B films, before beginning military service in April 1942. He broke out of these types of films by portraying George Gipp in Knute Rockne, All American (1940), which would be rejuvenated when reporters called Reagan "the Gipper" while he campaigned for president of the United States. Afterward, Reagan starred in Kings Row (1942) as a leg amputee, asking, "Where's the rest of me?" His performance was considered his best by many critics. Reagan became a star, with Gallup polls placing him "in the top 100 stars" from 1941 to 1942.	In which film did you portray George Gipp?	I portrayed George Gipp in Knute Rockne, All American (1940).
Reagan arrived at Hollywood in 1937, debuting in Love Is on the Air (1937). Using a simple and direct approach to acting and following his directors' instructions, Reagan made thirty films, mostly B films, before beginning military service in April 1942. He broke out of these types of films by portraying George Gipp in Knute Rockne, All American (1940), which would be rejuvenated when reporters called Reagan "the Gipper" while he campaigned for president of the United States. Afterward, Reagan starred in Kings Row (1942) as a leg amputee, asking, "Where's the rest of me?" His performance was considered his best by many critics. Reagan became a star, with Gallup polls placing him "in the top 100 stars" from 1941 to 1942.	Which film is considered your best performance?	My performance in Kings Row (1942) as a leg amputee is considered my best.
World War II interrupted the movie stardom that Reagan would never be able to achieve again as Warner Bros. became uncertain about his ability to generate ticket sales. Reagan, who had a limited acting range, was dissatisfied with the roles he received. As a result, Lew Wasserman renegotiated his contract with his studio, allowing him to also make films with Universal Pictures, Paramount Pictures, and RKO Pictures as a freelancer. With this, Reagan appeared in multiple western films, something that had been denied him working at Warner Bros. In 1952, he ended his relationship with Warner Bros., but went on to appear in a total of 53 films, his last being The Killers (1964).	How did World War II affect your movie career?	World War II interrupted my movie stardom and I was not able to achieve it again due to uncertainty from Warner Bros.
World War II interrupted the movie stardom that Reagan would never be able to achieve again as Warner Bros. became uncertain about his ability to generate ticket sales. Reagan, who had a limited acting range, was dissatisfied with the roles he received. As a result, Lew Wasserman renegotiated his contract with his studio, allowing him to also make films with Universal Pictures, Paramount Pictures, and RKO Pictures as a freelancer. With this, Reagan appeared in multiple western films, something that had been denied him working at Warner Bros. In 1952, he ended his relationship with Warner Bros., but went on to appear in a total of 53 films, his last being The Killers (1964).	Why were you dissatisfied with the roles you received?	I had a limited acting range and was dissatisfied with the roles I received.
World War II interrupted the movie stardom that Reagan would never be able to achieve again as Warner Bros. became uncertain about his ability to generate ticket sales. Reagan, who had a limited acting range, was dissatisfied with the roles he received. As a result, Lew Wasserman renegotiated his contract with his studio, allowing him to also make films with Universal Pictures, Paramount Pictures, and RKO Pictures as a freelancer. With this, Reagan appeared in multiple western films, something that had been denied him working at Warner Bros. In 1952, he ended his relationship with Warner Bros., but went on to appear in a total of 53 films, his last being The Killers (1964).	Who renegotiated your contract with his studio?	Lew Wasserman renegotiated my contract with his studio.
World War II interrupted the movie stardom that Reagan would never be able to achieve again as Warner Bros. became uncertain about his ability to generate ticket sales. Reagan, who had a limited acting range, was dissatisfied with the roles he received. As a result, Lew Wasserman renegotiated his contract with his studio, allowing him to also make films with Universal Pictures, Paramount Pictures, and RKO Pictures as a freelancer. With this, Reagan appeared in multiple western films, something that had been denied him working at Warner Bros. In 1952, he ended his relationship with Warner Bros., but went on to appear in a total of 53 films, his last being The Killers (1964).	Which studios did you make films with as a freelancer?	I made films with Universal Pictures, Paramount Pictures, and RKO Pictures as a freelancer.
World War II interrupted the movie stardom that Reagan would never be able to achieve again as Warner Bros. became uncertain about his ability to generate ticket sales. Reagan, who had a limited acting range, was dissatisfied with the roles he received. As a result, Lew Wasserman renegotiated his contract with his studio, allowing him to also make films with Universal Pictures, Paramount Pictures, and RKO Pictures as a freelancer. With this, Reagan appeared in multiple western films, something that had been denied him working at Warner Bros. In 1952, he ended his relationship with Warner Bros., but went on to appear in a total of 53 films, his last being The Killers (1964).	How many films did you appear in after ending your relationship with Warner Bros.?	I appeared in a total of 53 films after ending my relationship with Warner Bros.
In April 1937, Reagan enlisted in the United States Army Reserve. He was assigned as a private in Des Moines' 322nd Cavalry Regiment and reassigned to second lieutenant in the Officers Reserve Corps. He later became a part of the 323rd Cavalry Regiment in California. As relations between the United States and Japan worsened, Reagan was ordered for active duty while he was filming Kings Row. Wasserman and Warner Bros. lawyers successfully sent draft deferments to complete the film in October 1941. However, to avoid accusations of Reagan being a draft dodger, the studio let him go in April 1942.	When did you enlist in the United States Army Reserve?	I enlisted in the United States Army Reserve in April 1937.
In April 1937, Reagan enlisted in the United States Army Reserve. He was assigned as a private in Des Moines' 322nd Cavalry Regiment and reassigned to second lieutenant in the Officers Reserve Corps. He later became a part of the 323rd Cavalry Regiment in California. As relations between the United States and Japan worsened, Reagan was ordered for active duty while he was filming Kings Row. Wasserman and Warner Bros. lawyers successfully sent draft deferments to complete the film in October 1941. However, to avoid accusations of Reagan being a draft dodger, the studio let him go in April 1942.	What was your initial rank in the Army Reserve?	My initial rank in the Army Reserve was private.
In April 1937, Reagan enlisted in the United States Army Reserve. He was assigned as a private in Des Moines' 322nd Cavalry Regiment and reassigned to second lieutenant in the Officers Reserve Corps. He later became a part of the 323rd Cavalry Regiment in California. As relations between the United States and Japan worsened, Reagan was ordered for active duty while he was filming Kings Row. Wasserman and Warner Bros. lawyers successfully sent draft deferments to complete the film in October 1941. However, to avoid accusations of Reagan being a draft dodger, the studio let him go in April 1942.	In which regiment were you assigned when you first joined the Army Reserve?	I was assigned to the 322nd Cavalry Regiment in Des Moines.
In April 1937, Reagan enlisted in the United States Army Reserve. He was assigned as a private in Des Moines' 322nd Cavalry Regiment and reassigned to second lieutenant in the Officers Reserve Corps. He later became a part of the 323rd Cavalry Regiment in California. As relations between the United States and Japan worsened, Reagan was ordered for active duty while he was filming Kings Row. Wasserman and Warner Bros. lawyers successfully sent draft deferments to complete the film in October 1941. However, to avoid accusations of Reagan being a draft dodger, the studio let him go in April 1942.	What was your rank after being reassigned in the Officers Reserve Corps?	My rank was second lieutenant after being reassigned in the Officers Reserve Corps.
In April 1937, Reagan enlisted in the United States Army Reserve. He was assigned as a private in Des Moines' 322nd Cavalry Regiment and reassigned to second lieutenant in the Officers Reserve Corps. He later became a part of the 323rd Cavalry Regiment in California. As relations between the United States and Japan worsened, Reagan was ordered for active duty while he was filming Kings Row. Wasserman and Warner Bros. lawyers successfully sent draft deferments to complete the film in October 1941. However, to avoid accusations of Reagan being a draft dodger, the studio let him go in April 1942.	Why were you ordered for active duty while filming Kings Row?	I was ordered for active duty due to worsening relations between the United States and Japan.
Reagan married Brother Rat ( 1938 ) co - star Jane Wyman in January 1940 . Together , they had two biological daughters : Maureen in 1941 , and Christine , born prematurely and dead the next day in 1947 . They adopted one son , Michael , in 1945 . Wyman filed to divorce Reagan in June 1948 . She was uninterested in politics , and occasionally recriminated , reconciled and separated with him . Although Reagan was unprepared , the divorce was finalized in July 1949 . Reagan would also remain close to his children . Later that year , Reagan met Nancy Davis after she contacted him in his capacity as the SAG president about her name appearing on a communist blacklist in Hollywood ; she had been mistaken for another Nancy Davis . They married in March 1952 and had two children , Patti in 1952 , and Ron in 1958 .	Who did you marry in January 1940?	I married Jane Wyman in January 1940.
Reagan married Brother Rat ( 1938 ) co - star Jane Wyman in January 1940 . Together , they had two biological daughters : Maureen in 1941 , and Christine , born prematurely and dead the next day in 1947 . They adopted one son , Michael , in 1945 . Wyman filed to divorce Reagan in June 1948 . She was uninterested in politics , and occasionally recriminated , reconciled and separated with him . Although Reagan was unprepared , the divorce was finalized in July 1949 . Reagan would also remain close to his children . Later that year , Reagan met Nancy Davis after she contacted him in his capacity as the SAG president about her name appearing on a communist blacklist in Hollywood ; she had been mistaken for another Nancy Davis . They married in March 1952 and had two children , Patti in 1952 , and Ron in 1958 .	How many biological daughters did you and Jane Wyman have?	We had two biological daughters, Maureen in 1941 and Christine in 1947.
Reagan married Brother Rat ( 1938 ) co - star Jane Wyman in January 1940 . Together , they had two biological daughters : Maureen in 1941 , and Christine , born prematurely and dead the next day in 1947 . They adopted one son , Michael , in 1945 . Wyman filed to divorce Reagan in June 1948 . She was uninterested in politics , and occasionally recriminated , reconciled and separated with him . Although Reagan was unprepared , the divorce was finalized in July 1949 . Reagan would also remain close to his children . Later that year , Reagan met Nancy Davis after she contacted him in his capacity as the SAG president about her name appearing on a communist blacklist in Hollywood ; she had been mistaken for another Nancy Davis . They married in March 1952 and had two children , Patti in 1952 , and Ron in 1958 .	What happened to your daughter Christine?	Christine was born prematurely and died the next day in 1947.
Reagan married Brother Rat ( 1938 ) co - star Jane Wyman in January 1940 . Together , they had two biological daughters : Maureen in 1941 , and Christine , born prematurely and dead the next day in 1947 . They adopted one son , Michael , in 1945 . Wyman filed to divorce Reagan in June 1948 . She was uninterested in politics , and occasionally recriminated , reconciled and separated with him . Although Reagan was unprepared , the divorce was finalized in July 1949 . Reagan would also remain close to his children . Later that year , Reagan met Nancy Davis after she contacted him in his capacity as the SAG president about her name appearing on a communist blacklist in Hollywood ; she had been mistaken for another Nancy Davis . They married in March 1952 and had two children , Patti in 1952 , and Ron in 1958 .	Who did you and Jane Wyman adopt?	They adopted one son, Michael, in 1945.
Reagan married Brother Rat ( 1938 ) co - star Jane Wyman in January 1940 . Together , they had two biological daughters : Maureen in 1941 , and Christine , born prematurely and dead the next day in 1947 . They adopted one son , Michael , in 1945 . Wyman filed to divorce Reagan in June 1948 . She was uninterested in politics , and occasionally recriminated , reconciled and separated with him . Although Reagan was unprepared , the divorce was finalized in July 1949 . Reagan would also remain close to his children . Later that year , Reagan met Nancy Davis after she contacted him in his capacity as the SAG president about her name appearing on a communist blacklist in Hollywood ; she had been mistaken for another Nancy Davis . They married in March 1952 and had two children , Patti in 1952 , and Ron in 1958 .	When did Jane Wyman file for divorce from you?	Jane Wyman filed to divorce me in June 1948.
Reagan became the host of MCA Inc . television production General Electric Theater at Wasserman ' s recommendation . It featured multiple guest stars , and Ronald and Nancy Reagan , continuing to use her stage name Nancy Davis , acted together in three episodes . When asked how Reagan was able to recruit such stars to appear on the show during television ' s infancy , he replied , " Good stories , top direction , production quality . " However , the viewership declined in the 1960s and the show was canceled in 1962 . In 1965 , Reagan became the host of another MCA production , Death Valley Days .	Who recommended you to become the host of General Electric Theater?	Wasserman recommended me to become the host of General Electric Theater.
Reagan became the host of MCA Inc . television production General Electric Theater at Wasserman ' s recommendation . It featured multiple guest stars , and Ronald and Nancy Reagan , continuing to use her stage name Nancy Davis , acted together in three episodes . When asked how Reagan was able to recruit such stars to appear on the show during television ' s infancy , he replied , " Good stories , top direction , production quality . " However , the viewership declined in the 1960s and the show was canceled in 1962 . In 1965 , Reagan became the host of another MCA production , Death Valley Days .	How many episodes did Ronald and Nancy Reagan act in together?	Ronald and Nancy Reagan acted together in three episodes.
Reagan became the host of MCA Inc . television production General Electric Theater at Wasserman ' s recommendation . It featured multiple guest stars , and Ronald and Nancy Reagan , continuing to use her stage name Nancy Davis , acted together in three episodes . When asked how Reagan was able to recruit such stars to appear on the show during television ' s infancy , he replied , " Good stories , top direction , production quality . " However , the viewership declined in the 1960s and the show was canceled in 1962 . In 1965 , Reagan became the host of another MCA production , Death Valley Days .	What did you attribute to your success in recruiting guest stars for the show?	I attributed my success in recruiting guest stars to good stories, top direction, and production quality.
Reagan became the host of MCA Inc . television production General Electric Theater at Wasserman ' s recommendation . It featured multiple guest stars , and Ronald and Nancy Reagan , continuing to use her stage name Nancy Davis , acted together in three episodes . When asked how Reagan was able to recruit such stars to appear on the show during television ' s infancy , he replied , " Good stories , top direction , production quality . " However , the viewership declined in the 1960s and the show was canceled in 1962 . In 1965 , Reagan became the host of another MCA production , Death Valley Days .	Why was the General Electric Theater show canceled in 1962?	The General Electric Theater show was canceled in 1962 due to a decline in viewership.
Reagan became the host of MCA Inc . television production General Electric Theater at Wasserman ' s recommendation . It featured multiple guest stars , and Ronald and Nancy Reagan , continuing to use her stage name Nancy Davis , acted together in three episodes . When asked how Reagan was able to recruit such stars to appear on the show during television ' s infancy , he replied , " Good stories , top direction , production quality . " However , the viewership declined in the 1960s and the show was canceled in 1962 . In 1965 , Reagan became the host of another MCA production , Death Valley Days .	In what year did you become the host of Death Valley Days?	I became the host of Death Valley Days in 1965.
Reagan ' s general election opponent , Pat Brown , attempted to label Reagan as an extremist and tout his own accomplishments . Reagan portrayed himself as a political outsider , and charged Brown as responsible for the Watts riots and lenient on crime . In numerous speeches , Reagan " hit the Brown administration about high taxes , uncontrolled spending , the radicals at the University of California , Berkeley , and the need for accountability in government " . Meanwhile , many in the press perceived Reagan as " monumentally ignorant of state issues " , though Lou Cannon said that Reagan benefited from an appearance he and Brown made on Meet the Press in September . Ultimately , Reagan won the governorship with 57 percent of the vote compared to Brown ' s 42 percent .	Who was your general election opponent?	Pat Brown.
Reagan ' s general election opponent , Pat Brown , attempted to label Reagan as an extremist and tout his own accomplishments . Reagan portrayed himself as a political outsider , and charged Brown as responsible for the Watts riots and lenient on crime . In numerous speeches , Reagan " hit the Brown administration about high taxes , uncontrolled spending , the radicals at the University of California , Berkeley , and the need for accountability in government " . Meanwhile , many in the press perceived Reagan as " monumentally ignorant of state issues " , though Lou Cannon said that Reagan benefited from an appearance he and Brown made on Meet the Press in September . Ultimately , Reagan won the governorship with 57 percent of the vote compared to Brown ' s 42 percent .	What did Pat Brown attempt to label you as?	An extremist.
Reagan ' s general election opponent , Pat Brown , attempted to label Reagan as an extremist and tout his own accomplishments . Reagan portrayed himself as a political outsider , and charged Brown as responsible for the Watts riots and lenient on crime . In numerous speeches , Reagan " hit the Brown administration about high taxes , uncontrolled spending , the radicals at the University of California , Berkeley , and the need for accountability in government " . Meanwhile , many in the press perceived Reagan as " monumentally ignorant of state issues " , though Lou Cannon said that Reagan benefited from an appearance he and Brown made on Meet the Press in September . Ultimately , Reagan won the governorship with 57 percent of the vote compared to Brown ' s 42 percent .	What did you portray yourself as?	A political outsider.
Reagan ' s general election opponent , Pat Brown , attempted to label Reagan as an extremist and tout his own accomplishments . Reagan portrayed himself as a political outsider , and charged Brown as responsible for the Watts riots and lenient on crime . In numerous speeches , Reagan " hit the Brown administration about high taxes , uncontrolled spending , the radicals at the University of California , Berkeley , and the need for accountability in government " . Meanwhile , many in the press perceived Reagan as " monumentally ignorant of state issues " , though Lou Cannon said that Reagan benefited from an appearance he and Brown made on Meet the Press in September . Ultimately , Reagan won the governorship with 57 percent of the vote compared to Brown ' s 42 percent .	What did you charge you as being responsible for?	The Watts riots and lenient on crime.
Reagan ' s general election opponent , Pat Brown , attempted to label Reagan as an extremist and tout his own accomplishments . Reagan portrayed himself as a political outsider , and charged Brown as responsible for the Watts riots and lenient on crime . In numerous speeches , Reagan " hit the Brown administration about high taxes , uncontrolled spending , the radicals at the University of California , Berkeley , and the need for accountability in government " . Meanwhile , many in the press perceived Reagan as " monumentally ignorant of state issues " , though Lou Cannon said that Reagan benefited from an appearance he and Brown made on Meet the Press in September . Ultimately , Reagan won the governorship with 57 percent of the vote compared to Brown ' s 42 percent .	How did you criticize the Brown administration in his speeches?	I criticized them about high taxes, uncontrolled spending, the radicals at the University of California, Berkeley, and the need for accountability in government.
Brown spent much of California ' s funds on new programs , prompting them to use accrual accounting to avoid raising taxes . Consequently , it generated a larger deficit , and Reagan would call for reduced government spending and tax hikes to balance the budget . He worked with Jesse M . Unruh on securing tax increases and promising future property tax cuts . This caused some conservatives to accuse Reagan of betraying his principles . As a result , taxes on sales , banks , corporate profits , inheritances , liquor , and cigarettes jumped . Kevin Starr states , Reagan " gave Californians the biggest tax hike in their history — and got away with it . " In the 1970 gubernatorial election , Unruh used Reagan ' s tax policy against him , saying it disproportionally favored the wealthy . Reagan countered that he was still committed to reducing property taxes . By 1973 , the budget had a surplus , which Reagan preferred " to give back to the people " .	How did you spend California's funds?	I spent much of California's funds on new programs.
Brown spent much of California ' s funds on new programs , prompting them to use accrual accounting to avoid raising taxes . Consequently , it generated a larger deficit , and Reagan would call for reduced government spending and tax hikes to balance the budget . He worked with Jesse M . Unruh on securing tax increases and promising future property tax cuts . This caused some conservatives to accuse Reagan of betraying his principles . As a result , taxes on sales , banks , corporate profits , inheritances , liquor , and cigarettes jumped . Kevin Starr states , Reagan " gave Californians the biggest tax hike in their history — and got away with it . " In the 1970 gubernatorial election , Unruh used Reagan ' s tax policy against him , saying it disproportionally favored the wealthy . Reagan countered that he was still committed to reducing property taxes . By 1973 , the budget had a surplus , which Reagan preferred " to give back to the people " .	Why did you use accrual accounting?	I used accrual accounting to avoid raising taxes.
Brown spent much of California ' s funds on new programs , prompting them to use accrual accounting to avoid raising taxes . Consequently , it generated a larger deficit , and Reagan would call for reduced government spending and tax hikes to balance the budget . He worked with Jesse M . Unruh on securing tax increases and promising future property tax cuts . This caused some conservatives to accuse Reagan of betraying his principles . As a result , taxes on sales , banks , corporate profits , inheritances , liquor , and cigarettes jumped . Kevin Starr states , Reagan " gave Californians the biggest tax hike in their history — and got away with it . " In the 1970 gubernatorial election , Unruh used Reagan ' s tax policy against him , saying it disproportionally favored the wealthy . Reagan countered that he was still committed to reducing property taxes . By 1973 , the budget had a surplus , which Reagan preferred " to give back to the people " .	Who did you work with on securing tax increases and promising future property tax cuts?	I worked with Jesse M. Unruh on securing tax increases and promising future property tax cuts.
Brown spent much of California ' s funds on new programs , prompting them to use accrual accounting to avoid raising taxes . Consequently , it generated a larger deficit , and Reagan would call for reduced government spending and tax hikes to balance the budget . He worked with Jesse M . Unruh on securing tax increases and promising future property tax cuts . This caused some conservatives to accuse Reagan of betraying his principles . As a result , taxes on sales , banks , corporate profits , inheritances , liquor , and cigarettes jumped . Kevin Starr states , Reagan " gave Californians the biggest tax hike in their history — and got away with it . " In the 1970 gubernatorial election , Unruh used Reagan ' s tax policy against him , saying it disproportionally favored the wealthy . Reagan countered that he was still committed to reducing property taxes . By 1973 , the budget had a surplus , which Reagan preferred " to give back to the people " .	What did some conservatives accuse you of?	Some conservatives accused me of betraying my principles.
Brown spent much of California ' s funds on new programs , prompting them to use accrual accounting to avoid raising taxes . Consequently , it generated a larger deficit , and Reagan would call for reduced government spending and tax hikes to balance the budget . He worked with Jesse M . Unruh on securing tax increases and promising future property tax cuts . This caused some conservatives to accuse Reagan of betraying his principles . As a result , taxes on sales , banks , corporate profits , inheritances , liquor , and cigarettes jumped . Kevin Starr states , Reagan " gave Californians the biggest tax hike in their history — and got away with it . " In the 1970 gubernatorial election , Unruh used Reagan ' s tax policy against him , saying it disproportionally favored the wealthy . Reagan countered that he was still committed to reducing property taxes . By 1973 , the budget had a surplus , which Reagan preferred " to give back to the people " .	How did you respond to accusations against his tax policy?	I countered that I was still committed to reducing property taxes.
Reagan did not run for the governorship in 1974 and it was won by Pat Brown ' s son , Jerry . Reagan ' s governorship , as professor Gary K . Clabaugh writes , saw public schools deteriorate due to his opposition to additional basic education funding . As for higher education , journalist William Trombley believed that the budget cuts Reagan enacted damaged Berkeley ' s student - faculty ratio and research . Additionally , the homicide rate doubled and armed robbery rates rose as well during Reagan ' s eight years , even with the many laws Reagan signed to try toughening criminal sentencing and reforming the criminal justice system . Reagan strongly supported capital punishment , but his efforts to enforce it were thwarted by People v . Anderson in 1972 . According to his son , Michael , Reagan said that he regretted signing the Family Law Act that granted no - fault divorces .	Who won the governorship in 1974?	Pat Brown's son, Jerry.
Reagan did not run for the governorship in 1974 and it was won by Pat Brown ' s son , Jerry . Reagan ' s governorship , as professor Gary K . Clabaugh writes , saw public schools deteriorate due to his opposition to additional basic education funding . As for higher education , journalist William Trombley believed that the budget cuts Reagan enacted damaged Berkeley ' s student - faculty ratio and research . Additionally , the homicide rate doubled and armed robbery rates rose as well during Reagan ' s eight years , even with the many laws Reagan signed to try toughening criminal sentencing and reforming the criminal justice system . Reagan strongly supported capital punishment , but his efforts to enforce it were thwarted by People v . Anderson in 1972 . According to his son , Michael , Reagan said that he regretted signing the Family Law Act that granted no - fault divorces .	What did professor Gary K. Clabaugh write about your governorship?	Professor Gary K. Clabaugh wrote that my opposition to additional basic education funding caused public schools to deteriorate.
Reagan did not run for the governorship in 1974 and it was won by Pat Brown ' s son , Jerry . Reagan ' s governorship , as professor Gary K . Clabaugh writes , saw public schools deteriorate due to his opposition to additional basic education funding . As for higher education , journalist William Trombley believed that the budget cuts Reagan enacted damaged Berkeley ' s student - faculty ratio and research . Additionally , the homicide rate doubled and armed robbery rates rose as well during Reagan ' s eight years , even with the many laws Reagan signed to try toughening criminal sentencing and reforming the criminal justice system . Reagan strongly supported capital punishment , but his efforts to enforce it were thwarted by People v . Anderson in 1972 . According to his son , Michael , Reagan said that he regretted signing the Family Law Act that granted no - fault divorces .	How did journalist William Trombley believe that your budget cuts impacted Berkeley?	According to journalist William Trombley, the budget cuts enacted by me damaged Berkeley's student-faculty ratio and research.
Reagan did not run for the governorship in 1974 and it was won by Pat Brown ' s son , Jerry . Reagan ' s governorship , as professor Gary K . Clabaugh writes , saw public schools deteriorate due to his opposition to additional basic education funding . As for higher education , journalist William Trombley believed that the budget cuts Reagan enacted damaged Berkeley ' s student - faculty ratio and research . Additionally , the homicide rate doubled and armed robbery rates rose as well during Reagan ' s eight years , even with the many laws Reagan signed to try toughening criminal sentencing and reforming the criminal justice system . Reagan strongly supported capital punishment , but his efforts to enforce it were thwarted by People v . Anderson in 1972 . According to his son , Michael , Reagan said that he regretted signing the Family Law Act that granted no - fault divorces .	What happened to the homicide rate and armed robbery rates during your eight years?	The homicide rate doubled and armed robbery rates rose during my eight years.
Reagan did not run for the governorship in 1974 and it was won by Pat Brown ' s son , Jerry . Reagan ' s governorship , as professor Gary K . Clabaugh writes , saw public schools deteriorate due to his opposition to additional basic education funding . As for higher education , journalist William Trombley believed that the budget cuts Reagan enacted damaged Berkeley ' s student - faculty ratio and research . Additionally , the homicide rate doubled and armed robbery rates rose as well during Reagan ' s eight years , even with the many laws Reagan signed to try toughening criminal sentencing and reforming the criminal justice system . Reagan strongly supported capital punishment , but his efforts to enforce it were thwarted by People v . Anderson in 1972 . According to his son , Michael , Reagan said that he regretted signing the Family Law Act that granted no - fault divorces .	How did People v. Anderson impact your efforts regarding capital punishment?	People v. Anderson in 1972 thwarted my efforts to enforce capital punishment.
Reagan emerged as a vocal critic of President Carter in 1977 . The Panama Canal Treaty ' s signing , the 1979 oil crisis , and rise in the inflation , interest and unemployment rates helped set up his 1980 presidential campaign , which he announced on November 13 , 1979 with an indictment of the federal government . His announcement stressed his fundamental principles of tax cuts to stimulate the economy and having both a small government and a strong national defense , since he believed the United States was behind the Soviet Union militarily . Heading into 1980 , his age became an issue among the press , and the United States was in a severe recession . In the primaries , Reagan lost Iowa to George H . W . Bush , but rebounded in New Hampshire . Soon thereafter , Reagan ' s opponents began dropping out of the primaries , including John B . Anderson , who left the party to become an independent candidate . Reagan easily captured the presidential nomination and chose Bush as his running mate at the Detroit convention in July .	When did you announce your 1980 presidential campaign?	I announced my 1980 presidential campaign on November 13, 1979.
Reagan emerged as a vocal critic of President Carter in 1977 . The Panama Canal Treaty ' s signing , the 1979 oil crisis , and rise in the inflation , interest and unemployment rates helped set up his 1980 presidential campaign , which he announced on November 13 , 1979 with an indictment of the federal government . His announcement stressed his fundamental principles of tax cuts to stimulate the economy and having both a small government and a strong national defense , since he believed the United States was behind the Soviet Union militarily . Heading into 1980 , his age became an issue among the press , and the United States was in a severe recession . In the primaries , Reagan lost Iowa to George H . W . Bush , but rebounded in New Hampshire . Soon thereafter , Reagan ' s opponents began dropping out of the primaries , including John B . Anderson , who left the party to become an independent candidate . Reagan easily captured the presidential nomination and chose Bush as his running mate at the Detroit convention in July .	What were the fundamental principles stressed in your campaign announcement?	I stressed the fundamental principles of tax cuts to stimulate the economy and having both a small government and a strong national defense.
Reagan emerged as a vocal critic of President Carter in 1977 . The Panama Canal Treaty ' s signing , the 1979 oil crisis , and rise in the inflation , interest and unemployment rates helped set up his 1980 presidential campaign , which he announced on November 13 , 1979 with an indictment of the federal government . His announcement stressed his fundamental principles of tax cuts to stimulate the economy and having both a small government and a strong national defense , since he believed the United States was behind the Soviet Union militarily . Heading into 1980 , his age became an issue among the press , and the United States was in a severe recession . In the primaries , Reagan lost Iowa to George H . W . Bush , but rebounded in New Hampshire . Soon thereafter , Reagan ' s opponents began dropping out of the primaries , including John B . Anderson , who left the party to become an independent candidate . Reagan easily captured the presidential nomination and chose Bush as his running mate at the Detroit convention in July .	Why did you believe the United States was behind the Soviet Union militarily?	I believed the United States was behind the Soviet Union militarily.
Reagan emerged as a vocal critic of President Carter in 1977 . The Panama Canal Treaty ' s signing , the 1979 oil crisis , and rise in the inflation , interest and unemployment rates helped set up his 1980 presidential campaign , which he announced on November 13 , 1979 with an indictment of the federal government . His announcement stressed his fundamental principles of tax cuts to stimulate the economy and having both a small government and a strong national defense , since he believed the United States was behind the Soviet Union militarily . Heading into 1980 , his age became an issue among the press , and the United States was in a severe recession . In the primaries , Reagan lost Iowa to George H . W . Bush , but rebounded in New Hampshire . Soon thereafter , Reagan ' s opponents began dropping out of the primaries , including John B . Anderson , who left the party to become an independent candidate . Reagan easily captured the presidential nomination and chose Bush as his running mate at the Detroit convention in July .	Who did you lose to in the Iowa primaries?	I lost to George H. W. Bush in the Iowa primaries.
Reagan emerged as a vocal critic of President Carter in 1977 . The Panama Canal Treaty ' s signing , the 1979 oil crisis , and rise in the inflation , interest and unemployment rates helped set up his 1980 presidential campaign , which he announced on November 13 , 1979 with an indictment of the federal government . His announcement stressed his fundamental principles of tax cuts to stimulate the economy and having both a small government and a strong national defense , since he believed the United States was behind the Soviet Union militarily . Heading into 1980 , his age became an issue among the press , and the United States was in a severe recession . In the primaries , Reagan lost Iowa to George H . W . Bush , but rebounded in New Hampshire . Soon thereafter , Reagan ' s opponents began dropping out of the primaries , including John B . Anderson , who left the party to become an independent candidate . Reagan easily captured the presidential nomination and chose Bush as his running mate at the Detroit convention in July .	Who did you choose as your running mate at the Detroit convention in July?	I chose George H. W. Bush as my running mate at the Detroit convention in July.
In August , Reagan gave a speech at the Neshoba County Fair , stating his belief in states ' rights . Joseph Crespino argues that the visit was designed to reach out to Wallace - inclined voters , and some also saw these actions as an extension of the Southern strategy to garner white support for Republican candidates . Reagan ' s supporters have said that this was his typical anti - big government rhetoric , without racial context or intent . In the October 28 debate , Carter correctly chided Reagan for being against national health insurance . Reagan replied , " There you go again " , though the audience laughed and viewers found him more appealing . Reagan later asked the audience if they were better off than they were four years ago , slightly paraphrasing Roosevelt ' s words in 1934 . In 1983 , Reagan ' s campaign managers were revealed to having obtained Carter ' s debate briefing book before the debates . On November 4 , 1980 , Reagan won in a decisive victory in the Electoral College over Carter , carrying 44 states and receiving 489 electoral votes to Carter ' s 49 in six states and the District of Columbia . He won the popular vote by a narrower margin , receiving nearly 51 percent to Carter ' s 41 percent and Anderson ' s 7 percent . In the United States Congress , Republicans won a majority of seats in the Senate for the first time since 1952 while Democrats retained the House of Representatives .	Where did you give a speech in August?	I gawve a speech at the Neshoba County Fair.
