Scarlett Ingrid Johansson (/dʒoʊˈhænsən/; born November 22, 1984) is an American actress. The world's highest-paid actress in 2018 and 2019, she has featured multiple times on the Forbes Celebrity 100 list. Time named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2021. Her films have grossed over $14.3 billion worldwide, making Johansson the highest-grossing box office star of all time. She has received various accolades, including a Tony Award and a British Academy Film Award, in addition to nominations for two Academy Awards and five Golden Globe Awards.	When were you born?	I was born on November 22, 1984.
Scarlett Ingrid Johansson (/dʒoʊˈhænsən/; born November 22, 1984) is an American actress. The world's highest-paid actress in 2018 and 2019, she has featured multiple times on the Forbes Celebrity 100 list. Time named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2021. Her films have grossed over $14.3 billion worldwide, making Johansson the highest-grossing box office star of all time. She has received various accolades, including a Tony Award and a British Academy Film Award, in addition to nominations for two Academy Awards and five Golden Globe Awards.	What is your nationality?	I am American.
Scarlett Ingrid Johansson (/dʒoʊˈhænsən/; born November 22, 1984) is an American actress. The world's highest-paid actress in 2018 and 2019, she has featured multiple times on the Forbes Celebrity 100 list. Time named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2021. Her films have grossed over $14.3 billion worldwide, making Johansson the highest-grossing box office star of all time. She has received various accolades, including a Tony Award and a British Academy Film Award, in addition to nominations for two Academy Awards and five Golden Globe Awards.	In which year were you named one of the 100 most influential people in the world by Time magazine?	I was named one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2021.
Scarlett Ingrid Johansson (/dʒoʊˈhænsən/; born November 22, 1984) is an American actress. The world's highest-paid actress in 2018 and 2019, she has featured multiple times on the Forbes Celebrity 100 list. Time named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2021. Her films have grossed over $14.3 billion worldwide, making Johansson the highest-grossing box office star of all time. She has received various accolades, including a Tony Award and a British Academy Film Award, in addition to nominations for two Academy Awards and five Golden Globe Awards.	How much have your films grossed worldwide?	My films have grossed over $14.3 billion worldwide.
Scarlett Ingrid Johansson (/dʒoʊˈhænsən/; born November 22, 1984) is an American actress. The world's highest-paid actress in 2018 and 2019, she has featured multiple times on the Forbes Celebrity 100 list. Time named her one of the 100 most influential people in the world in 2021. Her films have grossed over $14.3 billion worldwide, making Johansson the highest-grossing box office star of all time. She has received various accolades, including a Tony Award and a British Academy Film Award, in addition to nominations for two Academy Awards and five Golden Globe Awards.	What titles have you been nominated for in various award ceremonies?	I have been nominated for two Academy Awards and five Golden Globe Awards.
Born to a Danish father and an American mother in Manhattan, New York City, Johansson aspired to be an actress from an early age and first appeared on stage in an off-Broadway play as a child actor. She made her film debut in the fantasy comedy North (1994), and gained early recognition for her roles in Manny & Lo (1996), The Horse Whisperer (1998), and Ghost World (2001). Johansson shifted to adult roles in 2003 with her performances in Lost in Translation, which won her a BAFTA Award for Best Actress, and Girl with a Pearl Earring. She was nominated for Golden Globe Awards for these films, and for playing a troubled teenager in the drama A Love Song for Bobby Long (2004) and a seductress in psychological thriller Match Point (2005). The latter was her first collaboration with Woody Allen, who later directed her in Scoop (2006) and Vicky Cristina Barcelona (2008). Johansson's other works of this period include The Prestige (2006) and the albums Anywhere I Lay My Head (2008) and Break Up (2009), both of which charted on the Billboard 200.	Where were you born?	I was born in Manhattan, New York City.
Born to a Danish father and an American mother in Manhattan, New York City, Johansson aspired to be an actress from an early age and first appeared on stage in an off-Broadway play as a child actor. She made her film debut in the fantasy comedy North (1994), and gained early recognition for her roles in Manny & Lo (1996), The Horse Whisperer (1998), and Ghost World (2001). Johansson shifted to adult roles in 2003 with her performances in Lost in Translation, which won her a BAFTA Award for Best Actress, and Girl with a Pearl Earring. She was nominated for Golden Globe Awards for these films, and for playing a troubled teenager in the drama A Love Song for Bobby Long (2004) and a seductress in psychological thriller Match Point (2005). The latter was her first collaboration with Woody Allen, who later directed her in Scoop (2006) and Vicky Cristina Barcelona (2008). Johansson's other works of this period include The Prestige (2006) and the albums Anywhere I Lay My Head (2008) and Break Up (2009), both of which charted on the Billboard 200.	What was your first film debut?	My first film debut was in the fantasy comedy North (1994).
Born to a Danish father and an American mother in Manhattan, New York City, Johansson aspired to be an actress from an early age and first appeared on stage in an off-Broadway play as a child actor. She made her film debut in the fantasy comedy North (1994), and gained early recognition for her roles in Manny & Lo (1996), The Horse Whisperer (1998), and Ghost World (2001). Johansson shifted to adult roles in 2003 with her performances in Lost in Translation, which won her a BAFTA Award for Best Actress, and Girl with a Pearl Earring. She was nominated for Golden Globe Awards for these films, and for playing a troubled teenager in the drama A Love Song for Bobby Long (2004) and a seductress in psychological thriller Match Point (2005). The latter was her first collaboration with Woody Allen, who later directed her in Scoop (2006) and Vicky Cristina Barcelona (2008). Johansson's other works of this period include The Prestige (2006) and the albums Anywhere I Lay My Head (2008) and Break Up (2009), both of which charted on the Billboard 200.	In which films did you shift to adult roles?	I shifted to adult roles in Lost in Translation, Girl with a Pearl Earring, A Love Song for Bobby Long, and Match Point.
Born to a Danish father and an American mother in Manhattan, New York City, Johansson aspired to be an actress from an early age and first appeared on stage in an off-Broadway play as a child actor. She made her film debut in the fantasy comedy North (1994), and gained early recognition for her roles in Manny & Lo (1996), The Horse Whisperer (1998), and Ghost World (2001). Johansson shifted to adult roles in 2003 with her performances in Lost in Translation, which won her a BAFTA Award for Best Actress, and Girl with a Pearl Earring. She was nominated for Golden Globe Awards for these films, and for playing a troubled teenager in the drama A Love Song for Bobby Long (2004) and a seductress in psychological thriller Match Point (2005). The latter was her first collaboration with Woody Allen, who later directed her in Scoop (2006) and Vicky Cristina Barcelona (2008). Johansson's other works of this period include The Prestige (2006) and the albums Anywhere I Lay My Head (2008) and Break Up (2009), both of which charted on the Billboard 200.	Who directed you in Scoop and Vicky Cristina Barcelona?	I was directed by Woody Allen in Scoop and Vicky Cristina Barcelona.
Born to a Danish father and an American mother in Manhattan, New York City, Johansson aspired to be an actress from an early age and first appeared on stage in an off-Broadway play as a child actor. She made her film debut in the fantasy comedy North (1994), and gained early recognition for her roles in Manny & Lo (1996), The Horse Whisperer (1998), and Ghost World (2001). Johansson shifted to adult roles in 2003 with her performances in Lost in Translation, which won her a BAFTA Award for Best Actress, and Girl with a Pearl Earring. She was nominated for Golden Globe Awards for these films, and for playing a troubled teenager in the drama A Love Song for Bobby Long (2004) and a seductress in psychological thriller Match Point (2005). The latter was her first collaboration with Woody Allen, who later directed her in Scoop (2006) and Vicky Cristina Barcelona (2008). Johansson's other works of this period include The Prestige (2006) and the albums Anywhere I Lay My Head (2008) and Break Up (2009), both of which charted on the Billboard 200.	Did your albums chart on the Billboard 200?	Yes, my albums, Anywhere I Lay My Head and Break Up, both charted on the Billboard 200.
In 2010, Johansson debuted on Broadway in a revival of A View from the Bridge, which won her a Tony Award for Best Featured Actress, and began portraying Black Widow in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Iron Man 2. She reprised the role in eight films, leading up to her solo feature Black Widow (2021), gaining global stardom. During this period, Johansson starred in the science fiction films Her (2013), Under the Skin (2013) and Lucy (2014). She received two simultaneous Academy Award nominations—Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress—for the respective roles of an actress going through a divorce in the drama Marriage Story (2019) and a single mother in Nazi Germany in the satire Jojo Rabbit (2019), becoming one of the few actors to achieve this feat.	When did you debut on Broadway?	I debuted on Broadway in 2010.
In 2010, Johansson debuted on Broadway in a revival of A View from the Bridge, which won her a Tony Award for Best Featured Actress, and began portraying Black Widow in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Iron Man 2. She reprised the role in eight films, leading up to her solo feature Black Widow (2021), gaining global stardom. During this period, Johansson starred in the science fiction films Her (2013), Under the Skin (2013) and Lucy (2014). She received two simultaneous Academy Award nominations—Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress—for the respective roles of an actress going through a divorce in the drama Marriage Story (2019) and a single mother in Nazi Germany in the satire Jojo Rabbit (2019), becoming one of the few actors to achieve this feat.	What award did you win for your role in A View from the Bridge?	I won a Tony Award for Best Featured Actress for my role in A View from the Bridge.
In 2010, Johansson debuted on Broadway in a revival of A View from the Bridge, which won her a Tony Award for Best Featured Actress, and began portraying Black Widow in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Iron Man 2. She reprised the role in eight films, leading up to her solo feature Black Widow (2021), gaining global stardom. During this period, Johansson starred in the science fiction films Her (2013), Under the Skin (2013) and Lucy (2014). She received two simultaneous Academy Award nominations—Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress—for the respective roles of an actress going through a divorce in the drama Marriage Story (2019) and a single mother in Nazi Germany in the satire Jojo Rabbit (2019), becoming one of the few actors to achieve this feat.	In which Marvel Cinematic Universe film did you begin portraying Black Widow?	I began portraying Black Widow in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Iron Man 2.
In 2010, Johansson debuted on Broadway in a revival of A View from the Bridge, which won her a Tony Award for Best Featured Actress, and began portraying Black Widow in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Iron Man 2. She reprised the role in eight films, leading up to her solo feature Black Widow (2021), gaining global stardom. During this period, Johansson starred in the science fiction films Her (2013), Under the Skin (2013) and Lucy (2014). She received two simultaneous Academy Award nominations—Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress—for the respective roles of an actress going through a divorce in the drama Marriage Story (2019) and a single mother in Nazi Germany in the satire Jojo Rabbit (2019), becoming one of the few actors to achieve this feat.	How many Academy Award nominations did you receive?	I received two simultaneous Academy Award nominations.
In 2010, Johansson debuted on Broadway in a revival of A View from the Bridge, which won her a Tony Award for Best Featured Actress, and began portraying Black Widow in the Marvel Cinematic Universe film Iron Man 2. She reprised the role in eight films, leading up to her solo feature Black Widow (2021), gaining global stardom. During this period, Johansson starred in the science fiction films Her (2013), Under the Skin (2013) and Lucy (2014). She received two simultaneous Academy Award nominations—Best Actress and Best Supporting Actress—for the respective roles of an actress going through a divorce in the drama Marriage Story (2019) and a single mother in Nazi Germany in the satire Jojo Rabbit (2019), becoming one of the few actors to achieve this feat.	For which roles did you receive the Academy Award nominations?	I received the nominations for my respective roles as an actress going through a divorce in the drama Marriage Story and as a single mother in Nazi Germany in the satire Jojo Rabbit.
Labeled a sex symbol, Johansson has been referred to as one of the world's most attractive women by various media outlets. She is a prominent brand endorser and supports several charitable causes. Divorced from actor Ryan Reynolds and businessman Romain Dauriac, Johansson has been married to comedian Colin Jost since 2020. She has two children, one with Dauriac and another with Jost.	How would you describe your public image?	I am labeled a sex symbol and have been referred to as one of the world's most attractive women by various media outlets.
Labeled a sex symbol, Johansson has been referred to as one of the world's most attractive women by various media outlets. She is a prominent brand endorser and supports several charitable causes. Divorced from actor Ryan Reynolds and businessman Romain Dauriac, Johansson has been married to comedian Colin Jost since 2020. She has two children, one with Dauriac and another with Jost.	What are some of the roles you play in your professional life?	I am a prominent brand endorser and support several charitable causes.
Labeled a sex symbol, Johansson has been referred to as one of the world's most attractive women by various media outlets. She is a prominent brand endorser and supports several charitable causes. Divorced from actor Ryan Reynolds and businessman Romain Dauriac, Johansson has been married to comedian Colin Jost since 2020. She has two children, one with Dauriac and another with Jost.	Who have you been married to since 2020?	I have been married to comedian Colin Jost since 2020.
Labeled a sex symbol, Johansson has been referred to as one of the world's most attractive women by various media outlets. She is a prominent brand endorser and supports several charitable causes. Divorced from actor Ryan Reynolds and businessman Romain Dauriac, Johansson has been married to comedian Colin Jost since 2020. She has two children, one with Dauriac and another with Jost.	Do you have any children?	Yes, I have two children. One with businessman Romain Dauriac and another with comedian Colin Jost.
Labeled a sex symbol, Johansson has been referred to as one of the world's most attractive women by various media outlets. She is a prominent brand endorser and supports several charitable causes. Divorced from actor Ryan Reynolds and businessman Romain Dauriac, Johansson has been married to comedian Colin Jost since 2020. She has two children, one with Dauriac and another with Jost.	Are you currently divorced?	I am divorced from actor Ryan Reynolds and businessman Romain Dauriac.
Scarlett Ingrid Johansson was born on November 22, 1984, in the Manhattan borough of New York City. Her father, Karsten Olaf Johansson, is an architect originally from Copenhagen, Denmark. Her paternal grandfather, Ejner Johansson, was an art historian, screenwriter, and film director, whose own father was Swedish. Her mother, New Yorker Melanie Sloan, has worked as a producer; she comes from an Ashkenazi Jewish family who fled Poland and Russia, originally surnamed Schlamberg, and Johansson identifies as Jewish. She has an older sister, Vanessa, also an actress; an older brother, Adrian; and a twin brother, Hunter. She also has an older half-brother, Christian, from her father's first marriage. Johansson holds dual American and Danish citizenship. On a 2017 episode of PBS's Finding Your Roots, she discovered that her maternal great-grandfather's brother and extended family died during the Holocaust in the Warsaw Ghetto.	When and where were you born?	I was born on November 22, 1984, in the Manhattan borough of New York City.
Scarlett Ingrid Johansson was born on November 22, 1984, in the Manhattan borough of New York City. Her father, Karsten Olaf Johansson, is an architect originally from Copenhagen, Denmark. Her paternal grandfather, Ejner Johansson, was an art historian, screenwriter, and film director, whose own father was Swedish. Her mother, New Yorker Melanie Sloan, has worked as a producer; she comes from an Ashkenazi Jewish family who fled Poland and Russia, originally surnamed Schlamberg, and Johansson identifies as Jewish. She has an older sister, Vanessa, also an actress; an older brother, Adrian; and a twin brother, Hunter. She also has an older half-brother, Christian, from her father's first marriage. Johansson holds dual American and Danish citizenship. On a 2017 episode of PBS's Finding Your Roots, she discovered that her maternal great-grandfather's brother and extended family died during the Holocaust in the Warsaw Ghetto.	Who is your father and where is he originally from?	My father is Karsten Olaf Johansson, who is originally from Copenhagen, Denmark.
Scarlett Ingrid Johansson was born on November 22, 1984, in the Manhattan borough of New York City. Her father, Karsten Olaf Johansson, is an architect originally from Copenhagen, Denmark. Her paternal grandfather, Ejner Johansson, was an art historian, screenwriter, and film director, whose own father was Swedish. Her mother, New Yorker Melanie Sloan, has worked as a producer; she comes from an Ashkenazi Jewish family who fled Poland and Russia, originally surnamed Schlamberg, and Johansson identifies as Jewish. She has an older sister, Vanessa, also an actress; an older brother, Adrian; and a twin brother, Hunter. She also has an older half-brother, Christian, from her father's first marriage. Johansson holds dual American and Danish citizenship. On a 2017 episode of PBS's Finding Your Roots, she discovered that her maternal great-grandfather's brother and extended family died during the Holocaust in the Warsaw Ghetto.	Can you tell me about your paternal grandfather?	My paternal grandfather, Ejner Johansson, was an art historian, screenwriter, and film director. His own father was Swedish.
Scarlett Ingrid Johansson was born on November 22, 1984, in the Manhattan borough of New York City. Her father, Karsten Olaf Johansson, is an architect originally from Copenhagen, Denmark. Her paternal grandfather, Ejner Johansson, was an art historian, screenwriter, and film director, whose own father was Swedish. Her mother, New Yorker Melanie Sloan, has worked as a producer; she comes from an Ashkenazi Jewish family who fled Poland and Russia, originally surnamed Schlamberg, and Johansson identifies as Jewish. She has an older sister, Vanessa, also an actress; an older brother, Adrian; and a twin brother, Hunter. She also has an older half-brother, Christian, from her father's first marriage. Johansson holds dual American and Danish citizenship. On a 2017 episode of PBS's Finding Your Roots, she discovered that her maternal great-grandfather's brother and extended family died during the Holocaust in the Warsaw Ghetto.	Who is your mother and what is her profession?	My mother is Melanie Sloan, who is a producer. She comes from an Ashkenazi Jewish family.
Scarlett Ingrid Johansson was born on November 22, 1984, in the Manhattan borough of New York City. Her father, Karsten Olaf Johansson, is an architect originally from Copenhagen, Denmark. Her paternal grandfather, Ejner Johansson, was an art historian, screenwriter, and film director, whose own father was Swedish. Her mother, New Yorker Melanie Sloan, has worked as a producer; she comes from an Ashkenazi Jewish family who fled Poland and Russia, originally surnamed Schlamberg, and Johansson identifies as Jewish. She has an older sister, Vanessa, also an actress; an older brother, Adrian; and a twin brother, Hunter. She also has an older half-brother, Christian, from her father's first marriage. Johansson holds dual American and Danish citizenship. On a 2017 episode of PBS's Finding Your Roots, she discovered that her maternal great-grandfather's brother and extended family died during the Holocaust in the Warsaw Ghetto.	Do I have any siblings?	Yes, I have an older sister named Vanessa, who is also an actress; an older brother named Adrian; a twin brother named Hunter; and an older half-brother named Christian from my father's first marriage.
Johansson attended PS 41, an elementary school in Greenwich Village, Manhattan. Her parents divorced when she was thirteen. She was particularly close to her maternal grandmother, Dorothy Sloan, a bookkeeper and schoolteacher; they often spent time together and Johansson considered Dorothy her best friend. Interested in a career in the spotlight from an early age, Johansson often put on song-and-dance routines for her family. She was particularly fond of musical theater and jazz hands. She took lessons in tap dance, and states that her parents were supportive of her career choice. She has described her childhood as very ordinary.	Where did you attend elementary school?	I attended PS 41, an elementary school in Greenwich Village, Manhattan.
Johansson attended PS 41, an elementary school in Greenwich Village, Manhattan. Her parents divorced when she was thirteen. She was particularly close to her maternal grandmother, Dorothy Sloan, a bookkeeper and schoolteacher; they often spent time together and Johansson considered Dorothy her best friend. Interested in a career in the spotlight from an early age, Johansson often put on song-and-dance routines for her family. She was particularly fond of musical theater and jazz hands. She took lessons in tap dance, and states that her parents were supportive of her career choice. She has described her childhood as very ordinary.	When did your parents divorce?	My parents divorced when I was thirteen.
Johansson attended PS 41, an elementary school in Greenwich Village, Manhattan. Her parents divorced when she was thirteen. She was particularly close to her maternal grandmother, Dorothy Sloan, a bookkeeper and schoolteacher; they often spent time together and Johansson considered Dorothy her best friend. Interested in a career in the spotlight from an early age, Johansson often put on song-and-dance routines for her family. She was particularly fond of musical theater and jazz hands. She took lessons in tap dance, and states that her parents were supportive of her career choice. She has described her childhood as very ordinary.	Who were you particularly close to?	I was particularly close to my maternal grandmother, Dorothy Sloan.
Johansson attended PS 41, an elementary school in Greenwich Village, Manhattan. Her parents divorced when she was thirteen. She was particularly close to her maternal grandmother, Dorothy Sloan, a bookkeeper and schoolteacher; they often spent time together and Johansson considered Dorothy her best friend. Interested in a career in the spotlight from an early age, Johansson often put on song-and-dance routines for her family. She was particularly fond of musical theater and jazz hands. She took lessons in tap dance, and states that her parents were supportive of her career choice. She has described her childhood as very ordinary.	What was Dorothy Sloan's occupation?	Dorothy Sloan was a bookkeeper and schoolteacher.
Johansson attended PS 41, an elementary school in Greenwich Village, Manhattan. Her parents divorced when she was thirteen. She was particularly close to her maternal grandmother, Dorothy Sloan, a bookkeeper and schoolteacher; they often spent time together and Johansson considered Dorothy her best friend. Interested in a career in the spotlight from an early age, Johansson often put on song-and-dance routines for her family. She was particularly fond of musical theater and jazz hands. She took lessons in tap dance, and states that her parents were supportive of her career choice. She has described her childhood as very ordinary.	What kind of routines do you often put on for your family?	I often put on song-and-dance routines for my family.
As a child, Johansson practiced acting by staring in the mirror until she made herself cry, wanting to be like Judy Garland in Meet Me in St. Louis. At age seven, she was devastated when a talent agent signed one of her brothers instead of her, but she later decided to become an actress anyway. She enrolled at the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute and began auditioning for commercials, but soon lost interest: "I didn't want to promote Wonder Bread." She shifted her focus to film and theater, making her first stage appearance in the off-Broadway play Sophistry with Ethan Hawke, in which she had two lines. Around this time, she began studying at the Professional Children's School, a private educational institution for aspiring child actors in Manhattan.	How did you practice acting as a child?	I practiced acting by staring in the mirror until I made myself cry.
As a child, Johansson practiced acting by staring in the mirror until she made herself cry, wanting to be like Judy Garland in Meet Me in St. Louis. At age seven, she was devastated when a talent agent signed one of her brothers instead of her, but she later decided to become an actress anyway. She enrolled at the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute and began auditioning for commercials, but soon lost interest: "I didn't want to promote Wonder Bread." She shifted her focus to film and theater, making her first stage appearance in the off-Broadway play Sophistry with Ethan Hawke, in which she had two lines. Around this time, she began studying at the Professional Children's School, a private educational institution for aspiring child actors in Manhattan.	Who did you want to be like when you acted as a child?	I wanted to be like Judy Garland in Meet Me in St. Louis.
As a child, Johansson practiced acting by staring in the mirror until she made herself cry, wanting to be like Judy Garland in Meet Me in St. Louis. At age seven, she was devastated when a talent agent signed one of her brothers instead of her, but she later decided to become an actress anyway. She enrolled at the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute and began auditioning for commercials, but soon lost interest: "I didn't want to promote Wonder Bread." She shifted her focus to film and theater, making her first stage appearance in the off-Broadway play Sophistry with Ethan Hawke, in which she had two lines. Around this time, she began studying at the Professional Children's School, a private educational institution for aspiring child actors in Manhattan.	What happened when you were seven years old?	I was devastated when a talent agent signed one of my brothers instead of me.
As a child, Johansson practiced acting by staring in the mirror until she made herself cry, wanting to be like Judy Garland in Meet Me in St. Louis. At age seven, she was devastated when a talent agent signed one of her brothers instead of her, but she later decided to become an actress anyway. She enrolled at the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute and began auditioning for commercials, but soon lost interest: "I didn't want to promote Wonder Bread." She shifted her focus to film and theater, making her first stage appearance in the off-Broadway play Sophistry with Ethan Hawke, in which she had two lines. Around this time, she began studying at the Professional Children's School, a private educational institution for aspiring child actors in Manhattan.	Where did you enroll to learn acting?	I enrolled at the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute.
As a child, Johansson practiced acting by staring in the mirror until she made herself cry, wanting to be like Judy Garland in Meet Me in St. Louis. At age seven, she was devastated when a talent agent signed one of her brothers instead of her, but she later decided to become an actress anyway. She enrolled at the Lee Strasberg Theatre Institute and began auditioning for commercials, but soon lost interest: "I didn't want to promote Wonder Bread." She shifted her focus to film and theater, making her first stage appearance in the off-Broadway play Sophistry with Ethan Hawke, in which she had two lines. Around this time, she began studying at the Professional Children's School, a private educational institution for aspiring child actors in Manhattan.	What was your first stage appearance?	My first stage appearance was in the off-Broadway play Sophistry with Ethan Hawke, in which I had two lines.
At age nine, Johansson made her film debut as John Ritter's daughter in the fantasy comedy North (1994). She says that when she was on the film set, she knew intuitively what to do. She later played minor roles such as the daughter of Sean Connery's and Kate Capshaw's characters in the mystery thriller Just Cause (1995), and an art student in If Lucy Fell (1996). Johansson's first leading role was as Amanda, the younger sister of a pregnant teenager who runs away from her foster home in Manny & Lo (1996) alongside Aleksa Palladino and her brother, Hunter. Her performance received positive reviews: one written for the San Francisco Chronicle noted, "[the film] grows on you, largely because of the charm of ... Scarlett Johansson," while critic Mick LaSalle, writing for the same paper, commented on her "peaceful aura", and believed, "If she can get through puberty with that aura undisturbed, she could become an important actress." Johansson earned a nomination for the Independent Spirit Award for Best Lead Female for the role.	When did you make your film debut?	At age nine, I made my film debut in 1994.
At age nine, Johansson made her film debut as John Ritter's daughter in the fantasy comedy North (1994). She says that when she was on the film set, she knew intuitively what to do. She later played minor roles such as the daughter of Sean Connery's and Kate Capshaw's characters in the mystery thriller Just Cause (1995), and an art student in If Lucy Fell (1996). Johansson's first leading role was as Amanda, the younger sister of a pregnant teenager who runs away from her foster home in Manny & Lo (1996) alongside Aleksa Palladino and her brother, Hunter. Her performance received positive reviews: one written for the San Francisco Chronicle noted, "[the film] grows on you, largely because of the charm of ... Scarlett Johansson," while critic Mick LaSalle, writing for the same paper, commented on her "peaceful aura", and believed, "If she can get through puberty with that aura undisturbed, she could become an important actress." Johansson earned a nomination for the Independent Spirit Award for Best Lead Female for the role.	Who did you play in the film North?	I played John Ritter's daughter in the film North.
At age nine, Johansson made her film debut as John Ritter's daughter in the fantasy comedy North (1994). She says that when she was on the film set, she knew intuitively what to do. She later played minor roles such as the daughter of Sean Connery's and Kate Capshaw's characters in the mystery thriller Just Cause (1995), and an art student in If Lucy Fell (1996). Johansson's first leading role was as Amanda, the younger sister of a pregnant teenager who runs away from her foster home in Manny & Lo (1996) alongside Aleksa Palladino and her brother, Hunter. Her performance received positive reviews: one written for the San Francisco Chronicle noted, "[the film] grows on you, largely because of the charm of ... Scarlett Johansson," while critic Mick LaSalle, writing for the same paper, commented on her "peaceful aura", and believed, "If she can get through puberty with that aura undisturbed, she could become an important actress." Johansson earned a nomination for the Independent Spirit Award for Best Lead Female for the role.	What were some of your minor roles before landing your first leading role?	Some of my minor roles included playing the daughter of Sean Connery's and Kate Capshaw's characters in Just Cause (1995) and an art student in If Lucy Fell (1996).
At age nine, Johansson made her film debut as John Ritter's daughter in the fantasy comedy North (1994). She says that when she was on the film set, she knew intuitively what to do. She later played minor roles such as the daughter of Sean Connery's and Kate Capshaw's characters in the mystery thriller Just Cause (1995), and an art student in If Lucy Fell (1996). Johansson's first leading role was as Amanda, the younger sister of a pregnant teenager who runs away from her foster home in Manny & Lo (1996) alongside Aleksa Palladino and her brother, Hunter. Her performance received positive reviews: one written for the San Francisco Chronicle noted, "[the film] grows on you, largely because of the charm of ... Scarlett Johansson," while critic Mick LaSalle, writing for the same paper, commented on her "peaceful aura", and believed, "If she can get through puberty with that aura undisturbed, she could become an important actress." Johansson earned a nomination for the Independent Spirit Award for Best Lead Female for the role.	What was your first leading role?	My first leading role was as Amanda in Manny & Lo (1996).
At age nine, Johansson made her film debut as John Ritter's daughter in the fantasy comedy North (1994). She says that when she was on the film set, she knew intuitively what to do. She later played minor roles such as the daughter of Sean Connery's and Kate Capshaw's characters in the mystery thriller Just Cause (1995), and an art student in If Lucy Fell (1996). Johansson's first leading role was as Amanda, the younger sister of a pregnant teenager who runs away from her foster home in Manny & Lo (1996) alongside Aleksa Palladino and her brother, Hunter. Her performance received positive reviews: one written for the San Francisco Chronicle noted, "[the film] grows on you, largely because of the charm of ... Scarlett Johansson," while critic Mick LaSalle, writing for the same paper, commented on her "peaceful aura", and believed, "If she can get through puberty with that aura undisturbed, she could become an important actress." Johansson earned a nomination for the Independent Spirit Award for Best Lead Female for the role.	What award nomination did you receive for your role in Manny & Lo?	I received a nomination for the Independent Spirit Award for Best Lead Female.
After appearing in minor roles in Fall and Home Alone 3 (both in 1997), Johansson attracted wider attention for her performance in the film The Horse Whisperer (1998), co-starring director Robert Redford. Based on the 1995 novel of the same name by Nicholas Evans, the drama tells the story of a talented horse trainer, who is hired to help an injured teenager (Johansson) and her horse back to health. Johansson received an "introducing" credit on this film; it was her seventh role. On Johansson's maturity, Redford described her as "13 going on 30". Todd McCarthy of Variety commented that Johansson "convincingly conveys the awkwardness of her age and the inner pain of a carefree girl suddenly laid low by horrible happenstance". For the film, she was nominated for the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Most Promising Actress. She believed that the film changed many things in her life, realizing that acting is the ability to manipulate one's emotions. On finding good roles as a teenager, Johansson said it was hard for her as adults wrote the scripts and they "portray kids like mall rats and not seriously ... Kids and teenagers just aren't being portrayed with any real depth."	What films did you appear in before gaining wider attention?	I appeared in Fall and Home Alone 3 before gaining wider attention.
After appearing in minor roles in Fall and Home Alone 3 (both in 1997), Johansson attracted wider attention for her performance in the film The Horse Whisperer (1998), co-starring director Robert Redford. Based on the 1995 novel of the same name by Nicholas Evans, the drama tells the story of a talented horse trainer, who is hired to help an injured teenager (Johansson) and her horse back to health. Johansson received an "introducing" credit on this film; it was her seventh role. On Johansson's maturity, Redford described her as "13 going on 30". Todd McCarthy of Variety commented that Johansson "convincingly conveys the awkwardness of her age and the inner pain of a carefree girl suddenly laid low by horrible happenstance". For the film, she was nominated for the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Most Promising Actress. She believed that the film changed many things in her life, realizing that acting is the ability to manipulate one's emotions. On finding good roles as a teenager, Johansson said it was hard for her as adults wrote the scripts and they "portray kids like mall rats and not seriously ... Kids and teenagers just aren't being portrayed with any real depth."	What film did you receive an "introducing" credit for?	I received an "introducing" credit for The Horse Whisperer.
After appearing in minor roles in Fall and Home Alone 3 (both in 1997), Johansson attracted wider attention for her performance in the film The Horse Whisperer (1998), co-starring director Robert Redford. Based on the 1995 novel of the same name by Nicholas Evans, the drama tells the story of a talented horse trainer, who is hired to help an injured teenager (Johansson) and her horse back to health. Johansson received an "introducing" credit on this film; it was her seventh role. On Johansson's maturity, Redford described her as "13 going on 30". Todd McCarthy of Variety commented that Johansson "convincingly conveys the awkwardness of her age and the inner pain of a carefree girl suddenly laid low by horrible happenstance". For the film, she was nominated for the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Most Promising Actress. She believed that the film changed many things in her life, realizing that acting is the ability to manipulate one's emotions. On finding good roles as a teenager, Johansson said it was hard for her as adults wrote the scripts and they "portray kids like mall rats and not seriously ... Kids and teenagers just aren't being portrayed with any real depth."	Who did you co-star with in The Horse Whisperer?	I co-starred with director Robert Redford in The Horse Whisperer.
After appearing in minor roles in Fall and Home Alone 3 (both in 1997), Johansson attracted wider attention for her performance in the film The Horse Whisperer (1998), co-starring director Robert Redford. Based on the 1995 novel of the same name by Nicholas Evans, the drama tells the story of a talented horse trainer, who is hired to help an injured teenager (Johansson) and her horse back to health. Johansson received an "introducing" credit on this film; it was her seventh role. On Johansson's maturity, Redford described her as "13 going on 30". Todd McCarthy of Variety commented that Johansson "convincingly conveys the awkwardness of her age and the inner pain of a carefree girl suddenly laid low by horrible happenstance". For the film, she was nominated for the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Most Promising Actress. She believed that the film changed many things in her life, realizing that acting is the ability to manipulate one's emotions. On finding good roles as a teenager, Johansson said it was hard for her as adults wrote the scripts and they "portray kids like mall rats and not seriously ... Kids and teenagers just aren't being portrayed with any real depth."	What award were you nominated for your performance in The Horse Whisperer?	I was nominated for the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Most Promising Actress for my performance in The Horse Whisperer.
After appearing in minor roles in Fall and Home Alone 3 (both in 1997), Johansson attracted wider attention for her performance in the film The Horse Whisperer (1998), co-starring director Robert Redford. Based on the 1995 novel of the same name by Nicholas Evans, the drama tells the story of a talented horse trainer, who is hired to help an injured teenager (Johansson) and her horse back to health. Johansson received an "introducing" credit on this film; it was her seventh role. On Johansson's maturity, Redford described her as "13 going on 30". Todd McCarthy of Variety commented that Johansson "convincingly conveys the awkwardness of her age and the inner pain of a carefree girl suddenly laid low by horrible happenstance". For the film, she was nominated for the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Most Promising Actress. She believed that the film changed many things in her life, realizing that acting is the ability to manipulate one's emotions. On finding good roles as a teenager, Johansson said it was hard for her as adults wrote the scripts and they "portray kids like mall rats and not seriously ... Kids and teenagers just aren't being portrayed with any real depth."	How do you describe the portrayal of kids and teenagers in scripts written by adults?	I describe the portrayal of kids and teenagers in scripts written by adults as not having any real depth.
Johansson later appeared in My Brother the Pig (1999) and in the Coen brothers' neo-noir film The Man Who Wasn't There (2001). Her breakthrough came playing a cynical outcast in Terry Zwigoff's black comedy Ghost World (2001), an adaptation of Daniel Clowes' graphic novel of the same name. Johansson auditioned for the film via a tape from New York, and Zwigoff believed her to be "a unique, eccentric person, and right for that part". The film premiered at the 2001 Seattle International Film Festival; although a box office failure, it has since developed a cult status. Johansson was credited with "sensitivity and talent [that] belie her age" by an Austin Chronicle critic and won a Toronto Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance.	Who directed the film The Man Who Wasn't There?	The film The Man Who Wasn't There was directed by the Coen brothers.
Johansson later appeared in My Brother the Pig (1999) and in the Coen brothers' neo-noir film The Man Who Wasn't There (2001). Her breakthrough came playing a cynical outcast in Terry Zwigoff's black comedy Ghost World (2001), an adaptation of Daniel Clowes' graphic novel of the same name. Johansson auditioned for the film via a tape from New York, and Zwigoff believed her to be "a unique, eccentric person, and right for that part". The film premiered at the 2001 Seattle International Film Festival; although a box office failure, it has since developed a cult status. Johansson was credited with "sensitivity and talent [that] belie her age" by an Austin Chronicle critic and won a Toronto Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance.	How did you audition for Ghost World?	I auditioned for Ghost World via a tape from New York.
Johansson later appeared in My Brother the Pig (1999) and in the Coen brothers' neo-noir film The Man Who Wasn't There (2001). Her breakthrough came playing a cynical outcast in Terry Zwigoff's black comedy Ghost World (2001), an adaptation of Daniel Clowes' graphic novel of the same name. Johansson auditioned for the film via a tape from New York, and Zwigoff believed her to be "a unique, eccentric person, and right for that part". The film premiered at the 2001 Seattle International Film Festival; although a box office failure, it has since developed a cult status. Johansson was credited with "sensitivity and talent [that] belie her age" by an Austin Chronicle critic and won a Toronto Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance.	Where did your film Ghost World premiere?	My film Ghost World premiered at the 2001 Seattle International Film Festival.
Johansson later appeared in My Brother the Pig (1999) and in the Coen brothers' neo-noir film The Man Who Wasn't There (2001). Her breakthrough came playing a cynical outcast in Terry Zwigoff's black comedy Ghost World (2001), an adaptation of Daniel Clowes' graphic novel of the same name. Johansson auditioned for the film via a tape from New York, and Zwigoff believed her to be "a unique, eccentric person, and right for that part". The film premiered at the 2001 Seattle International Film Festival; although a box office failure, it has since developed a cult status. Johansson was credited with "sensitivity and talent [that] belie her age" by an Austin Chronicle critic and won a Toronto Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance.	What kind of film is Ghost World?	Ghost World is a black comedy.
Johansson later appeared in My Brother the Pig (1999) and in the Coen brothers' neo-noir film The Man Who Wasn't There (2001). Her breakthrough came playing a cynical outcast in Terry Zwigoff's black comedy Ghost World (2001), an adaptation of Daniel Clowes' graphic novel of the same name. Johansson auditioned for the film via a tape from New York, and Zwigoff believed her to be "a unique, eccentric person, and right for that part". The film premiered at the 2001 Seattle International Film Festival; although a box office failure, it has since developed a cult status. Johansson was credited with "sensitivity and talent [that] belie her age" by an Austin Chronicle critic and won a Toronto Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress for her performance.	What award did you win for your performance in Ghost World?	I won a Toronto Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress for my performance in Ghost World.
Johansson transitioned from teen to adult roles with two films in 2003 : the romantic comedy - drama Lost in Translation and the drama Girl with a Pearl Earring . In the former , directed by Sofia Coppola , she plays Charlotte , a listless and lonely young wife , opposite Bill Murray . Coppola had first noticed Johansson in Manny & Lo , and compared her to a young Lauren Bacall ; Coppola based the film ' s story on the relationship between Bacall and Humphrey Bogart in The Big Sleep ( 1946 ) . Johansson found the experience of working with a female director different because of Coppola ' s ability to empathize with her . Made on a budget of $ 4   million , the film grossed $ 119   million at the box office and received critical acclaim . Roger Ebert was pleased with the film and described the lead actors ' performances as " wonderful " , and Entertainment Weekly wrote of Johansson ' s " embracing , restful serenity " . The New York Times praised Johansson , aged 17 at the time of filming , for playing an older character .	What films did you transition from teen to adult roles with in 2003?	Lost in Translation and Girl with a Pearl Earring.
Johansson transitioned from teen to adult roles with two films in 2003 : the romantic comedy - drama Lost in Translation and the drama Girl with a Pearl Earring . In the former , directed by Sofia Coppola , she plays Charlotte , a listless and lonely young wife , opposite Bill Murray . Coppola had first noticed Johansson in Manny & Lo , and compared her to a young Lauren Bacall ; Coppola based the film ' s story on the relationship between Bacall and Humphrey Bogart in The Big Sleep ( 1946 ) . Johansson found the experience of working with a female director different because of Coppola ' s ability to empathize with her . Made on a budget of $ 4   million , the film grossed $ 119   million at the box office and received critical acclaim . Roger Ebert was pleased with the film and described the lead actors ' performances as " wonderful " , and Entertainment Weekly wrote of Johansson ' s " embracing , restful serenity " . The New York Times praised Johansson , aged 17 at the time of filming , for playing an older character .	Who directed Lost in Translation?	Sofia Coppola.
Johansson transitioned from teen to adult roles with two films in 2003 : the romantic comedy - drama Lost in Translation and the drama Girl with a Pearl Earring . In the former , directed by Sofia Coppola , she plays Charlotte , a listless and lonely young wife , opposite Bill Murray . Coppola had first noticed Johansson in Manny & Lo , and compared her to a young Lauren Bacall ; Coppola based the film ' s story on the relationship between Bacall and Humphrey Bogart in The Big Sleep ( 1946 ) . Johansson found the experience of working with a female director different because of Coppola ' s ability to empathize with her . Made on a budget of $ 4   million , the film grossed $ 119   million at the box office and received critical acclaim . Roger Ebert was pleased with the film and described the lead actors ' performances as " wonderful " , and Entertainment Weekly wrote of Johansson ' s " embracing , restful serenity " . The New York Times praised Johansson , aged 17 at the time of filming , for playing an older character .	What was your character's name in Lost in Translation?	Charlotte.
Johansson transitioned from teen to adult roles with two films in 2003 : the romantic comedy - drama Lost in Translation and the drama Girl with a Pearl Earring . In the former , directed by Sofia Coppola , she plays Charlotte , a listless and lonely young wife , opposite Bill Murray . Coppola had first noticed Johansson in Manny & Lo , and compared her to a young Lauren Bacall ; Coppola based the film ' s story on the relationship between Bacall and Humphrey Bogart in The Big Sleep ( 1946 ) . Johansson found the experience of working with a female director different because of Coppola ' s ability to empathize with her . Made on a budget of $ 4   million , the film grossed $ 119   million at the box office and received critical acclaim . Roger Ebert was pleased with the film and described the lead actors ' performances as " wonderful " , and Entertainment Weekly wrote of Johansson ' s " embracing , restful serenity " . The New York Times praised Johansson , aged 17 at the time of filming , for playing an older character .	How much was the budget for Lost in Translation?	$4 million.
Johansson transitioned from teen to adult roles with two films in 2003 : the romantic comedy - drama Lost in Translation and the drama Girl with a Pearl Earring . In the former , directed by Sofia Coppola , she plays Charlotte , a listless and lonely young wife , opposite Bill Murray . Coppola had first noticed Johansson in Manny & Lo , and compared her to a young Lauren Bacall ; Coppola based the film ' s story on the relationship between Bacall and Humphrey Bogart in The Big Sleep ( 1946 ) . Johansson found the experience of working with a female director different because of Coppola ' s ability to empathize with her . Made on a budget of $ 4   million , the film grossed $ 119   million at the box office and received critical acclaim . Roger Ebert was pleased with the film and described the lead actors ' performances as " wonderful " , and Entertainment Weekly wrote of Johansson ' s " embracing , restful serenity " . The New York Times praised Johansson , aged 17 at the time of filming , for playing an older character .	How much did Lost in Translation gross at the box office?	$119 million.
In Peter Webber ' s Girl with a Pearl Earring , which is based on the novel of the same name by Tracy Chevalier , Johansson played Griet , a young 17th - century servant in the household of the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer ( played by Colin Firth ) . Webber interviewed 150 actors before casting Johansson . Johansson found the character moving , but did not read the novel , as she thought it was better to approach the story with a fresh start . Girl with a Pearl Earring received positive reviews and was profitable . In his review for The New Yorker , Anthony Lane thought that her presence kept the film " alive " , writing , " She is often wordless and close to plain onscreen , but wait for the ardor with which she can summon a closeup and bloom under its gaze ; this is her film , not Vermeer ' s , all the way . " Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly noted her " nearly silent performance " , remarking , " The interplay on her face of fear , ignorance , curiosity , and sex is intensely dramatic . " She was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role and Golden Globe Awards for Best Actress [ a ] for both films in 2003 , winning the former for Lost in Translation .	Who did you play in "Girl with a Pearl Earring"?	I played Griet, a young 17th-century servant in the household of the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer.
In Peter Webber ' s Girl with a Pearl Earring , which is based on the novel of the same name by Tracy Chevalier , Johansson played Griet , a young 17th - century servant in the household of the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer ( played by Colin Firth ) . Webber interviewed 150 actors before casting Johansson . Johansson found the character moving , but did not read the novel , as she thought it was better to approach the story with a fresh start . Girl with a Pearl Earring received positive reviews and was profitable . In his review for The New Yorker , Anthony Lane thought that her presence kept the film " alive " , writing , " She is often wordless and close to plain onscreen , but wait for the ardor with which she can summon a closeup and bloom under its gaze ; this is her film , not Vermeer ' s , all the way . " Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly noted her " nearly silent performance " , remarking , " The interplay on her face of fear , ignorance , curiosity , and sex is intensely dramatic . " She was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role and Golden Globe Awards for Best Actress [ a ] for both films in 2003 , winning the former for Lost in Translation .	How many actors were interviewed before you were cast?	Peter Webber interviewed 150 actors before casting me.
In Peter Webber ' s Girl with a Pearl Earring , which is based on the novel of the same name by Tracy Chevalier , Johansson played Griet , a young 17th - century servant in the household of the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer ( played by Colin Firth ) . Webber interviewed 150 actors before casting Johansson . Johansson found the character moving , but did not read the novel , as she thought it was better to approach the story with a fresh start . Girl with a Pearl Earring received positive reviews and was profitable . In his review for The New Yorker , Anthony Lane thought that her presence kept the film " alive " , writing , " She is often wordless and close to plain onscreen , but wait for the ardor with which she can summon a closeup and bloom under its gaze ; this is her film , not Vermeer ' s , all the way . " Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly noted her " nearly silent performance " , remarking , " The interplay on her face of fear , ignorance , curiosity , and sex is intensely dramatic . " She was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role and Golden Globe Awards for Best Actress [ a ] for both films in 2003 , winning the former for Lost in Translation .	Did you read the novel "Girl with a Pearl Earring" before taking on the role?	No, I did not read the novel. I thought it was better to approach the story with a fresh start.
In Peter Webber ' s Girl with a Pearl Earring , which is based on the novel of the same name by Tracy Chevalier , Johansson played Griet , a young 17th - century servant in the household of the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer ( played by Colin Firth ) . Webber interviewed 150 actors before casting Johansson . Johansson found the character moving , but did not read the novel , as she thought it was better to approach the story with a fresh start . Girl with a Pearl Earring received positive reviews and was profitable . In his review for The New Yorker , Anthony Lane thought that her presence kept the film " alive " , writing , " She is often wordless and close to plain onscreen , but wait for the ardor with which she can summon a closeup and bloom under its gaze ; this is her film , not Vermeer ' s , all the way . " Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly noted her " nearly silent performance " , remarking , " The interplay on her face of fear , ignorance , curiosity , and sex is intensely dramatic . " She was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role and Golden Globe Awards for Best Actress [ a ] for both films in 2003 , winning the former for Lost in Translation .	What did you think of my performance in the film?	I thought that your presence kept the film "alive" and praised your ability to summon ardor in close-up shots.
In Peter Webber ' s Girl with a Pearl Earring , which is based on the novel of the same name by Tracy Chevalier , Johansson played Griet , a young 17th - century servant in the household of the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer ( played by Colin Firth ) . Webber interviewed 150 actors before casting Johansson . Johansson found the character moving , but did not read the novel , as she thought it was better to approach the story with a fresh start . Girl with a Pearl Earring received positive reviews and was profitable . In his review for The New Yorker , Anthony Lane thought that her presence kept the film " alive " , writing , " She is often wordless and close to plain onscreen , but wait for the ardor with which she can summon a closeup and bloom under its gaze ; this is her film , not Vermeer ' s , all the way . " Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly noted her " nearly silent performance " , remarking , " The interplay on her face of fear , ignorance , curiosity , and sex is intensely dramatic . " She was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role and Golden Globe Awards for Best Actress [ a ] for both films in 2003 , winning the former for Lost in Translation .	Were you nominated for any awards for your role in "Girl with a Pearl Earring"?	Yes, I was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role and Golden Globe Awards for Best Actress for my performance in "Girl with a Pearl Earring", winning the former for "Lost in Translation".
Johansson played Nola , an aspiring actress who begins an affair with a married man ( played by Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) in Woody Allen ' s drama Match Point in 2005 . After replacing Kate Winslet with Johansson for the role , Allen changed the character ' s nationality from British to American . An admirer of Allen ' s films , Johansson liked the idea of working with him , but felt nervous her first day on the set . The New York Times was impressed with the performances of Johansson and Rhys Meyers , and Mick LaSalle , writing for the San Francisco Chronicle , stated that Johansson " is a powerhouse from the word go " , with a performance that " borders on astonishing " . The film , a box office success , earned Johansson nominations for the Golden Globe and the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress . Also that year , Johansson underwent a tonsillectomy and starred with Ewan McGregor in Michael Bay ' s science fiction film The Island , in dual roles as Sarah Jordan and her clone , Jordan Two Delta . Johansson found her filming schedule exhausting : she had to shoot for 14 hours a day , and she hit her head and injured herself . The film received mixed reviews and grossed $ 163   million against a $ 126   million budget .	Who did you replace for the role in Match Point?	Kate Winslet
Johansson played Nola , an aspiring actress who begins an affair with a married man ( played by Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) in Woody Allen ' s drama Match Point in 2005 . After replacing Kate Winslet with Johansson for the role , Allen changed the character ' s nationality from British to American . An admirer of Allen ' s films , Johansson liked the idea of working with him , but felt nervous her first day on the set . The New York Times was impressed with the performances of Johansson and Rhys Meyers , and Mick LaSalle , writing for the San Francisco Chronicle , stated that Johansson " is a powerhouse from the word go " , with a performance that " borders on astonishing " . The film , a box office success , earned Johansson nominations for the Golden Globe and the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress . Also that year , Johansson underwent a tonsillectomy and starred with Ewan McGregor in Michael Bay ' s science fiction film The Island , in dual roles as Sarah Jordan and her clone , Jordan Two Delta . Johansson found her filming schedule exhausting : she had to shoot for 14 hours a day , and she hit her head and injured herself . The film received mixed reviews and grossed $ 163   million against a $ 126   million budget .	What was your character's name in Match Point?	Nola
Johansson played Nola , an aspiring actress who begins an affair with a married man ( played by Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) in Woody Allen ' s drama Match Point in 2005 . After replacing Kate Winslet with Johansson for the role , Allen changed the character ' s nationality from British to American . An admirer of Allen ' s films , Johansson liked the idea of working with him , but felt nervous her first day on the set . The New York Times was impressed with the performances of Johansson and Rhys Meyers , and Mick LaSalle , writing for the San Francisco Chronicle , stated that Johansson " is a powerhouse from the word go " , with a performance that " borders on astonishing " . The film , a box office success , earned Johansson nominations for the Golden Globe and the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress . Also that year , Johansson underwent a tonsillectomy and starred with Ewan McGregor in Michael Bay ' s science fiction film The Island , in dual roles as Sarah Jordan and her clone , Jordan Two Delta . Johansson found her filming schedule exhausting : she had to shoot for 14 hours a day , and she hit her head and injured herself . The film received mixed reviews and grossed $ 163   million against a $ 126   million budget .	What was your nationality in the movie?	American
Johansson played Nola , an aspiring actress who begins an affair with a married man ( played by Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) in Woody Allen ' s drama Match Point in 2005 . After replacing Kate Winslet with Johansson for the role , Allen changed the character ' s nationality from British to American . An admirer of Allen ' s films , Johansson liked the idea of working with him , but felt nervous her first day on the set . The New York Times was impressed with the performances of Johansson and Rhys Meyers , and Mick LaSalle , writing for the San Francisco Chronicle , stated that Johansson " is a powerhouse from the word go " , with a performance that " borders on astonishing " . The film , a box office success , earned Johansson nominations for the Golden Globe and the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress . Also that year , Johansson underwent a tonsillectomy and starred with Ewan McGregor in Michael Bay ' s science fiction film The Island , in dual roles as Sarah Jordan and her clone , Jordan Two Delta . Johansson found her filming schedule exhausting : she had to shoot for 14 hours a day , and she hit her head and injured herself . The film received mixed reviews and grossed $ 163   million against a $ 126   million budget .	Who played the married man in Match Point?	Jonathan Rhys Meyers
Johansson played Nola , an aspiring actress who begins an affair with a married man ( played by Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) in Woody Allen ' s drama Match Point in 2005 . After replacing Kate Winslet with Johansson for the role , Allen changed the character ' s nationality from British to American . An admirer of Allen ' s films , Johansson liked the idea of working with him , but felt nervous her first day on the set . The New York Times was impressed with the performances of Johansson and Rhys Meyers , and Mick LaSalle , writing for the San Francisco Chronicle , stated that Johansson " is a powerhouse from the word go " , with a performance that " borders on astonishing " . The film , a box office success , earned Johansson nominations for the Golden Globe and the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress . Also that year , Johansson underwent a tonsillectomy and starred with Ewan McGregor in Michael Bay ' s science fiction film The Island , in dual roles as Sarah Jordan and her clone , Jordan Two Delta . Johansson found her filming schedule exhausting : she had to shoot for 14 hours a day , and she hit her head and injured herself . The film received mixed reviews and grossed $ 163   million against a $ 126   million budget .	What awards did you receive nominations for your role in Match Point?	Golden Globe and the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress
Two of Johansson ' s films in 2006 explored the world of stage magicians , both opposite Hugh Jackman . Allen cast her opposite Jackman and himself in the film Scoop ( 2006 ) , in which she played a journalism student . The film was a modest worldwide box office success , but polarized critics . Ebert was critical of the film , but found Johansson " lovely as always " , and LaSalle noted the freshness she brought to her part . She also appeared in Brian De Palma ' s The Black Dahlia , a film noir shot in Los Angeles and Bulgaria . Johansson later said she was a fan of De   Palma and had wanted to work with him on the film , but thought that she was unsuitable for the part . Anne Billson of The Daily Telegraph likewise found her miscast . However , CNN said that she " takes to the pulpy period atmosphere as if it were oxygen " .	Who did you star opposite in two of your films in 2006?	Hugh Jackman
Two of Johansson ' s films in 2006 explored the world of stage magicians , both opposite Hugh Jackman . Allen cast her opposite Jackman and himself in the film Scoop ( 2006 ) , in which she played a journalism student . The film was a modest worldwide box office success , but polarized critics . Ebert was critical of the film , but found Johansson " lovely as always " , and LaSalle noted the freshness she brought to her part . She also appeared in Brian De Palma ' s The Black Dahlia , a film noir shot in Los Angeles and Bulgaria . Johansson later said she was a fan of De   Palma and had wanted to work with him on the film , but thought that she was unsuitable for the part . Anne Billson of The Daily Telegraph likewise found her miscast . However , CNN said that she " takes to the pulpy period atmosphere as if it were oxygen " .	What was your role in the film Scoop?	Journalism student
Two of Johansson ' s films in 2006 explored the world of stage magicians , both opposite Hugh Jackman . Allen cast her opposite Jackman and himself in the film Scoop ( 2006 ) , in which she played a journalism student . The film was a modest worldwide box office success , but polarized critics . Ebert was critical of the film , but found Johansson " lovely as always " , and LaSalle noted the freshness she brought to her part . She also appeared in Brian De Palma ' s The Black Dahlia , a film noir shot in Los Angeles and Bulgaria . Johansson later said she was a fan of De   Palma and had wanted to work with him on the film , but thought that she was unsuitable for the part . Anne Billson of The Daily Telegraph likewise found her miscast . However , CNN said that she " takes to the pulpy period atmosphere as if it were oxygen " .	Was the film Scoop a box office success?	Yes, it was a modest worldwide box office success.
Two of Johansson ' s films in 2006 explored the world of stage magicians , both opposite Hugh Jackman . Allen cast her opposite Jackman and himself in the film Scoop ( 2006 ) , in which she played a journalism student . The film was a modest worldwide box office success , but polarized critics . Ebert was critical of the film , but found Johansson " lovely as always " , and LaSalle noted the freshness she brought to her part . She also appeared in Brian De Palma ' s The Black Dahlia , a film noir shot in Los Angeles and Bulgaria . Johansson later said she was a fan of De   Palma and had wanted to work with him on the film , but thought that she was unsuitable for the part . Anne Billson of The Daily Telegraph likewise found her miscast . However , CNN said that she " takes to the pulpy period atmosphere as if it were oxygen " .	How did critics feel about your performance in the film Scoop?	Ebert was critical of the film but found me "lovely as always," and LaSalle noted the freshness I brought to my part.
Two of Johansson ' s films in 2006 explored the world of stage magicians , both opposite Hugh Jackman . Allen cast her opposite Jackman and himself in the film Scoop ( 2006 ) , in which she played a journalism student . The film was a modest worldwide box office success , but polarized critics . Ebert was critical of the film , but found Johansson " lovely as always " , and LaSalle noted the freshness she brought to her part . She also appeared in Brian De Palma ' s The Black Dahlia , a film noir shot in Los Angeles and Bulgaria . Johansson later said she was a fan of De   Palma and had wanted to work with him on the film , but thought that she was unsuitable for the part . Anne Billson of The Daily Telegraph likewise found her miscast . However , CNN said that she " takes to the pulpy period atmosphere as if it were oxygen " .	In which cities was The Black Dahlia, a film in which you appeared, shot?	Los Angeles and Bulgaria
In her third collaboration with Woody Allen , the romantic comedy - drama Vicky Cristina Barcelona ( 2008 ) , which was filmed in Spain , Johansson plays one of the love interests of Javier Bardem ' s character alongside Pen é lope Cruz . The film was one of Allen ' s most profitable and received favorable reviews . A reviewer in Variety described Johansson as " open and malleable " compared to the other actors . She also played the femme fatale Silken Floss in The Spirit , based on the newspaper comic strip of the same name by Will Eisner . It received poor reviews from critics , who deemed it melodramatic , unoriginal , and sexist . Johansson ' s only role in 2009 was as Anna Marks , a yoga instructor , in the ensemble comedy - drama He ' s Just Not That into You ( 2009 ) . The film was released to tepid reviews , but was a box office success .	Who did you play alongside in Vicky Cristina Barcelona?	Penélope Cruz.
In her third collaboration with Woody Allen , the romantic comedy - drama Vicky Cristina Barcelona ( 2008 ) , which was filmed in Spain , Johansson plays one of the love interests of Javier Bardem ' s character alongside Pen é lope Cruz . The film was one of Allen ' s most profitable and received favorable reviews . A reviewer in Variety described Johansson as " open and malleable " compared to the other actors . She also played the femme fatale Silken Floss in The Spirit , based on the newspaper comic strip of the same name by Will Eisner . It received poor reviews from critics , who deemed it melodramatic , unoriginal , and sexist . Johansson ' s only role in 2009 was as Anna Marks , a yoga instructor , in the ensemble comedy - drama He ' s Just Not That into You ( 2009 ) . The film was released to tepid reviews , but was a box office success .	What was the reception of Woody Allen's film Vicky Cristina Barcelona?	It received favorable reviews and was one of Allen's most profitable films.
In her third collaboration with Woody Allen , the romantic comedy - drama Vicky Cristina Barcelona ( 2008 ) , which was filmed in Spain , Johansson plays one of the love interests of Javier Bardem ' s character alongside Pen é lope Cruz . The film was one of Allen ' s most profitable and received favorable reviews . A reviewer in Variety described Johansson as " open and malleable " compared to the other actors . She also played the femme fatale Silken Floss in The Spirit , based on the newspaper comic strip of the same name by Will Eisner . It received poor reviews from critics , who deemed it melodramatic , unoriginal , and sexist . Johansson ' s only role in 2009 was as Anna Marks , a yoga instructor , in the ensemble comedy - drama He ' s Just Not That into You ( 2009 ) . The film was released to tepid reviews , but was a box office success .	How did a reviewer in Variety describe your performance in Vicky Cristina Barcelona?	The reviewer described me as "open and malleable" compared to the other actors.
In her third collaboration with Woody Allen , the romantic comedy - drama Vicky Cristina Barcelona ( 2008 ) , which was filmed in Spain , Johansson plays one of the love interests of Javier Bardem ' s character alongside Pen é lope Cruz . The film was one of Allen ' s most profitable and received favorable reviews . A reviewer in Variety described Johansson as " open and malleable " compared to the other actors . She also played the femme fatale Silken Floss in The Spirit , based on the newspaper comic strip of the same name by Will Eisner . It received poor reviews from critics , who deemed it melodramatic , unoriginal , and sexist . Johansson ' s only role in 2009 was as Anna Marks , a yoga instructor , in the ensemble comedy - drama He ' s Just Not That into You ( 2009 ) . The film was released to tepid reviews , but was a box office success .	What was the critical reception of The Spirit?	It received poor reviews, with critics deeming it melodramatic, unoriginal, and sexist.
In her third collaboration with Woody Allen , the romantic comedy - drama Vicky Cristina Barcelona ( 2008 ) , which was filmed in Spain , Johansson plays one of the love interests of Javier Bardem ' s character alongside Pen é lope Cruz . The film was one of Allen ' s most profitable and received favorable reviews . A reviewer in Variety described Johansson as " open and malleable " compared to the other actors . She also played the femme fatale Silken Floss in The Spirit , based on the newspaper comic strip of the same name by Will Eisner . It received poor reviews from critics , who deemed it melodramatic , unoriginal , and sexist . Johansson ' s only role in 2009 was as Anna Marks , a yoga instructor , in the ensemble comedy - drama He ' s Just Not That into You ( 2009 ) . The film was released to tepid reviews , but was a box office success .	What was your role in He's Just Not That into You?	I played Anna Marks, a yoga instructor.
Aspiring to appear on Broadway since childhood , Johansson made her debut in a 2010 revival of Arthur Miller ' s drama A View from the Bridge . Set in the 1950s in an Italian - American neighborhood in New York , it tells the tragic tale of Eddie ( Liev Schreiber ) , who has an inappropriate love for his wife ' s orphaned niece , Catherine ( Johansson ) . After initial reservations about playing a teenage character , Johansson was convinced by a friend to take on the part . Ben Brantley of The New York Times wrote Johansson " melts into her character so thoroughly that her nimbus of celebrity disappears " . Variety ' s David Rooney was impressed with the play and Johansson in particular , describing her as the chief performer . She won the 2010 Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Play . Some critics and Broadway actors criticized the award committee ' s decision to reward the work of mainstream Hollywood actors , including Johansson . In response , she said that she understood the frustration , but had worked hard for her accomplishments .	When did you make your debut on Broadway?	I made my debut on Broadway in 2010.
Aspiring to appear on Broadway since childhood , Johansson made her debut in a 2010 revival of Arthur Miller ' s drama A View from the Bridge . Set in the 1950s in an Italian - American neighborhood in New York , it tells the tragic tale of Eddie ( Liev Schreiber ) , who has an inappropriate love for his wife ' s orphaned niece , Catherine ( Johansson ) . After initial reservations about playing a teenage character , Johansson was convinced by a friend to take on the part . Ben Brantley of The New York Times wrote Johansson " melts into her character so thoroughly that her nimbus of celebrity disappears " . Variety ' s David Rooney was impressed with the play and Johansson in particular , describing her as the chief performer . She won the 2010 Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Play . Some critics and Broadway actors criticized the award committee ' s decision to reward the work of mainstream Hollywood actors , including Johansson . In response , she said that she understood the frustration , but had worked hard for her accomplishments .	What play did you make your debut in?	I made my debut in a revival of Arthur Miller's drama A View from the Bridge.
Aspiring to appear on Broadway since childhood , Johansson made her debut in a 2010 revival of Arthur Miller ' s drama A View from the Bridge . Set in the 1950s in an Italian - American neighborhood in New York , it tells the tragic tale of Eddie ( Liev Schreiber ) , who has an inappropriate love for his wife ' s orphaned niece , Catherine ( Johansson ) . After initial reservations about playing a teenage character , Johansson was convinced by a friend to take on the part . Ben Brantley of The New York Times wrote Johansson " melts into her character so thoroughly that her nimbus of celebrity disappears " . Variety ' s David Rooney was impressed with the play and Johansson in particular , describing her as the chief performer . She won the 2010 Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Play . Some critics and Broadway actors criticized the award committee ' s decision to reward the work of mainstream Hollywood actors , including Johansson . In response , she said that she understood the frustration , but had worked hard for her accomplishments .	What is the setting of the play?	The play is set in a 1950s Italian-American neighborhood in New York.
Aspiring to appear on Broadway since childhood , Johansson made her debut in a 2010 revival of Arthur Miller ' s drama A View from the Bridge . Set in the 1950s in an Italian - American neighborhood in New York , it tells the tragic tale of Eddie ( Liev Schreiber ) , who has an inappropriate love for his wife ' s orphaned niece , Catherine ( Johansson ) . After initial reservations about playing a teenage character , Johansson was convinced by a friend to take on the part . Ben Brantley of The New York Times wrote Johansson " melts into her character so thoroughly that her nimbus of celebrity disappears " . Variety ' s David Rooney was impressed with the play and Johansson in particular , describing her as the chief performer . She won the 2010 Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Play . Some critics and Broadway actors criticized the award committee ' s decision to reward the work of mainstream Hollywood actors , including Johansson . In response , she said that she understood the frustration , but had worked hard for her accomplishments .	Who do you have an inappropriate love for?	I have an inappropriate love for Eddie, played by Liev Schreiber.
Aspiring to appear on Broadway since childhood , Johansson made her debut in a 2010 revival of Arthur Miller ' s drama A View from the Bridge . Set in the 1950s in an Italian - American neighborhood in New York , it tells the tragic tale of Eddie ( Liev Schreiber ) , who has an inappropriate love for his wife ' s orphaned niece , Catherine ( Johansson ) . After initial reservations about playing a teenage character , Johansson was convinced by a friend to take on the part . Ben Brantley of The New York Times wrote Johansson " melts into her character so thoroughly that her nimbus of celebrity disappears " . Variety ' s David Rooney was impressed with the play and Johansson in particular , describing her as the chief performer . She won the 2010 Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Play . Some critics and Broadway actors criticized the award committee ' s decision to reward the work of mainstream Hollywood actors , including Johansson . In response , she said that she understood the frustration , but had worked hard for her accomplishments .	What award did you win for your performance in the play?	I won the 2010 Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Play.
In 2013 , Johansson voiced the character Samantha , a self - aware computer operating system , in Spike Jonze ' s film Her , replacing Samantha Morton in the role . The film premiered at the 8th Rome International Film Festival , where Johansson won Best Actress ; she was also nominated for the Critics ' Choice Movie Award for Best Supporting Actress . Johansson was intimidated by the role ' s complexity , and found her recording sessions for the role challenging but liberating . Peter Travers believed Johansson ' s voice in the film was " sweet , sexy , caring , manipulative , scary [ and ] award - worthy " . Time ' s Richard Corliss called her performance " seductive and winning " , and Her was rated as one of the best films of 2013 .	What film did you voice the character Samantha in?	I voiced the character Samantha in the film Her.
In 2013 , Johansson voiced the character Samantha , a self - aware computer operating system , in Spike Jonze ' s film Her , replacing Samantha Morton in the role . The film premiered at the 8th Rome International Film Festival , where Johansson won Best Actress ; she was also nominated for the Critics ' Choice Movie Award for Best Supporting Actress . Johansson was intimidated by the role ' s complexity , and found her recording sessions for the role challenging but liberating . Peter Travers believed Johansson ' s voice in the film was " sweet , sexy , caring , manipulative , scary [ and ] award - worthy " . Time ' s Richard Corliss called her performance " seductive and winning " , and Her was rated as one of the best films of 2013 .	Who did you replace in the role of Samantha?	I replaced Samantha Morton in the role of Samantha.
In 2013 , Johansson voiced the character Samantha , a self - aware computer operating system , in Spike Jonze ' s film Her , replacing Samantha Morton in the role . The film premiered at the 8th Rome International Film Festival , where Johansson won Best Actress ; she was also nominated for the Critics ' Choice Movie Award for Best Supporting Actress . Johansson was intimidated by the role ' s complexity , and found her recording sessions for the role challenging but liberating . Peter Travers believed Johansson ' s voice in the film was " sweet , sexy , caring , manipulative , scary [ and ] award - worthy " . Time ' s Richard Corliss called her performance " seductive and winning " , and Her was rated as one of the best films of 2013 .	At which film festival did the film premiere?	The film premiered at the 8th Rome International Film Festival.
In 2013 , Johansson voiced the character Samantha , a self - aware computer operating system , in Spike Jonze ' s film Her , replacing Samantha Morton in the role . The film premiered at the 8th Rome International Film Festival , where Johansson won Best Actress ; she was also nominated for the Critics ' Choice Movie Award for Best Supporting Actress . Johansson was intimidated by the role ' s complexity , and found her recording sessions for the role challenging but liberating . Peter Travers believed Johansson ' s voice in the film was " sweet , sexy , caring , manipulative , scary [ and ] award - worthy " . Time ' s Richard Corliss called her performance " seductive and winning " , and Her was rated as one of the best films of 2013 .	What award did you win for your performance in Her?	I won the Best Actress award for my performance in Her.
In 2013 , Johansson voiced the character Samantha , a self - aware computer operating system , in Spike Jonze ' s film Her , replacing Samantha Morton in the role . The film premiered at the 8th Rome International Film Festival , where Johansson won Best Actress ; she was also nominated for the Critics ' Choice Movie Award for Best Supporting Actress . Johansson was intimidated by the role ' s complexity , and found her recording sessions for the role challenging but liberating . Peter Travers believed Johansson ' s voice in the film was " sweet , sexy , caring , manipulative , scary [ and ] award - worthy " . Time ' s Richard Corliss called her performance " seductive and winning " , and Her was rated as one of the best films of 2013 .	According to Peter Travers, how did your voice in the film Her sound?	According to Peter Travers, my voice in the film Her was described as "sweet, sexy, caring, manipulative, scary [and] award-worthy".
She also won the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress at the 40th Saturn Awards in 2014 for her performance . Johansson was cast in Jonathan Glazer ' s science fiction film Under the Skin ( 2013 ) as an extraterrestrial creature disguised as a human femme fatale who preys on men in Scotland . The project , an adaptation of Michel Faber ' s novel of the same name , took nine years to complete . For the role , she learned to drive a van and speak in an English accent . Johansson improvised conversations with non - professional actors on the street , who did not know they were being filmed . It was released to generally positive reviews , with particular praise for Johansson . Erin Whitney , writing for The Huffington Post , considered it to be her finest performance to that point , and noted that it was her first fully nude role . Author Maureen Foster wrote , " How much depth , breadth , and range Johansson mines from her character ' s very limited allowance of emotional response is a testament to her acting prowess that is , as the film goes on , increasingly stunning . " It earned Johansson a BIFA Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a British Independent Film nomination .	What award did you win at the 40th Saturn Awards?	I won the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress.
She also won the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress at the 40th Saturn Awards in 2014 for her performance . Johansson was cast in Jonathan Glazer ' s science fiction film Under the Skin ( 2013 ) as an extraterrestrial creature disguised as a human femme fatale who preys on men in Scotland . The project , an adaptation of Michel Faber ' s novel of the same name , took nine years to complete . For the role , she learned to drive a van and speak in an English accent . Johansson improvised conversations with non - professional actors on the street , who did not know they were being filmed . It was released to generally positive reviews , with particular praise for Johansson . Erin Whitney , writing for The Huffington Post , considered it to be her finest performance to that point , and noted that it was her first fully nude role . Author Maureen Foster wrote , " How much depth , breadth , and range Johansson mines from her character ' s very limited allowance of emotional response is a testament to her acting prowess that is , as the film goes on , increasingly stunning . " It earned Johansson a BIFA Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a British Independent Film nomination .	In which film did you play an extraterrestrial creature disguised as a human femme fatale?	I played the character in "Under the Skin."
She also won the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress at the 40th Saturn Awards in 2014 for her performance . Johansson was cast in Jonathan Glazer ' s science fiction film Under the Skin ( 2013 ) as an extraterrestrial creature disguised as a human femme fatale who preys on men in Scotland . The project , an adaptation of Michel Faber ' s novel of the same name , took nine years to complete . For the role , she learned to drive a van and speak in an English accent . Johansson improvised conversations with non - professional actors on the street , who did not know they were being filmed . It was released to generally positive reviews , with particular praise for Johansson . Erin Whitney , writing for The Huffington Post , considered it to be her finest performance to that point , and noted that it was her first fully nude role . Author Maureen Foster wrote , " How much depth , breadth , and range Johansson mines from her character ' s very limited allowance of emotional response is a testament to her acting prowess that is , as the film goes on , increasingly stunning . " It earned Johansson a BIFA Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a British Independent Film nomination .	How long did it take you to complete the project "Under the Skin"?	It took me nine years to complete the project.
She also won the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress at the 40th Saturn Awards in 2014 for her performance . Johansson was cast in Jonathan Glazer ' s science fiction film Under the Skin ( 2013 ) as an extraterrestrial creature disguised as a human femme fatale who preys on men in Scotland . The project , an adaptation of Michel Faber ' s novel of the same name , took nine years to complete . For the role , she learned to drive a van and speak in an English accent . Johansson improvised conversations with non - professional actors on the street , who did not know they were being filmed . It was released to generally positive reviews , with particular praise for Johansson . Erin Whitney , writing for The Huffington Post , considered it to be her finest performance to that point , and noted that it was her first fully nude role . Author Maureen Foster wrote , " How much depth , breadth , and range Johansson mines from her character ' s very limited allowance of emotional response is a testament to her acting prowess that is , as the film goes on , increasingly stunning . " It earned Johansson a BIFA Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a British Independent Film nomination .	What did you learn to do for your role in "Under the Skin"?	I learned to drive a van and speak in an English accent.
She also won the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress at the 40th Saturn Awards in 2014 for her performance . Johansson was cast in Jonathan Glazer ' s science fiction film Under the Skin ( 2013 ) as an extraterrestrial creature disguised as a human femme fatale who preys on men in Scotland . The project , an adaptation of Michel Faber ' s novel of the same name , took nine years to complete . For the role , she learned to drive a van and speak in an English accent . Johansson improvised conversations with non - professional actors on the street , who did not know they were being filmed . It was released to generally positive reviews , with particular praise for Johansson . Erin Whitney , writing for The Huffington Post , considered it to be her finest performance to that point , and noted that it was her first fully nude role . Author Maureen Foster wrote , " How much depth , breadth , and range Johansson mines from her character ' s very limited allowance of emotional response is a testament to her acting prowess that is , as the film goes on , increasingly stunning . " It earned Johansson a BIFA Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a British Independent Film nomination .	What award nomination did you receive for your performance in "Under the Skin"?	I received a BIFA Award nomination for Best Performance by an Actress in a British Independent Film.
Johansson played a supporting role in the film Chef ( 2014 ) , alongside Robert Downey , Jr . , Sof í a Vergara , and director Jon Favreau . It grossed over $ 45   million at the box office and was well received by critics . The Chicago Sun - Times writer Richard Roeper found the film " funny , quirky and insightful , with a bounty of interesting supporting characters " . In Luc Besson ' s science fiction action film Lucy ( 2014 ) , Johansson starred as the title character , who gains psychokinetic abilities when a nootropic drug is absorbed into her bloodstream . Besson discussed the role with several actresses , and cast Johansson based on her strong reaction to the script and her discipline . Critics generally praised the film ' s themes , visuals , and Johansson ' s performance ; some found the plot nonsensical . IGN ' s Jim Vejvoda attributed the film ' s success to her acting and Besson ' s style . The film grossed $ 458   million on a budget of $ 40   million to become the 18th highest - grossing film of 2014 .	What role did you play in the film Chef (2014)?	I played a supporting role in the film Chef (2014).
Johansson played a supporting role in the film Chef ( 2014 ) , alongside Robert Downey , Jr . , Sof í a Vergara , and director Jon Favreau . It grossed over $ 45   million at the box office and was well received by critics . The Chicago Sun - Times writer Richard Roeper found the film " funny , quirky and insightful , with a bounty of interesting supporting characters " . In Luc Besson ' s science fiction action film Lucy ( 2014 ) , Johansson starred as the title character , who gains psychokinetic abilities when a nootropic drug is absorbed into her bloodstream . Besson discussed the role with several actresses , and cast Johansson based on her strong reaction to the script and her discipline . Critics generally praised the film ' s themes , visuals , and Johansson ' s performance ; some found the plot nonsensical . IGN ' s Jim Vejvoda attributed the film ' s success to her acting and Besson ' s style . The film grossed $ 458   million on a budget of $ 40   million to become the 18th highest - grossing film of 2014 .	Who were your co-stars in the film Chef (2014)?	My co-stars in the film Chef (2014) were Robert Downey Jr., Sofía Vergara, and director Jon Favreau.
Johansson played a supporting role in the film Chef ( 2014 ) , alongside Robert Downey , Jr . , Sof í a Vergara , and director Jon Favreau . It grossed over $ 45   million at the box office and was well received by critics . The Chicago Sun - Times writer Richard Roeper found the film " funny , quirky and insightful , with a bounty of interesting supporting characters " . In Luc Besson ' s science fiction action film Lucy ( 2014 ) , Johansson starred as the title character , who gains psychokinetic abilities when a nootropic drug is absorbed into her bloodstream . Besson discussed the role with several actresses , and cast Johansson based on her strong reaction to the script and her discipline . Critics generally praised the film ' s themes , visuals , and Johansson ' s performance ; some found the plot nonsensical . IGN ' s Jim Vejvoda attributed the film ' s success to her acting and Besson ' s style . The film grossed $ 458   million on a budget of $ 40   million to become the 18th highest - grossing film of 2014 .	How much money did the film Chef (2014) gross at the box office?	The film Chef (2014) grossed over $45 million at the box office.
Johansson played a supporting role in the film Chef ( 2014 ) , alongside Robert Downey , Jr . , Sof í a Vergara , and director Jon Favreau . It grossed over $ 45   million at the box office and was well received by critics . The Chicago Sun - Times writer Richard Roeper found the film " funny , quirky and insightful , with a bounty of interesting supporting characters " . In Luc Besson ' s science fiction action film Lucy ( 2014 ) , Johansson starred as the title character , who gains psychokinetic abilities when a nootropic drug is absorbed into her bloodstream . Besson discussed the role with several actresses , and cast Johansson based on her strong reaction to the script and her discipline . Critics generally praised the film ' s themes , visuals , and Johansson ' s performance ; some found the plot nonsensical . IGN ' s Jim Vejvoda attributed the film ' s success to her acting and Besson ' s style . The film grossed $ 458   million on a budget of $ 40   million to become the 18th highest - grossing film of 2014 .	How was the film Chef (2014) received by critics?	The film Chef (2014) was well received by critics.
Johansson played a supporting role in the film Chef ( 2014 ) , alongside Robert Downey , Jr . , Sof í a Vergara , and director Jon Favreau . It grossed over $ 45   million at the box office and was well received by critics . The Chicago Sun - Times writer Richard Roeper found the film " funny , quirky and insightful , with a bounty of interesting supporting characters " . In Luc Besson ' s science fiction action film Lucy ( 2014 ) , Johansson starred as the title character , who gains psychokinetic abilities when a nootropic drug is absorbed into her bloodstream . Besson discussed the role with several actresses , and cast Johansson based on her strong reaction to the script and her discipline . Critics generally praised the film ' s themes , visuals , and Johansson ' s performance ; some found the plot nonsensical . IGN ' s Jim Vejvoda attributed the film ' s success to her acting and Besson ' s style . The film grossed $ 458   million on a budget of $ 40   million to become the 18th highest - grossing film of 2014 .	What did Richard Roeper, writer for the Chicago Sun-Times, say about the film Chef (2014)?	Richard Roeper found the film "funny, quirky and insightful, with a bounty of interesting supporting characters."
Johansson played Motoko Kusanagi in Rupert Sanders ' s 2017 film adaptation of the Ghost in the Shell franchise . The film was praised for its visual style , acting , and cinematography , but was the subject of controversy for whitewashing the cast , particularly Johansson ' s character , a cyborg who was meant to hold the memories of a Japanese woman . Responding to the backlash , the actress asserted she would never play a non - white character , but wanted to take the rare opportunity to star in a female - led franchise . Ghost in the Shell grossed $ 169.8   million worldwide against a production budget of $ 110   million . In March 2017 , Johansson hosted Saturday Night Live for the fifth time , making her the 17th person and the fourth woman [ c ] to enter the NBC sketch comedy ' s prestigious Five - Timers Club . Johansson ' s next 2017 film was the comedy Rough Night , where she played Jess Thayer , one of the five friends — alongside Kate McKinnon , Jillian Bell , Ilana Glazer , and Zo ë Kravitz — whose bachelorette party goes wrong after a male stripper dies . The film had a mixed critical reception and moderate box office returns . In 2018 , Johansson voiced show dog Nutmeg in Wes Anderson ' s stop - motion animated film Isle of Dogs , released in March , and reprised her MCU role as Black Widow in Avengers : Infinity War , which followed the next month . Johansson was due to star in Rub & Tug , a biographical film in which she would have played Dante " Tex " Gill , a transgender man who operated a massage parlor and prostitution ring in the 1970s and 1980s . She dropped out of the project following backlash to the casting of a cisgender woman to play a transgender man .	Who did you play in the 2017 film adaptation of the Ghost in the Shell franchise?	Motoko Kusanagi.
Johansson played Motoko Kusanagi in Rupert Sanders ' s 2017 film adaptation of the Ghost in the Shell franchise . The film was praised for its visual style , acting , and cinematography , but was the subject of controversy for whitewashing the cast , particularly Johansson ' s character , a cyborg who was meant to hold the memories of a Japanese woman . Responding to the backlash , the actress asserted she would never play a non - white character , but wanted to take the rare opportunity to star in a female - led franchise . Ghost in the Shell grossed $ 169.8   million worldwide against a production budget of $ 110   million . In March 2017 , Johansson hosted Saturday Night Live for the fifth time , making her the 17th person and the fourth woman [ c ] to enter the NBC sketch comedy ' s prestigious Five - Timers Club . Johansson ' s next 2017 film was the comedy Rough Night , where she played Jess Thayer , one of the five friends — alongside Kate McKinnon , Jillian Bell , Ilana Glazer , and Zo ë Kravitz — whose bachelorette party goes wrong after a male stripper dies . The film had a mixed critical reception and moderate box office returns . In 2018 , Johansson voiced show dog Nutmeg in Wes Anderson ' s stop - motion animated film Isle of Dogs , released in March , and reprised her MCU role as Black Widow in Avengers : Infinity War , which followed the next month . Johansson was due to star in Rub & Tug , a biographical film in which she would have played Dante " Tex " Gill , a transgender man who operated a massage parlor and prostitution ring in the 1970s and 1980s . She dropped out of the project following backlash to the casting of a cisgender woman to play a transgender man .	What were the reasons behind the controversy surrounding your casting in the Ghost in the Shell film?	The film received backlash for whitewashing the cast, specifically my character, a cyborg meant to hold the memories of a Japanese woman.
Johansson played Motoko Kusanagi in Rupert Sanders ' s 2017 film adaptation of the Ghost in the Shell franchise . The film was praised for its visual style , acting , and cinematography , but was the subject of controversy for whitewashing the cast , particularly Johansson ' s character , a cyborg who was meant to hold the memories of a Japanese woman . Responding to the backlash , the actress asserted she would never play a non - white character , but wanted to take the rare opportunity to star in a female - led franchise . Ghost in the Shell grossed $ 169.8   million worldwide against a production budget of $ 110   million . In March 2017 , Johansson hosted Saturday Night Live for the fifth time , making her the 17th person and the fourth woman [ c ] to enter the NBC sketch comedy ' s prestigious Five - Timers Club . Johansson ' s next 2017 film was the comedy Rough Night , where she played Jess Thayer , one of the five friends — alongside Kate McKinnon , Jillian Bell , Ilana Glazer , and Zo ë Kravitz — whose bachelorette party goes wrong after a male stripper dies . The film had a mixed critical reception and moderate box office returns . In 2018 , Johansson voiced show dog Nutmeg in Wes Anderson ' s stop - motion animated film Isle of Dogs , released in March , and reprised her MCU role as Black Widow in Avengers : Infinity War , which followed the next month . Johansson was due to star in Rub & Tug , a biographical film in which she would have played Dante " Tex " Gill , a transgender man who operated a massage parlor and prostitution ring in the 1970s and 1980s . She dropped out of the project following backlash to the casting of a cisgender woman to play a transgender man .	How much did Ghost in the Shell gross worldwide and what was its production budget?	The film grossed $169.8 million worldwide and had a production budget of $110 million.
Johansson played Motoko Kusanagi in Rupert Sanders ' s 2017 film adaptation of the Ghost in the Shell franchise . The film was praised for its visual style , acting , and cinematography , but was the subject of controversy for whitewashing the cast , particularly Johansson ' s character , a cyborg who was meant to hold the memories of a Japanese woman . Responding to the backlash , the actress asserted she would never play a non - white character , but wanted to take the rare opportunity to star in a female - led franchise . Ghost in the Shell grossed $ 169.8   million worldwide against a production budget of $ 110   million . In March 2017 , Johansson hosted Saturday Night Live for the fifth time , making her the 17th person and the fourth woman [ c ] to enter the NBC sketch comedy ' s prestigious Five - Timers Club . Johansson ' s next 2017 film was the comedy Rough Night , where she played Jess Thayer , one of the five friends — alongside Kate McKinnon , Jillian Bell , Ilana Glazer , and Zo ë Kravitz — whose bachelorette party goes wrong after a male stripper dies . The film had a mixed critical reception and moderate box office returns . In 2018 , Johansson voiced show dog Nutmeg in Wes Anderson ' s stop - motion animated film Isle of Dogs , released in March , and reprised her MCU role as Black Widow in Avengers : Infinity War , which followed the next month . Johansson was due to star in Rub & Tug , a biographical film in which she would have played Dante " Tex " Gill , a transgender man who operated a massage parlor and prostitution ring in the 1970s and 1980s . She dropped out of the project following backlash to the casting of a cisgender woman to play a transgender man .	In which film did you play Jess Thayer and what happened during the bachelorette party?	I played Jess Thayer in the comedy film Rough Night. During the bachelorette party, a male stripper dies, leading to a series of unexpected events.
Johansson played Motoko Kusanagi in Rupert Sanders ' s 2017 film adaptation of the Ghost in the Shell franchise . The film was praised for its visual style , acting , and cinematography , but was the subject of controversy for whitewashing the cast , particularly Johansson ' s character , a cyborg who was meant to hold the memories of a Japanese woman . Responding to the backlash , the actress asserted she would never play a non - white character , but wanted to take the rare opportunity to star in a female - led franchise . Ghost in the Shell grossed $ 169.8   million worldwide against a production budget of $ 110   million . In March 2017 , Johansson hosted Saturday Night Live for the fifth time , making her the 17th person and the fourth woman [ c ] to enter the NBC sketch comedy ' s prestigious Five - Timers Club . Johansson ' s next 2017 film was the comedy Rough Night , where she played Jess Thayer , one of the five friends — alongside Kate McKinnon , Jillian Bell , Ilana Glazer , and Zo ë Kravitz — whose bachelorette party goes wrong after a male stripper dies . The film had a mixed critical reception and moderate box office returns . In 2018 , Johansson voiced show dog Nutmeg in Wes Anderson ' s stop - motion animated film Isle of Dogs , released in March , and reprised her MCU role as Black Widow in Avengers : Infinity War , which followed the next month . Johansson was due to star in Rub & Tug , a biographical film in which she would have played Dante " Tex " Gill , a transgender man who operated a massage parlor and prostitution ring in the 1970s and 1980s . She dropped out of the project following backlash to the casting of a cisgender woman to play a transgender man .	What film did you voice a show dog named Nutmeg in?	I voiced the character of show dog Nutmeg in Wes Anderson's stop-motion animated film Isle of Dogs.
