Stephen William Hawking (8 January 1942 – 14 March 2018) was an English theoretical physicist, cosmologist, and author who, at the time of his death, was director of research at the Centre for Theoretical Cosmology at the University of Cambridge. Between 1979 and 2009, he was the Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge, widely viewed as one of the most prestigious academic posts in the world.	When did you pass away?	I passed away on 14 March 2018.
Stephen William Hawking (8 January 1942 – 14 March 2018) was an English theoretical physicist, cosmologist, and author who, at the time of his death, was director of research at the Centre for Theoretical Cosmology at the University of Cambridge. Between 1979 and 2009, he was the Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge, widely viewed as one of the most prestigious academic posts in the world.	What is your occupation?	I am a theoretical physicist, cosmologist, and author.
Stephen William Hawking (8 January 1942 – 14 March 2018) was an English theoretical physicist, cosmologist, and author who, at the time of his death, was director of research at the Centre for Theoretical Cosmology at the University of Cambridge. Between 1979 and 2009, he was the Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge, widely viewed as one of the most prestigious academic posts in the world.	Where were you the director of research?	I was the director of research at the Centre for Theoretical Cosmology at the University of Cambridge.
Stephen William Hawking (8 January 1942 – 14 March 2018) was an English theoretical physicist, cosmologist, and author who, at the time of his death, was director of research at the Centre for Theoretical Cosmology at the University of Cambridge. Between 1979 and 2009, he was the Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge, widely viewed as one of the most prestigious academic posts in the world.	What position did you hold between 1979 and 2009?	Between 1979 and 2009, I held the position of Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge.
Stephen William Hawking (8 January 1942 – 14 March 2018) was an English theoretical physicist, cosmologist, and author who, at the time of his death, was director of research at the Centre for Theoretical Cosmology at the University of Cambridge. Between 1979 and 2009, he was the Lucasian Professor of Mathematics at the University of Cambridge, widely viewed as one of the most prestigious academic posts in the world.	How is your position as Lucasian Professor of Mathematics regarded?	My position as Lucasian Professor of Mathematics is widely viewed as one of the most prestigious academic posts in the world.
Hawking was born in Oxford into a family of physicians.  In October 1959, at the age of 17, he began his university education at University College, Oxford,  where he received a first-class BA degree in physics. In October 1962, he began his graduate work at Trinity Hall at the University of Cambridge where, in March 1966, he obtained his PhD degree in applied mathematics and theoretical physics, specializing in general relativity and cosmology. In 1963, at age 21, Hawking was diagnosed with an early-onset slow-progressing form of motor neurone disease that gradually, over decades, paralysed him. After the loss of his speech, he communicated through a speech-generating device initially through use of a handheld switch, and eventually by using a single cheek muscle.	Where were you born and into what kind of family?	I was born in Oxford into a family of physicians.
Hawking was born in Oxford into a family of physicians.  In October 1959, at the age of 17, he began his university education at University College, Oxford,  where he received a first-class BA degree in physics. In October 1962, he began his graduate work at Trinity Hall at the University of Cambridge where, in March 1966, he obtained his PhD degree in applied mathematics and theoretical physics, specializing in general relativity and cosmology. In 1963, at age 21, Hawking was diagnosed with an early-onset slow-progressing form of motor neurone disease that gradually, over decades, paralysed him. After the loss of his speech, he communicated through a speech-generating device initially through use of a handheld switch, and eventually by using a single cheek muscle.	Where did you begin your university education and what degree did you receive?	I began my university education at University College, Oxford, and I received a first-class BA degree in physics.
Hawking was born in Oxford into a family of physicians.  In October 1959, at the age of 17, he began his university education at University College, Oxford,  where he received a first-class BA degree in physics. In October 1962, he began his graduate work at Trinity Hall at the University of Cambridge where, in March 1966, he obtained his PhD degree in applied mathematics and theoretical physics, specializing in general relativity and cosmology. In 1963, at age 21, Hawking was diagnosed with an early-onset slow-progressing form of motor neurone disease that gradually, over decades, paralysed him. After the loss of his speech, he communicated through a speech-generating device initially through use of a handheld switch, and eventually by using a single cheek muscle.	Where did you begin your graduate work and what degree did you obtain?	I began my graduate work at Trinity Hall at the University of Cambridge, and I obtained my PhD degree in applied mathematics and theoretical physics.
Hawking was born in Oxford into a family of physicians.  In October 1959, at the age of 17, he began his university education at University College, Oxford,  where he received a first-class BA degree in physics. In October 1962, he began his graduate work at Trinity Hall at the University of Cambridge where, in March 1966, he obtained his PhD degree in applied mathematics and theoretical physics, specializing in general relativity and cosmology. In 1963, at age 21, Hawking was diagnosed with an early-onset slow-progressing form of motor neurone disease that gradually, over decades, paralysed him. After the loss of his speech, he communicated through a speech-generating device initially through use of a handheld switch, and eventually by using a single cheek muscle.	What did you specialize in during your graduate work?	I specialized in general relativity and cosmology during my graduate work.
Hawking was born in Oxford into a family of physicians.  In October 1959, at the age of 17, he began his university education at University College, Oxford,  where he received a first-class BA degree in physics. In October 1962, he began his graduate work at Trinity Hall at the University of Cambridge where, in March 1966, he obtained his PhD degree in applied mathematics and theoretical physics, specializing in general relativity and cosmology. In 1963, at age 21, Hawking was diagnosed with an early-onset slow-progressing form of motor neurone disease that gradually, over decades, paralysed him. After the loss of his speech, he communicated through a speech-generating device initially through use of a handheld switch, and eventually by using a single cheek muscle.	When were you diagnosed with motor neurone disease and at what age?	I was diagnosed with an early-onset slow-progressing form of motor neurone disease in 1963, at the age of 21.
Hawking's scientific works included a collaboration with Roger Penrose on gravitational singularity theorems in the framework of general relativity, and the theoretical prediction that black holes emit radiation, often called Hawking radiation. Initially, Hawking radiation was controversial. By the late 1970s and following the publication of further research, the discovery was widely accepted as a major breakthrough in theoretical physics. Hawking was the first to set out a theory of cosmology explained by a union of the general theory of relativity and quantum mechanics. He was a vigorous supporter of the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics.	Who did you collaborate with on gravitational singularity theorems?	I collaborated with Roger Penrose on gravitational singularity theorems.
Hawking's scientific works included a collaboration with Roger Penrose on gravitational singularity theorems in the framework of general relativity, and the theoretical prediction that black holes emit radiation, often called Hawking radiation. Initially, Hawking radiation was controversial. By the late 1970s and following the publication of further research, the discovery was widely accepted as a major breakthrough in theoretical physics. Hawking was the first to set out a theory of cosmology explained by a union of the general theory of relativity and quantum mechanics. He was a vigorous supporter of the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics.	What was the theoretical prediction you and Penrose made regarding black holes?	The theoretical prediction made by me and Penrose was that black holes emit radiation, which is often called my radiation.
Hawking's scientific works included a collaboration with Roger Penrose on gravitational singularity theorems in the framework of general relativity, and the theoretical prediction that black holes emit radiation, often called Hawking radiation. Initially, Hawking radiation was controversial. By the late 1970s and following the publication of further research, the discovery was widely accepted as a major breakthrough in theoretical physics. Hawking was the first to set out a theory of cosmology explained by a union of the general theory of relativity and quantum mechanics. He was a vigorous supporter of the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics.	Was your theory of cosmology widely accepted initially?	No, initially my theory of cosmology was controversial.
Hawking's scientific works included a collaboration with Roger Penrose on gravitational singularity theorems in the framework of general relativity, and the theoretical prediction that black holes emit radiation, often called Hawking radiation. Initially, Hawking radiation was controversial. By the late 1970s and following the publication of further research, the discovery was widely accepted as a major breakthrough in theoretical physics. Hawking was the first to set out a theory of cosmology explained by a union of the general theory of relativity and quantum mechanics. He was a vigorous supporter of the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics.	When was your discovery of Hawking radiation widely accepted as a major breakthrough?	My discovery of Hawking radiation was widely accepted as a major breakthrough in theoretical physics by the late 1970s and following the publication of my further research.
Hawking's scientific works included a collaboration with Roger Penrose on gravitational singularity theorems in the framework of general relativity, and the theoretical prediction that black holes emit radiation, often called Hawking radiation. Initially, Hawking radiation was controversial. By the late 1970s and following the publication of further research, the discovery was widely accepted as a major breakthrough in theoretical physics. Hawking was the first to set out a theory of cosmology explained by a union of the general theory of relativity and quantum mechanics. He was a vigorous supporter of the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics.	What interpretation of quantum mechanics do you support?	I am a vigorous supporter of the many-worlds interpretation of quantum mechanics.
Hawking achieved commercial success with several works of popular science in which he discussed his theories and cosmology in general. His book A Brief History of Time appeared on the Sunday Times best-seller list for a record-breaking 237 weeks. Hawking was a Fellow of the Royal Society, a lifetime member of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences, and a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award in the United States. In 2002, Hawking was ranked number 25 in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons. He died in 2018 at the age of 76, after living with motor neurone disease for more than 50 years.	What was the title of your best-selling book?	A Brief History of Time.
Hawking achieved commercial success with several works of popular science in which he discussed his theories and cosmology in general. His book A Brief History of Time appeared on the Sunday Times best-seller list for a record-breaking 237 weeks. Hawking was a Fellow of the Royal Society, a lifetime member of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences, and a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award in the United States. In 2002, Hawking was ranked number 25 in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons. He died in 2018 at the age of 76, after living with motor neurone disease for more than 50 years.	How many weeks did your book appear on the Sunday Times best-seller list?	It appeared on the best-seller list for a record-breaking 237 weeks.
Hawking achieved commercial success with several works of popular science in which he discussed his theories and cosmology in general. His book A Brief History of Time appeared on the Sunday Times best-seller list for a record-breaking 237 weeks. Hawking was a Fellow of the Royal Society, a lifetime member of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences, and a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award in the United States. In 2002, Hawking was ranked number 25 in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons. He died in 2018 at the age of 76, after living with motor neurone disease for more than 50 years.	What were some of the organizations that you were affiliated with?	I was a Fellow of the Royal Society, a lifetime member of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences.
Hawking achieved commercial success with several works of popular science in which he discussed his theories and cosmology in general. His book A Brief History of Time appeared on the Sunday Times best-seller list for a record-breaking 237 weeks. Hawking was a Fellow of the Royal Society, a lifetime member of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences, and a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award in the United States. In 2002, Hawking was ranked number 25 in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons. He died in 2018 at the age of 76, after living with motor neurone disease for more than 50 years.	What was the highest civilian award that you received?	I received the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award in the United States.
Hawking achieved commercial success with several works of popular science in which he discussed his theories and cosmology in general. His book A Brief History of Time appeared on the Sunday Times best-seller list for a record-breaking 237 weeks. Hawking was a Fellow of the Royal Society, a lifetime member of the Pontifical Academy of Sciences, and a recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, the highest civilian award in the United States. In 2002, Hawking was ranked number 25 in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons. He died in 2018 at the age of 76, after living with motor neurone disease for more than 50 years.	What rank did you achieve in the BBC's poll of the 100 Greatest Britons?	I was ranked number 25 in the poll.
Hawking was born on 8 January 1942 in Oxford to Frank and Isobel Eileen Hawking (née Walker). Hawking's mother was born into a family of doctors in Glasgow, Scotland. His wealthy paternal great-grandfather, from Yorkshire, over-extended himself buying farm land and then went bankrupt in the great agricultural depression during the early 20th century. His paternal great-grandmother saved the family from financial ruin by opening a school in their home. Despite their families' financial constraints, both parents attended the University of Oxford, where Frank read medicine and Isobel read Philosophy, Politics and Economics. Isobel worked as a secretary for a medical research institute, and Frank was a medical researcher. Hawking had two younger sisters, Philippa and Mary, and an adopted brother, Edward Frank David (1955–2003).	When and where were you born?	I was born on 8 January 1942 in Oxford.
Hawking was born on 8 January 1942 in Oxford to Frank and Isobel Eileen Hawking (née Walker). Hawking's mother was born into a family of doctors in Glasgow, Scotland. His wealthy paternal great-grandfather, from Yorkshire, over-extended himself buying farm land and then went bankrupt in the great agricultural depression during the early 20th century. His paternal great-grandmother saved the family from financial ruin by opening a school in their home. Despite their families' financial constraints, both parents attended the University of Oxford, where Frank read medicine and Isobel read Philosophy, Politics and Economics. Isobel worked as a secretary for a medical research institute, and Frank was a medical researcher. Hawking had two younger sisters, Philippa and Mary, and an adopted brother, Edward Frank David (1955–2003).	Who were your parents?	My parents were Frank and Isobel Eileen Hawking.
Hawking was born on 8 January 1942 in Oxford to Frank and Isobel Eileen Hawking (née Walker). Hawking's mother was born into a family of doctors in Glasgow, Scotland. His wealthy paternal great-grandfather, from Yorkshire, over-extended himself buying farm land and then went bankrupt in the great agricultural depression during the early 20th century. His paternal great-grandmother saved the family from financial ruin by opening a school in their home. Despite their families' financial constraints, both parents attended the University of Oxford, where Frank read medicine and Isobel read Philosophy, Politics and Economics. Isobel worked as a secretary for a medical research institute, and Frank was a medical researcher. Hawking had two younger sisters, Philippa and Mary, and an adopted brother, Edward Frank David (1955–2003).	Where was your mother born and what was her family background?	My mother was born in Glasgow, Scotland. She came from a family of doctors.
Hawking was born on 8 January 1942 in Oxford to Frank and Isobel Eileen Hawking (née Walker). Hawking's mother was born into a family of doctors in Glasgow, Scotland. His wealthy paternal great-grandfather, from Yorkshire, over-extended himself buying farm land and then went bankrupt in the great agricultural depression during the early 20th century. His paternal great-grandmother saved the family from financial ruin by opening a school in their home. Despite their families' financial constraints, both parents attended the University of Oxford, where Frank read medicine and Isobel read Philosophy, Politics and Economics. Isobel worked as a secretary for a medical research institute, and Frank was a medical researcher. Hawking had two younger sisters, Philippa and Mary, and an adopted brother, Edward Frank David (1955–2003).	What was the profession of your paternal great-grandfather and what happened to him financially?	My paternal great-grandfather was wealthy and from Yorkshire. He faced financial ruin when he over-extended himself buying farm land and went bankrupt during the early 20th century.
Hawking was born on 8 January 1942 in Oxford to Frank and Isobel Eileen Hawking (née Walker). Hawking's mother was born into a family of doctors in Glasgow, Scotland. His wealthy paternal great-grandfather, from Yorkshire, over-extended himself buying farm land and then went bankrupt in the great agricultural depression during the early 20th century. His paternal great-grandmother saved the family from financial ruin by opening a school in their home. Despite their families' financial constraints, both parents attended the University of Oxford, where Frank read medicine and Isobel read Philosophy, Politics and Economics. Isobel worked as a secretary for a medical research institute, and Frank was a medical researcher. Hawking had two younger sisters, Philippa and Mary, and an adopted brother, Edward Frank David (1955–2003).	How did your paternal great-grandmother save the family from financial ruin?	My paternal great-grandmother saved the family from financial ruin by opening a school in our home.
In 1950, when Hawking's father became head of the division of parasitology at the National Institute for Medical Research, the family moved to St Albans, Hertfordshire. In St Albans, the family was considered highly intelligent and somewhat eccentric; meals were often spent with each person silently reading a book. They lived a frugal existence in a large, cluttered, and poorly maintained house and travelled in a converted London taxicab. During one of Hawking's father's frequent absences working in Africa, the rest of the family spent four months in Mallorca visiting his mother's friend Beryl and her husband, the poet Robert Graves.	When did your family move to St Albans?	In 1950.
In 1950, when Hawking's father became head of the division of parasitology at the National Institute for Medical Research, the family moved to St Albans, Hertfordshire. In St Albans, the family was considered highly intelligent and somewhat eccentric; meals were often spent with each person silently reading a book. They lived a frugal existence in a large, cluttered, and poorly maintained house and travelled in a converted London taxicab. During one of Hawking's father's frequent absences working in Africa, the rest of the family spent four months in Mallorca visiting his mother's friend Beryl and her husband, the poet Robert Graves.	How was your family considered in St Albans?	Highly intelligent and somewhat eccentric.
In 1950, when Hawking's father became head of the division of parasitology at the National Institute for Medical Research, the family moved to St Albans, Hertfordshire. In St Albans, the family was considered highly intelligent and somewhat eccentric; meals were often spent with each person silently reading a book. They lived a frugal existence in a large, cluttered, and poorly maintained house and travelled in a converted London taxicab. During one of Hawking's father's frequent absences working in Africa, the rest of the family spent four months in Mallorca visiting his mother's friend Beryl and her husband, the poet Robert Graves.	What was the living condition of your family in St Albans?	We lived a frugal existence in a large, cluttered, and poorly maintained house.
In 1950, when Hawking's father became head of the division of parasitology at the National Institute for Medical Research, the family moved to St Albans, Hertfordshire. In St Albans, the family was considered highly intelligent and somewhat eccentric; meals were often spent with each person silently reading a book. They lived a frugal existence in a large, cluttered, and poorly maintained house and travelled in a converted London taxicab. During one of Hawking's father's frequent absences working in Africa, the rest of the family spent four months in Mallorca visiting his mother's friend Beryl and her husband, the poet Robert Graves.	How did your family travel?	We traveled in a converted London taxicab.
In 1950, when Hawking's father became head of the division of parasitology at the National Institute for Medical Research, the family moved to St Albans, Hertfordshire. In St Albans, the family was considered highly intelligent and somewhat eccentric; meals were often spent with each person silently reading a book. They lived a frugal existence in a large, cluttered, and poorly maintained house and travelled in a converted London taxicab. During one of Hawking's father's frequent absences working in Africa, the rest of the family spent four months in Mallorca visiting his mother's friend Beryl and her husband, the poet Robert Graves.	Where did your family spend four months visiting?	We spent four months in Mallorca visiting my mother's friend Beryl and her husband, the poet Robert Graves.
Hawking began his schooling at the Byron House School in Highgate, London. He later blamed its "progressive methods" for his failure to learn to read while at the school. In St Albans, the eight-year-old Hawking attended St Albans High School for Girls for a few months. At that time, younger boys could attend one of the houses.	Where did you begin your schooling?	I began my schooling at the Byron House School in Highgate, London.
Hawking began his schooling at the Byron House School in Highgate, London. He later blamed its "progressive methods" for his failure to learn to read while at the school. In St Albans, the eight-year-old Hawking attended St Albans High School for Girls for a few months. At that time, younger boys could attend one of the houses.	Why did you blame the Byron House School for your failure to learn to read?	I blamed its "progressive methods" for my failure to learn to read while at the school.
Hawking began his schooling at the Byron House School in Highgate, London. He later blamed its "progressive methods" for his failure to learn to read while at the school. In St Albans, the eight-year-old Hawking attended St Albans High School for Girls for a few months. At that time, younger boys could attend one of the houses.	Where did you attend school when you were eight years old?	When I was eight years old, I attended St Albans High School for Girls.
Hawking began his schooling at the Byron House School in Highgate, London. He later blamed its "progressive methods" for his failure to learn to read while at the school. In St Albans, the eight-year-old Hawking attended St Albans High School for Girls for a few months. At that time, younger boys could attend one of the houses.	How long did you attend St Albans High School for Girls?	I attended St Albans High School for Girls for a few months.
Hawking began his schooling at the Byron House School in Highgate, London. He later blamed its "progressive methods" for his failure to learn to read while at the school. In St Albans, the eight-year-old Hawking attended St Albans High School for Girls for a few months. At that time, younger boys could attend one of the houses.	Who was allowed to attend one of the houses at that time?	Younger boys were allowed to attend one of the houses at that time.
Hawking attended two private (i.e. fee-paying) schools, first Radlett School and from September 1952, St Albans School, Hertfordshire, after passing the eleven-plus a year early. The family placed a high value on education. Hawking's father wanted his son to attend Westminster School, but the 13-year-old Hawking was ill on the day of the scholarship examination. His family could not afford the school fees without the financial aid of a scholarship, so Hawking remained at St Albans. A positive consequence was that Hawking remained close to a group of friends with whom he enjoyed board games, the manufacture of fireworks, model aeroplanes and boats, and long discussions about Christianity and extrasensory perception. From 1958 on, with the help of the mathematics teacher Dikran Tahta, they built a computer from clock parts, an old telephone switchboard and other recycled components.	Which two private schools did you attend?	I attended Radlett School and St Albans School.
Hawking attended two private (i.e. fee-paying) schools, first Radlett School and from September 1952, St Albans School, Hertfordshire, after passing the eleven-plus a year early. The family placed a high value on education. Hawking's father wanted his son to attend Westminster School, but the 13-year-old Hawking was ill on the day of the scholarship examination. His family could not afford the school fees without the financial aid of a scholarship, so Hawking remained at St Albans. A positive consequence was that Hawking remained close to a group of friends with whom he enjoyed board games, the manufacture of fireworks, model aeroplanes and boats, and long discussions about Christianity and extrasensory perception. From 1958 on, with the help of the mathematics teacher Dikran Tahta, they built a computer from clock parts, an old telephone switchboard and other recycled components.	Why did you not attend Westminster School?	I was ill on the day of the scholarship examination.
Hawking attended two private (i.e. fee-paying) schools, first Radlett School and from September 1952, St Albans School, Hertfordshire, after passing the eleven-plus a year early. The family placed a high value on education. Hawking's father wanted his son to attend Westminster School, but the 13-year-old Hawking was ill on the day of the scholarship examination. His family could not afford the school fees without the financial aid of a scholarship, so Hawking remained at St Albans. A positive consequence was that Hawking remained close to a group of friends with whom he enjoyed board games, the manufacture of fireworks, model aeroplanes and boats, and long discussions about Christianity and extrasensory perception. From 1958 on, with the help of the mathematics teacher Dikran Tahta, they built a computer from clock parts, an old telephone switchboard and other recycled components.	What were some of the activities that you enjoyed with your friends?	I enjoyed board games, the manufacture of fireworks, model aeroplanes and boats, and long discussions about Christianity and extrasensory perception with my friends.
Hawking attended two private (i.e. fee-paying) schools, first Radlett School and from September 1952, St Albans School, Hertfordshire, after passing the eleven-plus a year early. The family placed a high value on education. Hawking's father wanted his son to attend Westminster School, but the 13-year-old Hawking was ill on the day of the scholarship examination. His family could not afford the school fees without the financial aid of a scholarship, so Hawking remained at St Albans. A positive consequence was that Hawking remained close to a group of friends with whom he enjoyed board games, the manufacture of fireworks, model aeroplanes and boats, and long discussions about Christianity and extrasensory perception. From 1958 on, with the help of the mathematics teacher Dikran Tahta, they built a computer from clock parts, an old telephone switchboard and other recycled components.	What did you and your friends build with the help of your mathematics teacher?	We built a computer from clock parts, an old telephone switchboard, and other recycled components.
Hawking attended two private (i.e. fee-paying) schools, first Radlett School and from September 1952, St Albans School, Hertfordshire, after passing the eleven-plus a year early. The family placed a high value on education. Hawking's father wanted his son to attend Westminster School, but the 13-year-old Hawking was ill on the day of the scholarship examination. His family could not afford the school fees without the financial aid of a scholarship, so Hawking remained at St Albans. A positive consequence was that Hawking remained close to a group of friends with whom he enjoyed board games, the manufacture of fireworks, model aeroplanes and boats, and long discussions about Christianity and extrasensory perception. From 1958 on, with the help of the mathematics teacher Dikran Tahta, they built a computer from clock parts, an old telephone switchboard and other recycled components.	Why did you remain at St Albans School?	My family could not afford the school fees without the financial aid of a scholarship, so I remained at St Albans School.
Although known at school as "Einstein", Hawking was not initially successful academically. With time, he began to show considerable aptitude for scientific subjects and, inspired by Tahta, decided to read mathematics at university. Hawking's father advised him to study medicine, concerned that there were few jobs for mathematics graduates. He also wanted his son to attend University College, Oxford, his own alma mater. As it was not possible to read mathematics there at the time, Hawking decided to study physics and chemistry. Despite his headmaster's advice to wait until the next year, Hawking was awarded a scholarship after taking the examinations in March 1959.	What were you initially known as at school?	I was known as "Einstein" at school.
Although known at school as "Einstein", Hawking was not initially successful academically. With time, he began to show considerable aptitude for scientific subjects and, inspired by Tahta, decided to read mathematics at university. Hawking's father advised him to study medicine, concerned that there were few jobs for mathematics graduates. He also wanted his son to attend University College, Oxford, his own alma mater. As it was not possible to read mathematics there at the time, Hawking decided to study physics and chemistry. Despite his headmaster's advice to wait until the next year, Hawking was awarded a scholarship after taking the examinations in March 1959.	What subjects did you show aptitude for?	I showed aptitude for scientific subjects.
Although known at school as "Einstein", Hawking was not initially successful academically. With time, he began to show considerable aptitude for scientific subjects and, inspired by Tahta, decided to read mathematics at university. Hawking's father advised him to study medicine, concerned that there were few jobs for mathematics graduates. He also wanted his son to attend University College, Oxford, his own alma mater. As it was not possible to read mathematics there at the time, Hawking decided to study physics and chemistry. Despite his headmaster's advice to wait until the next year, Hawking was awarded a scholarship after taking the examinations in March 1959.	Who inspired you to read mathematics at university?	Tahta inspired me to read mathematics at university.
Although known at school as "Einstein", Hawking was not initially successful academically. With time, he began to show considerable aptitude for scientific subjects and, inspired by Tahta, decided to read mathematics at university. Hawking's father advised him to study medicine, concerned that there were few jobs for mathematics graduates. He also wanted his son to attend University College, Oxford, his own alma mater. As it was not possible to read mathematics there at the time, Hawking decided to study physics and chemistry. Despite his headmaster's advice to wait until the next year, Hawking was awarded a scholarship after taking the examinations in March 1959.	What did your father advise you to study?	My father advised me to study medicine.
Although known at school as "Einstein", Hawking was not initially successful academically. With time, he began to show considerable aptitude for scientific subjects and, inspired by Tahta, decided to read mathematics at university. Hawking's father advised him to study medicine, concerned that there were few jobs for mathematics graduates. He also wanted his son to attend University College, Oxford, his own alma mater. As it was not possible to read mathematics there at the time, Hawking decided to study physics and chemistry. Despite his headmaster's advice to wait until the next year, Hawking was awarded a scholarship after taking the examinations in March 1959.	Why did you decide to study physics and chemistry instead of mathematics?	I decided to study physics and chemistry because it was not possible to read mathematics at University College, Oxford at the time.
Hawking began his university education at University College, Oxford, in October 1959 at the age of 17. For the first eighteen months, he was bored and lonely – he found the academic work "ridiculously easy". His physics tutor, Robert Berman, later said, "It was only necessary for him to know that something could be done, and he could do it without looking to see how other people did it." A change occurred during his second and third years when, according to Berman, Hawking made more of an effort "to be one of the boys". He developed into a popular, lively and witty college-member, interested in classical music and science fiction. Part of the transformation resulted from his decision to join the college boat-club, the University College Boat Club, where he coxed a rowing-crew. The rowing-coach at the time noted that Hawking cultivated a daredevil image, steering his crew on risky courses that led to damaged boats. Hawking estimated that he studied about 1,000 hours during his three years at Oxford. These unimpressive study habits made sitting his finals a challenge, and he decided to answer only theoretical physics questions rather than those requiring factual knowledge. A first-class degree was a condition of acceptance for his planned graduate study in cosmology at the University of Cambridge. Anxious, he slept poorly the night before the examinations, and the result was on the borderline between first- and second-class honours, making a viva (oral examination) with the Oxford examiners necessary.	Where did you begin your university education?	I began my university education at University College, Oxford.
Hawking began his university education at University College, Oxford, in October 1959 at the age of 17. For the first eighteen months, he was bored and lonely – he found the academic work "ridiculously easy". His physics tutor, Robert Berman, later said, "It was only necessary for him to know that something could be done, and he could do it without looking to see how other people did it." A change occurred during his second and third years when, according to Berman, Hawking made more of an effort "to be one of the boys". He developed into a popular, lively and witty college-member, interested in classical music and science fiction. Part of the transformation resulted from his decision to join the college boat-club, the University College Boat Club, where he coxed a rowing-crew. The rowing-coach at the time noted that Hawking cultivated a daredevil image, steering his crew on risky courses that led to damaged boats. Hawking estimated that he studied about 1,000 hours during his three years at Oxford. These unimpressive study habits made sitting his finals a challenge, and he decided to answer only theoretical physics questions rather than those requiring factual knowledge. A first-class degree was a condition of acceptance for his planned graduate study in cosmology at the University of Cambridge. Anxious, he slept poorly the night before the examinations, and the result was on the borderline between first- and second-class honours, making a viva (oral examination) with the Oxford examiners necessary.	How did you feel during the first eighteen months of your university education?	I was bored and lonely during the first eighteen months of my university education.
Hawking began his university education at University College, Oxford, in October 1959 at the age of 17. For the first eighteen months, he was bored and lonely – he found the academic work "ridiculously easy". His physics tutor, Robert Berman, later said, "It was only necessary for him to know that something could be done, and he could do it without looking to see how other people did it." A change occurred during his second and third years when, according to Berman, Hawking made more of an effort "to be one of the boys". He developed into a popular, lively and witty college-member, interested in classical music and science fiction. Part of the transformation resulted from his decision to join the college boat-club, the University College Boat Club, where he coxed a rowing-crew. The rowing-coach at the time noted that Hawking cultivated a daredevil image, steering his crew on risky courses that led to damaged boats. Hawking estimated that he studied about 1,000 hours during his three years at Oxford. These unimpressive study habits made sitting his finals a challenge, and he decided to answer only theoretical physics questions rather than those requiring factual knowledge. A first-class degree was a condition of acceptance for his planned graduate study in cosmology at the University of Cambridge. Anxious, he slept poorly the night before the examinations, and the result was on the borderline between first- and second-class honours, making a viva (oral examination) with the Oxford examiners necessary.	What did your physics tutor, Robert Berman, say about your academic abilities?	Robert Berman said that it was only necessary for me to know that something could be done, and I could do it without looking to see how other people did it.
Hawking began his university education at University College, Oxford, in October 1959 at the age of 17. For the first eighteen months, he was bored and lonely – he found the academic work "ridiculously easy". His physics tutor, Robert Berman, later said, "It was only necessary for him to know that something could be done, and he could do it without looking to see how other people did it." A change occurred during his second and third years when, according to Berman, Hawking made more of an effort "to be one of the boys". He developed into a popular, lively and witty college-member, interested in classical music and science fiction. Part of the transformation resulted from his decision to join the college boat-club, the University College Boat Club, where he coxed a rowing-crew. The rowing-coach at the time noted that Hawking cultivated a daredevil image, steering his crew on risky courses that led to damaged boats. Hawking estimated that he studied about 1,000 hours during his three years at Oxford. These unimpressive study habits made sitting his finals a challenge, and he decided to answer only theoretical physics questions rather than those requiring factual knowledge. A first-class degree was a condition of acceptance for his planned graduate study in cosmology at the University of Cambridge. Anxious, he slept poorly the night before the examinations, and the result was on the borderline between first- and second-class honours, making a viva (oral examination) with the Oxford examiners necessary.	What led to a change in your behavior during your second and third years of university?	According to my physics tutor, I made more of an effort "to be one of the boys" during my second and third years of university.
Hawking began his university education at University College, Oxford, in October 1959 at the age of 17. For the first eighteen months, he was bored and lonely – he found the academic work "ridiculously easy". His physics tutor, Robert Berman, later said, "It was only necessary for him to know that something could be done, and he could do it without looking to see how other people did it." A change occurred during his second and third years when, according to Berman, Hawking made more of an effort "to be one of the boys". He developed into a popular, lively and witty college-member, interested in classical music and science fiction. Part of the transformation resulted from his decision to join the college boat-club, the University College Boat Club, where he coxed a rowing-crew. The rowing-coach at the time noted that Hawking cultivated a daredevil image, steering his crew on risky courses that led to damaged boats. Hawking estimated that he studied about 1,000 hours during his three years at Oxford. These unimpressive study habits made sitting his finals a challenge, and he decided to answer only theoretical physics questions rather than those requiring factual knowledge. A first-class degree was a condition of acceptance for his planned graduate study in cosmology at the University of Cambridge. Anxious, he slept poorly the night before the examinations, and the result was on the borderline between first- and second-class honours, making a viva (oral examination) with the Oxford examiners necessary.	What was a condition of acceptance for your planned graduate study in cosmology at the University of Cambridge?	A first-class degree was a condition of acceptance for my planned graduate study in cosmology at the University of Cambridge.
Hawking was concerned that he was viewed as a lazy and difficult student . So , when asked at the viva to describe his plans , he said , " If you award me a First , I will go to Cambridge . If I receive a Second , I shall stay in Oxford , so I expect you will give me a First . " He was held in higher regard than he believed ; as Berman commented , the examiners " were intelligent enough to realise they were talking to someone far cleverer than most of themselves " . After receiving a first - class BA degree in physics and completing a trip to Iran with a friend , he began his graduate work at Trinity Hall , Cambridge , in October 1962 .	What was your concern about how you were viewed?	I was concerned that I was viewed as a lazy and difficult student.
Hawking was concerned that he was viewed as a lazy and difficult student . So , when asked at the viva to describe his plans , he said , " If you award me a First , I will go to Cambridge . If I receive a Second , I shall stay in Oxford , so I expect you will give me a First . " He was held in higher regard than he believed ; as Berman commented , the examiners " were intelligent enough to realise they were talking to someone far cleverer than most of themselves " . After receiving a first - class BA degree in physics and completing a trip to Iran with a friend , he began his graduate work at Trinity Hall , Cambridge , in October 1962 .	What did you say about your plans during the viva?	When asked at the viva to describe my plans, I said, "If you award me a First, I will go to Cambridge. If I receive a Second, I shall stay in Oxford, so I expect you will give me a First."
Hawking was concerned that he was viewed as a lazy and difficult student . So , when asked at the viva to describe his plans , he said , " If you award me a First , I will go to Cambridge . If I receive a Second , I shall stay in Oxford , so I expect you will give me a First . " He was held in higher regard than he believed ; as Berman commented , the examiners " were intelligent enough to realise they were talking to someone far cleverer than most of themselves " . After receiving a first - class BA degree in physics and completing a trip to Iran with a friend , he began his graduate work at Trinity Hall , Cambridge , in October 1962 .	How did you believe the examiners viewed you?	I believed that the examiners were "intelligent enough to realise they were talking to someone far cleverer than most of themselves."
Hawking was concerned that he was viewed as a lazy and difficult student . So , when asked at the viva to describe his plans , he said , " If you award me a First , I will go to Cambridge . If I receive a Second , I shall stay in Oxford , so I expect you will give me a First . " He was held in higher regard than he believed ; as Berman commented , the examiners " were intelligent enough to realise they were talking to someone far cleverer than most of themselves " . After receiving a first - class BA degree in physics and completing a trip to Iran with a friend , he began his graduate work at Trinity Hall , Cambridge , in October 1962 .	What degree did you receive?	I received a first-class BA degree in physics.
Hawking was concerned that he was viewed as a lazy and difficult student . So , when asked at the viva to describe his plans , he said , " If you award me a First , I will go to Cambridge . If I receive a Second , I shall stay in Oxford , so I expect you will give me a First . " He was held in higher regard than he believed ; as Berman commented , the examiners " were intelligent enough to realise they were talking to someone far cleverer than most of themselves " . After receiving a first - class BA degree in physics and completing a trip to Iran with a friend , he began his graduate work at Trinity Hall , Cambridge , in October 1962 .	When did you begin your graduate work at Trinity Hall, Cambridge?	I began my graduate work at Trinity Hall, Cambridge in October 1962.
In the early 1970s , Hawking ' s work with Carter , Werner Israel , and David C . Robinson strongly supported Wheeler ' s no - hair theorem , one that states that no matter what the original material from which a black hole is created , it can be completely described by the properties of mass , electrical charge and rotation . His essay titled " Black Holes " won the Gravity Research Foundation Award in January 1971 . Hawking ' s first book , The Large Scale Structure of Space - Time , written with George Ellis , was published in 1973 .	What was the conclusion of your work with Carter, Werner Israel, and David C. Robinson?	My work supported Wheeler's no-hair theorem, which states that a black hole can be completely described by its mass, electrical charge, and rotation.
In the early 1970s , Hawking ' s work with Carter , Werner Israel , and David C . Robinson strongly supported Wheeler ' s no - hair theorem , one that states that no matter what the original material from which a black hole is created , it can be completely described by the properties of mass , electrical charge and rotation . His essay titled " Black Holes " won the Gravity Research Foundation Award in January 1971 . Hawking ' s first book , The Large Scale Structure of Space - Time , written with George Ellis , was published in 1973 .	What award did your essay titled "Black Holes" win?	My essay titled "Black Holes" won the Gravity Research Foundation Award in January 1971.
In the early 1970s , Hawking ' s work with Carter , Werner Israel , and David C . Robinson strongly supported Wheeler ' s no - hair theorem , one that states that no matter what the original material from which a black hole is created , it can be completely described by the properties of mass , electrical charge and rotation . His essay titled " Black Holes " won the Gravity Research Foundation Award in January 1971 . Hawking ' s first book , The Large Scale Structure of Space - Time , written with George Ellis , was published in 1973 .	When was your first book, "The Large Scale Structure of Space-Time," published?	My first book, "The Large Scale Structure of Space-Time," was published in 1973.
In the early 1970s , Hawking ' s work with Carter , Werner Israel , and David C . Robinson strongly supported Wheeler ' s no - hair theorem , one that states that no matter what the original material from which a black hole is created , it can be completely described by the properties of mass , electrical charge and rotation . His essay titled " Black Holes " won the Gravity Research Foundation Award in January 1971 . Hawking ' s first book , The Large Scale Structure of Space - Time , written with George Ellis , was published in 1973 .	Who co-wrote "The Large Scale Structure of Space-Time" with you?	"The Large Scale Structure of Space-Time" was co-written by me and George Ellis.
In the early 1970s , Hawking ' s work with Carter , Werner Israel , and David C . Robinson strongly supported Wheeler ' s no - hair theorem , one that states that no matter what the original material from which a black hole is created , it can be completely described by the properties of mass , electrical charge and rotation . His essay titled " Black Holes " won the Gravity Research Foundation Award in January 1971 . Hawking ' s first book , The Large Scale Structure of Space - Time , written with George Ellis , was published in 1973 .	What did your work with Wheeler's no-hair theorem state about black holes?	My work supported Wheeler's no-hair theorem, which stated that no matter the original material from which a black hole is created, it can be completely described by its mass, electrical charge, and rotation.
His results , which Hawking presented from 1974 , showed that black holes emit radiation , known today as Hawking radiation , which may continue until they exhaust their energy and evaporate . Initially , Hawking radiation was controversial . By the late 1970s and following the publication of further research , the discovery was widely accepted as a significant breakthrough in theoretical physics . Hawking was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society ( FRS ) in 1974 , a few weeks after the announcement of Hawking radiation . At the time , he was one of the youngest scientists to become a Fellow .	What were the results that you presented in 1974?	The results that I presented in 1974 showed that black holes emit radiation, known today as Hawking radiation.
His results , which Hawking presented from 1974 , showed that black holes emit radiation , known today as Hawking radiation , which may continue until they exhaust their energy and evaporate . Initially , Hawking radiation was controversial . By the late 1970s and following the publication of further research , the discovery was widely accepted as a significant breakthrough in theoretical physics . Hawking was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society ( FRS ) in 1974 , a few weeks after the announcement of Hawking radiation . At the time , he was one of the youngest scientists to become a Fellow .	What is your radiation?	My radiation is the radiation emitted by black holes.
His results , which Hawking presented from 1974 , showed that black holes emit radiation , known today as Hawking radiation , which may continue until they exhaust their energy and evaporate . Initially , Hawking radiation was controversial . By the late 1970s and following the publication of further research , the discovery was widely accepted as a significant breakthrough in theoretical physics . Hawking was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society ( FRS ) in 1974 , a few weeks after the announcement of Hawking radiation . At the time , he was one of the youngest scientists to become a Fellow .	When was the discovery of your radiation widely accepted in theoretical physics?	The discovery of my radiation was widely accepted in theoretical physics by the late 1970s.
His results , which Hawking presented from 1974 , showed that black holes emit radiation , known today as Hawking radiation , which may continue until they exhaust their energy and evaporate . Initially , Hawking radiation was controversial . By the late 1970s and following the publication of further research , the discovery was widely accepted as a significant breakthrough in theoretical physics . Hawking was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society ( FRS ) in 1974 , a few weeks after the announcement of Hawking radiation . At the time , he was one of the youngest scientists to become a Fellow .	When were you elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS)?	I was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society (FRS) in 1974.
His results , which Hawking presented from 1974 , showed that black holes emit radiation , known today as Hawking radiation , which may continue until they exhaust their energy and evaporate . Initially , Hawking radiation was controversial . By the late 1970s and following the publication of further research , the discovery was widely accepted as a significant breakthrough in theoretical physics . Hawking was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society ( FRS ) in 1974 , a few weeks after the announcement of Hawking radiation . At the time , he was one of the youngest scientists to become a Fellow .	How old were you when you became a Fellow of the Royal Society?	I was one of the youngest scientists to become a Fellow of the Royal Society.
Hawking also maintained his public profile , including bringing science to a wider audience . A film version of A Brief History of Time , directed by Errol Morris and produced by Steven Spielberg , premiered in 1992 . Hawking had wanted the film to be scientific rather than biographical , but he was persuaded otherwise . The film , while a critical success , was not widely released . A popular - level collection of essays , interviews , and talks titled Black Holes and Baby Universes and Other Essays was published in 1993 , and a six - part television series Stephen Hawking ' s Universe and a companion book appeared in 1997 . As Hawking insisted , this time the focus was entirely on science .	What was your goal for the film version of A Brief History of Time?	I wanted the film to be scientific rather than biographical.
Hawking also maintained his public profile , including bringing science to a wider audience . A film version of A Brief History of Time , directed by Errol Morris and produced by Steven Spielberg , premiered in 1992 . Hawking had wanted the film to be scientific rather than biographical , but he was persuaded otherwise . The film , while a critical success , was not widely released . A popular - level collection of essays , interviews , and talks titled Black Holes and Baby Universes and Other Essays was published in 1993 , and a six - part television series Stephen Hawking ' s Universe and a companion book appeared in 1997 . As Hawking insisted , this time the focus was entirely on science .	Were you successful in your goal for the film version of A Brief History of Time?	No, I was persuaded to make it more biographical.
Hawking also maintained his public profile , including bringing science to a wider audience . A film version of A Brief History of Time , directed by Errol Morris and produced by Steven Spielberg , premiered in 1992 . Hawking had wanted the film to be scientific rather than biographical , but he was persuaded otherwise . The film , while a critical success , was not widely released . A popular - level collection of essays , interviews , and talks titled Black Holes and Baby Universes and Other Essays was published in 1993 , and a six - part television series Stephen Hawking ' s Universe and a companion book appeared in 1997 . As Hawking insisted , this time the focus was entirely on science .	When was the film version of A Brief History of Time premiered?	The film premiered in 1992.
Hawking also maintained his public profile , including bringing science to a wider audience . A film version of A Brief History of Time , directed by Errol Morris and produced by Steven Spielberg , premiered in 1992 . Hawking had wanted the film to be scientific rather than biographical , but he was persuaded otherwise . The film , while a critical success , was not widely released . A popular - level collection of essays , interviews , and talks titled Black Holes and Baby Universes and Other Essays was published in 1993 , and a six - part television series Stephen Hawking ' s Universe and a companion book appeared in 1997 . As Hawking insisted , this time the focus was entirely on science .	Was the film widely released?	No, it was not widely released.
Hawking also maintained his public profile , including bringing science to a wider audience . A film version of A Brief History of Time , directed by Errol Morris and produced by Steven Spielberg , premiered in 1992 . Hawking had wanted the film to be scientific rather than biographical , but he was persuaded otherwise . The film , while a critical success , was not widely released . A popular - level collection of essays , interviews , and talks titled Black Holes and Baby Universes and Other Essays was published in 1993 , and a six - part television series Stephen Hawking ' s Universe and a companion book appeared in 1997 . As Hawking insisted , this time the focus was entirely on science .	What other works did you release to bring science to a wider audience?	I published a popular-level collection of essays, interviews, and talks titled Black Holes and Baby Universes and Other Essays in 1993, and a six-part television series Stephen Hawking's Universe and a companion book appeared in 1997.
By the 1980s , Hawking ' s marriage had been strained for many years . Jane felt overwhelmed by the intrusion into their family life of the required nurses and assistants . The impact of his celebrity status was challenging for colleagues and family members , while the prospect of living up to a worldwide fairytale image was daunting for the couple . Hawking ' s views of religion also contrasted with her strong Christian faith and resulted in tension . After a tracheotomy in 1985 , Hawking required a full - time nurse and nursing care was split across 3 shifts daily . In the late 1980s , Hawking grew close to one of his nurses , Elaine Mason , to the dismay of some colleagues , caregivers , and family members , who were disturbed by her strength of personality and protectiveness . In February 1990 , Hawking told Jane that he was leaving her for Mason , and departed the family home . After his divorce from Jane in 1995 , Hawking married Mason in September , declaring , " It ' s wonderful   – I have married the woman I love . "	Who did you marry in the 1980s?	I married Jane in the 1980s.
By the 1980s , Hawking ' s marriage had been strained for many years . Jane felt overwhelmed by the intrusion into their family life of the required nurses and assistants . The impact of his celebrity status was challenging for colleagues and family members , while the prospect of living up to a worldwide fairytale image was daunting for the couple . Hawking ' s views of religion also contrasted with her strong Christian faith and resulted in tension . After a tracheotomy in 1985 , Hawking required a full - time nurse and nursing care was split across 3 shifts daily . In the late 1980s , Hawking grew close to one of his nurses , Elaine Mason , to the dismay of some colleagues , caregivers , and family members , who were disturbed by her strength of personality and protectiveness . In February 1990 , Hawking told Jane that he was leaving her for Mason , and departed the family home . After his divorce from Jane in 1995 , Hawking married Mason in September , declaring , " It ' s wonderful   – I have married the woman I love . "	Why did you feel overwhelmed?	I felt overwhelmed by the intrusion into our family life of the required nurses and assistants.
By the 1980s , Hawking ' s marriage had been strained for many years . Jane felt overwhelmed by the intrusion into their family life of the required nurses and assistants . The impact of his celebrity status was challenging for colleagues and family members , while the prospect of living up to a worldwide fairytale image was daunting for the couple . Hawking ' s views of religion also contrasted with her strong Christian faith and resulted in tension . After a tracheotomy in 1985 , Hawking required a full - time nurse and nursing care was split across 3 shifts daily . In the late 1980s , Hawking grew close to one of his nurses , Elaine Mason , to the dismay of some colleagues , caregivers , and family members , who were disturbed by her strength of personality and protectiveness . In February 1990 , Hawking told Jane that he was leaving her for Mason , and departed the family home . After his divorce from Jane in 1995 , Hawking married Mason in September , declaring , " It ' s wonderful   – I have married the woman I love . "	What was challenging for your colleagues and family members?	The impact of my celebrity status was challenging for colleagues and family members.
By the 1980s , Hawking ' s marriage had been strained for many years . Jane felt overwhelmed by the intrusion into their family life of the required nurses and assistants . The impact of his celebrity status was challenging for colleagues and family members , while the prospect of living up to a worldwide fairytale image was daunting for the couple . Hawking ' s views of religion also contrasted with her strong Christian faith and resulted in tension . After a tracheotomy in 1985 , Hawking required a full - time nurse and nursing care was split across 3 shifts daily . In the late 1980s , Hawking grew close to one of his nurses , Elaine Mason , to the dismay of some colleagues , caregivers , and family members , who were disturbed by her strength of personality and protectiveness . In February 1990 , Hawking told Jane that he was leaving her for Mason , and departed the family home . After his divorce from Jane in 1995 , Hawking married Mason in September , declaring , " It ' s wonderful   – I have married the woman I love . "	What contrasted with your strong Christian faith?	My views of religion contrasted with your strong Christian faith.
By the 1980s , Hawking ' s marriage had been strained for many years . Jane felt overwhelmed by the intrusion into their family life of the required nurses and assistants . The impact of his celebrity status was challenging for colleagues and family members , while the prospect of living up to a worldwide fairytale image was daunting for the couple . Hawking ' s views of religion also contrasted with her strong Christian faith and resulted in tension . After a tracheotomy in 1985 , Hawking required a full - time nurse and nursing care was split across 3 shifts daily . In the late 1980s , Hawking grew close to one of his nurses , Elaine Mason , to the dismay of some colleagues , caregivers , and family members , who were disturbed by her strength of personality and protectiveness . In February 1990 , Hawking told Jane that he was leaving her for Mason , and departed the family home . After his divorce from Jane in 1995 , Hawking married Mason in September , declaring , " It ' s wonderful   – I have married the woman I love . "	Who did you leave Jane for?	I left Jane for Mason.
In 1999 , Jane Hawking published a memoir , Music to Move the Stars , describing her marriage to Hawking and its breakdown . Its revelations caused a sensation in the media but , as was his usual practice regarding his personal life , Hawking made no public comment except to say that he did not read biographies about himself . After his second marriage , Hawking ' s family felt excluded and marginalized from his life . For a period of about five years in the early 2000s , his family and staff became increasingly worried that he was being physically abused . Police investigations took place , but were closed as Hawking refused to make a complaint .	When did you publish your memoir?	In 1999.
In 1999 , Jane Hawking published a memoir , Music to Move the Stars , describing her marriage to Hawking and its breakdown . Its revelations caused a sensation in the media but , as was his usual practice regarding his personal life , Hawking made no public comment except to say that he did not read biographies about himself . After his second marriage , Hawking ' s family felt excluded and marginalized from his life . For a period of about five years in the early 2000s , his family and staff became increasingly worried that he was being physically abused . Police investigations took place , but were closed as Hawking refused to make a complaint .	What is the name of your memoir?	Music to Move the Stars.
In 1999 , Jane Hawking published a memoir , Music to Move the Stars , describing her marriage to Hawking and its breakdown . Its revelations caused a sensation in the media but , as was his usual practice regarding his personal life , Hawking made no public comment except to say that he did not read biographies about himself . After his second marriage , Hawking ' s family felt excluded and marginalized from his life . For a period of about five years in the early 2000s , his family and staff became increasingly worried that he was being physically abused . Police investigations took place , but were closed as Hawking refused to make a complaint .	How did the media react to the revelations in your memoir?	The revelations caused a sensation in the media.
In 1999 , Jane Hawking published a memoir , Music to Move the Stars , describing her marriage to Hawking and its breakdown . Its revelations caused a sensation in the media but , as was his usual practice regarding his personal life , Hawking made no public comment except to say that he did not read biographies about himself . After his second marriage , Hawking ' s family felt excluded and marginalized from his life . For a period of about five years in the early 2000s , his family and staff became increasingly worried that he was being physically abused . Police investigations took place , but were closed as Hawking refused to make a complaint .	What did you say about biographies about yourself?	I said that I did not read biographies about myself.
In 1999 , Jane Hawking published a memoir , Music to Move the Stars , describing her marriage to Hawking and its breakdown . Its revelations caused a sensation in the media but , as was his usual practice regarding his personal life , Hawking made no public comment except to say that he did not read biographies about himself . After his second marriage , Hawking ' s family felt excluded and marginalized from his life . For a period of about five years in the early 2000s , his family and staff became increasingly worried that he was being physically abused . Police investigations took place , but were closed as Hawking refused to make a complaint .	How did your family feel after your second marriage?	My family felt excluded and marginalized from my life.
In 2006 , Hawking and Mason quietly divorced , and Hawking resumed closer relationships with Jane , his children , and his grandchildren . Reflecting on this happier period , a revised version of Jane ' s book , re - titled Travelling to Infinity : My Life with Stephen , appeared in 2007 , and was made into a film , The Theory of Everything , in 2014 .	When did you and Mason divorce?	In 2006.
In 2006 , Hawking and Mason quietly divorced , and Hawking resumed closer relationships with Jane , his children , and his grandchildren . Reflecting on this happier period , a revised version of Jane ' s book , re - titled Travelling to Infinity : My Life with Stephen , appeared in 2007 , and was made into a film , The Theory of Everything , in 2014 .	Who did you resume closer relationships with after the divorce?	Jane, my children, and my grandchildren.
In 2006 , Hawking and Mason quietly divorced , and Hawking resumed closer relationships with Jane , his children , and his grandchildren . Reflecting on this happier period , a revised version of Jane ' s book , re - titled Travelling to Infinity : My Life with Stephen , appeared in 2007 , and was made into a film , The Theory of Everything , in 2014 .	What was the revised version of your book called?	Travelling to Infinity: My Life with Stephen.
In 2006 , Hawking and Mason quietly divorced , and Hawking resumed closer relationships with Jane , his children , and his grandchildren . Reflecting on this happier period , a revised version of Jane ' s book , re - titled Travelling to Infinity : My Life with Stephen , appeared in 2007 , and was made into a film , The Theory of Everything , in 2014 .	When did the revised version of your book appear?	In 2007.
In 2006 , Hawking and Mason quietly divorced , and Hawking resumed closer relationships with Jane , his children , and his grandchildren . Reflecting on this happier period , a revised version of Jane ' s book , re - titled Travelling to Infinity : My Life with Stephen , appeared in 2007 , and was made into a film , The Theory of Everything , in 2014 .	When was The Theory of Everything film released?	In 2014.
In the late 1960s , Hawking ' s physical abilities declined : he began to use crutches and could no longer give lectures regularly . As he slowly lost the ability to write , he developed compensatory visual methods , including seeing equations in terms of geometry . The physicist Werner Israel later compared the achievements to Mozart composing an entire symphony in his head . Hawking was fiercely independent and unwilling to accept help or make concessions for his disabilities . He preferred to be regarded as " a scientist first , popular science writer second , and , in all the ways that matter , a normal human being with the same desires , drives , dreams , and ambitions as the next person . " His wife Jane later noted : " Some people would call it determination , some obstinacy . I ' ve called it both at one time or another . " He required much persuasion to accept the use of a wheelchair at the end of the 1960s , but ultimately became notorious for the wildness of his wheelchair driving . Hawking was a popular and witty colleague , but his illness , as well as his reputation for brashness , distanced him from some .	When did your physical abilities start to decline?	In the late 1960s.
In the late 1960s , Hawking ' s physical abilities declined : he began to use crutches and could no longer give lectures regularly . As he slowly lost the ability to write , he developed compensatory visual methods , including seeing equations in terms of geometry . The physicist Werner Israel later compared the achievements to Mozart composing an entire symphony in his head . Hawking was fiercely independent and unwilling to accept help or make concessions for his disabilities . He preferred to be regarded as " a scientist first , popular science writer second , and , in all the ways that matter , a normal human being with the same desires , drives , dreams , and ambitions as the next person . " His wife Jane later noted : " Some people would call it determination , some obstinacy . I ' ve called it both at one time or another . " He required much persuasion to accept the use of a wheelchair at the end of the 1960s , but ultimately became notorious for the wildness of his wheelchair driving . Hawking was a popular and witty colleague , but his illness , as well as his reputation for brashness , distanced him from some .	What methods did you develop to compensate for your declining ability to write?	I developed compensatory visual methods, including seeing equations in terms of geometry.
In the late 1960s , Hawking ' s physical abilities declined : he began to use crutches and could no longer give lectures regularly . As he slowly lost the ability to write , he developed compensatory visual methods , including seeing equations in terms of geometry . The physicist Werner Israel later compared the achievements to Mozart composing an entire symphony in his head . Hawking was fiercely independent and unwilling to accept help or make concessions for his disabilities . He preferred to be regarded as " a scientist first , popular science writer second , and , in all the ways that matter , a normal human being with the same desires , drives , dreams , and ambitions as the next person . " His wife Jane later noted : " Some people would call it determination , some obstinacy . I ' ve called it both at one time or another . " He required much persuasion to accept the use of a wheelchair at the end of the 1960s , but ultimately became notorious for the wildness of his wheelchair driving . Hawking was a popular and witty colleague , but his illness , as well as his reputation for brashness , distanced him from some .	How did physicist Werner Israel compare your achievements?	He compared my achievements to Mozart composing an entire symphony in his head.
In the late 1960s , Hawking ' s physical abilities declined : he began to use crutches and could no longer give lectures regularly . As he slowly lost the ability to write , he developed compensatory visual methods , including seeing equations in terms of geometry . The physicist Werner Israel later compared the achievements to Mozart composing an entire symphony in his head . Hawking was fiercely independent and unwilling to accept help or make concessions for his disabilities . He preferred to be regarded as " a scientist first , popular science writer second , and , in all the ways that matter , a normal human being with the same desires , drives , dreams , and ambitions as the next person . " His wife Jane later noted : " Some people would call it determination , some obstinacy . I ' ve called it both at one time or another . " He required much persuasion to accept the use of a wheelchair at the end of the 1960s , but ultimately became notorious for the wildness of his wheelchair driving . Hawking was a popular and witty colleague , but his illness , as well as his reputation for brashness , distanced him from some .	What is your attitude towards accepting help or making concessions for your disabilities?	I am fiercely independent and unwilling to accept help or make concessions for my disabilities.
In the late 1960s , Hawking ' s physical abilities declined : he began to use crutches and could no longer give lectures regularly . As he slowly lost the ability to write , he developed compensatory visual methods , including seeing equations in terms of geometry . The physicist Werner Israel later compared the achievements to Mozart composing an entire symphony in his head . Hawking was fiercely independent and unwilling to accept help or make concessions for his disabilities . He preferred to be regarded as " a scientist first , popular science writer second , and , in all the ways that matter , a normal human being with the same desires , drives , dreams , and ambitions as the next person . " His wife Jane later noted : " Some people would call it determination , some obstinacy . I ' ve called it both at one time or another . " He required much persuasion to accept the use of a wheelchair at the end of the 1960s , but ultimately became notorious for the wildness of his wheelchair driving . Hawking was a popular and witty colleague , but his illness , as well as his reputation for brashness , distanced him from some .	How do you prefer to be regarded?	I prefer to be regarded as "a scientist first, popular science writer second, and, in all the ways that matter, a normal human being with the same desires, drives, dreams, and ambitions as the next person."
For his communication , Hawking initially raised his eyebrows to choose letters on a spelling card , but in 1986 he received a computer program called the " Equalizer " from Walter Woltosz , CEO of Words Plus , who had developed an earlier version of the software to help his mother - in - law , who also had ALS and had lost her ability to speak and write . In a method he used for the rest of his life , Hawking could now simply press a switch to select phrases , words or letters from a bank of about 2 , 500 – 3 , 000 that were scanned . The program was originally run on a desktop computer . Elaine Mason ' s husband , David , a computer engineer , adapted a small computer and attached it to his wheelchair .	How did you initially communicate?	I initially raised my eyebrows to choose letters on a spelling card.
For his communication , Hawking initially raised his eyebrows to choose letters on a spelling card , but in 1986 he received a computer program called the " Equalizer " from Walter Woltosz , CEO of Words Plus , who had developed an earlier version of the software to help his mother - in - law , who also had ALS and had lost her ability to speak and write . In a method he used for the rest of his life , Hawking could now simply press a switch to select phrases , words or letters from a bank of about 2 , 500 – 3 , 000 that were scanned . The program was originally run on a desktop computer . Elaine Mason ' s husband , David , a computer engineer , adapted a small computer and attached it to his wheelchair .	Who provided you with a computer program called "Equalizer"?	Walter Woltosz, CEO of Words Plus, provided me with the "Equalizer" computer program.
For his communication , Hawking initially raised his eyebrows to choose letters on a spelling card , but in 1986 he received a computer program called the " Equalizer " from Walter Woltosz , CEO of Words Plus , who had developed an earlier version of the software to help his mother - in - law , who also had ALS and had lost her ability to speak and write . In a method he used for the rest of his life , Hawking could now simply press a switch to select phrases , words or letters from a bank of about 2 , 500 – 3 , 000 that were scanned . The program was originally run on a desktop computer . Elaine Mason ' s husband , David , a computer engineer , adapted a small computer and attached it to his wheelchair .	What was the purpose of the "Equalizer" software?	The "Equalizer" software was developed to help individuals with ALS who had lost their ability to speak and write.
For his communication , Hawking initially raised his eyebrows to choose letters on a spelling card , but in 1986 he received a computer program called the " Equalizer " from Walter Woltosz , CEO of Words Plus , who had developed an earlier version of the software to help his mother - in - law , who also had ALS and had lost her ability to speak and write . In a method he used for the rest of his life , Hawking could now simply press a switch to select phrases , words or letters from a bank of about 2 , 500 – 3 , 000 that were scanned . The program was originally run on a desktop computer . Elaine Mason ' s husband , David , a computer engineer , adapted a small computer and attached it to his wheelchair .	How do you select phrases, words, or letters using the "Equalizer" software?	I could simply press a switch to select phrases, words, or letters from a bank of about 2,500-3,000 that were scanned.
For his communication , Hawking initially raised his eyebrows to choose letters on a spelling card , but in 1986 he received a computer program called the " Equalizer " from Walter Woltosz , CEO of Words Plus , who had developed an earlier version of the software to help his mother - in - law , who also had ALS and had lost her ability to speak and write . In a method he used for the rest of his life , Hawking could now simply press a switch to select phrases , words or letters from a bank of about 2 , 500 – 3 , 000 that were scanned . The program was originally run on a desktop computer . Elaine Mason ' s husband , David , a computer engineer , adapted a small computer and attached it to his wheelchair .	Who adapted a small computer and attached it to your wheelchair?	David Mason, a computer engineer and Elaine Mason's husband, adapted a small computer and attached it to my wheelchair.
Hawking ' s final broadcast interview , about the detection of gravitational waves resulting from the collision of two neutron stars , occurred in October 2017 . His final words to the world appeared posthumously , in April 2018 , in the form of a Smithsonian TV Channel documentary entitled , Leaving Earth : Or How to Colonize a Planet . One of his final research studies , entitled A smooth exit from eternal inflation ? , about the origin of the universe , was published in the Journal of High Energy Physics in May 2018 . Later , in October 2018 , another of his final research studies , entitled Black Hole Entropy and Soft Hair , was published , and dealt with the " mystery of what happens to the information held by objects once they disappear into a black hole " . Also in October 2018 , Hawking ' s last book , Brief Answers to the Big Questions , a popular science book presenting his final comments on the most important questions facing humankind , was published .	When did your final broadcast interview about the detection of gravitational waves occur?	In October 2017.
Hawking ' s final broadcast interview , about the detection of gravitational waves resulting from the collision of two neutron stars , occurred in October 2017 . His final words to the world appeared posthumously , in April 2018 , in the form of a Smithsonian TV Channel documentary entitled , Leaving Earth : Or How to Colonize a Planet . One of his final research studies , entitled A smooth exit from eternal inflation ? , about the origin of the universe , was published in the Journal of High Energy Physics in May 2018 . Later , in October 2018 , another of his final research studies , entitled Black Hole Entropy and Soft Hair , was published , and dealt with the " mystery of what happens to the information held by objects once they disappear into a black hole " . Also in October 2018 , Hawking ' s last book , Brief Answers to the Big Questions , a popular science book presenting his final comments on the most important questions facing humankind , was published .	When were your final words to the world published?	In April 2018.
Hawking ' s final broadcast interview , about the detection of gravitational waves resulting from the collision of two neutron stars , occurred in October 2017 . His final words to the world appeared posthumously , in April 2018 , in the form of a Smithsonian TV Channel documentary entitled , Leaving Earth : Or How to Colonize a Planet . One of his final research studies , entitled A smooth exit from eternal inflation ? , about the origin of the universe , was published in the Journal of High Energy Physics in May 2018 . Later , in October 2018 , another of his final research studies , entitled Black Hole Entropy and Soft Hair , was published , and dealt with the " mystery of what happens to the information held by objects once they disappear into a black hole " . Also in October 2018 , Hawking ' s last book , Brief Answers to the Big Questions , a popular science book presenting his final comments on the most important questions facing humankind , was published .	When was your research study entitled "A smooth exit from eternal inflation?" published?	In May 2018.
Hawking ' s final broadcast interview , about the detection of gravitational waves resulting from the collision of two neutron stars , occurred in October 2017 . His final words to the world appeared posthumously , in April 2018 , in the form of a Smithsonian TV Channel documentary entitled , Leaving Earth : Or How to Colonize a Planet . One of his final research studies , entitled A smooth exit from eternal inflation ? , about the origin of the universe , was published in the Journal of High Energy Physics in May 2018 . Later , in October 2018 , another of his final research studies , entitled Black Hole Entropy and Soft Hair , was published , and dealt with the " mystery of what happens to the information held by objects once they disappear into a black hole " . Also in October 2018 , Hawking ' s last book , Brief Answers to the Big Questions , a popular science book presenting his final comments on the most important questions facing humankind , was published .	When was your research study entitled "Black Hole Entropy and Soft Hair" published?	In October 2018.
Hawking ' s final broadcast interview , about the detection of gravitational waves resulting from the collision of two neutron stars , occurred in October 2017 . His final words to the world appeared posthumously , in April 2018 , in the form of a Smithsonian TV Channel documentary entitled , Leaving Earth : Or How to Colonize a Planet . One of his final research studies , entitled A smooth exit from eternal inflation ? , about the origin of the universe , was published in the Journal of High Energy Physics in May 2018 . Later , in October 2018 , another of his final research studies , entitled Black Hole Entropy and Soft Hair , was published , and dealt with the " mystery of what happens to the information held by objects once they disappear into a black hole " . Also in October 2018 , Hawking ' s last book , Brief Answers to the Big Questions , a popular science book presenting his final comments on the most important questions facing humankind , was published .	When was your last book "Brief Answers to the Big Questions" published?	In October 2018.
