Sylvester Gardenzio Stallone (/stəˈloʊn/; born July 6, 1946) is an American actor and filmmaker. After his beginnings as a struggling actor for a number of years upon arriving to New York City in 1969 and later Hollywood in 1974, he won his first critical acclaim as an actor for his co-starring role as Stanley Rosiello in The Lords of Flatbush. Stallone subsequently found gradual work as an extra or side character in films with a sizable budget until he achieved his greatest critical and commercial success as an actor and screenwriter, starting in 1976 with his role as boxer Rocky Balboa, in the first film of the successful Rocky series (1976–present), for which he also wrote the screenplays. In the films, Rocky is portrayed as an underdog boxer who fights numerous brutal opponents, and wins the world heavyweight championship twice.	When did you arrive in New York City?	I arrived in New York City in 1969.
Sylvester Gardenzio Stallone (/stəˈloʊn/; born July 6, 1946) is an American actor and filmmaker. After his beginnings as a struggling actor for a number of years upon arriving to New York City in 1969 and later Hollywood in 1974, he won his first critical acclaim as an actor for his co-starring role as Stanley Rosiello in The Lords of Flatbush. Stallone subsequently found gradual work as an extra or side character in films with a sizable budget until he achieved his greatest critical and commercial success as an actor and screenwriter, starting in 1976 with his role as boxer Rocky Balboa, in the first film of the successful Rocky series (1976–present), for which he also wrote the screenplays. In the films, Rocky is portrayed as an underdog boxer who fights numerous brutal opponents, and wins the world heavyweight championship twice.	When did you achieve your greatest critical and commercial success as an actor?	I achieved my greatest critical and commercial success as an actor starting in 1976.
Sylvester Gardenzio Stallone (/stəˈloʊn/; born July 6, 1946) is an American actor and filmmaker. After his beginnings as a struggling actor for a number of years upon arriving to New York City in 1969 and later Hollywood in 1974, he won his first critical acclaim as an actor for his co-starring role as Stanley Rosiello in The Lords of Flatbush. Stallone subsequently found gradual work as an extra or side character in films with a sizable budget until he achieved his greatest critical and commercial success as an actor and screenwriter, starting in 1976 with his role as boxer Rocky Balboa, in the first film of the successful Rocky series (1976–present), for which he also wrote the screenplays. In the films, Rocky is portrayed as an underdog boxer who fights numerous brutal opponents, and wins the world heavyweight championship twice.	What was your co-starring role in The Lords of Flatbush?	My co-starring role in The Lords of Flatbush was Stanley Rosiello.
Sylvester Gardenzio Stallone (/stəˈloʊn/; born July 6, 1946) is an American actor and filmmaker. After his beginnings as a struggling actor for a number of years upon arriving to New York City in 1969 and later Hollywood in 1974, he won his first critical acclaim as an actor for his co-starring role as Stanley Rosiello in The Lords of Flatbush. Stallone subsequently found gradual work as an extra or side character in films with a sizable budget until he achieved his greatest critical and commercial success as an actor and screenwriter, starting in 1976 with his role as boxer Rocky Balboa, in the first film of the successful Rocky series (1976–present), for which he also wrote the screenplays. In the films, Rocky is portrayed as an underdog boxer who fights numerous brutal opponents, and wins the world heavyweight championship twice.	What is the premise of the Rocky series?	The premise of the Rocky series is about an underdog boxer, myself, who fights numerous brutal opponents and wins the world heavyweight championship twice.
Sylvester Gardenzio Stallone (/stəˈloʊn/; born July 6, 1946) is an American actor and filmmaker. After his beginnings as a struggling actor for a number of years upon arriving to New York City in 1969 and later Hollywood in 1974, he won his first critical acclaim as an actor for his co-starring role as Stanley Rosiello in The Lords of Flatbush. Stallone subsequently found gradual work as an extra or side character in films with a sizable budget until he achieved his greatest critical and commercial success as an actor and screenwriter, starting in 1976 with his role as boxer Rocky Balboa, in the first film of the successful Rocky series (1976–present), for which he also wrote the screenplays. In the films, Rocky is portrayed as an underdog boxer who fights numerous brutal opponents, and wins the world heavyweight championship twice.	What did you write the screenplays for?	I wrote the screenplays for the Rocky series.
In 1977, Stallone was the third actor in cinema to be nominated for two Academy Awards for Best Original Screenplay and Best Actor. Stallone's film Rocky was inducted into the National Film Registry, and had its props placed in the Smithsonian Museum. Stallone's use of the front entrance to the Philadelphia Museum of Art in the Rocky series led the area to be nicknamed the Rocky Steps. Philadelphia has a statue of the Rocky character placed permanently near the museum, and he was voted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame.	Were you the third actor in cinema to be nominated for two Academy Awards for Best Original Screenplay and Best Actor?	Yes, that was me.
In 1977, Stallone was the third actor in cinema to be nominated for two Academy Awards for Best Original Screenplay and Best Actor. Stallone's film Rocky was inducted into the National Film Registry, and had its props placed in the Smithsonian Museum. Stallone's use of the front entrance to the Philadelphia Museum of Art in the Rocky series led the area to be nicknamed the Rocky Steps. Philadelphia has a statue of the Rocky character placed permanently near the museum, and he was voted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame.	What film of yours was inducted into the National Film Registry?	Rocky.
In 1977, Stallone was the third actor in cinema to be nominated for two Academy Awards for Best Original Screenplay and Best Actor. Stallone's film Rocky was inducted into the National Film Registry, and had its props placed in the Smithsonian Museum. Stallone's use of the front entrance to the Philadelphia Museum of Art in the Rocky series led the area to be nicknamed the Rocky Steps. Philadelphia has a statue of the Rocky character placed permanently near the museum, and he was voted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame.	Where are the props from your film Rocky placed?	The props are placed in the Smithsonian Museum.
In 1977, Stallone was the third actor in cinema to be nominated for two Academy Awards for Best Original Screenplay and Best Actor. Stallone's film Rocky was inducted into the National Film Registry, and had its props placed in the Smithsonian Museum. Stallone's use of the front entrance to the Philadelphia Museum of Art in the Rocky series led the area to be nicknamed the Rocky Steps. Philadelphia has a statue of the Rocky character placed permanently near the museum, and he was voted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame.	What area is nicknamed the Rocky Steps?	The area around the front entrance to the Philadelphia Museum of Art.
In 1977, Stallone was the third actor in cinema to be nominated for two Academy Awards for Best Original Screenplay and Best Actor. Stallone's film Rocky was inducted into the National Film Registry, and had its props placed in the Smithsonian Museum. Stallone's use of the front entrance to the Philadelphia Museum of Art in the Rocky series led the area to be nicknamed the Rocky Steps. Philadelphia has a statue of the Rocky character placed permanently near the museum, and he was voted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame.	What hall of fame were you voted into?	I was voted into the International Boxing Hall of Fame.
Up until 1982, Stallone's films were not big box-office successes unless they were Rocky sequels, and none received the critical acclaim achieved with the first Rocky. This changed with the successful action film First Blood in which he portrayed the PTSD-plagued soldier John Rambo. Originally an adaptation of the eponymous novel by David Morell, First Blood’s script was significantly altered by Stallone during the film’s production. Stallone would play the role in a total of five Rambo films (1982–2019). From the mid-1980s through to the late 1990s, Stallone would go on to become one of Hollywood's highest-paid actors of that era by appearing in a slew of commercially successful action films which were however generally panned by critics. These include Cobra, Tango and Cash, Cliffhanger, the better received Demolition Man, and The Specialist.	What was your first successful action film?	First Blood.
Up until 1982, Stallone's films were not big box-office successes unless they were Rocky sequels, and none received the critical acclaim achieved with the first Rocky. This changed with the successful action film First Blood in which he portrayed the PTSD-plagued soldier John Rambo. Originally an adaptation of the eponymous novel by David Morell, First Blood’s script was significantly altered by Stallone during the film’s production. Stallone would play the role in a total of five Rambo films (1982–2019). From the mid-1980s through to the late 1990s, Stallone would go on to become one of Hollywood's highest-paid actors of that era by appearing in a slew of commercially successful action films which were however generally panned by critics. These include Cobra, Tango and Cash, Cliffhanger, the better received Demolition Man, and The Specialist.	How many Rambo films did you play in?	Five.
Up until 1982, Stallone's films were not big box-office successes unless they were Rocky sequels, and none received the critical acclaim achieved with the first Rocky. This changed with the successful action film First Blood in which he portrayed the PTSD-plagued soldier John Rambo. Originally an adaptation of the eponymous novel by David Morell, First Blood’s script was significantly altered by Stallone during the film’s production. Stallone would play the role in a total of five Rambo films (1982–2019). From the mid-1980s through to the late 1990s, Stallone would go on to become one of Hollywood's highest-paid actors of that era by appearing in a slew of commercially successful action films which were however generally panned by critics. These include Cobra, Tango and Cash, Cliffhanger, the better received Demolition Man, and The Specialist.	Which film did you star in that received critical acclaim?	The first Rocky.
Up until 1982, Stallone's films were not big box-office successes unless they were Rocky sequels, and none received the critical acclaim achieved with the first Rocky. This changed with the successful action film First Blood in which he portrayed the PTSD-plagued soldier John Rambo. Originally an adaptation of the eponymous novel by David Morell, First Blood’s script was significantly altered by Stallone during the film’s production. Stallone would play the role in a total of five Rambo films (1982–2019). From the mid-1980s through to the late 1990s, Stallone would go on to become one of Hollywood's highest-paid actors of that era by appearing in a slew of commercially successful action films which were however generally panned by critics. These include Cobra, Tango and Cash, Cliffhanger, the better received Demolition Man, and The Specialist.	What was your occupation during the late 1980s to late 1990s?	I was one of Hollywood's highest-paid actors.
Up until 1982, Stallone's films were not big box-office successes unless they were Rocky sequels, and none received the critical acclaim achieved with the first Rocky. This changed with the successful action film First Blood in which he portrayed the PTSD-plagued soldier John Rambo. Originally an adaptation of the eponymous novel by David Morell, First Blood’s script was significantly altered by Stallone during the film’s production. Stallone would play the role in a total of five Rambo films (1982–2019). From the mid-1980s through to the late 1990s, Stallone would go on to become one of Hollywood's highest-paid actors of that era by appearing in a slew of commercially successful action films which were however generally panned by critics. These include Cobra, Tango and Cash, Cliffhanger, the better received Demolition Man, and The Specialist.	Can I name some of your commercially successful action films?	Some of my commercially successful action films include Cobra, Tango and Cash, Cliffhanger, Demolition Man, and The Specialist.
Stallone saw a decline in popularity in the early 2000s but rebounded back to prominence in 2006 with a sixth installment in the Rocky series and 2008 with a fourth in the Rambo series. In the 2010s, Stallone launched The Expendables films series (2010–present), in which he played the lead as the mercenary Barney Ross. In 2013, he starred in the successful Escape Plan, and acted in its sequels. In 2015, Stallone returned to the Rocky series with Creed, that serve as spin-off films focusing on Adonis "Donnie" Creed played by Michael B. Jordan, the son of the ill-fated boxer Apollo Creed, to whom the long-retired Rocky is a mentor. Reprising the role brought Stallone praise, and his first Golden Globe award for the first Creed, as well as a third Oscar nomination, having been first nominated for the same role 40 years prior. Since 2022, he has starred in the critically acclaimed television series Tulsa King for Paramount+.	What film series did you launch in the 2010s?	I launched The Expendables film series in the 2010s.
Stallone saw a decline in popularity in the early 2000s but rebounded back to prominence in 2006 with a sixth installment in the Rocky series and 2008 with a fourth in the Rambo series. In the 2010s, Stallone launched The Expendables films series (2010–present), in which he played the lead as the mercenary Barney Ross. In 2013, he starred in the successful Escape Plan, and acted in its sequels. In 2015, Stallone returned to the Rocky series with Creed, that serve as spin-off films focusing on Adonis "Donnie" Creed played by Michael B. Jordan, the son of the ill-fated boxer Apollo Creed, to whom the long-retired Rocky is a mentor. Reprising the role brought Stallone praise, and his first Golden Globe award for the first Creed, as well as a third Oscar nomination, having been first nominated for the same role 40 years prior. Since 2022, he has starred in the critically acclaimed television series Tulsa King for Paramount+.	Which film did you star in that was released in 2013?	I starred in Escape Plan, which was released in 2013.
Stallone saw a decline in popularity in the early 2000s but rebounded back to prominence in 2006 with a sixth installment in the Rocky series and 2008 with a fourth in the Rambo series. In the 2010s, Stallone launched The Expendables films series (2010–present), in which he played the lead as the mercenary Barney Ross. In 2013, he starred in the successful Escape Plan, and acted in its sequels. In 2015, Stallone returned to the Rocky series with Creed, that serve as spin-off films focusing on Adonis "Donnie" Creed played by Michael B. Jordan, the son of the ill-fated boxer Apollo Creed, to whom the long-retired Rocky is a mentor. Reprising the role brought Stallone praise, and his first Golden Globe award for the first Creed, as well as a third Oscar nomination, having been first nominated for the same role 40 years prior. Since 2022, he has starred in the critically acclaimed television series Tulsa King for Paramount+.	Who did Michael B. Jordan portray in the Rocky series spin-off films?	Michael B. Jordan portrayed Adonis "Donnie" Creed in the Rocky series spin-off films.
Stallone saw a decline in popularity in the early 2000s but rebounded back to prominence in 2006 with a sixth installment in the Rocky series and 2008 with a fourth in the Rambo series. In the 2010s, Stallone launched The Expendables films series (2010–present), in which he played the lead as the mercenary Barney Ross. In 2013, he starred in the successful Escape Plan, and acted in its sequels. In 2015, Stallone returned to the Rocky series with Creed, that serve as spin-off films focusing on Adonis "Donnie" Creed played by Michael B. Jordan, the son of the ill-fated boxer Apollo Creed, to whom the long-retired Rocky is a mentor. Reprising the role brought Stallone praise, and his first Golden Globe award for the first Creed, as well as a third Oscar nomination, having been first nominated for the same role 40 years prior. Since 2022, he has starred in the critically acclaimed television series Tulsa King for Paramount+.	What award did you win for your role in Creed?	I won a Golden Globe award for my role in Creed.
Stallone saw a decline in popularity in the early 2000s but rebounded back to prominence in 2006 with a sixth installment in the Rocky series and 2008 with a fourth in the Rambo series. In the 2010s, Stallone launched The Expendables films series (2010–present), in which he played the lead as the mercenary Barney Ross. In 2013, he starred in the successful Escape Plan, and acted in its sequels. In 2015, Stallone returned to the Rocky series with Creed, that serve as spin-off films focusing on Adonis "Donnie" Creed played by Michael B. Jordan, the son of the ill-fated boxer Apollo Creed, to whom the long-retired Rocky is a mentor. Reprising the role brought Stallone praise, and his first Golden Globe award for the first Creed, as well as a third Oscar nomination, having been first nominated for the same role 40 years prior. Since 2022, he has starred in the critically acclaimed television series Tulsa King for Paramount+.	What television series have you starred in since 2022?	I have starred in the television series Tulsa King for Paramount+ since 2022.
Stallone is the only actor in the history of American cinema to have starred in a box-office number-one film across six consecutive decades. He is also one of the most renowned physical culture icons in history.	How many consecutive decades have you starred in a box-office number-one film?	I have starred in a box-office number-one film across six consecutive decades.
Stallone is the only actor in the history of American cinema to have starred in a box-office number-one film across six consecutive decades. He is also one of the most renowned physical culture icons in history.	Are you an actor in American cinema or not?	I am an actor in American cinema.
Stallone is the only actor in the history of American cinema to have starred in a box-office number-one film across six consecutive decades. He is also one of the most renowned physical culture icons in history.	How many decades have you been a physical culture icon?	I have been a physical culture icon in history.
Stallone is the only actor in the history of American cinema to have starred in a box-office number-one film across six consecutive decades. He is also one of the most renowned physical culture icons in history.	Have you starred in any films other than box-office number-one films?	The information given does not specify whether I have starred in any films other than box-office number-one films.
Stallone is the only actor in the history of American cinema to have starred in a box-office number-one film across six consecutive decades. He is also one of the most renowned physical culture icons in history.	Am I one of the most renowned physical culture icons in history?	Yes, I am one of the most renowned physical culture icons in history.
Sylvester Stallone was born in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City on July 6, 1946, the elder son of Francesco "Frank" Stallone Sr. (1919–2011), a hairdresser and beautician, and Jacqueline "Jackie" Stallone (née Labofish; 1921–2020), an astrologer, dancer, and promoter of women's wrestling. His Italian father was born in Gioia del Colle, Apulia, Italy and moved to the U.S. in the 1930s, while his American mother is of French (Breton) and Ashkenazi Jewish descent. His younger brother is actor and musician Frank Stallone.	Where were you born?	I was born in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City.
Sylvester Stallone was born in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City on July 6, 1946, the elder son of Francesco "Frank" Stallone Sr. (1919–2011), a hairdresser and beautician, and Jacqueline "Jackie" Stallone (née Labofish; 1921–2020), an astrologer, dancer, and promoter of women's wrestling. His Italian father was born in Gioia del Colle, Apulia, Italy and moved to the U.S. in the 1930s, while his American mother is of French (Breton) and Ashkenazi Jewish descent. His younger brother is actor and musician Frank Stallone.	When were you born?	I was born on July 6, 1946.
Sylvester Stallone was born in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City on July 6, 1946, the elder son of Francesco "Frank" Stallone Sr. (1919–2011), a hairdresser and beautician, and Jacqueline "Jackie" Stallone (née Labofish; 1921–2020), an astrologer, dancer, and promoter of women's wrestling. His Italian father was born in Gioia del Colle, Apulia, Italy and moved to the U.S. in the 1930s, while his American mother is of French (Breton) and Ashkenazi Jewish descent. His younger brother is actor and musician Frank Stallone.	Who are your parents?	My parents are Francesco "Frank" Stallone Sr. and Jacqueline "Jackie" Stallone.
Sylvester Stallone was born in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City on July 6, 1946, the elder son of Francesco "Frank" Stallone Sr. (1919–2011), a hairdresser and beautician, and Jacqueline "Jackie" Stallone (née Labofish; 1921–2020), an astrologer, dancer, and promoter of women's wrestling. His Italian father was born in Gioia del Colle, Apulia, Italy and moved to the U.S. in the 1930s, while his American mother is of French (Breton) and Ashkenazi Jewish descent. His younger brother is actor and musician Frank Stallone.	Where was your father born?	My father was born in Gioia del Colle, Apulia, Italy.
Sylvester Stallone was born in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood of Manhattan, New York City on July 6, 1946, the elder son of Francesco "Frank" Stallone Sr. (1919–2011), a hairdresser and beautician, and Jacqueline "Jackie" Stallone (née Labofish; 1921–2020), an astrologer, dancer, and promoter of women's wrestling. His Italian father was born in Gioia del Colle, Apulia, Italy and moved to the U.S. in the 1930s, while his American mother is of French (Breton) and Ashkenazi Jewish descent. His younger brother is actor and musician Frank Stallone.	What is your brother's profession?	My brother is an actor and musician.
Many biographies of Stallone indicate that his birth name is Michael Sylvester Gardenzio Stallone. However, Stallone's mother explained in an interview that she originally named him Tyrone because she admired the actor Tyrone Power, but Stallone's father changed it to Sylvester. His nickname as a child was "Binky", but after schoolmates began calling him "Stinky", Stallone chose to go by the nickname of Mike/Michael. His middle name "Gardenzio" is an alteration of the Italian given name "Gaudenzio"; Stallone usually shortened it to "Enzio".	What is your birth name?	My birth name is Michael Sylvester Gardenzio Stallone.
Many biographies of Stallone indicate that his birth name is Michael Sylvester Gardenzio Stallone. However, Stallone's mother explained in an interview that she originally named him Tyrone because she admired the actor Tyrone Power, but Stallone's father changed it to Sylvester. His nickname as a child was "Binky", but after schoolmates began calling him "Stinky", Stallone chose to go by the nickname of Mike/Michael. His middle name "Gardenzio" is an alteration of the Italian given name "Gaudenzio"; Stallone usually shortened it to "Enzio".	Why did your mother originally name you Tyrone?	Because she admired the actor Tyrone Power.
Many biographies of Stallone indicate that his birth name is Michael Sylvester Gardenzio Stallone. However, Stallone's mother explained in an interview that she originally named him Tyrone because she admired the actor Tyrone Power, but Stallone's father changed it to Sylvester. His nickname as a child was "Binky", but after schoolmates began calling him "Stinky", Stallone chose to go by the nickname of Mike/Michael. His middle name "Gardenzio" is an alteration of the Italian given name "Gaudenzio"; Stallone usually shortened it to "Enzio".	Who changed your name to Sylvester?	My father.
Many biographies of Stallone indicate that his birth name is Michael Sylvester Gardenzio Stallone. However, Stallone's mother explained in an interview that she originally named him Tyrone because she admired the actor Tyrone Power, but Stallone's father changed it to Sylvester. His nickname as a child was "Binky", but after schoolmates began calling him "Stinky", Stallone chose to go by the nickname of Mike/Michael. His middle name "Gardenzio" is an alteration of the Italian given name "Gaudenzio"; Stallone usually shortened it to "Enzio".	What nickname did you have as a child?	"Binky".
Many biographies of Stallone indicate that his birth name is Michael Sylvester Gardenzio Stallone. However, Stallone's mother explained in an interview that she originally named him Tyrone because she admired the actor Tyrone Power, but Stallone's father changed it to Sylvester. His nickname as a child was "Binky", but after schoolmates began calling him "Stinky", Stallone chose to go by the nickname of Mike/Michael. His middle name "Gardenzio" is an alteration of the Italian given name "Gaudenzio"; Stallone usually shortened it to "Enzio".	Why did you choose to go by the nickname of Mike/Michael?	Because my schoolmates started calling me "Stinky".
Complications during labor forced his mother's obstetricians to use two pairs of forceps during his birth; misuse of these forceps accidentally severed a nerve and caused paralysis in parts of Stallone's face. This caused paralysis of the lower left side of his face (including parts of his lip, tongue, and chin), an accident which gave him his signature snarling look and slurred speech. As a result, he was bullied as a child and so he coped with bodybuilding and acting.	What caused paralysis in parts of your face?	The misuse of forceps during my birth accidentally severed a nerve, causing paralysis in parts of my face.
Complications during labor forced his mother's obstetricians to use two pairs of forceps during his birth; misuse of these forceps accidentally severed a nerve and caused paralysis in parts of Stallone's face. This caused paralysis of the lower left side of his face (including parts of his lip, tongue, and chin), an accident which gave him his signature snarling look and slurred speech. As a result, he was bullied as a child and so he coped with bodybuilding and acting.	Which side of your face was paralyzed?	The lower left side of my face, including parts of my lip, tongue, and chin, were paralyzed.
Complications during labor forced his mother's obstetricians to use two pairs of forceps during his birth; misuse of these forceps accidentally severed a nerve and caused paralysis in parts of Stallone's face. This caused paralysis of the lower left side of his face (including parts of his lip, tongue, and chin), an accident which gave him his signature snarling look and slurred speech. As a result, he was bullied as a child and so he coped with bodybuilding and acting.	How did you develop your signature snarling look?	The accident that caused paralysis in my face gave me my signature snarling look.
Complications during labor forced his mother's obstetricians to use two pairs of forceps during his birth; misuse of these forceps accidentally severed a nerve and caused paralysis in parts of Stallone's face. This caused paralysis of the lower left side of his face (including parts of his lip, tongue, and chin), an accident which gave him his signature snarling look and slurred speech. As a result, he was bullied as a child and so he coped with bodybuilding and acting.	What effect did the paralysis have on your speech?	The paralysis in my face caused my speech to be slurred.
Complications during labor forced his mother's obstetricians to use two pairs of forceps during his birth; misuse of these forceps accidentally severed a nerve and caused paralysis in parts of Stallone's face. This caused paralysis of the lower left side of his face (including parts of his lip, tongue, and chin), an accident which gave him his signature snarling look and slurred speech. As a result, he was bullied as a child and so he coped with bodybuilding and acting.	How did you cope with being bullied as a child?	I coped with being bullied by turning to bodybuilding and acting.
He was baptized Catholic. His father moved the family to Washington, D.C., in the early 1950s to open a beauty school. In 1954, his mother opened a women's gym called Barbella's.	What religion were you baptized in?	I was baptized Catholic.
He was baptized Catholic. His father moved the family to Washington, D.C., in the early 1950s to open a beauty school. In 1954, his mother opened a women's gym called Barbella's.	Why did your father move the family to Washington, D.C.?	My father moved the family to Washington, D.C. to open a beauty school.
He was baptized Catholic. His father moved the family to Washington, D.C., in the early 1950s to open a beauty school. In 1954, his mother opened a women's gym called Barbella's.	When did your mother open a women's gym?	My mother opened a women's gym called Barbella's in 1954.
Stallone attended Notre Dame Academy and Abraham Lincoln High School in Philadelphia, and Charlotte Hall Military Academy in Charlotte Hall, Maryland, prior to attending Miami Dade College.	Where did you attend high school?	I attended Abraham Lincoln High School in Philadelphia.
Stallone attended Notre Dame Academy and Abraham Lincoln High School in Philadelphia, and Charlotte Hall Military Academy in Charlotte Hall, Maryland, prior to attending Miami Dade College.	Where did you attend college?	I attended Miami Dade College.
Stallone attended Notre Dame Academy and Abraham Lincoln High School in Philadelphia, and Charlotte Hall Military Academy in Charlotte Hall, Maryland, prior to attending Miami Dade College.	Where did you attend military academy?	I attended Charlotte Hall Military Academy in Charlotte Hall, Maryland.
Stallone attended Notre Dame Academy and Abraham Lincoln High School in Philadelphia, and Charlotte Hall Military Academy in Charlotte Hall, Maryland, prior to attending Miami Dade College.	Which academy did you attend before Miami Dade College?	I attended Charlotte Hall Military Academy.
Stallone attended Notre Dame Academy and Abraham Lincoln High School in Philadelphia, and Charlotte Hall Military Academy in Charlotte Hall, Maryland, prior to attending Miami Dade College.	Which high school did you attend in Philadelphia?	I attended Abraham Lincoln High School.
Stallone happened to be acting in a play that a friend invited him to partake in , and an agent in attendance thought that Stallone fit the role of Stanley , a main character in The Lords of Flatbush , which had a start - stop schedule from 1972 to 1974 over budget issues . Stallone , around mid - 1973 , achieved his first proper starring role , in the independent film No Place to Hide , playing a man who is associated with a New York - based urban terrorist movement , with a jewelry - seller as his love interest . The film was re - cut and retitled Rebel years later , this second version featuring Stallone as its star . In 1990 , this film was re - edited with outtakes from the original movie and newly shot matching footage , then redubbed – in the style of Woody Allen ' s What ' s Up , Tiger Lily ? – into a parody of itself titled A Man Called ... Rainbo .	In what year did you achieve your first proper starring role?	I achieved my first proper starring role around mid-1973.
Stallone happened to be acting in a play that a friend invited him to partake in , and an agent in attendance thought that Stallone fit the role of Stanley , a main character in The Lords of Flatbush , which had a start - stop schedule from 1972 to 1974 over budget issues . Stallone , around mid - 1973 , achieved his first proper starring role , in the independent film No Place to Hide , playing a man who is associated with a New York - based urban terrorist movement , with a jewelry - seller as his love interest . The film was re - cut and retitled Rebel years later , this second version featuring Stallone as its star . In 1990 , this film was re - edited with outtakes from the original movie and newly shot matching footage , then redubbed – in the style of Woody Allen ' s What ' s Up , Tiger Lily ? – into a parody of itself titled A Man Called ... Rainbo .	What was the title of the independent film in which you had your first starring role?	The title of the independent film in which I had my first starring role is "No Place to Hide".
Stallone happened to be acting in a play that a friend invited him to partake in , and an agent in attendance thought that Stallone fit the role of Stanley , a main character in The Lords of Flatbush , which had a start - stop schedule from 1972 to 1974 over budget issues . Stallone , around mid - 1973 , achieved his first proper starring role , in the independent film No Place to Hide , playing a man who is associated with a New York - based urban terrorist movement , with a jewelry - seller as his love interest . The film was re - cut and retitled Rebel years later , this second version featuring Stallone as its star . In 1990 , this film was re - edited with outtakes from the original movie and newly shot matching footage , then redubbed – in the style of Woody Allen ' s What ' s Up , Tiger Lily ? – into a parody of itself titled A Man Called ... Rainbo .	What role did you play in "No Place to Hide"?	I played a man who is associated with a New York-based urban terrorist movement in "No Place to Hide".
Stallone happened to be acting in a play that a friend invited him to partake in , and an agent in attendance thought that Stallone fit the role of Stanley , a main character in The Lords of Flatbush , which had a start - stop schedule from 1972 to 1974 over budget issues . Stallone , around mid - 1973 , achieved his first proper starring role , in the independent film No Place to Hide , playing a man who is associated with a New York - based urban terrorist movement , with a jewelry - seller as his love interest . The film was re - cut and retitled Rebel years later , this second version featuring Stallone as its star . In 1990 , this film was re - edited with outtakes from the original movie and newly shot matching footage , then redubbed – in the style of Woody Allen ' s What ' s Up , Tiger Lily ? – into a parody of itself titled A Man Called ... Rainbo .	What happened to the film "No Place to Hide" years later?	The film "No Place to Hide" was re-cut and retitled "Rebel" years later.
Stallone happened to be acting in a play that a friend invited him to partake in , and an agent in attendance thought that Stallone fit the role of Stanley , a main character in The Lords of Flatbush , which had a start - stop schedule from 1972 to 1974 over budget issues . Stallone , around mid - 1973 , achieved his first proper starring role , in the independent film No Place to Hide , playing a man who is associated with a New York - based urban terrorist movement , with a jewelry - seller as his love interest . The film was re - cut and retitled Rebel years later , this second version featuring Stallone as its star . In 1990 , this film was re - edited with outtakes from the original movie and newly shot matching footage , then redubbed – in the style of Woody Allen ' s What ' s Up , Tiger Lily ? – into a parody of itself titled A Man Called ... Rainbo .	In what year was your film "A Man Called ... Rainbo" re-edited with outtakes from the original movie and newly shot matching footage?	My film "A Man Called ... Rainbo" was re-edited with outtakes from the original movie and newly shot matching footage in 1990.
Stallone gained worldwide fame with his starring role in the smash hit Rocky ( 1976 ) , a sports drama about a struggling boxer , Rocky Balboa , taking on heavyweight champion Apollo Creed . On March 24 , 1975 , Stallone saw the Muhammad Ali vs . Chuck Wepner fight . That night Stallone went home , and after three days he had completed the first draft of Rocky . Stallone subsequently denied that Wepner provided any inspiration for the script ; however , Wepner filed a lawsuit which was eventually settled with Stallone for an undisclosed amount . Other possible inspirations for the film may have included Rocky Graziano ' s autobiography Somebody Up There Likes Me , and the movie of the same name . Stallone attempted to sell the script to multiple studios , with the intention of playing the lead role himself . Irwin Winkler and Robert Chartoff became interested and offered Stallone US $ 350 , 000 for the rights , but they had their own casting ideas for the lead role , including Robert Redford and Burt Reynolds . Stallone refused to sell unless he played the lead character – and , eventually , after a substantial budget cut to compromise , it was agreed he could be the star . Upon its release , critic Roger Ebert stated that Stallone could become the next Marlon Brando .	What was your role in the film Rocky?	I played the lead character, Rocky Balboa.
Stallone gained worldwide fame with his starring role in the smash hit Rocky ( 1976 ) , a sports drama about a struggling boxer , Rocky Balboa , taking on heavyweight champion Apollo Creed . On March 24 , 1975 , Stallone saw the Muhammad Ali vs . Chuck Wepner fight . That night Stallone went home , and after three days he had completed the first draft of Rocky . Stallone subsequently denied that Wepner provided any inspiration for the script ; however , Wepner filed a lawsuit which was eventually settled with Stallone for an undisclosed amount . Other possible inspirations for the film may have included Rocky Graziano ' s autobiography Somebody Up There Likes Me , and the movie of the same name . Stallone attempted to sell the script to multiple studios , with the intention of playing the lead role himself . Irwin Winkler and Robert Chartoff became interested and offered Stallone US $ 350 , 000 for the rights , but they had their own casting ideas for the lead role , including Robert Redford and Burt Reynolds . Stallone refused to sell unless he played the lead character – and , eventually , after a substantial budget cut to compromise , it was agreed he could be the star . Upon its release , critic Roger Ebert stated that Stallone could become the next Marlon Brando .	When did you see the Muhammad Ali vs. Chuck Wepner fight?	I saw the fight on March 24, 1975.
Stallone gained worldwide fame with his starring role in the smash hit Rocky ( 1976 ) , a sports drama about a struggling boxer , Rocky Balboa , taking on heavyweight champion Apollo Creed . On March 24 , 1975 , Stallone saw the Muhammad Ali vs . Chuck Wepner fight . That night Stallone went home , and after three days he had completed the first draft of Rocky . Stallone subsequently denied that Wepner provided any inspiration for the script ; however , Wepner filed a lawsuit which was eventually settled with Stallone for an undisclosed amount . Other possible inspirations for the film may have included Rocky Graziano ' s autobiography Somebody Up There Likes Me , and the movie of the same name . Stallone attempted to sell the script to multiple studios , with the intention of playing the lead role himself . Irwin Winkler and Robert Chartoff became interested and offered Stallone US $ 350 , 000 for the rights , but they had their own casting ideas for the lead role , including Robert Redford and Burt Reynolds . Stallone refused to sell unless he played the lead character – and , eventually , after a substantial budget cut to compromise , it was agreed he could be the star . Upon its release , critic Roger Ebert stated that Stallone could become the next Marlon Brando .	How long did it take you to complete the first draft of Rocky?	I completed the first draft of Rocky in three days.
Stallone gained worldwide fame with his starring role in the smash hit Rocky ( 1976 ) , a sports drama about a struggling boxer , Rocky Balboa , taking on heavyweight champion Apollo Creed . On March 24 , 1975 , Stallone saw the Muhammad Ali vs . Chuck Wepner fight . That night Stallone went home , and after three days he had completed the first draft of Rocky . Stallone subsequently denied that Wepner provided any inspiration for the script ; however , Wepner filed a lawsuit which was eventually settled with Stallone for an undisclosed amount . Other possible inspirations for the film may have included Rocky Graziano ' s autobiography Somebody Up There Likes Me , and the movie of the same name . Stallone attempted to sell the script to multiple studios , with the intention of playing the lead role himself . Irwin Winkler and Robert Chartoff became interested and offered Stallone US $ 350 , 000 for the rights , but they had their own casting ideas for the lead role , including Robert Redford and Burt Reynolds . Stallone refused to sell unless he played the lead character – and , eventually , after a substantial budget cut to compromise , it was agreed he could be the star . Upon its release , critic Roger Ebert stated that Stallone could become the next Marlon Brando .	How much money did you receive from the settlement of the lawsuit filed by Chuck Wepner?	The amount of money I received from the settlement with Chuck Wepner was undisclosed.
Stallone gained worldwide fame with his starring role in the smash hit Rocky ( 1976 ) , a sports drama about a struggling boxer , Rocky Balboa , taking on heavyweight champion Apollo Creed . On March 24 , 1975 , Stallone saw the Muhammad Ali vs . Chuck Wepner fight . That night Stallone went home , and after three days he had completed the first draft of Rocky . Stallone subsequently denied that Wepner provided any inspiration for the script ; however , Wepner filed a lawsuit which was eventually settled with Stallone for an undisclosed amount . Other possible inspirations for the film may have included Rocky Graziano ' s autobiography Somebody Up There Likes Me , and the movie of the same name . Stallone attempted to sell the script to multiple studios , with the intention of playing the lead role himself . Irwin Winkler and Robert Chartoff became interested and offered Stallone US $ 350 , 000 for the rights , but they had their own casting ideas for the lead role , including Robert Redford and Burt Reynolds . Stallone refused to sell unless he played the lead character – and , eventually , after a substantial budget cut to compromise , it was agreed he could be the star . Upon its release , critic Roger Ebert stated that Stallone could become the next Marlon Brando .	Who were some of the casting ideas for the lead role in Rocky, other than you?	Some of the casting ideas for the lead role in Rocky were Robert Redford and Burt Reynolds.
In 1982 , Stallone starred as Vietnam veteran John Rambo , a former Green Beret , in the action film First Blood , which was both a critical and box - office success . Critics praised Stallone ' s performance , saying he made Rambo seem human , as opposed to the way he is portrayed in the book of the same name . It launched the Rambo franchise . That year Rocky III was released in which Stallone wrote , directed , and starred . The third sequel became a box - office success . In preparation for these roles , Stallone embarked upon a vigorous training regimen , which often meant six days a week in the gym and further sit - ups in the evenings . Stallone claims to have reduced his body fat percentage to his all - time low of 2.8% for Rocky III .	When did you star as John Rambo?	I starred as John Rambo in 1982.
In 1982 , Stallone starred as Vietnam veteran John Rambo , a former Green Beret , in the action film First Blood , which was both a critical and box - office success . Critics praised Stallone ' s performance , saying he made Rambo seem human , as opposed to the way he is portrayed in the book of the same name . It launched the Rambo franchise . That year Rocky III was released in which Stallone wrote , directed , and starred . The third sequel became a box - office success . In preparation for these roles , Stallone embarked upon a vigorous training regimen , which often meant six days a week in the gym and further sit - ups in the evenings . Stallone claims to have reduced his body fat percentage to his all - time low of 2.8% for Rocky III .	What was your role in the movie First Blood?	I played the role of Vietnam veteran John Rambo in the movie First Blood.
In 1982 , Stallone starred as Vietnam veteran John Rambo , a former Green Beret , in the action film First Blood , which was both a critical and box - office success . Critics praised Stallone ' s performance , saying he made Rambo seem human , as opposed to the way he is portrayed in the book of the same name . It launched the Rambo franchise . That year Rocky III was released in which Stallone wrote , directed , and starred . The third sequel became a box - office success . In preparation for these roles , Stallone embarked upon a vigorous training regimen , which often meant six days a week in the gym and further sit - ups in the evenings . Stallone claims to have reduced his body fat percentage to his all - time low of 2.8% for Rocky III .	What did critics say about your performance in First Blood?	Critics praised my performance, saying I made Rambo seem human.
In 1982 , Stallone starred as Vietnam veteran John Rambo , a former Green Beret , in the action film First Blood , which was both a critical and box - office success . Critics praised Stallone ' s performance , saying he made Rambo seem human , as opposed to the way he is portrayed in the book of the same name . It launched the Rambo franchise . That year Rocky III was released in which Stallone wrote , directed , and starred . The third sequel became a box - office success . In preparation for these roles , Stallone embarked upon a vigorous training regimen , which often meant six days a week in the gym and further sit - ups in the evenings . Stallone claims to have reduced his body fat percentage to his all - time low of 2.8% for Rocky III .	What other movie did you release in 1982?	I also released Rocky III in 1982.
In 1982 , Stallone starred as Vietnam veteran John Rambo , a former Green Beret , in the action film First Blood , which was both a critical and box - office success . Critics praised Stallone ' s performance , saying he made Rambo seem human , as opposed to the way he is portrayed in the book of the same name . It launched the Rambo franchise . That year Rocky III was released in which Stallone wrote , directed , and starred . The third sequel became a box - office success . In preparation for these roles , Stallone embarked upon a vigorous training regimen , which often meant six days a week in the gym and further sit - ups in the evenings . Stallone claims to have reduced his body fat percentage to his all - time low of 2.8% for Rocky III .	How did you prepare for your roles in First Blood and Rocky III?	I embarked upon a vigorous training regimen and spent six days a week in the gym. I also did sit-ups in the evenings.
In 1993 , he made a comeback with Renny Harlin ' s action thriller Cliffhanger . which was a success in the US , grossing US $ 84   million , and worldwide , grossing US $ 171   million . Later that year , he starred in the futuristic action film Demolition Man directed by Marco Brambilla , co - starring Wesley Snipes and Sandra Bullock . On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 60% based on 42 reviews , with an average rating of 5.43 / 10 . The site ' s consensus reads : " A better - than - average sci - fi shoot - em - up with a satirical undercurrent , Demolition Man is bolstered by strong performances by Stallone , Snipes , and Bullock . " The film debuted at No . 1 at the box office . Demolition Man grossed $ 58 , 055 , 768 by the end of its box - office run in North America and $ 159 , 055 , 768 worldwide .	When did you make a comeback with Renny Harlin's action thriller Cliffhanger?	In 1993.
In 1993 , he made a comeback with Renny Harlin ' s action thriller Cliffhanger . which was a success in the US , grossing US $ 84   million , and worldwide , grossing US $ 171   million . Later that year , he starred in the futuristic action film Demolition Man directed by Marco Brambilla , co - starring Wesley Snipes and Sandra Bullock . On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 60% based on 42 reviews , with an average rating of 5.43 / 10 . The site ' s consensus reads : " A better - than - average sci - fi shoot - em - up with a satirical undercurrent , Demolition Man is bolstered by strong performances by Stallone , Snipes , and Bullock . " The film debuted at No . 1 at the box office . Demolition Man grossed $ 58 , 055 , 768 by the end of its box - office run in North America and $ 159 , 055 , 768 worldwide .	How much did Cliffhanger gross in the US?	It grossed US $84 million in the US.
In 1993 , he made a comeback with Renny Harlin ' s action thriller Cliffhanger . which was a success in the US , grossing US $ 84   million , and worldwide , grossing US $ 171   million . Later that year , he starred in the futuristic action film Demolition Man directed by Marco Brambilla , co - starring Wesley Snipes and Sandra Bullock . On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 60% based on 42 reviews , with an average rating of 5.43 / 10 . The site ' s consensus reads : " A better - than - average sci - fi shoot - em - up with a satirical undercurrent , Demolition Man is bolstered by strong performances by Stallone , Snipes , and Bullock . " The film debuted at No . 1 at the box office . Demolition Man grossed $ 58 , 055 , 768 by the end of its box - office run in North America and $ 159 , 055 , 768 worldwide .	How much did Cliffhanger gross worldwide?	It grossed US $171 million worldwide.
In 1993 , he made a comeback with Renny Harlin ' s action thriller Cliffhanger . which was a success in the US , grossing US $ 84   million , and worldwide , grossing US $ 171   million . Later that year , he starred in the futuristic action film Demolition Man directed by Marco Brambilla , co - starring Wesley Snipes and Sandra Bullock . On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 60% based on 42 reviews , with an average rating of 5.43 / 10 . The site ' s consensus reads : " A better - than - average sci - fi shoot - em - up with a satirical undercurrent , Demolition Man is bolstered by strong performances by Stallone , Snipes , and Bullock . " The film debuted at No . 1 at the box office . Demolition Man grossed $ 58 , 055 , 768 by the end of its box - office run in North America and $ 159 , 055 , 768 worldwide .	Who directed the futuristic action film Demolition Man?	Marco Brambilla directed Demolition Man.
In 1993 , he made a comeback with Renny Harlin ' s action thriller Cliffhanger . which was a success in the US , grossing US $ 84   million , and worldwide , grossing US $ 171   million . Later that year , he starred in the futuristic action film Demolition Man directed by Marco Brambilla , co - starring Wesley Snipes and Sandra Bullock . On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 60% based on 42 reviews , with an average rating of 5.43 / 10 . The site ' s consensus reads : " A better - than - average sci - fi shoot - em - up with a satirical undercurrent , Demolition Man is bolstered by strong performances by Stallone , Snipes , and Bullock . " The film debuted at No . 1 at the box office . Demolition Man grossed $ 58 , 055 , 768 by the end of its box - office run in North America and $ 159 , 055 , 768 worldwide .	Who co-starred with you in Demolition Man?	Wesley Snipes and Sandra Bullock co-starred with me in Demolition Man.
After a three - year hiatus from films , Stallone had a comeback in 2006 with the sixth installment of his successful Rocky series , Rocky Balboa , which was a critical and commercial hit . After the critical and box - office failure of the previous installment Rocky V , Stallone had decided to write , direct and star in a sixth installment which would be a more appropriate climax to the series . The total domestic box office came to US $ 70.3   million ( and US $ 155.7   million worldwide ) . The budget of the movie was only US $ 24   million . His performance in Rocky Balboa has been praised and garnered mostly positive reviews . That year , the development Death Wish remake began , when Stallone announced that he would be directing and starring in a remake of the 1974 film . Stallone said , " Instead of the Charles Bronson character being an architect , my version would have him as a very good cop who had incredible success without ever using his gun . So when the attack on his family happens , he ' s really thrown into a moral dilemma in proceeding to carry out his revenge . " He later told the publication that he was no longer involved . In a 2009 interview with MTV , though , Stallone stated that he was again considering the project . However the role went to Bruce Willis with Eli Roth as director .	What film did you have a comeback in 2006?	Rocky Balboa.
After a three - year hiatus from films , Stallone had a comeback in 2006 with the sixth installment of his successful Rocky series , Rocky Balboa , which was a critical and commercial hit . After the critical and box - office failure of the previous installment Rocky V , Stallone had decided to write , direct and star in a sixth installment which would be a more appropriate climax to the series . The total domestic box office came to US $ 70.3   million ( and US $ 155.7   million worldwide ) . The budget of the movie was only US $ 24   million . His performance in Rocky Balboa has been praised and garnered mostly positive reviews . That year , the development Death Wish remake began , when Stallone announced that he would be directing and starring in a remake of the 1974 film . Stallone said , " Instead of the Charles Bronson character being an architect , my version would have him as a very good cop who had incredible success without ever using his gun . So when the attack on his family happens , he ' s really thrown into a moral dilemma in proceeding to carry out his revenge . " He later told the publication that he was no longer involved . In a 2009 interview with MTV , though , Stallone stated that he was again considering the project . However the role went to Bruce Willis with Eli Roth as director .	How much did your movie Rocky Balboa earn at the domestic box office?	US $ 70.3 million.
After a three - year hiatus from films , Stallone had a comeback in 2006 with the sixth installment of his successful Rocky series , Rocky Balboa , which was a critical and commercial hit . After the critical and box - office failure of the previous installment Rocky V , Stallone had decided to write , direct and star in a sixth installment which would be a more appropriate climax to the series . The total domestic box office came to US $ 70.3   million ( and US $ 155.7   million worldwide ) . The budget of the movie was only US $ 24   million . His performance in Rocky Balboa has been praised and garnered mostly positive reviews . That year , the development Death Wish remake began , when Stallone announced that he would be directing and starring in a remake of the 1974 film . Stallone said , " Instead of the Charles Bronson character being an architect , my version would have him as a very good cop who had incredible success without ever using his gun . So when the attack on his family happens , he ' s really thrown into a moral dilemma in proceeding to carry out his revenge . " He later told the publication that he was no longer involved . In a 2009 interview with MTV , though , Stallone stated that he was again considering the project . However the role went to Bruce Willis with Eli Roth as director .	How much did my movie Rocky Balboa earn worldwide?	US $ 155.7 million.
After a three - year hiatus from films , Stallone had a comeback in 2006 with the sixth installment of his successful Rocky series , Rocky Balboa , which was a critical and commercial hit . After the critical and box - office failure of the previous installment Rocky V , Stallone had decided to write , direct and star in a sixth installment which would be a more appropriate climax to the series . The total domestic box office came to US $ 70.3   million ( and US $ 155.7   million worldwide ) . The budget of the movie was only US $ 24   million . His performance in Rocky Balboa has been praised and garnered mostly positive reviews . That year , the development Death Wish remake began , when Stallone announced that he would be directing and starring in a remake of the 1974 film . Stallone said , " Instead of the Charles Bronson character being an architect , my version would have him as a very good cop who had incredible success without ever using his gun . So when the attack on his family happens , he ' s really thrown into a moral dilemma in proceeding to carry out his revenge . " He later told the publication that he was no longer involved . In a 2009 interview with MTV , though , Stallone stated that he was again considering the project . However the role went to Bruce Willis with Eli Roth as director .	What was the budget of your movie Rocky Balboa?	US $ 24 million.
After a three - year hiatus from films , Stallone had a comeback in 2006 with the sixth installment of his successful Rocky series , Rocky Balboa , which was a critical and commercial hit . After the critical and box - office failure of the previous installment Rocky V , Stallone had decided to write , direct and star in a sixth installment which would be a more appropriate climax to the series . The total domestic box office came to US $ 70.3   million ( and US $ 155.7   million worldwide ) . The budget of the movie was only US $ 24   million . His performance in Rocky Balboa has been praised and garnered mostly positive reviews . That year , the development Death Wish remake began , when Stallone announced that he would be directing and starring in a remake of the 1974 film . Stallone said , " Instead of the Charles Bronson character being an architect , my version would have him as a very good cop who had incredible success without ever using his gun . So when the attack on his family happens , he ' s really thrown into a moral dilemma in proceeding to carry out his revenge . " He later told the publication that he was no longer involved . In a 2009 interview with MTV , though , Stallone stated that he was again considering the project . However the role went to Bruce Willis with Eli Roth as director .	Who was initially supposed to direct and star in the Death Wish remake?	I was.
Also that year , Stallone wrote , directed and starred in the ensemble action film The Expendables . The movie , which was filmed during summer / winter 2009 , was released on August 13 , 2010 . Joining him in the film were fellow action stars Jason Statham , Jet Li , and Dolph Lundgren , as well as Terry Crews , Mickey Rourke , Randy Couture , Eric Roberts , and Stone Cold Steve Austin , and cameos by fellow ' 80s action icons Bruce Willis and Arnold Schwarzenegger . The movie took US $ 34 , 825 , 135 in its opening weekend , going straight in at No . 1 in the US box office . The figure marked the biggest opening weekend in Stallone ' s career . In summer 2010 , Brazilian company O2 Filmes released a statement saying it was still owed more than US $ 2   million for its work on the film . In 2011 , Stallone provided the voice of a lion in Kevin James ' comedy Zookeeper .	What film did you write, direct, and star in during that year?	The Expendables.
Also that year , Stallone wrote , directed and starred in the ensemble action film The Expendables . The movie , which was filmed during summer / winter 2009 , was released on August 13 , 2010 . Joining him in the film were fellow action stars Jason Statham , Jet Li , and Dolph Lundgren , as well as Terry Crews , Mickey Rourke , Randy Couture , Eric Roberts , and Stone Cold Steve Austin , and cameos by fellow ' 80s action icons Bruce Willis and Arnold Schwarzenegger . The movie took US $ 34 , 825 , 135 in its opening weekend , going straight in at No . 1 in the US box office . The figure marked the biggest opening weekend in Stallone ' s career . In summer 2010 , Brazilian company O2 Filmes released a statement saying it was still owed more than US $ 2   million for its work on the film . In 2011 , Stallone provided the voice of a lion in Kevin James ' comedy Zookeeper .	Who were some of the fellow action stars that joined you in The Expendables?	Jason Statham, Jet Li, and Dolph Lundgren.
Also that year , Stallone wrote , directed and starred in the ensemble action film The Expendables . The movie , which was filmed during summer / winter 2009 , was released on August 13 , 2010 . Joining him in the film were fellow action stars Jason Statham , Jet Li , and Dolph Lundgren , as well as Terry Crews , Mickey Rourke , Randy Couture , Eric Roberts , and Stone Cold Steve Austin , and cameos by fellow ' 80s action icons Bruce Willis and Arnold Schwarzenegger . The movie took US $ 34 , 825 , 135 in its opening weekend , going straight in at No . 1 in the US box office . The figure marked the biggest opening weekend in Stallone ' s career . In summer 2010 , Brazilian company O2 Filmes released a statement saying it was still owed more than US $ 2   million for its work on the film . In 2011 , Stallone provided the voice of a lion in Kevin James ' comedy Zookeeper .	When was The Expendables released?	August 13, 2010.
Also that year , Stallone wrote , directed and starred in the ensemble action film The Expendables . The movie , which was filmed during summer / winter 2009 , was released on August 13 , 2010 . Joining him in the film were fellow action stars Jason Statham , Jet Li , and Dolph Lundgren , as well as Terry Crews , Mickey Rourke , Randy Couture , Eric Roberts , and Stone Cold Steve Austin , and cameos by fellow ' 80s action icons Bruce Willis and Arnold Schwarzenegger . The movie took US $ 34 , 825 , 135 in its opening weekend , going straight in at No . 1 in the US box office . The figure marked the biggest opening weekend in Stallone ' s career . In summer 2010 , Brazilian company O2 Filmes released a statement saying it was still owed more than US $ 2   million for its work on the film . In 2011 , Stallone provided the voice of a lion in Kevin James ' comedy Zookeeper .	How much money did The Expendables make in its opening weekend?	US $34,825,135.
Also that year , Stallone wrote , directed and starred in the ensemble action film The Expendables . The movie , which was filmed during summer / winter 2009 , was released on August 13 , 2010 . Joining him in the film were fellow action stars Jason Statham , Jet Li , and Dolph Lundgren , as well as Terry Crews , Mickey Rourke , Randy Couture , Eric Roberts , and Stone Cold Steve Austin , and cameos by fellow ' 80s action icons Bruce Willis and Arnold Schwarzenegger . The movie took US $ 34 , 825 , 135 in its opening weekend , going straight in at No . 1 in the US box office . The figure marked the biggest opening weekend in Stallone ' s career . In summer 2010 , Brazilian company O2 Filmes released a statement saying it was still owed more than US $ 2   million for its work on the film . In 2011 , Stallone provided the voice of a lion in Kevin James ' comedy Zookeeper .	What company claimed to still be owed more than US $2 million for its work on The Expendables?	Brazilian company O2 Filmes.
In 2015 , Stallone reprised his role as Rocky Balboa in a spin - off - sequel film , Creed , which focused on Adonis " Donnie " Creed , the son of his deceased friend / rival , Apollo Creed , becoming a professional boxer , played by Michael B . Jordan . The film , directed by Ryan Coogler , received critical acclaim . Portraying the iconic cinematic boxer for the seventh time in a span of 40 years , Stallone ' s portrayal of the character received widespread acclaim and accolades , including the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor , and his third Academy Award nomination , this time for Best Supporting Actor .	Who did you reprise your role as in the film Creed?	Rocky Balboa.
In 2015 , Stallone reprised his role as Rocky Balboa in a spin - off - sequel film , Creed , which focused on Adonis " Donnie " Creed , the son of his deceased friend / rival , Apollo Creed , becoming a professional boxer , played by Michael B . Jordan . The film , directed by Ryan Coogler , received critical acclaim . Portraying the iconic cinematic boxer for the seventh time in a span of 40 years , Stallone ' s portrayal of the character received widespread acclaim and accolades , including the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor , and his third Academy Award nomination , this time for Best Supporting Actor .	What was the focus of the film Creed?	The film focused on Adonis "Donnie" Creed, the son of your deceased friend/rival Apollo Creed, becoming a professional boxer.
In 2015 , Stallone reprised his role as Rocky Balboa in a spin - off - sequel film , Creed , which focused on Adonis " Donnie " Creed , the son of his deceased friend / rival , Apollo Creed , becoming a professional boxer , played by Michael B . Jordan . The film , directed by Ryan Coogler , received critical acclaim . Portraying the iconic cinematic boxer for the seventh time in a span of 40 years , Stallone ' s portrayal of the character received widespread acclaim and accolades , including the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor , and his third Academy Award nomination , this time for Best Supporting Actor .	Who played the role of Adonis "Donnie" Creed in the film Creed?	Michael B. Jordan.
In 2015 , Stallone reprised his role as Rocky Balboa in a spin - off - sequel film , Creed , which focused on Adonis " Donnie " Creed , the son of his deceased friend / rival , Apollo Creed , becoming a professional boxer , played by Michael B . Jordan . The film , directed by Ryan Coogler , received critical acclaim . Portraying the iconic cinematic boxer for the seventh time in a span of 40 years , Stallone ' s portrayal of the character received widespread acclaim and accolades , including the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor , and his third Academy Award nomination , this time for Best Supporting Actor .	Who directed the film Creed?	Ryan Coogler.
In 2015 , Stallone reprised his role as Rocky Balboa in a spin - off - sequel film , Creed , which focused on Adonis " Donnie " Creed , the son of his deceased friend / rival , Apollo Creed , becoming a professional boxer , played by Michael B . Jordan . The film , directed by Ryan Coogler , received critical acclaim . Portraying the iconic cinematic boxer for the seventh time in a span of 40 years , Stallone ' s portrayal of the character received widespread acclaim and accolades , including the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor , and his third Academy Award nomination , this time for Best Supporting Actor .	What awards did you receive for your portrayal of Rocky Balboa in Creed?	I received the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor and my third Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor.
In 2017 , Stallone appeared in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol . 2 as Stakar Ogord / Starhawk , the leader of a Ravagers faction . In 2018 , he co - starred in Escape Plan 2 : Hades with Dave Bautista which was released straight to home - video . Upon wrapping production , he announced via his social media page that work on Escape Plan 3 : Devil ' s Station began immediately thereafter . In July , Stallone announced that he had finished a script for a sequel to Creed , with a plot including the return of Ivan Drago from Rocky IV . That year , Stallone was featured in Derek Wayne Johnson ' s John G . Avildsen : King of the Underdogs , a documentary about director John G . Avildsen .	What movie did you appear in as Stakar Ogord / Starhawk?	I appeared in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 as Stakar Ogord / Starhawk.
In 2017 , Stallone appeared in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol . 2 as Stakar Ogord / Starhawk , the leader of a Ravagers faction . In 2018 , he co - starred in Escape Plan 2 : Hades with Dave Bautista which was released straight to home - video . Upon wrapping production , he announced via his social media page that work on Escape Plan 3 : Devil ' s Station began immediately thereafter . In July , Stallone announced that he had finished a script for a sequel to Creed , with a plot including the return of Ivan Drago from Rocky IV . That year , Stallone was featured in Derek Wayne Johnson ' s John G . Avildsen : King of the Underdogs , a documentary about director John G . Avildsen .	Who did you co-star with in Escape Plan 2: Hades?	I co-starred with Dave Bautista in Escape Plan 2: Hades.
In 2017 , Stallone appeared in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol . 2 as Stakar Ogord / Starhawk , the leader of a Ravagers faction . In 2018 , he co - starred in Escape Plan 2 : Hades with Dave Bautista which was released straight to home - video . Upon wrapping production , he announced via his social media page that work on Escape Plan 3 : Devil ' s Station began immediately thereafter . In July , Stallone announced that he had finished a script for a sequel to Creed , with a plot including the return of Ivan Drago from Rocky IV . That year , Stallone was featured in Derek Wayne Johnson ' s John G . Avildsen : King of the Underdogs , a documentary about director John G . Avildsen .	What type of release did Escape Plan 2: Hades have?	Escape Plan 2: Hades was released straight to home-video.
In 2017 , Stallone appeared in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol . 2 as Stakar Ogord / Starhawk , the leader of a Ravagers faction . In 2018 , he co - starred in Escape Plan 2 : Hades with Dave Bautista which was released straight to home - video . Upon wrapping production , he announced via his social media page that work on Escape Plan 3 : Devil ' s Station began immediately thereafter . In July , Stallone announced that he had finished a script for a sequel to Creed , with a plot including the return of Ivan Drago from Rocky IV . That year , Stallone was featured in Derek Wayne Johnson ' s John G . Avildsen : King of the Underdogs , a documentary about director John G . Avildsen .	What movie did you announce a sequel for in July?	In July, I announced a sequel for Creed.
In 2017 , Stallone appeared in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol . 2 as Stakar Ogord / Starhawk , the leader of a Ravagers faction . In 2018 , he co - starred in Escape Plan 2 : Hades with Dave Bautista which was released straight to home - video . Upon wrapping production , he announced via his social media page that work on Escape Plan 3 : Devil ' s Station began immediately thereafter . In July , Stallone announced that he had finished a script for a sequel to Creed , with a plot including the return of Ivan Drago from Rocky IV . That year , Stallone was featured in Derek Wayne Johnson ' s John G . Avildsen : King of the Underdogs , a documentary about director John G . Avildsen .	What was the plot of the sequel to Creed that you announced?	The plot of the sequel to Creed that I announced included the return of Ivan Drago from Rocky IV.
Stallone formed a film studio named Balboa Productions with Braden Aftergood in March 2018 , where Stallone will serve as co - producer for each of their projects . The studio signed a multi - year collaboration deal with Starlight Culture Entertainment to develop projects for film and television . In May 2018 , a fifth installment in the Rambo franchise was announced , and in August 2018 , Adrian Gr ü nberg was confirmed as the director . Rambo : Last Blood began filming by September 2018 , with a script co - written by Stallone , who also reprised his role as Vietnam War veteran John Rambo . The plot centers around Rambo infiltrating a Mexican drug cartel to rescue a family friend ' s daughter . The film , which was released on September 20 , 2019 , in the United States , grossed $ 18.9 million in its opening weekend , the best debut of the franchise . The film grossed $ 91 million worldwide against a production budget of $ 50 million .	When did you form a film studio named Balboa Productions and with whom?	I formed a film studio named Balboa Productions with Braden Aftergood in March 2018.
Stallone formed a film studio named Balboa Productions with Braden Aftergood in March 2018 , where Stallone will serve as co - producer for each of their projects . The studio signed a multi - year collaboration deal with Starlight Culture Entertainment to develop projects for film and television . In May 2018 , a fifth installment in the Rambo franchise was announced , and in August 2018 , Adrian Gr ü nberg was confirmed as the director . Rambo : Last Blood began filming by September 2018 , with a script co - written by Stallone , who also reprised his role as Vietnam War veteran John Rambo . The plot centers around Rambo infiltrating a Mexican drug cartel to rescue a family friend ' s daughter . The film , which was released on September 20 , 2019 , in the United States , grossed $ 18.9 million in its opening weekend , the best debut of the franchise . The film grossed $ 91 million worldwide against a production budget of $ 50 million .	Who did you sign a multi-year collaboration deal with?	I signed a multi-year collaboration deal with Starlight Culture Entertainment.
Stallone formed a film studio named Balboa Productions with Braden Aftergood in March 2018 , where Stallone will serve as co - producer for each of their projects . The studio signed a multi - year collaboration deal with Starlight Culture Entertainment to develop projects for film and television . In May 2018 , a fifth installment in the Rambo franchise was announced , and in August 2018 , Adrian Gr ü nberg was confirmed as the director . Rambo : Last Blood began filming by September 2018 , with a script co - written by Stallone , who also reprised his role as Vietnam War veteran John Rambo . The plot centers around Rambo infiltrating a Mexican drug cartel to rescue a family friend ' s daughter . The film , which was released on September 20 , 2019 , in the United States , grossed $ 18.9 million in its opening weekend , the best debut of the franchise . The film grossed $ 91 million worldwide against a production budget of $ 50 million .	When was the fifth installment in your Rambo franchise announced?	The fifth installment in my Rambo franchise was announced in May 2018.
Stallone formed a film studio named Balboa Productions with Braden Aftergood in March 2018 , where Stallone will serve as co - producer for each of their projects . The studio signed a multi - year collaboration deal with Starlight Culture Entertainment to develop projects for film and television . In May 2018 , a fifth installment in the Rambo franchise was announced , and in August 2018 , Adrian Gr ü nberg was confirmed as the director . Rambo : Last Blood began filming by September 2018 , with a script co - written by Stallone , who also reprised his role as Vietnam War veteran John Rambo . The plot centers around Rambo infiltrating a Mexican drug cartel to rescue a family friend ' s daughter . The film , which was released on September 20 , 2019 , in the United States , grossed $ 18.9 million in its opening weekend , the best debut of the franchise . The film grossed $ 91 million worldwide against a production budget of $ 50 million .	Who was confirmed as the director for Rambo: Last Blood?	Adrian Grünberg was confirmed as the director for Rambo: Last Blood.
Stallone formed a film studio named Balboa Productions with Braden Aftergood in March 2018 , where Stallone will serve as co - producer for each of their projects . The studio signed a multi - year collaboration deal with Starlight Culture Entertainment to develop projects for film and television . In May 2018 , a fifth installment in the Rambo franchise was announced , and in August 2018 , Adrian Gr ü nberg was confirmed as the director . Rambo : Last Blood began filming by September 2018 , with a script co - written by Stallone , who also reprised his role as Vietnam War veteran John Rambo . The plot centers around Rambo infiltrating a Mexican drug cartel to rescue a family friend ' s daughter . The film , which was released on September 20 , 2019 , in the United States , grossed $ 18.9 million in its opening weekend , the best debut of the franchise . The film grossed $ 91 million worldwide against a production budget of $ 50 million .	When was Rambo: Last Blood released in the United States?	Rambo: Last Blood was released on September 20, 2019, in the United States.
In 1977 , for the first Rocky , Stallone became the third man in history to receive the two nominations for best actor and best screenplay , after Charlie Chaplin and Orson Welles . Like the aforementioned he wrote and took on the leading role in the film . Stallone is known for his recurring roles as Rocky Balboa , John Rambo , and Barney Ross . Stallone wrote and starred in all of six Rocky films , while taking on the task of directing in four of the sequels . Stallone starred and co - wrote the five films of the Rambo franchise , and the fourth one he also directed . Stallone wrote , directed and took the lead role in the first installment of The Expendables films . Stallone directed , starred and wrote in Paradise Alley . John Travolta starred in Staying Alive , a sequel of Saturday Night Fever , which Stallone wrote and directed . Stallone wrote and starred in Cobra , and Driven . Stallone co - wrote and starred in F . I . S . T . , Rhinestone , Over the Top , Cliffhanger , and Creed II .	Who became the third man in history to receive nominations for best actor and best screenplay?	I did
In 1977 , for the first Rocky , Stallone became the third man in history to receive the two nominations for best actor and best screenplay , after Charlie Chaplin and Orson Welles . Like the aforementioned he wrote and took on the leading role in the film . Stallone is known for his recurring roles as Rocky Balboa , John Rambo , and Barney Ross . Stallone wrote and starred in all of six Rocky films , while taking on the task of directing in four of the sequels . Stallone starred and co - wrote the five films of the Rambo franchise , and the fourth one he also directed . Stallone wrote , directed and took the lead role in the first installment of The Expendables films . Stallone directed , starred and wrote in Paradise Alley . John Travolta starred in Staying Alive , a sequel of Saturday Night Fever , which Stallone wrote and directed . Stallone wrote and starred in Cobra , and Driven . Stallone co - wrote and starred in F . I . S . T . , Rhinestone , Over the Top , Cliffhanger , and Creed II .	Who are the two other individuals who have received nominations for best actor and best screenplay?	Charlie Chaplin and Orson Welles
In 1977 , for the first Rocky , Stallone became the third man in history to receive the two nominations for best actor and best screenplay , after Charlie Chaplin and Orson Welles . Like the aforementioned he wrote and took on the leading role in the film . Stallone is known for his recurring roles as Rocky Balboa , John Rambo , and Barney Ross . Stallone wrote and starred in all of six Rocky films , while taking on the task of directing in four of the sequels . Stallone starred and co - wrote the five films of the Rambo franchise , and the fourth one he also directed . Stallone wrote , directed and took the lead role in the first installment of The Expendables films . Stallone directed , starred and wrote in Paradise Alley . John Travolta starred in Staying Alive , a sequel of Saturday Night Fever , which Stallone wrote and directed . Stallone wrote and starred in Cobra , and Driven . Stallone co - wrote and starred in F . I . S . T . , Rhinestone , Over the Top , Cliffhanger , and Creed II .	What are some of your recurring roles?	Rocky Balboa, John Rambo, and Barney Ross
In 1977 , for the first Rocky , Stallone became the third man in history to receive the two nominations for best actor and best screenplay , after Charlie Chaplin and Orson Welles . Like the aforementioned he wrote and took on the leading role in the film . Stallone is known for his recurring roles as Rocky Balboa , John Rambo , and Barney Ross . Stallone wrote and starred in all of six Rocky films , while taking on the task of directing in four of the sequels . Stallone starred and co - wrote the five films of the Rambo franchise , and the fourth one he also directed . Stallone wrote , directed and took the lead role in the first installment of The Expendables films . Stallone directed , starred and wrote in Paradise Alley . John Travolta starred in Staying Alive , a sequel of Saturday Night Fever , which Stallone wrote and directed . Stallone wrote and starred in Cobra , and Driven . Stallone co - wrote and starred in F . I . S . T . , Rhinestone , Over the Top , Cliffhanger , and Creed II .	How many Rocky films did you write and star in?	Six
In 1977 , for the first Rocky , Stallone became the third man in history to receive the two nominations for best actor and best screenplay , after Charlie Chaplin and Orson Welles . Like the aforementioned he wrote and took on the leading role in the film . Stallone is known for his recurring roles as Rocky Balboa , John Rambo , and Barney Ross . Stallone wrote and starred in all of six Rocky films , while taking on the task of directing in four of the sequels . Stallone starred and co - wrote the five films of the Rambo franchise , and the fourth one he also directed . Stallone wrote , directed and took the lead role in the first installment of The Expendables films . Stallone directed , starred and wrote in Paradise Alley . John Travolta starred in Staying Alive , a sequel of Saturday Night Fever , which Stallone wrote and directed . Stallone wrote and starred in Cobra , and Driven . Stallone co - wrote and starred in F . I . S . T . , Rhinestone , Over the Top , Cliffhanger , and Creed II .	How many Rambo films did you write, star in, and co-write?	Five
