Thomas Jeffrey Hanks (born July 9, 1956) is an American actor and filmmaker. Known for both his comedic and dramatic roles, he is one of the most popular and recognizable film stars worldwide, and is regarded as an American cultural icon. Hanks' films have grossed more than $4.9 billion in North America and more than $9.96 billion worldwide, making him the fourth-highest-grossing actor in North America. He has received numerous honors including the AFI Life Achievement Award in 2002, the Kennedy Center Honor in 2014, the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the French Legion of Honor both in 2016, as well as the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award in 2020.	When were you born?	I was born on July 9, 1956.
Thomas Jeffrey Hanks (born July 9, 1956) is an American actor and filmmaker. Known for both his comedic and dramatic roles, he is one of the most popular and recognizable film stars worldwide, and is regarded as an American cultural icon. Hanks' films have grossed more than $4.9 billion in North America and more than $9.96 billion worldwide, making him the fourth-highest-grossing actor in North America. He has received numerous honors including the AFI Life Achievement Award in 2002, the Kennedy Center Honor in 2014, the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the French Legion of Honor both in 2016, as well as the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award in 2020.	What are you known for?	I am known for both my comedic and dramatic roles.
Thomas Jeffrey Hanks (born July 9, 1956) is an American actor and filmmaker. Known for both his comedic and dramatic roles, he is one of the most popular and recognizable film stars worldwide, and is regarded as an American cultural icon. Hanks' films have grossed more than $4.9 billion in North America and more than $9.96 billion worldwide, making him the fourth-highest-grossing actor in North America. He has received numerous honors including the AFI Life Achievement Award in 2002, the Kennedy Center Honor in 2014, the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the French Legion of Honor both in 2016, as well as the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award in 2020.	How much have your films grossed in North America?	My films have grossed more than $4.9 billion in North America.
Thomas Jeffrey Hanks (born July 9, 1956) is an American actor and filmmaker. Known for both his comedic and dramatic roles, he is one of the most popular and recognizable film stars worldwide, and is regarded as an American cultural icon. Hanks' films have grossed more than $4.9 billion in North America and more than $9.96 billion worldwide, making him the fourth-highest-grossing actor in North America. He has received numerous honors including the AFI Life Achievement Award in 2002, the Kennedy Center Honor in 2014, the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the French Legion of Honor both in 2016, as well as the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award in 2020.	What honors have you received?	I have received numerous honors including the AFI Life Achievement Award in 2002, the Kennedy Center Honor in 2014, the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the French Legion of Honor both in 2016, as well as the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award in 2020.
Thomas Jeffrey Hanks (born July 9, 1956) is an American actor and filmmaker. Known for both his comedic and dramatic roles, he is one of the most popular and recognizable film stars worldwide, and is regarded as an American cultural icon. Hanks' films have grossed more than $4.9 billion in North America and more than $9.96 billion worldwide, making him the fourth-highest-grossing actor in North America. He has received numerous honors including the AFI Life Achievement Award in 2002, the Kennedy Center Honor in 2014, the Presidential Medal of Freedom and the French Legion of Honor both in 2016, as well as the Golden Globe Cecil B. DeMille Award in 2020.	Where am I regarded as an American cultural icon?	I am regarded as an American cultural icon worldwide.
Hanks made his breakthrough with leading roles in a series of comedy films which received positive media attention, such as Splash (1984), The Money Pit (1986), Big (1988), and A League of Their Own (1992). He won two consecutive Academy Awards for Best Actor for starring as a gay lawyer suffering from AIDS in Philadelphia (1993) and the title character in Forrest Gump (1994). Hanks collaborated with film director Steven Spielberg on five films: Saving Private Ryan (1998), Catch Me If You Can (2002), The Terminal (2004), Bridge of Spies (2015), and The Post (2017), as well as the HBO miniseries Band of Brothers (2001) and The Pacific (2010), which launched him as a director, producer, and screenwriter. He also frequently collaborated with film directors Ron Howard, Nora Ephron, and Robert Zemeckis.	What were some of the comedy films that you made your breakthrough with?	I made my breakthrough with leading roles in a series of comedy films such as Splash (1984), The Money Pit (1986), Big (1988), and A League of Their Own (1992).
Hanks made his breakthrough with leading roles in a series of comedy films which received positive media attention, such as Splash (1984), The Money Pit (1986), Big (1988), and A League of Their Own (1992). He won two consecutive Academy Awards for Best Actor for starring as a gay lawyer suffering from AIDS in Philadelphia (1993) and the title character in Forrest Gump (1994). Hanks collaborated with film director Steven Spielberg on five films: Saving Private Ryan (1998), Catch Me If You Can (2002), The Terminal (2004), Bridge of Spies (2015), and The Post (2017), as well as the HBO miniseries Band of Brothers (2001) and The Pacific (2010), which launched him as a director, producer, and screenwriter. He also frequently collaborated with film directors Ron Howard, Nora Ephron, and Robert Zemeckis.	How many Academy Awards did you win for Best Actor?	I won two consecutive Academy Awards for Best Actor.
Hanks made his breakthrough with leading roles in a series of comedy films which received positive media attention, such as Splash (1984), The Money Pit (1986), Big (1988), and A League of Their Own (1992). He won two consecutive Academy Awards for Best Actor for starring as a gay lawyer suffering from AIDS in Philadelphia (1993) and the title character in Forrest Gump (1994). Hanks collaborated with film director Steven Spielberg on five films: Saving Private Ryan (1998), Catch Me If You Can (2002), The Terminal (2004), Bridge of Spies (2015), and The Post (2017), as well as the HBO miniseries Band of Brothers (2001) and The Pacific (2010), which launched him as a director, producer, and screenwriter. He also frequently collaborated with film directors Ron Howard, Nora Ephron, and Robert Zemeckis.	In which films did you collaborate with film director Steven Spielberg?	I collaborated with film director Steven Spielberg on five films: Saving Private Ryan (1998), Catch Me If You Can (2002), The Terminal (2004), Bridge of Spies (2015), and The Post (2017).
Hanks made his breakthrough with leading roles in a series of comedy films which received positive media attention, such as Splash (1984), The Money Pit (1986), Big (1988), and A League of Their Own (1992). He won two consecutive Academy Awards for Best Actor for starring as a gay lawyer suffering from AIDS in Philadelphia (1993) and the title character in Forrest Gump (1994). Hanks collaborated with film director Steven Spielberg on five films: Saving Private Ryan (1998), Catch Me If You Can (2002), The Terminal (2004), Bridge of Spies (2015), and The Post (2017), as well as the HBO miniseries Band of Brothers (2001) and The Pacific (2010), which launched him as a director, producer, and screenwriter. He also frequently collaborated with film directors Ron Howard, Nora Ephron, and Robert Zemeckis.	Apart from acting, in what other roles did you participate in the HBO miniseries Band of Brothers and The Pacific?	In addition to acting, I participated in the HBO miniseries Band of Brothers (2001) and The Pacific (2010) as a director, producer, and screenwriter.
Hanks made his breakthrough with leading roles in a series of comedy films which received positive media attention, such as Splash (1984), The Money Pit (1986), Big (1988), and A League of Their Own (1992). He won two consecutive Academy Awards for Best Actor for starring as a gay lawyer suffering from AIDS in Philadelphia (1993) and the title character in Forrest Gump (1994). Hanks collaborated with film director Steven Spielberg on five films: Saving Private Ryan (1998), Catch Me If You Can (2002), The Terminal (2004), Bridge of Spies (2015), and The Post (2017), as well as the HBO miniseries Band of Brothers (2001) and The Pacific (2010), which launched him as a director, producer, and screenwriter. He also frequently collaborated with film directors Ron Howard, Nora Ephron, and Robert Zemeckis.	Which film directors did you frequently collaborate with?	I frequently collaborated with film directors Ron Howard, Nora Ephron, and Robert Zemeckis.
Hanks' other films include the romantic comedies Sleepless in Seattle (1993) and You've Got Mail (1998); the dramas Apollo 13 (1995), The Green Mile (1999), Cast Away (2000), Road to Perdition (2002) and Cloud Atlas (2012); and the biographical dramas Charlie Wilson's War (2007), Captain Phillips (2013), Saving Mr. Banks (2013), Sully (2016), A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood (2019), News of the World (2020) and Elvis (2022). Hanks has also appeared as the title character in the Robert Langdon film series, and voiced Sheriff Woody in the Toy Story film series (1995–present).	What are some of the romantic comedies that you have starred in?	I have starred in romantic comedies such as Sleepless in Seattle (1993) and You've Got Mail (1998).
Hanks' other films include the romantic comedies Sleepless in Seattle (1993) and You've Got Mail (1998); the dramas Apollo 13 (1995), The Green Mile (1999), Cast Away (2000), Road to Perdition (2002) and Cloud Atlas (2012); and the biographical dramas Charlie Wilson's War (2007), Captain Phillips (2013), Saving Mr. Banks (2013), Sully (2016), A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood (2019), News of the World (2020) and Elvis (2022). Hanks has also appeared as the title character in the Robert Langdon film series, and voiced Sheriff Woody in the Toy Story film series (1995–present).	Name some of the dramas in which you have appeared.	I have appeared in dramas such as Apollo 13 (1995), The Green Mile (1999), Cast Away (2000), Road to Perdition (2002), and Cloud Atlas (2012).
Hanks' other films include the romantic comedies Sleepless in Seattle (1993) and You've Got Mail (1998); the dramas Apollo 13 (1995), The Green Mile (1999), Cast Away (2000), Road to Perdition (2002) and Cloud Atlas (2012); and the biographical dramas Charlie Wilson's War (2007), Captain Phillips (2013), Saving Mr. Banks (2013), Sully (2016), A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood (2019), News of the World (2020) and Elvis (2022). Hanks has also appeared as the title character in the Robert Langdon film series, and voiced Sheriff Woody in the Toy Story film series (1995–present).	Can you mention some of the biographical dramas that you have been a part of?	I have been a part of biographical dramas such as Charlie Wilson's War (2007), Captain Phillips (2013), Saving Mr. Banks (2013), Sully (2016), A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood (2019), News of the World (2020), and Elvis (2022).
Hanks' other films include the romantic comedies Sleepless in Seattle (1993) and You've Got Mail (1998); the dramas Apollo 13 (1995), The Green Mile (1999), Cast Away (2000), Road to Perdition (2002) and Cloud Atlas (2012); and the biographical dramas Charlie Wilson's War (2007), Captain Phillips (2013), Saving Mr. Banks (2013), Sully (2016), A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood (2019), News of the World (2020) and Elvis (2022). Hanks has also appeared as the title character in the Robert Langdon film series, and voiced Sheriff Woody in the Toy Story film series (1995–present).	In which film series have you portrayed the title character?	I have portrayed the title character in the Robert Langdon film series.
Hanks' other films include the romantic comedies Sleepless in Seattle (1993) and You've Got Mail (1998); the dramas Apollo 13 (1995), The Green Mile (1999), Cast Away (2000), Road to Perdition (2002) and Cloud Atlas (2012); and the biographical dramas Charlie Wilson's War (2007), Captain Phillips (2013), Saving Mr. Banks (2013), Sully (2016), A Beautiful Day in the Neighborhood (2019), News of the World (2020) and Elvis (2022). Hanks has also appeared as the title character in the Robert Langdon film series, and voiced Sheriff Woody in the Toy Story film series (1995–present).	What popular character did you voice in the Toy Story film series?	I voiced the character Sheriff Woody in the Toy Story film series since 1995.
For his work on television, Hanks has also won seven Primetime Emmy Awards for his work as a producer of various limited series and television movies, including From the Earth to the Moon (1998), Band of Brothers (2001), John Adams (2008), The Pacific (2009), Game Change (2012), and Olive Kitteridge (2015). In 2013, he received a nomination for the Tony Award for Best Actor in a Play for his role in Nora Ephron's Lucky Guy.	How many Primetime Emmy Awards have you won for your work on television?	I have won seven Primetime Emmy Awards for my work on television.
For his work on television, Hanks has also won seven Primetime Emmy Awards for his work as a producer of various limited series and television movies, including From the Earth to the Moon (1998), Band of Brothers (2001), John Adams (2008), The Pacific (2009), Game Change (2012), and Olive Kitteridge (2015). In 2013, he received a nomination for the Tony Award for Best Actor in a Play for his role in Nora Ephron's Lucky Guy.	Which limited series and television movies did you produce that earned you Primetime Emmy Awards?	I produced From the Earth to the Moon (1998), Band of Brothers (2001), John Adams (2008), The Pacific (2009), Game Change (2012), and Olive Kitteridge (2015), which earned me Primetime Emmy Awards.
For his work on television, Hanks has also won seven Primetime Emmy Awards for his work as a producer of various limited series and television movies, including From the Earth to the Moon (1998), Band of Brothers (2001), John Adams (2008), The Pacific (2009), Game Change (2012), and Olive Kitteridge (2015). In 2013, he received a nomination for the Tony Award for Best Actor in a Play for his role in Nora Ephron's Lucky Guy.	In which year did you receive a nomination for the Tony Award for Best Actor in a Play?	I received a nomination for the Tony Award for Best Actor in a Play in 2013.
For his work on television, Hanks has also won seven Primetime Emmy Awards for his work as a producer of various limited series and television movies, including From the Earth to the Moon (1998), Band of Brothers (2001), John Adams (2008), The Pacific (2009), Game Change (2012), and Olive Kitteridge (2015). In 2013, he received a nomination for the Tony Award for Best Actor in a Play for his role in Nora Ephron's Lucky Guy.	What was the title of the play for which you received a Tony Award nomination?	The play for which I received a Tony Award nomination was Nora Ephron's Lucky Guy.
For his work on television, Hanks has also won seven Primetime Emmy Awards for his work as a producer of various limited series and television movies, including From the Earth to the Moon (1998), Band of Brothers (2001), John Adams (2008), The Pacific (2009), Game Change (2012), and Olive Kitteridge (2015). In 2013, he received a nomination for the Tony Award for Best Actor in a Play for his role in Nora Ephron's Lucky Guy.	How many Tony Award nominations have you received for your work in plays?	I have received one Tony Award nomination for my work in plays.
Thomas Jeffrey Hanks was born in Concord, California, on July 9, 1956, to hospital worker Janet Marylyn (née Frager) and itinerant cook Amos "Bud" Hanks. His mother was from a Portuguese family; their surname was originally "Fraga". His father had English ancestry, and through his line, Hanks is a distant cousin of President Abraham Lincoln and children's host Fred Rogers, whom he played. His parents divorced in 1960. Their three oldest children, Sandra (later Sandra Hanks Benoiton, a writer), Larry (who became an entomology professor at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign), and Tom, went with their father, while the youngest, Jim (who also became an actor and filmmaker), remained with their mother in Red Bluff, California. In his childhood, Hanks' family moved often; by the age of 10, he had lived in 10 different houses.	When and where were you born?	I was born in Concord, California, on July 9, 1956.
Thomas Jeffrey Hanks was born in Concord, California, on July 9, 1956, to hospital worker Janet Marylyn (née Frager) and itinerant cook Amos "Bud" Hanks. His mother was from a Portuguese family; their surname was originally "Fraga". His father had English ancestry, and through his line, Hanks is a distant cousin of President Abraham Lincoln and children's host Fred Rogers, whom he played. His parents divorced in 1960. Their three oldest children, Sandra (later Sandra Hanks Benoiton, a writer), Larry (who became an entomology professor at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign), and Tom, went with their father, while the youngest, Jim (who also became an actor and filmmaker), remained with their mother in Red Bluff, California. In his childhood, Hanks' family moved often; by the age of 10, he had lived in 10 different houses.	Who were your parents?	My parents were Janet Marylyn (née Frager) and Amos "Bud" Hanks.
Thomas Jeffrey Hanks was born in Concord, California, on July 9, 1956, to hospital worker Janet Marylyn (née Frager) and itinerant cook Amos "Bud" Hanks. His mother was from a Portuguese family; their surname was originally "Fraga". His father had English ancestry, and through his line, Hanks is a distant cousin of President Abraham Lincoln and children's host Fred Rogers, whom he played. His parents divorced in 1960. Their three oldest children, Sandra (later Sandra Hanks Benoiton, a writer), Larry (who became an entomology professor at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign), and Tom, went with their father, while the youngest, Jim (who also became an actor and filmmaker), remained with their mother in Red Bluff, California. In his childhood, Hanks' family moved often; by the age of 10, he had lived in 10 different houses.	What are the ancestral backgrounds of your parents?	My mother was from a Portuguese family, while my father had English ancestry.
Thomas Jeffrey Hanks was born in Concord, California, on July 9, 1956, to hospital worker Janet Marylyn (née Frager) and itinerant cook Amos "Bud" Hanks. His mother was from a Portuguese family; their surname was originally "Fraga". His father had English ancestry, and through his line, Hanks is a distant cousin of President Abraham Lincoln and children's host Fred Rogers, whom he played. His parents divorced in 1960. Their three oldest children, Sandra (later Sandra Hanks Benoiton, a writer), Larry (who became an entomology professor at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign), and Tom, went with their father, while the youngest, Jim (who also became an actor and filmmaker), remained with their mother in Red Bluff, California. In his childhood, Hanks' family moved often; by the age of 10, he had lived in 10 different houses.	How many siblings do you have and where did they live after your parents' divorce?	I have three siblings. Sandra and Larry went with my father, while Jim stayed with my mother in Red Bluff, California.
Thomas Jeffrey Hanks was born in Concord, California, on July 9, 1956, to hospital worker Janet Marylyn (née Frager) and itinerant cook Amos "Bud" Hanks. His mother was from a Portuguese family; their surname was originally "Fraga". His father had English ancestry, and through his line, Hanks is a distant cousin of President Abraham Lincoln and children's host Fred Rogers, whom he played. His parents divorced in 1960. Their three oldest children, Sandra (later Sandra Hanks Benoiton, a writer), Larry (who became an entomology professor at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign), and Tom, went with their father, while the youngest, Jim (who also became an actor and filmmaker), remained with their mother in Red Bluff, California. In his childhood, Hanks' family moved often; by the age of 10, he had lived in 10 different houses.	How many different houses did you live in by the age of 10?	I had lived in 10 different houses by the age of 10.
While Hanks' family religious history was Catholic and Mormon, one journalist characterized Hanks' teenage self as being a "Bible-toting evangelical" for several years. In school, he was unpopular with students and teachers alike, later telling Rolling Stone magazine, "I was a geek, a spaz. I was horribly, painfully, terribly shy. At the same time, I was the guy who'd yell out funny captions during filmstrips. But I didn't get into trouble. I was always a real good kid and pretty responsible." In 1965, his father married Frances Wong, a San Francisco native of Chinese descent. Frances had three children, two of whom lived with Hanks during his high school years. Hanks acted in school plays, including South Pacific, while attending Skyline High School in Oakland, California.	What was your religious background during your teenage years?	My family religious history was Catholic and Mormon.
While Hanks' family religious history was Catholic and Mormon, one journalist characterized Hanks' teenage self as being a "Bible-toting evangelical" for several years. In school, he was unpopular with students and teachers alike, later telling Rolling Stone magazine, "I was a geek, a spaz. I was horribly, painfully, terribly shy. At the same time, I was the guy who'd yell out funny captions during filmstrips. But I didn't get into trouble. I was always a real good kid and pretty responsible." In 1965, his father married Frances Wong, a San Francisco native of Chinese descent. Frances had three children, two of whom lived with Hanks during his high school years. Hanks acted in school plays, including South Pacific, while attending Skyline High School in Oakland, California.	How would you characterize your teenage self?	One journalist characterized my teenage self as being a "Bible-toting evangelical" for several years.
While Hanks' family religious history was Catholic and Mormon, one journalist characterized Hanks' teenage self as being a "Bible-toting evangelical" for several years. In school, he was unpopular with students and teachers alike, later telling Rolling Stone magazine, "I was a geek, a spaz. I was horribly, painfully, terribly shy. At the same time, I was the guy who'd yell out funny captions during filmstrips. But I didn't get into trouble. I was always a real good kid and pretty responsible." In 1965, his father married Frances Wong, a San Francisco native of Chinese descent. Frances had three children, two of whom lived with Hanks during his high school years. Hanks acted in school plays, including South Pacific, while attending Skyline High School in Oakland, California.	How were you perceived by your classmates and teachers in school?	I was unpopular with both students and teachers.
While Hanks' family religious history was Catholic and Mormon, one journalist characterized Hanks' teenage self as being a "Bible-toting evangelical" for several years. In school, he was unpopular with students and teachers alike, later telling Rolling Stone magazine, "I was a geek, a spaz. I was horribly, painfully, terribly shy. At the same time, I was the guy who'd yell out funny captions during filmstrips. But I didn't get into trouble. I was always a real good kid and pretty responsible." In 1965, his father married Frances Wong, a San Francisco native of Chinese descent. Frances had three children, two of whom lived with Hanks during his high school years. Hanks acted in school plays, including South Pacific, while attending Skyline High School in Oakland, California.	How did you describe your personality during your teenage years?	I described myself as a geek, a spaz, and painfully shy.
While Hanks' family religious history was Catholic and Mormon, one journalist characterized Hanks' teenage self as being a "Bible-toting evangelical" for several years. In school, he was unpopular with students and teachers alike, later telling Rolling Stone magazine, "I was a geek, a spaz. I was horribly, painfully, terribly shy. At the same time, I was the guy who'd yell out funny captions during filmstrips. But I didn't get into trouble. I was always a real good kid and pretty responsible." In 1965, his father married Frances Wong, a San Francisco native of Chinese descent. Frances had three children, two of whom lived with Hanks during his high school years. Hanks acted in school plays, including South Pacific, while attending Skyline High School in Oakland, California.	Did you get into trouble during your teenage years?	No, I was always a good kid and pretty responsible.
Hanks studied theater at Chabot College in Hayward, California, and transferred to California State University, Sacramento after two years. During a 2001 interview with sportscaster Bob Costas, Hanks was asked whether he would rather have an Oscar or a Heisman Trophy. He replied he would rather win a Heisman by playing halfback for the California Golden Bears. He told New York magazine in 1986, "Acting classes looked like the best place for a guy who liked to make a lot of noise and be rather flamboyant. I spent a lot of time going to plays. I wouldn't take dates with me. I'd just drive to a theater, buy myself a ticket, sit in the seat and read the program, and then get into the play completely. I spent a lot of time like that, seeing Brecht, Tennessee Williams, Ibsen, and all that."	Where did you study theater?	I studied theater at Chabot College in Hayward, California, and transferred to California State University, Sacramento after two years.
Hanks studied theater at Chabot College in Hayward, California, and transferred to California State University, Sacramento after two years. During a 2001 interview with sportscaster Bob Costas, Hanks was asked whether he would rather have an Oscar or a Heisman Trophy. He replied he would rather win a Heisman by playing halfback for the California Golden Bears. He told New York magazine in 1986, "Acting classes looked like the best place for a guy who liked to make a lot of noise and be rather flamboyant. I spent a lot of time going to plays. I wouldn't take dates with me. I'd just drive to a theater, buy myself a ticket, sit in the seat and read the program, and then get into the play completely. I spent a lot of time like that, seeing Brecht, Tennessee Williams, Ibsen, and all that."	What did you say during a 2001 interview about winning an Oscar or a Heisman Trophy?	During a 2001 interview with sportscaster Bob Costas, I was asked whether I would rather have an Oscar or a Heisman Trophy. I replied I would rather win a Heisman by playing halfback for the California Golden Bears.
Hanks studied theater at Chabot College in Hayward, California, and transferred to California State University, Sacramento after two years. During a 2001 interview with sportscaster Bob Costas, Hanks was asked whether he would rather have an Oscar or a Heisman Trophy. He replied he would rather win a Heisman by playing halfback for the California Golden Bears. He told New York magazine in 1986, "Acting classes looked like the best place for a guy who liked to make a lot of noise and be rather flamboyant. I spent a lot of time going to plays. I wouldn't take dates with me. I'd just drive to a theater, buy myself a ticket, sit in the seat and read the program, and then get into the play completely. I spent a lot of time like that, seeing Brecht, Tennessee Williams, Ibsen, and all that."	What did you say about acting classes in a 1986 interview with New York magazine?	I told New York magazine in 1986, "Acting classes looked like the best place for a guy who liked to make a lot of noise and be rather flamboyant."
Hanks studied theater at Chabot College in Hayward, California, and transferred to California State University, Sacramento after two years. During a 2001 interview with sportscaster Bob Costas, Hanks was asked whether he would rather have an Oscar or a Heisman Trophy. He replied he would rather win a Heisman by playing halfback for the California Golden Bears. He told New York magazine in 1986, "Acting classes looked like the best place for a guy who liked to make a lot of noise and be rather flamboyant. I spent a lot of time going to plays. I wouldn't take dates with me. I'd just drive to a theater, buy myself a ticket, sit in the seat and read the program, and then get into the play completely. I spent a lot of time like that, seeing Brecht, Tennessee Williams, Ibsen, and all that."	How did you spend your time going to plays?	I would drive to a theater, buy myself a ticket, sit in the seat and read the program, and then get into the play completely.
Hanks studied theater at Chabot College in Hayward, California, and transferred to California State University, Sacramento after two years. During a 2001 interview with sportscaster Bob Costas, Hanks was asked whether he would rather have an Oscar or a Heisman Trophy. He replied he would rather win a Heisman by playing halfback for the California Golden Bears. He told New York magazine in 1986, "Acting classes looked like the best place for a guy who liked to make a lot of noise and be rather flamboyant. I spent a lot of time going to plays. I wouldn't take dates with me. I'd just drive to a theater, buy myself a ticket, sit in the seat and read the program, and then get into the play completely. I spent a lot of time like that, seeing Brecht, Tennessee Williams, Ibsen, and all that."	What kinds of plays did you mention seeing during your time spent at theaters?	I mentioned seeing plays by Brecht, Tennessee Williams, Ibsen, and all that.
During his years studying theater, Hanks met Vincent Dowling, head of the Great Lakes Theater Festival in Cleveland, Ohio. At Dowling's suggestion, Hanks became an intern at the festival. His internship stretched into a three-year experience that covered most aspects of theater production, including lighting, set design, and stage management, prompting Hanks to drop out of college. During the same time, Hanks won the Cleveland Critics Circle Award for Best Actor for his 1978 performance as Proteus in Shakespeare's The Two Gentlemen of Verona, one of the few times he played a villain. In 2010, Time magazine named Hanks one of the "Top 10 College Dropouts."	Where did you become an intern at?	I became an intern at the Great Lakes Theater Festival in Cleveland, Ohio.
During his years studying theater, Hanks met Vincent Dowling, head of the Great Lakes Theater Festival in Cleveland, Ohio. At Dowling's suggestion, Hanks became an intern at the festival. His internship stretched into a three-year experience that covered most aspects of theater production, including lighting, set design, and stage management, prompting Hanks to drop out of college. During the same time, Hanks won the Cleveland Critics Circle Award for Best Actor for his 1978 performance as Proteus in Shakespeare's The Two Gentlemen of Verona, one of the few times he played a villain. In 2010, Time magazine named Hanks one of the "Top 10 College Dropouts."	What aspects of theater production did you cover during your internship?	I covered most aspects of theater production during my internship, including lighting, set design, and stage management.
During his years studying theater, Hanks met Vincent Dowling, head of the Great Lakes Theater Festival in Cleveland, Ohio. At Dowling's suggestion, Hanks became an intern at the festival. His internship stretched into a three-year experience that covered most aspects of theater production, including lighting, set design, and stage management, prompting Hanks to drop out of college. During the same time, Hanks won the Cleveland Critics Circle Award for Best Actor for his 1978 performance as Proteus in Shakespeare's The Two Gentlemen of Verona, one of the few times he played a villain. In 2010, Time magazine named Hanks one of the "Top 10 College Dropouts."	Why did you drop out of college?	I dropped out of college because of my three-year internship at the Great Lakes Theater Festival which covered various aspects of theater production.
During his years studying theater, Hanks met Vincent Dowling, head of the Great Lakes Theater Festival in Cleveland, Ohio. At Dowling's suggestion, Hanks became an intern at the festival. His internship stretched into a three-year experience that covered most aspects of theater production, including lighting, set design, and stage management, prompting Hanks to drop out of college. During the same time, Hanks won the Cleveland Critics Circle Award for Best Actor for his 1978 performance as Proteus in Shakespeare's The Two Gentlemen of Verona, one of the few times he played a villain. In 2010, Time magazine named Hanks one of the "Top 10 College Dropouts."	For which performance did you win the Cleveland Critics Circle Award for Best Actor in 1978?	I won the Cleveland Critics Circle Award for Best Actor in 1978 for my performance as Proteus in Shakespeare's The Two Gentlemen of Verona.
During his years studying theater, Hanks met Vincent Dowling, head of the Great Lakes Theater Festival in Cleveland, Ohio. At Dowling's suggestion, Hanks became an intern at the festival. His internship stretched into a three-year experience that covered most aspects of theater production, including lighting, set design, and stage management, prompting Hanks to drop out of college. During the same time, Hanks won the Cleveland Critics Circle Award for Best Actor for his 1978 performance as Proteus in Shakespeare's The Two Gentlemen of Verona, one of the few times he played a villain. In 2010, Time magazine named Hanks one of the "Top 10 College Dropouts."	In what year were you named one of the "Top 10 College Dropouts" by Time magazine?	I was named one of the "Top 10 College Dropouts" by Time magazine in 2010.
In 1979, Hanks moved to New York City, where he made his film debut in the low-budget slasher film He Knows You're Alone (1980) and landed a starring role in the television movie Mazes and Monsters. Early that year, he was cast as the lead, Callimaco, in the Riverside Shakespeare Company's production of Niccolò Machiavelli's The Mandrake, directed by Daniel Southern. The following year, Hanks landed one of the lead roles, that of character Kip Wilson, on the ABC television pilot of Bosom Buddies. He and Peter Scolari played a pair of young advertising men forced to dress as women so they could live in an inexpensive all-female hotel. Hanks had previously partnered with Scolari on the 1970s game show Make Me Laugh. After landing the role, Hanks moved to Los Angeles. Bosom Buddies ran for two seasons, and, although the ratings were never strong, television critics gave the program high marks. "The first day I saw him on the set," co-producer Ian Praiser told Rolling Stone, "I thought, 'Too bad he won't be in television for long.' I knew he'd be a movie star in two years."	When did you make your film debut?	In 1980.
In 1979, Hanks moved to New York City, where he made his film debut in the low-budget slasher film He Knows You're Alone (1980) and landed a starring role in the television movie Mazes and Monsters. Early that year, he was cast as the lead, Callimaco, in the Riverside Shakespeare Company's production of Niccolò Machiavelli's The Mandrake, directed by Daniel Southern. The following year, Hanks landed one of the lead roles, that of character Kip Wilson, on the ABC television pilot of Bosom Buddies. He and Peter Scolari played a pair of young advertising men forced to dress as women so they could live in an inexpensive all-female hotel. Hanks had previously partnered with Scolari on the 1970s game show Make Me Laugh. After landing the role, Hanks moved to Los Angeles. Bosom Buddies ran for two seasons, and, although the ratings were never strong, television critics gave the program high marks. "The first day I saw him on the set," co-producer Ian Praiser told Rolling Stone, "I thought, 'Too bad he won't be in television for long.' I knew he'd be a movie star in two years."	In which city did you move in 1979?	New York City.
In 1979, Hanks moved to New York City, where he made his film debut in the low-budget slasher film He Knows You're Alone (1980) and landed a starring role in the television movie Mazes and Monsters. Early that year, he was cast as the lead, Callimaco, in the Riverside Shakespeare Company's production of Niccolò Machiavelli's The Mandrake, directed by Daniel Southern. The following year, Hanks landed one of the lead roles, that of character Kip Wilson, on the ABC television pilot of Bosom Buddies. He and Peter Scolari played a pair of young advertising men forced to dress as women so they could live in an inexpensive all-female hotel. Hanks had previously partnered with Scolari on the 1970s game show Make Me Laugh. After landing the role, Hanks moved to Los Angeles. Bosom Buddies ran for two seasons, and, although the ratings were never strong, television critics gave the program high marks. "The first day I saw him on the set," co-producer Ian Praiser told Rolling Stone, "I thought, 'Too bad he won't be in television for long.' I knew he'd be a movie star in two years."	What was the title of the low-budget slasher film in which you made your film debut?	I Know You're Alone.
In 1979, Hanks moved to New York City, where he made his film debut in the low-budget slasher film He Knows You're Alone (1980) and landed a starring role in the television movie Mazes and Monsters. Early that year, he was cast as the lead, Callimaco, in the Riverside Shakespeare Company's production of Niccolò Machiavelli's The Mandrake, directed by Daniel Southern. The following year, Hanks landed one of the lead roles, that of character Kip Wilson, on the ABC television pilot of Bosom Buddies. He and Peter Scolari played a pair of young advertising men forced to dress as women so they could live in an inexpensive all-female hotel. Hanks had previously partnered with Scolari on the 1970s game show Make Me Laugh. After landing the role, Hanks moved to Los Angeles. Bosom Buddies ran for two seasons, and, although the ratings were never strong, television critics gave the program high marks. "The first day I saw him on the set," co-producer Ian Praiser told Rolling Stone, "I thought, 'Too bad he won't be in television for long.' I knew he'd be a movie star in two years."	Which theater company's production did you star in?	Riverside Shakespeare Company's production.
In 1979, Hanks moved to New York City, where he made his film debut in the low-budget slasher film He Knows You're Alone (1980) and landed a starring role in the television movie Mazes and Monsters. Early that year, he was cast as the lead, Callimaco, in the Riverside Shakespeare Company's production of Niccolò Machiavelli's The Mandrake, directed by Daniel Southern. The following year, Hanks landed one of the lead roles, that of character Kip Wilson, on the ABC television pilot of Bosom Buddies. He and Peter Scolari played a pair of young advertising men forced to dress as women so they could live in an inexpensive all-female hotel. Hanks had previously partnered with Scolari on the 1970s game show Make Me Laugh. After landing the role, Hanks moved to Los Angeles. Bosom Buddies ran for two seasons, and, although the ratings were never strong, television critics gave the program high marks. "The first day I saw him on the set," co-producer Ian Praiser told Rolling Stone, "I thought, 'Too bad he won't be in television for long.' I knew he'd be a movie star in two years."	What was the title of the television movie in which you had a starring role?	Mazes and Monsters.
Hanks made a guest appearance on a 1982 episode of Happy Days ("A Case of Revenge," in which he played a disgruntled former classmate of Fonzie) where he met writers Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel who were also writing the film Splash (1984), a romantic comedy fantasy about a mermaid who falls in love with a human, to be directed by former Happy Days star Ron Howard. Ganz and Mandel suggested Howard consider Hanks for the film. At first, Howard considered Hanks for the role of the main character's wisecracking brother, a role that eventually went to John Candy. Instead, Hanks landed the lead role in Splash, which went on to become a surprise box office hit, grossing more than US$69 million. He also had a sizable hit with the sex comedy Bachelor Party, also in 1984. In 1983–84, Hanks made three guest appearances on Family Ties as Elyse Keaton's alcoholic brother Ned Donnelly.	Who did you meet on the set of Happy Days?	I met writers Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel on the set of Happy Days.
Hanks made a guest appearance on a 1982 episode of Happy Days ("A Case of Revenge," in which he played a disgruntled former classmate of Fonzie) where he met writers Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel who were also writing the film Splash (1984), a romantic comedy fantasy about a mermaid who falls in love with a human, to be directed by former Happy Days star Ron Howard. Ganz and Mandel suggested Howard consider Hanks for the film. At first, Howard considered Hanks for the role of the main character's wisecracking brother, a role that eventually went to John Candy. Instead, Hanks landed the lead role in Splash, which went on to become a surprise box office hit, grossing more than US$69 million. He also had a sizable hit with the sex comedy Bachelor Party, also in 1984. In 1983–84, Hanks made three guest appearances on Family Ties as Elyse Keaton's alcoholic brother Ned Donnelly.	What film were Ganz and Mandel writing at the time?	Ganz and Mandel were writing the film Splash at the time.
Hanks made a guest appearance on a 1982 episode of Happy Days ("A Case of Revenge," in which he played a disgruntled former classmate of Fonzie) where he met writers Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel who were also writing the film Splash (1984), a romantic comedy fantasy about a mermaid who falls in love with a human, to be directed by former Happy Days star Ron Howard. Ganz and Mandel suggested Howard consider Hanks for the film. At first, Howard considered Hanks for the role of the main character's wisecracking brother, a role that eventually went to John Candy. Instead, Hanks landed the lead role in Splash, which went on to become a surprise box office hit, grossing more than US$69 million. He also had a sizable hit with the sex comedy Bachelor Party, also in 1984. In 1983–84, Hanks made three guest appearances on Family Ties as Elyse Keaton's alcoholic brother Ned Donnelly.	Who directed the film Splash?	Former Happy Days star Ron Howard directed the film Splash.
Hanks made a guest appearance on a 1982 episode of Happy Days ("A Case of Revenge," in which he played a disgruntled former classmate of Fonzie) where he met writers Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel who were also writing the film Splash (1984), a romantic comedy fantasy about a mermaid who falls in love with a human, to be directed by former Happy Days star Ron Howard. Ganz and Mandel suggested Howard consider Hanks for the film. At first, Howard considered Hanks for the role of the main character's wisecracking brother, a role that eventually went to John Candy. Instead, Hanks landed the lead role in Splash, which went on to become a surprise box office hit, grossing more than US$69 million. He also had a sizable hit with the sex comedy Bachelor Party, also in 1984. In 1983–84, Hanks made three guest appearances on Family Ties as Elyse Keaton's alcoholic brother Ned Donnelly.	Which role were you initially considered for in Splash?	I was initially considered for the role of the main character's wisecracking brother in Splash.
Hanks made a guest appearance on a 1982 episode of Happy Days ("A Case of Revenge," in which he played a disgruntled former classmate of Fonzie) where he met writers Lowell Ganz and Babaloo Mandel who were also writing the film Splash (1984), a romantic comedy fantasy about a mermaid who falls in love with a human, to be directed by former Happy Days star Ron Howard. Ganz and Mandel suggested Howard consider Hanks for the film. At first, Howard considered Hanks for the role of the main character's wisecracking brother, a role that eventually went to John Candy. Instead, Hanks landed the lead role in Splash, which went on to become a surprise box office hit, grossing more than US$69 million. He also had a sizable hit with the sex comedy Bachelor Party, also in 1984. In 1983–84, Hanks made three guest appearances on Family Ties as Elyse Keaton's alcoholic brother Ned Donnelly.	What other film were you in besides Splash in 1984?	I was also in the sex comedy Bachelor Party in 1984.
With Nothing in Common ( 1986 ) — a story of a young man alienated from his father ( played by Jackie Gleason ) — Hanks began to extend himself from comedic roles to dramatic roles . In an interview with Rolling Stone magazine , Hanks commented on his experience : " It changed my desires about working in movies . Part of it was the nature of the material , what we were trying to say . But besides that , it focused on people ' s relationships . The story was about a guy and his father , unlike , say , The Money Pit , where the story is really about a guy and his house . " In 1987 , he had signed an agreement with The Walt Disney Studios where he had starred to a talent pool in an acting / producing pact . After a few more flops and a moderate success with the comedy Dragnet , Hanks ' stature in the film industry rose .	What is the title of the movie that you acted in which you began to extend yourself from comedic roles to dramatic roles?	With Nothing in Common (1986)
With Nothing in Common ( 1986 ) — a story of a young man alienated from his father ( played by Jackie Gleason ) — Hanks began to extend himself from comedic roles to dramatic roles . In an interview with Rolling Stone magazine , Hanks commented on his experience : " It changed my desires about working in movies . Part of it was the nature of the material , what we were trying to say . But besides that , it focused on people ' s relationships . The story was about a guy and his father , unlike , say , The Money Pit , where the story is really about a guy and his house . " In 1987 , he had signed an agreement with The Walt Disney Studios where he had starred to a talent pool in an acting / producing pact . After a few more flops and a moderate success with the comedy Dragnet , Hanks ' stature in the film industry rose .	Who played the father role in the movie "With Nothing in Common"?	Jackie Gleason
With Nothing in Common ( 1986 ) — a story of a young man alienated from his father ( played by Jackie Gleason ) — Hanks began to extend himself from comedic roles to dramatic roles . In an interview with Rolling Stone magazine , Hanks commented on his experience : " It changed my desires about working in movies . Part of it was the nature of the material , what we were trying to say . But besides that , it focused on people ' s relationships . The story was about a guy and his father , unlike , say , The Money Pit , where the story is really about a guy and his house . " In 1987 , he had signed an agreement with The Walt Disney Studios where he had starred to a talent pool in an acting / producing pact . After a few more flops and a moderate success with the comedy Dragnet , Hanks ' stature in the film industry rose .	What magazine did you give an interview to?	Rolling Stone magazine
With Nothing in Common ( 1986 ) — a story of a young man alienated from his father ( played by Jackie Gleason ) — Hanks began to extend himself from comedic roles to dramatic roles . In an interview with Rolling Stone magazine , Hanks commented on his experience : " It changed my desires about working in movies . Part of it was the nature of the material , what we were trying to say . But besides that , it focused on people ' s relationships . The story was about a guy and his father , unlike , say , The Money Pit , where the story is really about a guy and his house . " In 1987 , he had signed an agreement with The Walt Disney Studios where he had starred to a talent pool in an acting / producing pact . After a few more flops and a moderate success with the comedy Dragnet , Hanks ' stature in the film industry rose .	According to you, what changed your desires about working in movies?	The experience of working on "With Nothing in Common"
With Nothing in Common ( 1986 ) — a story of a young man alienated from his father ( played by Jackie Gleason ) — Hanks began to extend himself from comedic roles to dramatic roles . In an interview with Rolling Stone magazine , Hanks commented on his experience : " It changed my desires about working in movies . Part of it was the nature of the material , what we were trying to say . But besides that , it focused on people ' s relationships . The story was about a guy and his father , unlike , say , The Money Pit , where the story is really about a guy and his house . " In 1987 , he had signed an agreement with The Walt Disney Studios where he had starred to a talent pool in an acting / producing pact . After a few more flops and a moderate success with the comedy Dragnet , Hanks ' stature in the film industry rose .	In 1987, which studio did you sign an agreement with?	The Walt Disney Studios
In Philadelphia , he played a gay lawyer with AIDS who sues his firm for discrimination . Hanks lost 35 pounds ( 16   kg ) and thinned his hair in order to appear sickly for the role . In a review for People , Leah Rozen stated , " Above all , credit for Philadelphia ' s success belongs to Hanks , who makes sure that he plays a character , not a saint . He is flat - out terrific , giving a deeply felt , carefully nuanced performance that deserves an Oscar . " Hanks won the 1993 Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Philadelphia . During his acceptance speech , he revealed that his high school drama teacher Rawley Farnsworth and former classmate John Gilkerson , two people with whom he was close , were gay .	What role did you play in the movie Philadelphia?	I played a gay lawyer with AIDS who sued my firm for discrimination.
In Philadelphia , he played a gay lawyer with AIDS who sues his firm for discrimination . Hanks lost 35 pounds ( 16   kg ) and thinned his hair in order to appear sickly for the role . In a review for People , Leah Rozen stated , " Above all , credit for Philadelphia ' s success belongs to Hanks , who makes sure that he plays a character , not a saint . He is flat - out terrific , giving a deeply felt , carefully nuanced performance that deserves an Oscar . " Hanks won the 1993 Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Philadelphia . During his acceptance speech , he revealed that his high school drama teacher Rawley Farnsworth and former classmate John Gilkerson , two people with whom he was close , were gay .	How did you prepare for your role in Philadelphia?	I lost 35 pounds (16 kg) and thinned my hair to appear sickly for the role.
In Philadelphia , he played a gay lawyer with AIDS who sues his firm for discrimination . Hanks lost 35 pounds ( 16   kg ) and thinned his hair in order to appear sickly for the role . In a review for People , Leah Rozen stated , " Above all , credit for Philadelphia ' s success belongs to Hanks , who makes sure that he plays a character , not a saint . He is flat - out terrific , giving a deeply felt , carefully nuanced performance that deserves an Oscar . " Hanks won the 1993 Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Philadelphia . During his acceptance speech , he revealed that his high school drama teacher Rawley Farnsworth and former classmate John Gilkerson , two people with whom he was close , were gay .	How did Leah Rozen describe your performance in Philadelphia?	Leah Rozen stated that I was "flat-out terrific" and gave a deeply felt, carefully nuanced performance deserving of an Oscar.
In Philadelphia , he played a gay lawyer with AIDS who sues his firm for discrimination . Hanks lost 35 pounds ( 16   kg ) and thinned his hair in order to appear sickly for the role . In a review for People , Leah Rozen stated , " Above all , credit for Philadelphia ' s success belongs to Hanks , who makes sure that he plays a character , not a saint . He is flat - out terrific , giving a deeply felt , carefully nuanced performance that deserves an Oscar . " Hanks won the 1993 Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Philadelphia . During his acceptance speech , he revealed that his high school drama teacher Rawley Farnsworth and former classmate John Gilkerson , two people with whom he was close , were gay .	What award did you win for your role in Philadelphia?	I won the 1993 Academy Award for Best Actor.
In Philadelphia , he played a gay lawyer with AIDS who sues his firm for discrimination . Hanks lost 35 pounds ( 16   kg ) and thinned his hair in order to appear sickly for the role . In a review for People , Leah Rozen stated , " Above all , credit for Philadelphia ' s success belongs to Hanks , who makes sure that he plays a character , not a saint . He is flat - out terrific , giving a deeply felt , carefully nuanced performance that deserves an Oscar . " Hanks won the 1993 Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Philadelphia . During his acceptance speech , he revealed that his high school drama teacher Rawley Farnsworth and former classmate John Gilkerson , two people with whom he was close , were gay .	Who did you mention in your acceptance speech for your award?	I mentioned my high school drama teacher Rawley Farnsworth and former classmate John Gilkerson, who were both gay.
Hanks ' next role as astronaut and commander Jim Lovell in the 1995 film Apollo 13 reunited him with Ron Howard . Critics generally applauded the film and the performances of the entire cast , which included actors Kevin Bacon , Bill Paxton , Gary Sinise , Ed Harris , and Kathleen Quinlan . The movie also earned nine Academy Award nominations , winning two . Later that year , Hanks starred in Disney / Pixar ' s CGI - animated hit film Toy Story , as the voice of Sheriff Woody .	Who did you play in the 1995 film Apollo 13?	Jim Lovell
Hanks ' next role as astronaut and commander Jim Lovell in the 1995 film Apollo 13 reunited him with Ron Howard . Critics generally applauded the film and the performances of the entire cast , which included actors Kevin Bacon , Bill Paxton , Gary Sinise , Ed Harris , and Kathleen Quinlan . The movie also earned nine Academy Award nominations , winning two . Later that year , Hanks starred in Disney / Pixar ' s CGI - animated hit film Toy Story , as the voice of Sheriff Woody .	Who directed the film Apollo 13?	Ron Howard
Hanks ' next role as astronaut and commander Jim Lovell in the 1995 film Apollo 13 reunited him with Ron Howard . Critics generally applauded the film and the performances of the entire cast , which included actors Kevin Bacon , Bill Paxton , Gary Sinise , Ed Harris , and Kathleen Quinlan . The movie also earned nine Academy Award nominations , winning two . Later that year , Hanks starred in Disney / Pixar ' s CGI - animated hit film Toy Story , as the voice of Sheriff Woody .	Who were some of the other actors in Apollo 13?	Kevin Bacon, Bill Paxton, Gary Sinise, Ed Harris, Kathleen Quinlan
Hanks ' next role as astronaut and commander Jim Lovell in the 1995 film Apollo 13 reunited him with Ron Howard . Critics generally applauded the film and the performances of the entire cast , which included actors Kevin Bacon , Bill Paxton , Gary Sinise , Ed Harris , and Kathleen Quinlan . The movie also earned nine Academy Award nominations , winning two . Later that year , Hanks starred in Disney / Pixar ' s CGI - animated hit film Toy Story , as the voice of Sheriff Woody .	How many Academy Award nominations did the movie Apollo 13 receive?	Nine
Hanks ' next role as astronaut and commander Jim Lovell in the 1995 film Apollo 13 reunited him with Ron Howard . Critics generally applauded the film and the performances of the entire cast , which included actors Kevin Bacon , Bill Paxton , Gary Sinise , Ed Harris , and Kathleen Quinlan . The movie also earned nine Academy Award nominations , winning two . Later that year , Hanks starred in Disney / Pixar ' s CGI - animated hit film Toy Story , as the voice of Sheriff Woody .	How many Academy Awards did Apollo 13 win?	Two
In 1998 , Hanks ' next project was no less expensive . For Saving Private Ryan , he teamed up with Steven Spielberg to make a film about a search through war - torn France after D - Day to bring back a soldier . It earned the praise and respect of the film community , critics , and the general public . It was labeled one of the finest war films ever made and earned Spielberg his second Academy Award for direction , and Hanks another Best Actor nomination . Later that year , Hanks re - teamed with his Sleepless in Seattle co - star Meg Ryan for You ' ve Got Mail , a remake of 1940 ' s The Shop Around the Corner . In 1999 , Hanks starred in an adaptation of the Stephen King novel The Green Mile . He also returned as the voice of Woody in Toy Story 2 , the sequel to Toy Story .	Who did you team up with for the film Saving Private Ryan?	I teamed up with Steven Spielberg for the film Saving Private Ryan.
In 1998 , Hanks ' next project was no less expensive . For Saving Private Ryan , he teamed up with Steven Spielberg to make a film about a search through war - torn France after D - Day to bring back a soldier . It earned the praise and respect of the film community , critics , and the general public . It was labeled one of the finest war films ever made and earned Spielberg his second Academy Award for direction , and Hanks another Best Actor nomination . Later that year , Hanks re - teamed with his Sleepless in Seattle co - star Meg Ryan for You ' ve Got Mail , a remake of 1940 ' s The Shop Around the Corner . In 1999 , Hanks starred in an adaptation of the Stephen King novel The Green Mile . He also returned as the voice of Woody in Toy Story 2 , the sequel to Toy Story .	How was Saving Private Ryan received by the film community and critics?	Saving Private Ryan earned the praise and respect of the film community and critics.
In 1998 , Hanks ' next project was no less expensive . For Saving Private Ryan , he teamed up with Steven Spielberg to make a film about a search through war - torn France after D - Day to bring back a soldier . It earned the praise and respect of the film community , critics , and the general public . It was labeled one of the finest war films ever made and earned Spielberg his second Academy Award for direction , and Hanks another Best Actor nomination . Later that year , Hanks re - teamed with his Sleepless in Seattle co - star Meg Ryan for You ' ve Got Mail , a remake of 1940 ' s The Shop Around the Corner . In 1999 , Hanks starred in an adaptation of the Stephen King novel The Green Mile . He also returned as the voice of Woody in Toy Story 2 , the sequel to Toy Story .	What label was given to Saving Private Ryan?	Saving Private Ryan was labeled one of the finest war films ever made.
In 1998 , Hanks ' next project was no less expensive . For Saving Private Ryan , he teamed up with Steven Spielberg to make a film about a search through war - torn France after D - Day to bring back a soldier . It earned the praise and respect of the film community , critics , and the general public . It was labeled one of the finest war films ever made and earned Spielberg his second Academy Award for direction , and Hanks another Best Actor nomination . Later that year , Hanks re - teamed with his Sleepless in Seattle co - star Meg Ryan for You ' ve Got Mail , a remake of 1940 ' s The Shop Around the Corner . In 1999 , Hanks starred in an adaptation of the Stephen King novel The Green Mile . He also returned as the voice of Woody in Toy Story 2 , the sequel to Toy Story .	What award did you win for your direction in Saving Private Ryan?	I won my second Academy Award for direction for Saving Private Ryan.
In 1998 , Hanks ' next project was no less expensive . For Saving Private Ryan , he teamed up with Steven Spielberg to make a film about a search through war - torn France after D - Day to bring back a soldier . It earned the praise and respect of the film community , critics , and the general public . It was labeled one of the finest war films ever made and earned Spielberg his second Academy Award for direction , and Hanks another Best Actor nomination . Later that year , Hanks re - teamed with his Sleepless in Seattle co - star Meg Ryan for You ' ve Got Mail , a remake of 1940 ' s The Shop Around the Corner . In 1999 , Hanks starred in an adaptation of the Stephen King novel The Green Mile . He also returned as the voice of Woody in Toy Story 2 , the sequel to Toy Story .	What film did you and Meg Ryan star in together in 1998?	Meg Ryan and I starred in You've Got Mail together in 1998.
In 2001 , Hanks helped direct and produce the Emmy Award - winning HBO miniseries Band of Brothers . He also appeared in the September 11 television special America : A Tribute to Heroes and the documentary Rescued From the Closet . He then teamed up with American Beauty director Sam Mendes for the adaptation of Max Allan Collins ' s and Richard Piers Rayner ' s DC Comics graphic novel Road to Perdition , in which he played an anti - hero role as a hitman on the run with his son . That same year , Hanks collaborated once again with director Spielberg , starring opposite Leonardo DiCaprio in the hit biographical crime drama Catch Me If You Can , based on the true story of Frank Abagnale , Jr . The same year , Hanks and his wife Rita Wilson produced the hit movie My Big Fat Greek Wedding . In August 2007 , he along with co - producers Rita Wilson and Gary Goetzman , and writer and star Nia Vardalos , initiated a legal action against the production company Gold Circle Films for their share of profits from the movie . At the age of 45 , Hanks became the youngest - ever recipient of the American Film Institute ' s Life Achievement Award on June 12 , 2002 .	What is the name of the HBO miniseries that you directed and produced?	Band of Brothers
In 2001 , Hanks helped direct and produce the Emmy Award - winning HBO miniseries Band of Brothers . He also appeared in the September 11 television special America : A Tribute to Heroes and the documentary Rescued From the Closet . He then teamed up with American Beauty director Sam Mendes for the adaptation of Max Allan Collins ' s and Richard Piers Rayner ' s DC Comics graphic novel Road to Perdition , in which he played an anti - hero role as a hitman on the run with his son . That same year , Hanks collaborated once again with director Spielberg , starring opposite Leonardo DiCaprio in the hit biographical crime drama Catch Me If You Can , based on the true story of Frank Abagnale , Jr . The same year , Hanks and his wife Rita Wilson produced the hit movie My Big Fat Greek Wedding . In August 2007 , he along with co - producers Rita Wilson and Gary Goetzman , and writer and star Nia Vardalos , initiated a legal action against the production company Gold Circle Films for their share of profits from the movie . At the age of 45 , Hanks became the youngest - ever recipient of the American Film Institute ' s Life Achievement Award on June 12 , 2002 .	In what television special did you appear in 2001?	America: A Tribute to Heroes
In 2001 , Hanks helped direct and produce the Emmy Award - winning HBO miniseries Band of Brothers . He also appeared in the September 11 television special America : A Tribute to Heroes and the documentary Rescued From the Closet . He then teamed up with American Beauty director Sam Mendes for the adaptation of Max Allan Collins ' s and Richard Piers Rayner ' s DC Comics graphic novel Road to Perdition , in which he played an anti - hero role as a hitman on the run with his son . That same year , Hanks collaborated once again with director Spielberg , starring opposite Leonardo DiCaprio in the hit biographical crime drama Catch Me If You Can , based on the true story of Frank Abagnale , Jr . The same year , Hanks and his wife Rita Wilson produced the hit movie My Big Fat Greek Wedding . In August 2007 , he along with co - producers Rita Wilson and Gary Goetzman , and writer and star Nia Vardalos , initiated a legal action against the production company Gold Circle Films for their share of profits from the movie . At the age of 45 , Hanks became the youngest - ever recipient of the American Film Institute ' s Life Achievement Award on June 12 , 2002 .	Who did you collaborate with in the adaptation of the DC Comics graphic novel Road to Perdition?	Sam Mendes
In 2001 , Hanks helped direct and produce the Emmy Award - winning HBO miniseries Band of Brothers . He also appeared in the September 11 television special America : A Tribute to Heroes and the documentary Rescued From the Closet . He then teamed up with American Beauty director Sam Mendes for the adaptation of Max Allan Collins ' s and Richard Piers Rayner ' s DC Comics graphic novel Road to Perdition , in which he played an anti - hero role as a hitman on the run with his son . That same year , Hanks collaborated once again with director Spielberg , starring opposite Leonardo DiCaprio in the hit biographical crime drama Catch Me If You Can , based on the true story of Frank Abagnale , Jr . The same year , Hanks and his wife Rita Wilson produced the hit movie My Big Fat Greek Wedding . In August 2007 , he along with co - producers Rita Wilson and Gary Goetzman , and writer and star Nia Vardalos , initiated a legal action against the production company Gold Circle Films for their share of profits from the movie . At the age of 45 , Hanks became the youngest - ever recipient of the American Film Institute ' s Life Achievement Award on June 12 , 2002 .	Who did you star opposite in the biographical crime drama Catch Me If You Can?	Leonardo DiCaprio
In 2001 , Hanks helped direct and produce the Emmy Award - winning HBO miniseries Band of Brothers . He also appeared in the September 11 television special America : A Tribute to Heroes and the documentary Rescued From the Closet . He then teamed up with American Beauty director Sam Mendes for the adaptation of Max Allan Collins ' s and Richard Piers Rayner ' s DC Comics graphic novel Road to Perdition , in which he played an anti - hero role as a hitman on the run with his son . That same year , Hanks collaborated once again with director Spielberg , starring opposite Leonardo DiCaprio in the hit biographical crime drama Catch Me If You Can , based on the true story of Frank Abagnale , Jr . The same year , Hanks and his wife Rita Wilson produced the hit movie My Big Fat Greek Wedding . In August 2007 , he along with co - producers Rita Wilson and Gary Goetzman , and writer and star Nia Vardalos , initiated a legal action against the production company Gold Circle Films for their share of profits from the movie . At the age of 45 , Hanks became the youngest - ever recipient of the American Film Institute ' s Life Achievement Award on June 12 , 2002 .	What award did you receive from the American Film Institute at the age of 45?	The American Film Institute's Life Achievement Award
In 2004 , he appeared in three films : The Coen brothers ' The Ladykillers , another Spielberg film , The Terminal , and The Polar Express , a family film from Zemeckis for which Hanks played multiple motion capture roles . In a USA Weekend interview , Hanks discussed how he chooses projects : " [ Since ] A League of Their Own , it can ' t be just another movie for me . It has to get me going somehow   ... There has to be some all - encompassing desire or feeling about wanting to do that particular movie . I ' d like to assume that I ' m willing to go down any avenue in order to do it right " . In August 2005 , Hanks was voted in as vice president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences .	What films did you appear in in 2004?	The Ladykillers, The Terminal, The Polar Express
In 2004 , he appeared in three films : The Coen brothers ' The Ladykillers , another Spielberg film , The Terminal , and The Polar Express , a family film from Zemeckis for which Hanks played multiple motion capture roles . In a USA Weekend interview , Hanks discussed how he chooses projects : " [ Since ] A League of Their Own , it can ' t be just another movie for me . It has to get me going somehow   ... There has to be some all - encompassing desire or feeling about wanting to do that particular movie . I ' d like to assume that I ' m willing to go down any avenue in order to do it right " . In August 2005 , Hanks was voted in as vice president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences .	Who directed The Ladykillers?	The Coen brothers
In 2004 , he appeared in three films : The Coen brothers ' The Ladykillers , another Spielberg film , The Terminal , and The Polar Express , a family film from Zemeckis for which Hanks played multiple motion capture roles . In a USA Weekend interview , Hanks discussed how he chooses projects : " [ Since ] A League of Their Own , it can ' t be just another movie for me . It has to get me going somehow   ... There has to be some all - encompassing desire or feeling about wanting to do that particular movie . I ' d like to assume that I ' m willing to go down any avenue in order to do it right " . In August 2005 , Hanks was voted in as vice president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences .	Who directed The Terminal?	Spielberg
In 2004 , he appeared in three films : The Coen brothers ' The Ladykillers , another Spielberg film , The Terminal , and The Polar Express , a family film from Zemeckis for which Hanks played multiple motion capture roles . In a USA Weekend interview , Hanks discussed how he chooses projects : " [ Since ] A League of Their Own , it can ' t be just another movie for me . It has to get me going somehow   ... There has to be some all - encompassing desire or feeling about wanting to do that particular movie . I ' d like to assume that I ' m willing to go down any avenue in order to do it right " . In August 2005 , Hanks was voted in as vice president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences .	Who directed The Polar Express?	Zemeckis
In 2004 , he appeared in three films : The Coen brothers ' The Ladykillers , another Spielberg film , The Terminal , and The Polar Express , a family film from Zemeckis for which Hanks played multiple motion capture roles . In a USA Weekend interview , Hanks discussed how he chooses projects : " [ Since ] A League of Their Own , it can ' t be just another movie for me . It has to get me going somehow   ... There has to be some all - encompassing desire or feeling about wanting to do that particular movie . I ' d like to assume that I ' m willing to go down any avenue in order to do it right " . In August 2005 , Hanks was voted in as vice president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences .	What position were you voted into in August 2005?	Vice president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences
Hanks next starred in the highly anticipated film The Da Vinci Code , based on the bestselling novel by Dan Brown . The film was released May 19 , 2006 in the U . S . , and grossed over US $ 750   million worldwide . He followed the film with Ken Burns ' s 2007 documentary The War . For the documentary , Hanks did voice work , reading excerpts from World War II - era columns by Al McIntosh . In 2006 , Hanks topped a 1 , 500 - strong list of " most trusted celebrities " compiled by Forbes magazine . Hanks also produced the animated children ' s movie The Ant Bully in 2006 .	What was the title of the highly anticipated film you starred in?	The Da Vinci Code
Hanks next starred in the highly anticipated film The Da Vinci Code , based on the bestselling novel by Dan Brown . The film was released May 19 , 2006 in the U . S . , and grossed over US $ 750   million worldwide . He followed the film with Ken Burns ' s 2007 documentary The War . For the documentary , Hanks did voice work , reading excerpts from World War II - era columns by Al McIntosh . In 2006 , Hanks topped a 1 , 500 - strong list of " most trusted celebrities " compiled by Forbes magazine . Hanks also produced the animated children ' s movie The Ant Bully in 2006 .	Who wrote the bestselling novel that The Da Vinci Code was based on?	Dan Brown
Hanks next starred in the highly anticipated film The Da Vinci Code , based on the bestselling novel by Dan Brown . The film was released May 19 , 2006 in the U . S . , and grossed over US $ 750   million worldwide . He followed the film with Ken Burns ' s 2007 documentary The War . For the documentary , Hanks did voice work , reading excerpts from World War II - era columns by Al McIntosh . In 2006 , Hanks topped a 1 , 500 - strong list of " most trusted celebrities " compiled by Forbes magazine . Hanks also produced the animated children ' s movie The Ant Bully in 2006 .	When was The Da Vinci Code released in the U.S.?	May 19, 2006
Hanks next starred in the highly anticipated film The Da Vinci Code , based on the bestselling novel by Dan Brown . The film was released May 19 , 2006 in the U . S . , and grossed over US $ 750   million worldwide . He followed the film with Ken Burns ' s 2007 documentary The War . For the documentary , Hanks did voice work , reading excerpts from World War II - era columns by Al McIntosh . In 2006 , Hanks topped a 1 , 500 - strong list of " most trusted celebrities " compiled by Forbes magazine . Hanks also produced the animated children ' s movie The Ant Bully in 2006 .	How much money did The Da Vinci Code gross worldwide?	Over US $750 million
Hanks next starred in the highly anticipated film The Da Vinci Code , based on the bestselling novel by Dan Brown . The film was released May 19 , 2006 in the U . S . , and grossed over US $ 750   million worldwide . He followed the film with Ken Burns ' s 2007 documentary The War . For the documentary , Hanks did voice work , reading excerpts from World War II - era columns by Al McIntosh . In 2006 , Hanks topped a 1 , 500 - strong list of " most trusted celebrities " compiled by Forbes magazine . Hanks also produced the animated children ' s movie The Ant Bully in 2006 .	What documentary did you do voice work for in 2007?	Ken Burns' The War
Hanks ' next endeavor , released on May 15 , 2009 , was a film adaptation of Angels & Demons , based on the novel of the same name by Dan Brown . Its April 11 , 2007 announcement revealed that Hanks would reprise his role as Robert Langdon , and that he would reportedly receive the highest salary ever for an actor . The following day he made his 10th appearance on NBC ' s Saturday Night Live , impersonating himself for the Celebrity Jeopardy sketch . Hanks produced the Spike Jonze film Where The Wild Things Are , based on the children ' s book by Maurice Sendak in 2009 .	When was your film adaptation of Angels & Demons released?	My film adaptation of Angels & Demons was released on May 15, 2009.
Hanks ' next endeavor , released on May 15 , 2009 , was a film adaptation of Angels & Demons , based on the novel of the same name by Dan Brown . Its April 11 , 2007 announcement revealed that Hanks would reprise his role as Robert Langdon , and that he would reportedly receive the highest salary ever for an actor . The following day he made his 10th appearance on NBC ' s Saturday Night Live , impersonating himself for the Celebrity Jeopardy sketch . Hanks produced the Spike Jonze film Where The Wild Things Are , based on the children ' s book by Maurice Sendak in 2009 .	What was the novel that the film Angels & Demons was based on?	The film Angels & Demons was based on the novel of the same name by Dan Brown.
Hanks ' next endeavor , released on May 15 , 2009 , was a film adaptation of Angels & Demons , based on the novel of the same name by Dan Brown . Its April 11 , 2007 announcement revealed that Hanks would reprise his role as Robert Langdon , and that he would reportedly receive the highest salary ever for an actor . The following day he made his 10th appearance on NBC ' s Saturday Night Live , impersonating himself for the Celebrity Jeopardy sketch . Hanks produced the Spike Jonze film Where The Wild Things Are , based on the children ' s book by Maurice Sendak in 2009 .	What role did you reprise in the film Angels & Demons?	I reprised my role as Robert Langdon in the film Angels & Demons.
Hanks ' next endeavor , released on May 15 , 2009 , was a film adaptation of Angels & Demons , based on the novel of the same name by Dan Brown . Its April 11 , 2007 announcement revealed that Hanks would reprise his role as Robert Langdon , and that he would reportedly receive the highest salary ever for an actor . The following day he made his 10th appearance on NBC ' s Saturday Night Live , impersonating himself for the Celebrity Jeopardy sketch . Hanks produced the Spike Jonze film Where The Wild Things Are , based on the children ' s book by Maurice Sendak in 2009 .	What was the significance of your appearance on NBC's Saturday Night Live?	I made my 10th appearance on NBC's Saturday Night Live, impersonating myself for the Celebrity Jeopardy sketch.
Hanks ' next endeavor , released on May 15 , 2009 , was a film adaptation of Angels & Demons , based on the novel of the same name by Dan Brown . Its April 11 , 2007 announcement revealed that Hanks would reprise his role as Robert Langdon , and that he would reportedly receive the highest salary ever for an actor . The following day he made his 10th appearance on NBC ' s Saturday Night Live , impersonating himself for the Celebrity Jeopardy sketch . Hanks produced the Spike Jonze film Where The Wild Things Are , based on the children ' s book by Maurice Sendak in 2009 .	What film did you produce in 2009?	I produced the Spike Jonze film Where The Wild Things Are, based on the children's book by Maurice Sendak in 2009.
Hanks had two films released in 2020 . In July 2020 , Hanks starred in Greyhound , a war film which he also wrote the screenplay for . Initially set to be theatrically released in June 2020 by Sony Pictures , due to the COVID - 19 pandemic , distribution rights to the film were bought by Apple TV + , where it was released in July 2020 . Later that year , Hanks starred in the western drama film News of the World , re - teaming with director Paul Greengrass , which was released on December 23 , 2020 . Film critic David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter praised Hanks ' performance in his review writing , " Hanks has built a career out of playing thoroughly decent men , so his casting here is entirely to type . But the soulfulness and sorrow , the innate compassion that ripple through his characterization make this an enormously pleasurable performance to watch , with new depths of both kindness and regret that keep revealing themselves . "	How many films did you have released in 2020?	I had two films released in 2020.
Hanks had two films released in 2020 . In July 2020 , Hanks starred in Greyhound , a war film which he also wrote the screenplay for . Initially set to be theatrically released in June 2020 by Sony Pictures , due to the COVID - 19 pandemic , distribution rights to the film were bought by Apple TV + , where it was released in July 2020 . Later that year , Hanks starred in the western drama film News of the World , re - teaming with director Paul Greengrass , which was released on December 23 , 2020 . Film critic David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter praised Hanks ' performance in his review writing , " Hanks has built a career out of playing thoroughly decent men , so his casting here is entirely to type . But the soulfulness and sorrow , the innate compassion that ripple through his characterization make this an enormously pleasurable performance to watch , with new depths of both kindness and regret that keep revealing themselves . "	When was Greyhound released?	Greyhound was released in July 2020.
Hanks had two films released in 2020 . In July 2020 , Hanks starred in Greyhound , a war film which he also wrote the screenplay for . Initially set to be theatrically released in June 2020 by Sony Pictures , due to the COVID - 19 pandemic , distribution rights to the film were bought by Apple TV + , where it was released in July 2020 . Later that year , Hanks starred in the western drama film News of the World , re - teaming with director Paul Greengrass , which was released on December 23 , 2020 . Film critic David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter praised Hanks ' performance in his review writing , " Hanks has built a career out of playing thoroughly decent men , so his casting here is entirely to type . But the soulfulness and sorrow , the innate compassion that ripple through his characterization make this an enormously pleasurable performance to watch , with new depths of both kindness and regret that keep revealing themselves . "	Who wrote the screenplay for Greyhound?	I wrote the screenplay for Greyhound.
Hanks had two films released in 2020 . In July 2020 , Hanks starred in Greyhound , a war film which he also wrote the screenplay for . Initially set to be theatrically released in June 2020 by Sony Pictures , due to the COVID - 19 pandemic , distribution rights to the film were bought by Apple TV + , where it was released in July 2020 . Later that year , Hanks starred in the western drama film News of the World , re - teaming with director Paul Greengrass , which was released on December 23 , 2020 . Film critic David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter praised Hanks ' performance in his review writing , " Hanks has built a career out of playing thoroughly decent men , so his casting here is entirely to type . But the soulfulness and sorrow , the innate compassion that ripple through his characterization make this an enormously pleasurable performance to watch , with new depths of both kindness and regret that keep revealing themselves . "	Which film did you star in with director Paul Greengrass?	I starred in the western drama film News of the World with director Paul Greengrass.
Hanks had two films released in 2020 . In July 2020 , Hanks starred in Greyhound , a war film which he also wrote the screenplay for . Initially set to be theatrically released in June 2020 by Sony Pictures , due to the COVID - 19 pandemic , distribution rights to the film were bought by Apple TV + , where it was released in July 2020 . Later that year , Hanks starred in the western drama film News of the World , re - teaming with director Paul Greengrass , which was released on December 23 , 2020 . Film critic David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter praised Hanks ' performance in his review writing , " Hanks has built a career out of playing thoroughly decent men , so his casting here is entirely to type . But the soulfulness and sorrow , the innate compassion that ripple through his characterization make this an enormously pleasurable performance to watch , with new depths of both kindness and regret that keep revealing themselves . "	When was News of the World released?	News of the World was released on December 23, 2020.
In 1981 , Hanks met actress Rita Wilson on the set of TV comedy Bosom Buddies ( 1980 – 1982 ) . They were reunited in 1985 on the set of Volunteers . Wilson is of Greek and Bulgarian descent , and a member of the Greek Orthodox Church . Before marrying her , Hanks converted to her faith . Hanks and Wilson married in 1988 and have two sons . The older , Chet , released a rap song in 2011 and had recurring roles in Empire and Shameless . Their younger , Truman , was born in 1995 . Hanks lives with his family in Los Angeles , California , and Ketchum , Idaho .	Who did you meet in 1981 on the set of TV comedy Bosom Buddies?	I met actress Rita Wilson.
In 1981 , Hanks met actress Rita Wilson on the set of TV comedy Bosom Buddies ( 1980 – 1982 ) . They were reunited in 1985 on the set of Volunteers . Wilson is of Greek and Bulgarian descent , and a member of the Greek Orthodox Church . Before marrying her , Hanks converted to her faith . Hanks and Wilson married in 1988 and have two sons . The older , Chet , released a rap song in 2011 and had recurring roles in Empire and Shameless . Their younger , Truman , was born in 1995 . Hanks lives with his family in Los Angeles , California , and Ketchum , Idaho .	When did you and Wilson get married?	We got married in 1988.
In 1981 , Hanks met actress Rita Wilson on the set of TV comedy Bosom Buddies ( 1980 – 1982 ) . They were reunited in 1985 on the set of Volunteers . Wilson is of Greek and Bulgarian descent , and a member of the Greek Orthodox Church . Before marrying her , Hanks converted to her faith . Hanks and Wilson married in 1988 and have two sons . The older , Chet , released a rap song in 2011 and had recurring roles in Empire and Shameless . Their younger , Truman , was born in 1995 . Hanks lives with his family in Los Angeles , California , and Ketchum , Idaho .	How many sons do you and Wilson have?	We have two sons.
In 1981 , Hanks met actress Rita Wilson on the set of TV comedy Bosom Buddies ( 1980 – 1982 ) . They were reunited in 1985 on the set of Volunteers . Wilson is of Greek and Bulgarian descent , and a member of the Greek Orthodox Church . Before marrying her , Hanks converted to her faith . Hanks and Wilson married in 1988 and have two sons . The older , Chet , released a rap song in 2011 and had recurring roles in Empire and Shameless . Their younger , Truman , was born in 1995 . Hanks lives with his family in Los Angeles , California , and Ketchum , Idaho .	What is the name of your older son?	My older son is named Chet.
In 1981 , Hanks met actress Rita Wilson on the set of TV comedy Bosom Buddies ( 1980 – 1982 ) . They were reunited in 1985 on the set of Volunteers . Wilson is of Greek and Bulgarian descent , and a member of the Greek Orthodox Church . Before marrying her , Hanks converted to her faith . Hanks and Wilson married in 1988 and have two sons . The older , Chet , released a rap song in 2011 and had recurring roles in Empire and Shameless . Their younger , Truman , was born in 1995 . Hanks lives with his family in Los Angeles , California , and Ketchum , Idaho .	Where do you live with your family?	I live with my family in Los Angeles, California, and Ketchum, Idaho.
