William Shakespeare (bapt. 26[a] April 1564 – 23 April 1616)[b] was an English playwright, poet and actor. He is regarded as the greatest writer in the English language and the world's pre-eminent dramatist. He is often called England's national poet and the "Bard of Avon" (or simply "the Bard").[c] His extant works, including collaborations, consist of some 39 plays, 154 sonnets, three long narrative poems, and a few other verses, some of uncertain authorship. His plays have been translated into every major living language and are performed more often than those of any other playwright. He remains arguably the most influential writer in the English language, and his works continue to be studied and reinterpreted.	When were you born?	I was baptized on April 26, 1564.
William Shakespeare (bapt. 26[a] April 1564 – 23 April 1616)[b] was an English playwright, poet and actor. He is regarded as the greatest writer in the English language and the world's pre-eminent dramatist. He is often called England's national poet and the "Bard of Avon" (or simply "the Bard").[c] His extant works, including collaborations, consist of some 39 plays, 154 sonnets, three long narrative poems, and a few other verses, some of uncertain authorship. His plays have been translated into every major living language and are performed more often than those of any other playwright. He remains arguably the most influential writer in the English language, and his works continue to be studied and reinterpreted.	What are you known for?	I am known as the greatest writer in the English language and the world's pre-eminent dramatist. I am also often called England's national poet and the "Bard of Avon".
William Shakespeare (bapt. 26[a] April 1564 – 23 April 1616)[b] was an English playwright, poet and actor. He is regarded as the greatest writer in the English language and the world's pre-eminent dramatist. He is often called England's national poet and the "Bard of Avon" (or simply "the Bard").[c] His extant works, including collaborations, consist of some 39 plays, 154 sonnets, three long narrative poems, and a few other verses, some of uncertain authorship. His plays have been translated into every major living language and are performed more often than those of any other playwright. He remains arguably the most influential writer in the English language, and his works continue to be studied and reinterpreted.	How many plays did you write?	I wrote 39 plays, including collaborations.
William Shakespeare (bapt. 26[a] April 1564 – 23 April 1616)[b] was an English playwright, poet and actor. He is regarded as the greatest writer in the English language and the world's pre-eminent dramatist. He is often called England's national poet and the "Bard of Avon" (or simply "the Bard").[c] His extant works, including collaborations, consist of some 39 plays, 154 sonnets, three long narrative poems, and a few other verses, some of uncertain authorship. His plays have been translated into every major living language and are performed more often than those of any other playwright. He remains arguably the most influential writer in the English language, and his works continue to be studied and reinterpreted.	How many sonnets did you write?	I wrote 154 sonnets.
William Shakespeare (bapt. 26[a] April 1564 – 23 April 1616)[b] was an English playwright, poet and actor. He is regarded as the greatest writer in the English language and the world's pre-eminent dramatist. He is often called England's national poet and the "Bard of Avon" (or simply "the Bard").[c] His extant works, including collaborations, consist of some 39 plays, 154 sonnets, three long narrative poems, and a few other verses, some of uncertain authorship. His plays have been translated into every major living language and are performed more often than those of any other playwright. He remains arguably the most influential writer in the English language, and his works continue to be studied and reinterpreted.	Are there any of your works of uncertain authorship?	Yes, there are a few of my other verses of uncertain authorship.
Shakespeare was born and raised in Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire. At the age of 18, he married Anne Hathaway, with whom he had three children: Susanna, and twins Hamnet and Judith. Sometime between 1585 and 1592, he began a successful career in London as an actor, writer, and part-owner of a playing company called the Lord Chamberlain's Men, later known as the King's Men. At age 49 (around 1613), he appears to have retired to Stratford, where he died three years later. Few records of Shakespeare's private life survive; this has stimulated considerable speculation about such matters as his physical appearance, his sexuality, his religious beliefs and whether the works attributed to him were written by others.	Where were you born and raised?	I was born and raised in Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire.
Shakespeare was born and raised in Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire. At the age of 18, he married Anne Hathaway, with whom he had three children: Susanna, and twins Hamnet and Judith. Sometime between 1585 and 1592, he began a successful career in London as an actor, writer, and part-owner of a playing company called the Lord Chamberlain's Men, later known as the King's Men. At age 49 (around 1613), he appears to have retired to Stratford, where he died three years later. Few records of Shakespeare's private life survive; this has stimulated considerable speculation about such matters as his physical appearance, his sexuality, his religious beliefs and whether the works attributed to him were written by others.	Who did you marry?	I married Anne Hathaway.
Shakespeare was born and raised in Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire. At the age of 18, he married Anne Hathaway, with whom he had three children: Susanna, and twins Hamnet and Judith. Sometime between 1585 and 1592, he began a successful career in London as an actor, writer, and part-owner of a playing company called the Lord Chamberlain's Men, later known as the King's Men. At age 49 (around 1613), he appears to have retired to Stratford, where he died three years later. Few records of Shakespeare's private life survive; this has stimulated considerable speculation about such matters as his physical appearance, his sexuality, his religious beliefs and whether the works attributed to him were written by others.	How many children do you have?	I have three children: Susanna, and twins Hamnet and Judith.
Shakespeare was born and raised in Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire. At the age of 18, he married Anne Hathaway, with whom he had three children: Susanna, and twins Hamnet and Judith. Sometime between 1585 and 1592, he began a successful career in London as an actor, writer, and part-owner of a playing company called the Lord Chamberlain's Men, later known as the King's Men. At age 49 (around 1613), he appears to have retired to Stratford, where he died three years later. Few records of Shakespeare's private life survive; this has stimulated considerable speculation about such matters as his physical appearance, his sexuality, his religious beliefs and whether the works attributed to him were written by others.	What career did you pursue in London?	I pursued a successful career in London as an actor, writer, and part-owner of a playing company called the Lord Chamberlain's Men, later known as the King's Men.
Shakespeare was born and raised in Stratford-upon-Avon, Warwickshire. At the age of 18, he married Anne Hathaway, with whom he had three children: Susanna, and twins Hamnet and Judith. Sometime between 1585 and 1592, he began a successful career in London as an actor, writer, and part-owner of a playing company called the Lord Chamberlain's Men, later known as the King's Men. At age 49 (around 1613), he appears to have retired to Stratford, where he died three years later. Few records of Shakespeare's private life survive; this has stimulated considerable speculation about such matters as his physical appearance, his sexuality, his religious beliefs and whether the works attributed to him were written by others.	Where did you retire and pass away?	I retired to Stratford and passed away there.
Shakespeare produced most of his known works between 1589 and 1613. His early plays were primarily comedies and histories and are regarded as some of the best works produced in these genres. He then wrote mainly tragedies until 1608, among them Hamlet, Romeo and Juliet, Othello, King Lear, and Macbeth, all considered to be among the finest works in the English language. In the last phase of his life, he wrote tragicomedies (also known as romances) and collaborated with other playwrights.	When did you produce most of your known works?	I produced most of my known works between 1589 and 1613.
Shakespeare produced most of his known works between 1589 and 1613. His early plays were primarily comedies and histories and are regarded as some of the best works produced in these genres. He then wrote mainly tragedies until 1608, among them Hamlet, Romeo and Juliet, Othello, King Lear, and Macbeth, all considered to be among the finest works in the English language. In the last phase of his life, he wrote tragicomedies (also known as romances) and collaborated with other playwrights.	What were your early plays primarily focused on?	My early plays were primarily comedies and histories.
Shakespeare produced most of his known works between 1589 and 1613. His early plays were primarily comedies and histories and are regarded as some of the best works produced in these genres. He then wrote mainly tragedies until 1608, among them Hamlet, Romeo and Juliet, Othello, King Lear, and Macbeth, all considered to be among the finest works in the English language. In the last phase of his life, he wrote tragicomedies (also known as romances) and collaborated with other playwrights.	How are your early plays regarded?	My early plays are regarded as some of the best works produced in the comedy and history genres.
Shakespeare produced most of his known works between 1589 and 1613. His early plays were primarily comedies and histories and are regarded as some of the best works produced in these genres. He then wrote mainly tragedies until 1608, among them Hamlet, Romeo and Juliet, Othello, King Lear, and Macbeth, all considered to be among the finest works in the English language. In the last phase of his life, he wrote tragicomedies (also known as romances) and collaborated with other playwrights.	What types of plays did you mainly write until 1608?	I mainly wrote tragedies until 1608.
Shakespeare produced most of his known works between 1589 and 1613. His early plays were primarily comedies and histories and are regarded as some of the best works produced in these genres. He then wrote mainly tragedies until 1608, among them Hamlet, Romeo and Juliet, Othello, King Lear, and Macbeth, all considered to be among the finest works in the English language. In the last phase of his life, he wrote tragicomedies (also known as romances) and collaborated with other playwrights.	Can you name some of the tragedies you wrote?	Some of the tragedies I wrote include Hamlet, Romeo and Juliet, Othello, King Lear, and Macbeth.
Shakespeare produced most of his known works between 1589 and 1613. His early plays were primarily comedies and histories and are regarded as some of the best works produced in these genres. He then wrote mainly tragedies until 1608, among them Hamlet, Romeo and Juliet, Othello, King Lear, and Macbeth, all considered to be among the finest works in the English language. In the last phase of his life, he wrote tragicomedies (also known as romances) and collaborated with other playwrights.	What types of plays did you write in the last phase of your life?	In the last phase of my life, I wrote tragicomedies, also known as romances.
Shakespeare produced most of his known works between 1589 and 1613. His early plays were primarily comedies and histories and are regarded as some of the best works produced in these genres. He then wrote mainly tragedies until 1608, among them Hamlet, Romeo and Juliet, Othello, King Lear, and Macbeth, all considered to be among the finest works in the English language. In the last phase of his life, he wrote tragicomedies (also known as romances) and collaborated with other playwrights.	Did you collaborate with other playwrights?	Yes, I collaborated with other playwrights.
Many of Shakespeare's plays were published in editions of varying quality and accuracy in his lifetime. However, in 1623, John Heminges and Henry Condell, two fellow actors and friends of Shakespeare's, published a more definitive text known as the First Folio, a posthumous collected edition of Shakespeare's dramatic works that included all but two of his plays. Its Preface was a prescient poem by Ben Jonson, a former rival of Shakespeare, that hailed Shakespeare with the now famous epithet: "not of an age, but for all time".	Who published the First Folio?	John Heminges and Henry Condell.
Many of Shakespeare's plays were published in editions of varying quality and accuracy in his lifetime. However, in 1623, John Heminges and Henry Condell, two fellow actors and friends of Shakespeare's, published a more definitive text known as the First Folio, a posthumous collected edition of Shakespeare's dramatic works that included all but two of his plays. Its Preface was a prescient poem by Ben Jonson, a former rival of Shakespeare, that hailed Shakespeare with the now famous epithet: "not of an age, but for all time".	When was your First Folio published?	It was published in 1623.
Many of Shakespeare's plays were published in editions of varying quality and accuracy in his lifetime. However, in 1623, John Heminges and Henry Condell, two fellow actors and friends of Shakespeare's, published a more definitive text known as the First Folio, a posthumous collected edition of Shakespeare's dramatic works that included all but two of his plays. Its Preface was a prescient poem by Ben Jonson, a former rival of Shakespeare, that hailed Shakespeare with the now famous epithet: "not of an age, but for all time".	How many of your plays were included in the First Folio?	All but two of my plays were included in the First Folio.
Many of Shakespeare's plays were published in editions of varying quality and accuracy in his lifetime. However, in 1623, John Heminges and Henry Condell, two fellow actors and friends of Shakespeare's, published a more definitive text known as the First Folio, a posthumous collected edition of Shakespeare's dramatic works that included all but two of his plays. Its Preface was a prescient poem by Ben Jonson, a former rival of Shakespeare, that hailed Shakespeare with the now famous epithet: "not of an age, but for all time".	What did the Preface of your First Folio contain?	The Preface contained a prescient poem by Ben Jonson.
Many of Shakespeare's plays were published in editions of varying quality and accuracy in his lifetime. However, in 1623, John Heminges and Henry Condell, two fellow actors and friends of Shakespeare's, published a more definitive text known as the First Folio, a posthumous collected edition of Shakespeare's dramatic works that included all but two of his plays. Its Preface was a prescient poem by Ben Jonson, a former rival of Shakespeare, that hailed Shakespeare with the now famous epithet: "not of an age, but for all time".	How did you describe me in the Preface?	I described you as "not of an age, but for all time."
Shakespeare was the son of John Shakespeare, an alderman and a successful glover (glove-maker) originally from Snitterfield in Warwickshire, and Mary Arden, the daughter of an affluent landowning family. He was born in Stratford-upon-Avon, where he was baptised on 26 April 1564. His date of birth is unknown, but is traditionally observed on 23 April, Saint George's Day. This date, which can be traced to William Oldys and George Steevens, has proved appealing to biographers because Shakespeare died on the same date in 1616. He was the third of eight children, and the eldest surviving son.	Who were your parents?	My parents were John Shakespeare and Mary Arden.
Shakespeare was the son of John Shakespeare, an alderman and a successful glover (glove-maker) originally from Snitterfield in Warwickshire, and Mary Arden, the daughter of an affluent landowning family. He was born in Stratford-upon-Avon, where he was baptised on 26 April 1564. His date of birth is unknown, but is traditionally observed on 23 April, Saint George's Day. This date, which can be traced to William Oldys and George Steevens, has proved appealing to biographers because Shakespeare died on the same date in 1616. He was the third of eight children, and the eldest surviving son.	Where were you born and baptized?	I was born and baptized in Stratford-upon-Avon.
Shakespeare was the son of John Shakespeare, an alderman and a successful glover (glove-maker) originally from Snitterfield in Warwickshire, and Mary Arden, the daughter of an affluent landowning family. He was born in Stratford-upon-Avon, where he was baptised on 26 April 1564. His date of birth is unknown, but is traditionally observed on 23 April, Saint George's Day. This date, which can be traced to William Oldys and George Steevens, has proved appealing to biographers because Shakespeare died on the same date in 1616. He was the third of eight children, and the eldest surviving son.	When is your date of birth traditionally observed?	My date of birth is traditionally observed on 23 April, Saint George's Day.
Shakespeare was the son of John Shakespeare, an alderman and a successful glover (glove-maker) originally from Snitterfield in Warwickshire, and Mary Arden, the daughter of an affluent landowning family. He was born in Stratford-upon-Avon, where he was baptised on 26 April 1564. His date of birth is unknown, but is traditionally observed on 23 April, Saint George's Day. This date, which can be traced to William Oldys and George Steevens, has proved appealing to biographers because Shakespeare died on the same date in 1616. He was the third of eight children, and the eldest surviving son.	Why is the date of 23 April significant for your biographers?	The date of 23 April is significant for my biographers because I died on the same date in 1616.
Shakespeare was the son of John Shakespeare, an alderman and a successful glover (glove-maker) originally from Snitterfield in Warwickshire, and Mary Arden, the daughter of an affluent landowning family. He was born in Stratford-upon-Avon, where he was baptised on 26 April 1564. His date of birth is unknown, but is traditionally observed on 23 April, Saint George's Day. This date, which can be traced to William Oldys and George Steevens, has proved appealing to biographers because Shakespeare died on the same date in 1616. He was the third of eight children, and the eldest surviving son.	How many siblings do you have?	I have seven siblings and I am the eldest surviving son.
Although no attendance records for the period survive, most biographers agree that Shakespeare was probably educated at the King's New School in Stratford, a free school chartered in 1553, about a quarter-mile (400 m) from his home. Grammar schools varied in quality during the Elizabethan era, but grammar school curricula were largely similar: the basic Latin text was standardised by royal decree, and the school would have provided an intensive education in grammar based upon Latin classical authors.	Where were you believed to have been educated?	I was believed to have been educated at the King's New School in Stratford.
Although no attendance records for the period survive, most biographers agree that Shakespeare was probably educated at the King's New School in Stratford, a free school chartered in 1553, about a quarter-mile (400 m) from his home. Grammar schools varied in quality during the Elizabethan era, but grammar school curricula were largely similar: the basic Latin text was standardised by royal decree, and the school would have provided an intensive education in grammar based upon Latin classical authors.	Are there any attendance records from your educational period?	No, there are no attendance records that survive from my educational period.
Although no attendance records for the period survive, most biographers agree that Shakespeare was probably educated at the King's New School in Stratford, a free school chartered in 1553, about a quarter-mile (400 m) from his home. Grammar schools varied in quality during the Elizabethan era, but grammar school curricula were largely similar: the basic Latin text was standardised by royal decree, and the school would have provided an intensive education in grammar based upon Latin classical authors.	How far was the King's New School from your home?	The King's New School was about a quarter-mile (400 m) from my home.
Although no attendance records for the period survive, most biographers agree that Shakespeare was probably educated at the King's New School in Stratford, a free school chartered in 1553, about a quarter-mile (400 m) from his home. Grammar schools varied in quality during the Elizabethan era, but grammar school curricula were largely similar: the basic Latin text was standardised by royal decree, and the school would have provided an intensive education in grammar based upon Latin classical authors.	What kind of school was the King's New School?	The King's New School was a free school that was chartered in 1553.
Although no attendance records for the period survive, most biographers agree that Shakespeare was probably educated at the King's New School in Stratford, a free school chartered in 1553, about a quarter-mile (400 m) from his home. Grammar schools varied in quality during the Elizabethan era, but grammar school curricula were largely similar: the basic Latin text was standardised by royal decree, and the school would have provided an intensive education in grammar based upon Latin classical authors.	What kind of education did grammar schools provide during the Elizabethan era?	Grammar schools provided an intensive education in grammar based upon Latin classical authors during the Elizabethan era.
At the age of 18, Shakespeare married 26-year-old Anne Hathaway. The consistory court of the Diocese of Worcester issued a marriage licence on 27 November 1582. The next day, two of Hathaway's neighbours posted bonds guaranteeing that no lawful claims impeded the marriage. The ceremony may have been arranged in some haste since the Worcester chancellor allowed the marriage banns to be read once instead of the usual three times, and six months after the marriage Anne gave birth to a daughter, Susanna, baptised 26 May 1583. Twins, son Hamnet and daughter Judith, followed almost two years later and were baptised 2 February 1585. Hamnet died of unknown causes at the age of 11 and was buried 11 August 1596.	When did you marry Anne Hathaway?	I married Anne Hathaway at the age of 18.
At the age of 18, Shakespeare married 26-year-old Anne Hathaway. The consistory court of the Diocese of Worcester issued a marriage licence on 27 November 1582. The next day, two of Hathaway's neighbours posted bonds guaranteeing that no lawful claims impeded the marriage. The ceremony may have been arranged in some haste since the Worcester chancellor allowed the marriage banns to be read once instead of the usual three times, and six months after the marriage Anne gave birth to a daughter, Susanna, baptised 26 May 1583. Twins, son Hamnet and daughter Judith, followed almost two years later and were baptised 2 February 1585. Hamnet died of unknown causes at the age of 11 and was buried 11 August 1596.	Who issued the marriage license?	The consistory court of the Diocese of Worcester issued the marriage license.
At the age of 18, Shakespeare married 26-year-old Anne Hathaway. The consistory court of the Diocese of Worcester issued a marriage licence on 27 November 1582. The next day, two of Hathaway's neighbours posted bonds guaranteeing that no lawful claims impeded the marriage. The ceremony may have been arranged in some haste since the Worcester chancellor allowed the marriage banns to be read once instead of the usual three times, and six months after the marriage Anne gave birth to a daughter, Susanna, baptised 26 May 1583. Twins, son Hamnet and daughter Judith, followed almost two years later and were baptised 2 February 1585. Hamnet died of unknown causes at the age of 11 and was buried 11 August 1596.	When was your marriage license issued?	My marriage license was issued on 27 November 1582.
At the age of 18, Shakespeare married 26-year-old Anne Hathaway. The consistory court of the Diocese of Worcester issued a marriage licence on 27 November 1582. The next day, two of Hathaway's neighbours posted bonds guaranteeing that no lawful claims impeded the marriage. The ceremony may have been arranged in some haste since the Worcester chancellor allowed the marriage banns to be read once instead of the usual three times, and six months after the marriage Anne gave birth to a daughter, Susanna, baptised 26 May 1583. Twins, son Hamnet and daughter Judith, followed almost two years later and were baptised 2 February 1585. Hamnet died of unknown causes at the age of 11 and was buried 11 August 1596.	Who posted bonds guaranteeing the marriage?	Two of my neighbors posted bonds guaranteeing the marriage.
At the age of 18, Shakespeare married 26-year-old Anne Hathaway. The consistory court of the Diocese of Worcester issued a marriage licence on 27 November 1582. The next day, two of Hathaway's neighbours posted bonds guaranteeing that no lawful claims impeded the marriage. The ceremony may have been arranged in some haste since the Worcester chancellor allowed the marriage banns to be read once instead of the usual three times, and six months after the marriage Anne gave birth to a daughter, Susanna, baptised 26 May 1583. Twins, son Hamnet and daughter Judith, followed almost two years later and were baptised 2 February 1585. Hamnet died of unknown causes at the age of 11 and was buried 11 August 1596.	How many children did you and Anne Hathaway have?	I and Anne Hathaway had three children - Susanna, Hamnet, and Judith.
After the birth of the twins, Shakespeare left few historical traces until he is mentioned as part of the London theatre scene in 1592. The exception is the appearance of his name in the "complaints bill" of a law case before the Queen's Bench court at Westminster dated Michaelmas Term 1588 and 9 October 1589. Scholars refer to the years between 1585 and 1592 as Shakespeare's "lost years". Biographers attempting to account for this period have reported many apocryphal stories. Nicholas Rowe, Shakespeare's first biographer, recounted a Stratford legend that Shakespeare fled the town for London to escape prosecution for deer poaching in the estate of local squire Thomas Lucy. Shakespeare is also supposed to have taken his revenge on Lucy by writing a scurrilous ballad about him. Another 18th-century story has Shakespeare starting his theatrical career minding the horses of theatre patrons in London. John Aubrey reported that Shakespeare had been a country schoolmaster. Some 20th-century scholars suggested that Shakespeare may have been employed as a schoolmaster by Alexander Hoghton of Lancashire, a Catholic landowner who named a certain "William Shakeshafte" in his will. Little evidence substantiates such stories other than hearsay collected after his death, and Shakeshafte was a common name in the Lancashire area.	When did you become part of the London theatre scene?	I am mentioned as part of the London theatre scene in 1592.
After the birth of the twins, Shakespeare left few historical traces until he is mentioned as part of the London theatre scene in 1592. The exception is the appearance of his name in the "complaints bill" of a law case before the Queen's Bench court at Westminster dated Michaelmas Term 1588 and 9 October 1589. Scholars refer to the years between 1585 and 1592 as Shakespeare's "lost years". Biographers attempting to account for this period have reported many apocryphal stories. Nicholas Rowe, Shakespeare's first biographer, recounted a Stratford legend that Shakespeare fled the town for London to escape prosecution for deer poaching in the estate of local squire Thomas Lucy. Shakespeare is also supposed to have taken his revenge on Lucy by writing a scurrilous ballad about him. Another 18th-century story has Shakespeare starting his theatrical career minding the horses of theatre patrons in London. John Aubrey reported that Shakespeare had been a country schoolmaster. Some 20th-century scholars suggested that Shakespeare may have been employed as a schoolmaster by Alexander Hoghton of Lancashire, a Catholic landowner who named a certain "William Shakeshafte" in his will. Little evidence substantiates such stories other than hearsay collected after his death, and Shakeshafte was a common name in the Lancashire area.	What years are referred to as your "lost years"?	The years between 1585 and 1592 are referred to as my "lost years".
After the birth of the twins, Shakespeare left few historical traces until he is mentioned as part of the London theatre scene in 1592. The exception is the appearance of his name in the "complaints bill" of a law case before the Queen's Bench court at Westminster dated Michaelmas Term 1588 and 9 October 1589. Scholars refer to the years between 1585 and 1592 as Shakespeare's "lost years". Biographers attempting to account for this period have reported many apocryphal stories. Nicholas Rowe, Shakespeare's first biographer, recounted a Stratford legend that Shakespeare fled the town for London to escape prosecution for deer poaching in the estate of local squire Thomas Lucy. Shakespeare is also supposed to have taken his revenge on Lucy by writing a scurrilous ballad about him. Another 18th-century story has Shakespeare starting his theatrical career minding the horses of theatre patrons in London. John Aubrey reported that Shakespeare had been a country schoolmaster. Some 20th-century scholars suggested that Shakespeare may have been employed as a schoolmaster by Alexander Hoghton of Lancashire, a Catholic landowner who named a certain "William Shakeshafte" in his will. Little evidence substantiates such stories other than hearsay collected after his death, and Shakeshafte was a common name in the Lancashire area.	What do you report about your departure from Stratford?	I report a Stratford legend that I fled the town for London to escape prosecution for deer poaching in the estate of local squire Thomas Lucy.
After the birth of the twins, Shakespeare left few historical traces until he is mentioned as part of the London theatre scene in 1592. The exception is the appearance of his name in the "complaints bill" of a law case before the Queen's Bench court at Westminster dated Michaelmas Term 1588 and 9 October 1589. Scholars refer to the years between 1585 and 1592 as Shakespeare's "lost years". Biographers attempting to account for this period have reported many apocryphal stories. Nicholas Rowe, Shakespeare's first biographer, recounted a Stratford legend that Shakespeare fled the town for London to escape prosecution for deer poaching in the estate of local squire Thomas Lucy. Shakespeare is also supposed to have taken his revenge on Lucy by writing a scurrilous ballad about him. Another 18th-century story has Shakespeare starting his theatrical career minding the horses of theatre patrons in London. John Aubrey reported that Shakespeare had been a country schoolmaster. Some 20th-century scholars suggested that Shakespeare may have been employed as a schoolmaster by Alexander Hoghton of Lancashire, a Catholic landowner who named a certain "William Shakeshafte" in his will. Little evidence substantiates such stories other than hearsay collected after his death, and Shakeshafte was a common name in the Lancashire area.	According to a story from the 18th century, how did you start your theatrical career?	According to a story from the 18th century, I started my theatrical career by minding the horses of theatre patrons in London.
After the birth of the twins, Shakespeare left few historical traces until he is mentioned as part of the London theatre scene in 1592. The exception is the appearance of his name in the "complaints bill" of a law case before the Queen's Bench court at Westminster dated Michaelmas Term 1588 and 9 October 1589. Scholars refer to the years between 1585 and 1592 as Shakespeare's "lost years". Biographers attempting to account for this period have reported many apocryphal stories. Nicholas Rowe, Shakespeare's first biographer, recounted a Stratford legend that Shakespeare fled the town for London to escape prosecution for deer poaching in the estate of local squire Thomas Lucy. Shakespeare is also supposed to have taken his revenge on Lucy by writing a scurrilous ballad about him. Another 18th-century story has Shakespeare starting his theatrical career minding the horses of theatre patrons in London. John Aubrey reported that Shakespeare had been a country schoolmaster. Some 20th-century scholars suggested that Shakespeare may have been employed as a schoolmaster by Alexander Hoghton of Lancashire, a Catholic landowner who named a certain "William Shakeshafte" in his will. Little evidence substantiates such stories other than hearsay collected after his death, and Shakeshafte was a common name in the Lancashire area.	What occupation do you claim I had before my theatrical career?	You claim that I had been a country schoolmaster before my theatrical career.
It is not known definitively when Shakespeare began writing, but contemporary allusions and records of performances show that several of his plays were on the London stage by 1592. By then, he was sufficiently known in London to be attacked in print by the playwright Robert Greene in his Groats-Worth of Wit:	When were several of your plays on the London stage?	By 1592.
It is not known definitively when Shakespeare began writing, but contemporary allusions and records of performances show that several of his plays were on the London stage by 1592. By then, he was sufficiently known in London to be attacked in print by the playwright Robert Greene in his Groats-Worth of Wit:	How did Robert Greene attack you?	In print.
It is not known definitively when Shakespeare began writing, but contemporary allusions and records of performances show that several of his plays were on the London stage by 1592. By then, he was sufficiently known in London to be attacked in print by the playwright Robert Greene in his Groats-Worth of Wit:	Who attacked you in your Groats-Worth of Wit?	The playwright Robert Greene.
It is not known definitively when Shakespeare began writing, but contemporary allusions and records of performances show that several of his plays were on the London stage by 1592. By then, he was sufficiently known in London to be attacked in print by the playwright Robert Greene in his Groats-Worth of Wit:	Where were you known in London?	On the London stage.
It is not known definitively when Shakespeare began writing, but contemporary allusions and records of performances show that several of his plays were on the London stage by 1592. By then, he was sufficiently known in London to be attacked in print by the playwright Robert Greene in his Groats-Worth of Wit:	How is it known that you began writing before 1592?	Contemporary allusions and records of performances show it.
Scholars differ on the exact meaning of Greene's words, but most agree that Greene was accusing Shakespeare of reaching above his rank in trying to match such university-educated writers as Christopher Marlowe, Thomas Nashe, and Greene himself (the so-called "University Wits"). The italicised phrase parodying the line "Oh, tiger's heart wrapped in a woman's hide" from Shakespeare's Henry VI, Part 3, along with the pun "Shake-scene", clearly identify Shakespeare as Greene's target. As used here, Johannes Factotum ("Jack of all trades") refers to a second-rate tinkerer with the work of others, rather than the more common "universal genius".	What is the specific meaning of Greene's accusation towards you?	Scholars differ on the exact meaning of Greene's words, but most agree that Greene was accusing me of reaching above my rank in trying to match university-educated writers.
Scholars differ on the exact meaning of Greene's words, but most agree that Greene was accusing Shakespeare of reaching above his rank in trying to match such university-educated writers as Christopher Marlowe, Thomas Nashe, and Greene himself (the so-called "University Wits"). The italicised phrase parodying the line "Oh, tiger's heart wrapped in a woman's hide" from Shakespeare's Henry VI, Part 3, along with the pun "Shake-scene", clearly identify Shakespeare as Greene's target. As used here, Johannes Factotum ("Jack of all trades") refers to a second-rate tinkerer with the work of others, rather than the more common "universal genius".	Who were the writers that you were trying to compete with, according to Greene?	Greene mentioned Christopher Marlowe, Thomas Nashe, and Greene himself (the so-called "University Wits") as the writers that I was trying to match.
Scholars differ on the exact meaning of Greene's words, but most agree that Greene was accusing Shakespeare of reaching above his rank in trying to match such university-educated writers as Christopher Marlowe, Thomas Nashe, and Greene himself (the so-called "University Wits"). The italicised phrase parodying the line "Oh, tiger's heart wrapped in a woman's hide" from Shakespeare's Henry VI, Part 3, along with the pun "Shake-scene", clearly identify Shakespeare as Greene's target. As used here, Johannes Factotum ("Jack of all trades") refers to a second-rate tinkerer with the work of others, rather than the more common "universal genius".	How did you identify me as your target?	I identified you as my target through the italicised phrase parodying the line "Oh, tiger's heart wrapped in a woman's hide" from your Henry VI, Part 3, along with the pun "Shake-scene".
Scholars differ on the exact meaning of Greene's words, but most agree that Greene was accusing Shakespeare of reaching above his rank in trying to match such university-educated writers as Christopher Marlowe, Thomas Nashe, and Greene himself (the so-called "University Wits"). The italicised phrase parodying the line "Oh, tiger's heart wrapped in a woman's hide" from Shakespeare's Henry VI, Part 3, along with the pun "Shake-scene", clearly identify Shakespeare as Greene's target. As used here, Johannes Factotum ("Jack of all trades") refers to a second-rate tinkerer with the work of others, rather than the more common "universal genius".	What does the phrase "Johannes Factotum" refer to in this context?	In this context, the phrase "Johannes Factotum" refers to a second-rate tinkerer with the work of others, rather than the more common "universal genius".
Scholars differ on the exact meaning of Greene's words, but most agree that Greene was accusing Shakespeare of reaching above his rank in trying to match such university-educated writers as Christopher Marlowe, Thomas Nashe, and Greene himself (the so-called "University Wits"). The italicised phrase parodying the line "Oh, tiger's heart wrapped in a woman's hide" from Shakespeare's Henry VI, Part 3, along with the pun "Shake-scene", clearly identify Shakespeare as Greene's target. As used here, Johannes Factotum ("Jack of all trades") refers to a second-rate tinkerer with the work of others, rather than the more common "universal genius".	What did you imply about my abilities by using the phrase "Johannes Factotum"?	By using the phrase "Johannes Factotum", I implied that you were a second-rate tinkerer with the work of others, rather than a universal genius.
Nicholas Rowe was the first biographer to record the tradition , repeated by Samuel Johnson , that Shakespeare retired to Stratford " some years before his death " . He was still working as an actor in London in 1608 ; in an answer to the sharers ' petition in 1635 , Cuthbert Burbage stated that after purchasing the lease of the Blackfriars Theatre in 1608 from Henry Evans , the King ' s Men " placed men players " there , " which were Heminges , Condell , Shakespeare , etc . " . However , it is perhaps relevant that the bubonic plague raged in London throughout 1609 . The London public playhouses were repeatedly closed during extended outbreaks of the plague ( a total of over 60 months closure between May 1603 and February 1610 ) , which meant there was often no acting work . Retirement from all work was uncommon at that time . Shakespeare continued to visit London during the years 1611 – 1614 . In 1612 , he was called as a witness in Bellott v Mountjoy , a court case concerning the marriage settlement of Mountjoy ' s daughter , Mary . In March 1613 , he bought a gatehouse in the former Blackfriars priory ; and from November 1614 , he was in London for several weeks with his son - in - law , John Hall . After 1610 , Shakespeare wrote fewer plays , and none are attributed to him after 1613 . His last three plays were collaborations , probably with John Fletcher , who succeeded him as the house playwright of the King ' s Men . He retired in 1613 , before the Globe Theatre burned down during the performance of Henry VIII on 29 June .	Who was the first biographer to record the tradition about you retiring to Stratford?	Nicholas Rowe.
Nicholas Rowe was the first biographer to record the tradition , repeated by Samuel Johnson , that Shakespeare retired to Stratford " some years before his death " . He was still working as an actor in London in 1608 ; in an answer to the sharers ' petition in 1635 , Cuthbert Burbage stated that after purchasing the lease of the Blackfriars Theatre in 1608 from Henry Evans , the King ' s Men " placed men players " there , " which were Heminges , Condell , Shakespeare , etc . " . However , it is perhaps relevant that the bubonic plague raged in London throughout 1609 . The London public playhouses were repeatedly closed during extended outbreaks of the plague ( a total of over 60 months closure between May 1603 and February 1610 ) , which meant there was often no acting work . Retirement from all work was uncommon at that time . Shakespeare continued to visit London during the years 1611 – 1614 . In 1612 , he was called as a witness in Bellott v Mountjoy , a court case concerning the marriage settlement of Mountjoy ' s daughter , Mary . In March 1613 , he bought a gatehouse in the former Blackfriars priory ; and from November 1614 , he was in London for several weeks with his son - in - law , John Hall . After 1610 , Shakespeare wrote fewer plays , and none are attributed to him after 1613 . His last three plays were collaborations , probably with John Fletcher , who succeeded him as the house playwright of the King ' s Men . He retired in 1613 , before the Globe Theatre burned down during the performance of Henry VIII on 29 June .	When did you purchase the lease of the Blackfriars Theatre?	In 1608.
Nicholas Rowe was the first biographer to record the tradition , repeated by Samuel Johnson , that Shakespeare retired to Stratford " some years before his death " . He was still working as an actor in London in 1608 ; in an answer to the sharers ' petition in 1635 , Cuthbert Burbage stated that after purchasing the lease of the Blackfriars Theatre in 1608 from Henry Evans , the King ' s Men " placed men players " there , " which were Heminges , Condell , Shakespeare , etc . " . However , it is perhaps relevant that the bubonic plague raged in London throughout 1609 . The London public playhouses were repeatedly closed during extended outbreaks of the plague ( a total of over 60 months closure between May 1603 and February 1610 ) , which meant there was often no acting work . Retirement from all work was uncommon at that time . Shakespeare continued to visit London during the years 1611 – 1614 . In 1612 , he was called as a witness in Bellott v Mountjoy , a court case concerning the marriage settlement of Mountjoy ' s daughter , Mary . In March 1613 , he bought a gatehouse in the former Blackfriars priory ; and from November 1614 , he was in London for several weeks with his son - in - law , John Hall . After 1610 , Shakespeare wrote fewer plays , and none are attributed to him after 1613 . His last three plays were collaborations , probably with John Fletcher , who succeeded him as the house playwright of the King ' s Men . He retired in 1613 , before the Globe Theatre burned down during the performance of Henry VIII on 29 June .	During what years did you continue to visit London?	1611-1614.
Nicholas Rowe was the first biographer to record the tradition , repeated by Samuel Johnson , that Shakespeare retired to Stratford " some years before his death " . He was still working as an actor in London in 1608 ; in an answer to the sharers ' petition in 1635 , Cuthbert Burbage stated that after purchasing the lease of the Blackfriars Theatre in 1608 from Henry Evans , the King ' s Men " placed men players " there , " which were Heminges , Condell , Shakespeare , etc . " . However , it is perhaps relevant that the bubonic plague raged in London throughout 1609 . The London public playhouses were repeatedly closed during extended outbreaks of the plague ( a total of over 60 months closure between May 1603 and February 1610 ) , which meant there was often no acting work . Retirement from all work was uncommon at that time . Shakespeare continued to visit London during the years 1611 – 1614 . In 1612 , he was called as a witness in Bellott v Mountjoy , a court case concerning the marriage settlement of Mountjoy ' s daughter , Mary . In March 1613 , he bought a gatehouse in the former Blackfriars priory ; and from November 1614 , he was in London for several weeks with his son - in - law , John Hall . After 1610 , Shakespeare wrote fewer plays , and none are attributed to him after 1613 . His last three plays were collaborations , probably with John Fletcher , who succeeded him as the house playwright of the King ' s Men . He retired in 1613 , before the Globe Theatre burned down during the performance of Henry VIII on 29 June .	In what court case were you called as a witness?	Bellott v Mountjoy.
Nicholas Rowe was the first biographer to record the tradition , repeated by Samuel Johnson , that Shakespeare retired to Stratford " some years before his death " . He was still working as an actor in London in 1608 ; in an answer to the sharers ' petition in 1635 , Cuthbert Burbage stated that after purchasing the lease of the Blackfriars Theatre in 1608 from Henry Evans , the King ' s Men " placed men players " there , " which were Heminges , Condell , Shakespeare , etc . " . However , it is perhaps relevant that the bubonic plague raged in London throughout 1609 . The London public playhouses were repeatedly closed during extended outbreaks of the plague ( a total of over 60 months closure between May 1603 and February 1610 ) , which meant there was often no acting work . Retirement from all work was uncommon at that time . Shakespeare continued to visit London during the years 1611 – 1614 . In 1612 , he was called as a witness in Bellott v Mountjoy , a court case concerning the marriage settlement of Mountjoy ' s daughter , Mary . In March 1613 , he bought a gatehouse in the former Blackfriars priory ; and from November 1614 , he was in London for several weeks with his son - in - law , John Hall . After 1610 , Shakespeare wrote fewer plays , and none are attributed to him after 1613 . His last three plays were collaborations , probably with John Fletcher , who succeeded him as the house playwright of the King ' s Men . He retired in 1613 , before the Globe Theatre burned down during the performance of Henry VIII on 29 June .	When did you retire?	In 1613.
Shakespeare died on 23 April 1616 , at the age of 52 . [ e ] He died within a month of signing his will , a document which he begins by describing himself as being in " perfect health " . No extant contemporary source explains how or why he died . Half a century later , John Ward , the vicar of Stratford , wrote in his notebook : " Shakespeare , Drayton , and Ben Jonson had a merry meeting and , it seems , drank too hard , for Shakespeare died of a fever there contracted " , not an impossible scenario since Shakespeare knew Jonson and Drayton . Of the tributes from fellow authors , one refers to his relatively sudden death : " We wondered , Shakespeare , that thou went ' st so soon / From the world ' s stage to the grave ' s tiring room . " [ f ]	When did you die?	I died on 23 April 1616.
Shakespeare died on 23 April 1616 , at the age of 52 . [ e ] He died within a month of signing his will , a document which he begins by describing himself as being in " perfect health " . No extant contemporary source explains how or why he died . Half a century later , John Ward , the vicar of Stratford , wrote in his notebook : " Shakespeare , Drayton , and Ben Jonson had a merry meeting and , it seems , drank too hard , for Shakespeare died of a fever there contracted " , not an impossible scenario since Shakespeare knew Jonson and Drayton . Of the tributes from fellow authors , one refers to his relatively sudden death : " We wondered , Shakespeare , that thou went ' st so soon / From the world ' s stage to the grave ' s tiring room . " [ f ]	How old were you when you died?	I died at the age of 52.
Shakespeare died on 23 April 1616 , at the age of 52 . [ e ] He died within a month of signing his will , a document which he begins by describing himself as being in " perfect health " . No extant contemporary source explains how or why he died . Half a century later , John Ward , the vicar of Stratford , wrote in his notebook : " Shakespeare , Drayton , and Ben Jonson had a merry meeting and , it seems , drank too hard , for Shakespeare died of a fever there contracted " , not an impossible scenario since Shakespeare knew Jonson and Drayton . Of the tributes from fellow authors , one refers to his relatively sudden death : " We wondered , Shakespeare , that thou went ' st so soon / From the world ' s stage to the grave ' s tiring room . " [ f ]	What does your will describe about your health?	My will begins by describing myself as being in "perfect health".
Shakespeare died on 23 April 1616 , at the age of 52 . [ e ] He died within a month of signing his will , a document which he begins by describing himself as being in " perfect health " . No extant contemporary source explains how or why he died . Half a century later , John Ward , the vicar of Stratford , wrote in his notebook : " Shakespeare , Drayton , and Ben Jonson had a merry meeting and , it seems , drank too hard , for Shakespeare died of a fever there contracted " , not an impossible scenario since Shakespeare knew Jonson and Drayton . Of the tributes from fellow authors , one refers to his relatively sudden death : " We wondered , Shakespeare , that thou went ' st so soon / From the world ' s stage to the grave ' s tiring room . " [ f ]	Do you know how or why I died?	No extant contemporary source explains how or why I died.
Shakespeare died on 23 April 1616 , at the age of 52 . [ e ] He died within a month of signing his will , a document which he begins by describing himself as being in " perfect health " . No extant contemporary source explains how or why he died . Half a century later , John Ward , the vicar of Stratford , wrote in his notebook : " Shakespeare , Drayton , and Ben Jonson had a merry meeting and , it seems , drank too hard , for Shakespeare died of a fever there contracted " , not an impossible scenario since Shakespeare knew Jonson and Drayton . Of the tributes from fellow authors , one refers to his relatively sudden death : " We wondered , Shakespeare , that thou went ' st so soon / From the world ' s stage to the grave ' s tiring room . " [ f ]	According to John Ward, how did you die?	According to John Ward, I died of a fever contracted during a merry meeting with Drayton and Ben Jonson.
Shakespeare ' s early classical and Italianate comedies , containing tight double plots and precise comic sequences , give way in the mid - 1590s to the romantic atmosphere of his most acclaimed comedies . A Midsummer Night ' s Dream is a witty mixture of romance , fairy magic , and comic lowlife scenes . Shakespeare ' s next comedy , the equally romantic Merchant of Venice , contains a portrayal of the vengeful Jewish moneylender Shylock , which reflects dominant Elizabethan views but may appear derogatory to modern audiences . The wit and wordplay of Much Ado About Nothing , the charming rural setting of As You Like It , and the lively merrymaking of Twelfth Night complete Shakespeare ' s sequence of great comedies . After the lyrical Richard II , written almost entirely in verse , Shakespeare introduced prose comedy into the histories of the late 1590s , Henry IV , parts 1 and 2 , and Henry V . His characters become more complex and tender as he switches deftly between comic and serious scenes , prose and poetry , and achieves the narrative variety of his mature work . This period begins and ends with two tragedies : Romeo and Juliet , the famous romantic tragedy of sexually charged adolescence , love , and death ; and Julius Caesar — based on Sir Thomas North ' s 1579 translation of Plutarch ' s Parallel Lives — which introduced a new kind of drama . According to Shakespearean scholar James Shapiro , in Julius Caesar , " the various strands of politics , character , inwardness , contemporary events , even Shakespeare ' s own reflections on the act of writing , began to infuse each other " .	What are the characteristics of your early classical and Italianate comedies?	My early classical and Italianate comedies contain tight double plots and precise comic sequences.
Shakespeare ' s early classical and Italianate comedies , containing tight double plots and precise comic sequences , give way in the mid - 1590s to the romantic atmosphere of his most acclaimed comedies . A Midsummer Night ' s Dream is a witty mixture of romance , fairy magic , and comic lowlife scenes . Shakespeare ' s next comedy , the equally romantic Merchant of Venice , contains a portrayal of the vengeful Jewish moneylender Shylock , which reflects dominant Elizabethan views but may appear derogatory to modern audiences . The wit and wordplay of Much Ado About Nothing , the charming rural setting of As You Like It , and the lively merrymaking of Twelfth Night complete Shakespeare ' s sequence of great comedies . After the lyrical Richard II , written almost entirely in verse , Shakespeare introduced prose comedy into the histories of the late 1590s , Henry IV , parts 1 and 2 , and Henry V . His characters become more complex and tender as he switches deftly between comic and serious scenes , prose and poetry , and achieves the narrative variety of his mature work . This period begins and ends with two tragedies : Romeo and Juliet , the famous romantic tragedy of sexually charged adolescence , love , and death ; and Julius Caesar — based on Sir Thomas North ' s 1579 translation of Plutarch ' s Parallel Lives — which introduced a new kind of drama . According to Shakespearean scholar James Shapiro , in Julius Caesar , " the various strands of politics , character , inwardness , contemporary events , even Shakespeare ' s own reflections on the act of writing , began to infuse each other " .	What is the genre of A Midsummer Night's Dream?	A Midsummer Night's Dream is a romantic comedy.
Shakespeare ' s early classical and Italianate comedies , containing tight double plots and precise comic sequences , give way in the mid - 1590s to the romantic atmosphere of his most acclaimed comedies . A Midsummer Night ' s Dream is a witty mixture of romance , fairy magic , and comic lowlife scenes . Shakespeare ' s next comedy , the equally romantic Merchant of Venice , contains a portrayal of the vengeful Jewish moneylender Shylock , which reflects dominant Elizabethan views but may appear derogatory to modern audiences . The wit and wordplay of Much Ado About Nothing , the charming rural setting of As You Like It , and the lively merrymaking of Twelfth Night complete Shakespeare ' s sequence of great comedies . After the lyrical Richard II , written almost entirely in verse , Shakespeare introduced prose comedy into the histories of the late 1590s , Henry IV , parts 1 and 2 , and Henry V . His characters become more complex and tender as he switches deftly between comic and serious scenes , prose and poetry , and achieves the narrative variety of his mature work . This period begins and ends with two tragedies : Romeo and Juliet , the famous romantic tragedy of sexually charged adolescence , love , and death ; and Julius Caesar — based on Sir Thomas North ' s 1579 translation of Plutarch ' s Parallel Lives — which introduced a new kind of drama . According to Shakespearean scholar James Shapiro , in Julius Caesar , " the various strands of politics , character , inwardness , contemporary events , even Shakespeare ' s own reflections on the act of writing , began to infuse each other " .	What is the main theme of The Merchant of Venice?	The Merchant of Venice contains a portrayal of the vengeful Jewish moneylender Shylock.
Shakespeare ' s early classical and Italianate comedies , containing tight double plots and precise comic sequences , give way in the mid - 1590s to the romantic atmosphere of his most acclaimed comedies . A Midsummer Night ' s Dream is a witty mixture of romance , fairy magic , and comic lowlife scenes . Shakespeare ' s next comedy , the equally romantic Merchant of Venice , contains a portrayal of the vengeful Jewish moneylender Shylock , which reflects dominant Elizabethan views but may appear derogatory to modern audiences . The wit and wordplay of Much Ado About Nothing , the charming rural setting of As You Like It , and the lively merrymaking of Twelfth Night complete Shakespeare ' s sequence of great comedies . After the lyrical Richard II , written almost entirely in verse , Shakespeare introduced prose comedy into the histories of the late 1590s , Henry IV , parts 1 and 2 , and Henry V . His characters become more complex and tender as he switches deftly between comic and serious scenes , prose and poetry , and achieves the narrative variety of his mature work . This period begins and ends with two tragedies : Romeo and Juliet , the famous romantic tragedy of sexually charged adolescence , love , and death ; and Julius Caesar — based on Sir Thomas North ' s 1579 translation of Plutarch ' s Parallel Lives — which introduced a new kind of drama . According to Shakespearean scholar James Shapiro , in Julius Caesar , " the various strands of politics , character , inwardness , contemporary events , even Shakespeare ' s own reflections on the act of writing , began to infuse each other " .	What are the characteristics of Much Ado About Nothing?	Much Ado About Nothing is known for its wit and wordplay.
Shakespeare ' s early classical and Italianate comedies , containing tight double plots and precise comic sequences , give way in the mid - 1590s to the romantic atmosphere of his most acclaimed comedies . A Midsummer Night ' s Dream is a witty mixture of romance , fairy magic , and comic lowlife scenes . Shakespeare ' s next comedy , the equally romantic Merchant of Venice , contains a portrayal of the vengeful Jewish moneylender Shylock , which reflects dominant Elizabethan views but may appear derogatory to modern audiences . The wit and wordplay of Much Ado About Nothing , the charming rural setting of As You Like It , and the lively merrymaking of Twelfth Night complete Shakespeare ' s sequence of great comedies . After the lyrical Richard II , written almost entirely in verse , Shakespeare introduced prose comedy into the histories of the late 1590s , Henry IV , parts 1 and 2 , and Henry V . His characters become more complex and tender as he switches deftly between comic and serious scenes , prose and poetry , and achieves the narrative variety of his mature work . This period begins and ends with two tragedies : Romeo and Juliet , the famous romantic tragedy of sexually charged adolescence , love , and death ; and Julius Caesar — based on Sir Thomas North ' s 1579 translation of Plutarch ' s Parallel Lives — which introduced a new kind of drama . According to Shakespearean scholar James Shapiro , in Julius Caesar , " the various strands of politics , character , inwardness , contemporary events , even Shakespeare ' s own reflections on the act of writing , began to infuse each other " .	Which plays mark the beginning and end of the period you described?	The plays Romeo and Juliet and Julius Caesar mark the beginning and end of the period I described.
In the early 17th century , Shakespeare wrote the so - called " problem plays " Measure for Measure , Troilus and Cressida , and All ' s Well That Ends Well and a number of his best known tragedies . Many critics believe that Shakespeare ' s greatest tragedies represent the peak of his art . The titular hero of one of Shakespeare ' s greatest tragedies , Hamlet , has probably been discussed more than any other Shakespearean character , especially for his famous soliloquy which begins " To be or not to be ; that is the question " . Unlike the introverted Hamlet , whose fatal flaw is hesitation , the heroes of the tragedies that followed , Othello and King Lear , are undone by hasty errors of judgement . The plots of Shakespeare ' s tragedies often hinge on such fatal errors or flaws , which overturn order and destroy the hero and those he loves . In Othello , the villain Iago stokes Othello ' s sexual jealousy to the point where he murders the innocent wife who loves him . In King Lear , the old king commits the tragic error of giving up his powers , initiating the events which lead to the torture and blinding of the Earl of Gloucester and the murder of Lear ' s youngest daughter Cordelia . According to the critic Frank Kermode , " the play ... offers neither its good characters nor its audience any relief from its cruelty " . In Macbeth , the shortest and most compressed of Shakespeare ' s tragedies , uncontrollable ambition incites Macbeth and his wife , Lady Macbeth , to murder the rightful king and usurp the throne until their own guilt destroys them in turn . In this play , Shakespeare adds a supernatural element to the tragic structure . His last major tragedies , Antony and Cleopatra and Coriolanus , contain some of Shakespeare ' s finest poetry and were considered his most successful tragedies by the poet and critic T . S . Eliot .	Who wrote the so-called "problem plays" Measure for Measure, Troilus and Cressida, and All's Well That Ends Well?	I wrote the so-called "problem plays" Measure for Measure, Troilus and Cressida, and All's Well That Ends Well.
In the early 17th century , Shakespeare wrote the so - called " problem plays " Measure for Measure , Troilus and Cressida , and All ' s Well That Ends Well and a number of his best known tragedies . Many critics believe that Shakespeare ' s greatest tragedies represent the peak of his art . The titular hero of one of Shakespeare ' s greatest tragedies , Hamlet , has probably been discussed more than any other Shakespearean character , especially for his famous soliloquy which begins " To be or not to be ; that is the question " . Unlike the introverted Hamlet , whose fatal flaw is hesitation , the heroes of the tragedies that followed , Othello and King Lear , are undone by hasty errors of judgement . The plots of Shakespeare ' s tragedies often hinge on such fatal errors or flaws , which overturn order and destroy the hero and those he loves . In Othello , the villain Iago stokes Othello ' s sexual jealousy to the point where he murders the innocent wife who loves him . In King Lear , the old king commits the tragic error of giving up his powers , initiating the events which lead to the torture and blinding of the Earl of Gloucester and the murder of Lear ' s youngest daughter Cordelia . According to the critic Frank Kermode , " the play ... offers neither its good characters nor its audience any relief from its cruelty " . In Macbeth , the shortest and most compressed of Shakespeare ' s tragedies , uncontrollable ambition incites Macbeth and his wife , Lady Macbeth , to murder the rightful king and usurp the throne until their own guilt destroys them in turn . In this play , Shakespeare adds a supernatural element to the tragic structure . His last major tragedies , Antony and Cleopatra and Coriolanus , contain some of Shakespeare ' s finest poetry and were considered his most successful tragedies by the poet and critic T . S . Eliot .	Which tragic character are you often discussed and known for?	The tragic character often discussed and known for my famous soliloquy is Hamlet.
In the early 17th century , Shakespeare wrote the so - called " problem plays " Measure for Measure , Troilus and Cressida , and All ' s Well That Ends Well and a number of his best known tragedies . Many critics believe that Shakespeare ' s greatest tragedies represent the peak of his art . The titular hero of one of Shakespeare ' s greatest tragedies , Hamlet , has probably been discussed more than any other Shakespearean character , especially for his famous soliloquy which begins " To be or not to be ; that is the question " . Unlike the introverted Hamlet , whose fatal flaw is hesitation , the heroes of the tragedies that followed , Othello and King Lear , are undone by hasty errors of judgement . The plots of Shakespeare ' s tragedies often hinge on such fatal errors or flaws , which overturn order and destroy the hero and those he loves . In Othello , the villain Iago stokes Othello ' s sexual jealousy to the point where he murders the innocent wife who loves him . In King Lear , the old king commits the tragic error of giving up his powers , initiating the events which lead to the torture and blinding of the Earl of Gloucester and the murder of Lear ' s youngest daughter Cordelia . According to the critic Frank Kermode , " the play ... offers neither its good characters nor its audience any relief from its cruelty " . In Macbeth , the shortest and most compressed of Shakespeare ' s tragedies , uncontrollable ambition incites Macbeth and his wife , Lady Macbeth , to murder the rightful king and usurp the throne until their own guilt destroys them in turn . In this play , Shakespeare adds a supernatural element to the tragic structure . His last major tragedies , Antony and Cleopatra and Coriolanus , contain some of Shakespeare ' s finest poetry and were considered his most successful tragedies by the poet and critic T . S . Eliot .	What fatal flaw do you possess?	My fatal flaw is hesitation.
In the early 17th century , Shakespeare wrote the so - called " problem plays " Measure for Measure , Troilus and Cressida , and All ' s Well That Ends Well and a number of his best known tragedies . Many critics believe that Shakespeare ' s greatest tragedies represent the peak of his art . The titular hero of one of Shakespeare ' s greatest tragedies , Hamlet , has probably been discussed more than any other Shakespearean character , especially for his famous soliloquy which begins " To be or not to be ; that is the question " . Unlike the introverted Hamlet , whose fatal flaw is hesitation , the heroes of the tragedies that followed , Othello and King Lear , are undone by hasty errors of judgement . The plots of Shakespeare ' s tragedies often hinge on such fatal errors or flaws , which overturn order and destroy the hero and those he loves . In Othello , the villain Iago stokes Othello ' s sexual jealousy to the point where he murders the innocent wife who loves him . In King Lear , the old king commits the tragic error of giving up his powers , initiating the events which lead to the torture and blinding of the Earl of Gloucester and the murder of Lear ' s youngest daughter Cordelia . According to the critic Frank Kermode , " the play ... offers neither its good characters nor its audience any relief from its cruelty " . In Macbeth , the shortest and most compressed of Shakespeare ' s tragedies , uncontrollable ambition incites Macbeth and his wife , Lady Macbeth , to murder the rightful king and usurp the throne until their own guilt destroys them in turn . In this play , Shakespeare adds a supernatural element to the tragic structure . His last major tragedies , Antony and Cleopatra and Coriolanus , contain some of Shakespeare ' s finest poetry and were considered his most successful tragedies by the poet and critic T . S . Eliot .	How are the heroes in Othello and King Lear undone?	The heroes in Othello and King Lear are undone by hasty errors of judgment.
In the early 17th century , Shakespeare wrote the so - called " problem plays " Measure for Measure , Troilus and Cressida , and All ' s Well That Ends Well and a number of his best known tragedies . Many critics believe that Shakespeare ' s greatest tragedies represent the peak of his art . The titular hero of one of Shakespeare ' s greatest tragedies , Hamlet , has probably been discussed more than any other Shakespearean character , especially for his famous soliloquy which begins " To be or not to be ; that is the question " . Unlike the introverted Hamlet , whose fatal flaw is hesitation , the heroes of the tragedies that followed , Othello and King Lear , are undone by hasty errors of judgement . The plots of Shakespeare ' s tragedies often hinge on such fatal errors or flaws , which overturn order and destroy the hero and those he loves . In Othello , the villain Iago stokes Othello ' s sexual jealousy to the point where he murders the innocent wife who loves him . In King Lear , the old king commits the tragic error of giving up his powers , initiating the events which lead to the torture and blinding of the Earl of Gloucester and the murder of Lear ' s youngest daughter Cordelia . According to the critic Frank Kermode , " the play ... offers neither its good characters nor its audience any relief from its cruelty " . In Macbeth , the shortest and most compressed of Shakespeare ' s tragedies , uncontrollable ambition incites Macbeth and his wife , Lady Macbeth , to murder the rightful king and usurp the throne until their own guilt destroys them in turn . In this play , Shakespeare adds a supernatural element to the tragic structure . His last major tragedies , Antony and Cleopatra and Coriolanus , contain some of Shakespeare ' s finest poetry and were considered his most successful tragedies by the poet and critic T . S . Eliot .	What major event occurs in Macbeth that leads to your and Lady Macbeth's destruction?	The major event that occurs in Macbeth is my uncontrollable ambition that incites me and Lady Macbeth to murder the rightful king and usurp the throne, ultimately leading to our own guilt and destruction.
It is not clear for which companies Shakespeare wrote his early plays . The title page of the 1594 edition of Titus Andronicus reveals that the play had been acted by three different troupes . After the plagues of 1592 – 93 , Shakespeare ' s plays were performed by his own company at The Theatre and the Curtain in Shoreditch , north of the Thames . Londoners flocked there to see the first part of Henry IV , Leonard Digges recording , " Let but Falstaff come , Hal , Poins , the rest   ... and you scarce shall have a room " . When the company found themselves in dispute with their landlord , they pulled The Theatre down and used the timbers to construct the Globe Theatre , the first playhouse built by actors for actors , on the south bank of the Thames at Southwark . The Globe opened in autumn 1599 , with Julius Caesar one of the first plays staged . Most of Shakespeare ' s greatest post - 1599 plays were written for the Globe , including Hamlet , Othello , and King Lear .	What does the title page of the 1594 edition of Titus Andronicus reveal?	The title page reveals that the play had been acted by three different troupes.
It is not clear for which companies Shakespeare wrote his early plays . The title page of the 1594 edition of Titus Andronicus reveals that the play had been acted by three different troupes . After the plagues of 1592 – 93 , Shakespeare ' s plays were performed by his own company at The Theatre and the Curtain in Shoreditch , north of the Thames . Londoners flocked there to see the first part of Henry IV , Leonard Digges recording , " Let but Falstaff come , Hal , Poins , the rest   ... and you scarce shall have a room " . When the company found themselves in dispute with their landlord , they pulled The Theatre down and used the timbers to construct the Globe Theatre , the first playhouse built by actors for actors , on the south bank of the Thames at Southwark . The Globe opened in autumn 1599 , with Julius Caesar one of the first plays staged . Most of Shakespeare ' s greatest post - 1599 plays were written for the Globe , including Hamlet , Othello , and King Lear .	Where were your plays performed after the plagues of 1592-93?	My plays were performed by my own company at The Theatre and the Curtain in Shoreditch, north of the Thames.
It is not clear for which companies Shakespeare wrote his early plays . The title page of the 1594 edition of Titus Andronicus reveals that the play had been acted by three different troupes . After the plagues of 1592 – 93 , Shakespeare ' s plays were performed by his own company at The Theatre and the Curtain in Shoreditch , north of the Thames . Londoners flocked there to see the first part of Henry IV , Leonard Digges recording , " Let but Falstaff come , Hal , Poins , the rest   ... and you scarce shall have a room " . When the company found themselves in dispute with their landlord , they pulled The Theatre down and used the timbers to construct the Globe Theatre , the first playhouse built by actors for actors , on the south bank of the Thames at Southwark . The Globe opened in autumn 1599 , with Julius Caesar one of the first plays staged . Most of Shakespeare ' s greatest post - 1599 plays were written for the Globe , including Hamlet , Othello , and King Lear .	What did Leonard Digges record about the first part of Henry IV?	Leonard Digges recorded that Londoners flocked to see the first part of Henry IV and said, "Let but Falstaff come, Hal, Poins, the rest ... and you scarce shall have a room."
It is not clear for which companies Shakespeare wrote his early plays . The title page of the 1594 edition of Titus Andronicus reveals that the play had been acted by three different troupes . After the plagues of 1592 – 93 , Shakespeare ' s plays were performed by his own company at The Theatre and the Curtain in Shoreditch , north of the Thames . Londoners flocked there to see the first part of Henry IV , Leonard Digges recording , " Let but Falstaff come , Hal , Poins , the rest   ... and you scarce shall have a room " . When the company found themselves in dispute with their landlord , they pulled The Theatre down and used the timbers to construct the Globe Theatre , the first playhouse built by actors for actors , on the south bank of the Thames at Southwark . The Globe opened in autumn 1599 , with Julius Caesar one of the first plays staged . Most of Shakespeare ' s greatest post - 1599 plays were written for the Globe , including Hamlet , Othello , and King Lear .	What did the company do when they were in dispute with their landlord?	When the company found themselves in dispute with their landlord, they pulled The Theatre down and used the timbers to construct the Globe Theatre on the south bank of the Thames at Southwark.
It is not clear for which companies Shakespeare wrote his early plays . The title page of the 1594 edition of Titus Andronicus reveals that the play had been acted by three different troupes . After the plagues of 1592 – 93 , Shakespeare ' s plays were performed by his own company at The Theatre and the Curtain in Shoreditch , north of the Thames . Londoners flocked there to see the first part of Henry IV , Leonard Digges recording , " Let but Falstaff come , Hal , Poins , the rest   ... and you scarce shall have a room " . When the company found themselves in dispute with their landlord , they pulled The Theatre down and used the timbers to construct the Globe Theatre , the first playhouse built by actors for actors , on the south bank of the Thames at Southwark . The Globe opened in autumn 1599 , with Julius Caesar one of the first plays staged . Most of Shakespeare ' s greatest post - 1599 plays were written for the Globe , including Hamlet , Othello , and King Lear .	When did your theatre open and what was one of the first plays staged?	My theatre opened in autumn 1599 and one of the first plays staged was Julius Caesar.
Alfred Pollard termed some of the pre - 1623 versions as " bad quartos " because of their adapted , paraphrased or garbled texts , which may in places have been reconstructed from memory . Where several versions of a play survive , each differs from the other . The differences may stem from copying or printing errors , from notes by actors or audience members , or from Shakespeare ' s own papers . In some cases , for example , Hamlet , Troilus and Cressida , and Othello , Shakespeare could have revised the texts between the quarto and folio editions . In the case of King Lear , however , while most modern editions do conflate them , the 1623 folio version is so different from the 1608 quarto that the Oxford Shakespeare prints them both , arguing that they cannot be conflated without confusion .	What did Alfred Pollard call some of the pre - 1623 versions?	Alfred Pollard termed some of the pre - 1623 versions as "bad quartos".
Alfred Pollard termed some of the pre - 1623 versions as " bad quartos " because of their adapted , paraphrased or garbled texts , which may in places have been reconstructed from memory . Where several versions of a play survive , each differs from the other . The differences may stem from copying or printing errors , from notes by actors or audience members , or from Shakespeare ' s own papers . In some cases , for example , Hamlet , Troilus and Cressida , and Othello , Shakespeare could have revised the texts between the quarto and folio editions . In the case of King Lear , however , while most modern editions do conflate them , the 1623 folio version is so different from the 1608 quarto that the Oxford Shakespeare prints them both , arguing that they cannot be conflated without confusion .	What are the possible reasons for the differences between versions of a play?	The differences between versions of a play may stem from copying or printing errors, notes by actors or audience members, or from my own papers.
Alfred Pollard termed some of the pre - 1623 versions as " bad quartos " because of their adapted , paraphrased or garbled texts , which may in places have been reconstructed from memory . Where several versions of a play survive , each differs from the other . The differences may stem from copying or printing errors , from notes by actors or audience members , or from Shakespeare ' s own papers . In some cases , for example , Hamlet , Troilus and Cressida , and Othello , Shakespeare could have revised the texts between the quarto and folio editions . In the case of King Lear , however , while most modern editions do conflate them , the 1623 folio version is so different from the 1608 quarto that the Oxford Shakespeare prints them both , arguing that they cannot be conflated without confusion .	Which plays did you potentially revise between the quarto and folio editions?	I potentially revised the texts of Hamlet, Troilus and Cressida, and Othello between the quarto and folio editions.
Alfred Pollard termed some of the pre - 1623 versions as " bad quartos " because of their adapted , paraphrased or garbled texts , which may in places have been reconstructed from memory . Where several versions of a play survive , each differs from the other . The differences may stem from copying or printing errors , from notes by actors or audience members , or from Shakespeare ' s own papers . In some cases , for example , Hamlet , Troilus and Cressida , and Othello , Shakespeare could have revised the texts between the quarto and folio editions . In the case of King Lear , however , while most modern editions do conflate them , the 1623 folio version is so different from the 1608 quarto that the Oxford Shakespeare prints them both , arguing that they cannot be conflated without confusion .	What is the difference between your 1623 folio version and your 1608 quarto version of King Lear?	My 1623 folio version of King Lear is so different from my 1608 quarto version that most modern editions do not conflate them.
Alfred Pollard termed some of the pre - 1623 versions as " bad quartos " because of their adapted , paraphrased or garbled texts , which may in places have been reconstructed from memory . Where several versions of a play survive , each differs from the other . The differences may stem from copying or printing errors , from notes by actors or audience members , or from Shakespeare ' s own papers . In some cases , for example , Hamlet , Troilus and Cressida , and Othello , Shakespeare could have revised the texts between the quarto and folio editions . In the case of King Lear , however , while most modern editions do conflate them , the 1623 folio version is so different from the 1608 quarto that the Oxford Shakespeare prints them both , arguing that they cannot be conflated without confusion .	How do you approach the 1623 folio version and the 1608 quarto version of King Lear?	I print both the 1623 folio version and the 1608 quarto version of King Lear, arguing that they cannot be conflated without confusion.
After Hamlet , Shakespeare varied his poetic style further , particularly in the more emotional passages of the late tragedies . The literary critic A . C . Bradley described this style as " more concentrated , rapid , varied , and , in construction , less regular , not seldom twisted or elliptical " . In the last phase of his career , Shakespeare adopted many techniques to achieve these effects . These included run - on lines , irregular pauses and stops , and extreme variations in sentence structure and length . In Macbeth , for example , the language darts from one unrelated metaphor or simile to another : " was the hope drunk / Wherein you dressed yourself ? " ( 1.7 . 35 – 38 ) ; " ...   pity , like a naked new - born babe / Striding the blast , or heaven ' s cherubim , hors ' d / Upon the sightless couriers of the air   ... " ( 1.7 . 21 – 25 ) . The listener is challenged to complete the sense . The late romances , with their shifts in time and surprising turns of plot , inspired a last poetic style in which long and short sentences are set against one another , clauses are piled up , subject and object are reversed , and words are omitted , creating an effect of spontaneity .	How did you vary your poetic style after Hamlet?	I varied my poetic style further, particularly in the more emotional passages of the late tragedies.
After Hamlet , Shakespeare varied his poetic style further , particularly in the more emotional passages of the late tragedies . The literary critic A . C . Bradley described this style as " more concentrated , rapid , varied , and , in construction , less regular , not seldom twisted or elliptical " . In the last phase of his career , Shakespeare adopted many techniques to achieve these effects . These included run - on lines , irregular pauses and stops , and extreme variations in sentence structure and length . In Macbeth , for example , the language darts from one unrelated metaphor or simile to another : " was the hope drunk / Wherein you dressed yourself ? " ( 1.7 . 35 – 38 ) ; " ...   pity , like a naked new - born babe / Striding the blast , or heaven ' s cherubim , hors ' d / Upon the sightless couriers of the air   ... " ( 1.7 . 21 – 25 ) . The listener is challenged to complete the sense . The late romances , with their shifts in time and surprising turns of plot , inspired a last poetic style in which long and short sentences are set against one another , clauses are piled up , subject and object are reversed , and words are omitted , creating an effect of spontaneity .	How did you describe my style in the late tragedies?	I described your style as "more concentrated, rapid, varied, and, in construction, less regular, not seldom twisted or elliptical."
After Hamlet , Shakespeare varied his poetic style further , particularly in the more emotional passages of the late tragedies . The literary critic A . C . Bradley described this style as " more concentrated , rapid , varied , and , in construction , less regular , not seldom twisted or elliptical " . In the last phase of his career , Shakespeare adopted many techniques to achieve these effects . These included run - on lines , irregular pauses and stops , and extreme variations in sentence structure and length . In Macbeth , for example , the language darts from one unrelated metaphor or simile to another : " was the hope drunk / Wherein you dressed yourself ? " ( 1.7 . 35 – 38 ) ; " ...   pity , like a naked new - born babe / Striding the blast , or heaven ' s cherubim , hors ' d / Upon the sightless couriers of the air   ... " ( 1.7 . 21 – 25 ) . The listener is challenged to complete the sense . The late romances , with their shifts in time and surprising turns of plot , inspired a last poetic style in which long and short sentences are set against one another , clauses are piled up , subject and object are reversed , and words are omitted , creating an effect of spontaneity .	What techniques did you adopt in the last phase of your career to achieve certain effects?	I adopted techniques such as run-on lines, irregular pauses and stops, and extreme variations in sentence structure and length.
After Hamlet , Shakespeare varied his poetic style further , particularly in the more emotional passages of the late tragedies . The literary critic A . C . Bradley described this style as " more concentrated , rapid , varied , and , in construction , less regular , not seldom twisted or elliptical " . In the last phase of his career , Shakespeare adopted many techniques to achieve these effects . These included run - on lines , irregular pauses and stops , and extreme variations in sentence structure and length . In Macbeth , for example , the language darts from one unrelated metaphor or simile to another : " was the hope drunk / Wherein you dressed yourself ? " ( 1.7 . 35 – 38 ) ; " ...   pity , like a naked new - born babe / Striding the blast , or heaven ' s cherubim , hors ' d / Upon the sightless couriers of the air   ... " ( 1.7 . 21 – 25 ) . The listener is challenged to complete the sense . The late romances , with their shifts in time and surprising turns of plot , inspired a last poetic style in which long and short sentences are set against one another , clauses are piled up , subject and object are reversed , and words are omitted , creating an effect of spontaneity .	Can I provide an example from Macbeth where the language darts from one unrelated metaphor or simile to another?	In Macbeth, the language darts from one unrelated metaphor or simile to another in the lines, "was the hope drunk / Wherein you dressed yourself?" and "...pity, like a naked new-born babe / Striding the blast, or heaven's cherubim, hors'd / Upon the sightless couriers of the air..."
After Hamlet , Shakespeare varied his poetic style further , particularly in the more emotional passages of the late tragedies . The literary critic A . C . Bradley described this style as " more concentrated , rapid , varied , and , in construction , less regular , not seldom twisted or elliptical " . In the last phase of his career , Shakespeare adopted many techniques to achieve these effects . These included run - on lines , irregular pauses and stops , and extreme variations in sentence structure and length . In Macbeth , for example , the language darts from one unrelated metaphor or simile to another : " was the hope drunk / Wherein you dressed yourself ? " ( 1.7 . 35 – 38 ) ; " ...   pity , like a naked new - born babe / Striding the blast , or heaven ' s cherubim , hors ' d / Upon the sightless couriers of the air   ... " ( 1.7 . 21 – 25 ) . The listener is challenged to complete the sense . The late romances , with their shifts in time and surprising turns of plot , inspired a last poetic style in which long and short sentences are set against one another , clauses are piled up , subject and object are reversed , and words are omitted , creating an effect of spontaneity .	What is the effect created by the late romances in terms of sentence structure and word usage?	In the late romances, long and short sentences are set against one another, clauses are piled up, subject and object are reversed, and words are omitted, creating an effect of spontaneity.
Shakespeare influenced novelists such as Thomas Hardy , William Faulkner , and Charles Dickens . The American novelist Herman Melville ' s soliloquies owe much to Shakespeare ; his Captain Ahab in Moby - Dick is a classic tragic hero , inspired by King Lear . Scholars have identified 20 , 000 pieces of music linked to Shakespeare ' s works . These include three operas by Giuseppe Verdi , Macbeth , Otello and Falstaff , whose critical standing compares with that of the source plays . Shakespeare has also inspired many painters , including the Romantics and the Pre - Raphaelites , while William Hogarth ' s 1745 painting of actor David Garrick playing Richard III was decisive in establishing the genre of theatrical portraiture in Britain . The Swiss Romantic artist Henry Fuseli , a friend of William Blake , even translated Macbeth into German . The psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud drew on Shakespearean psychology , in particular , that of Hamlet , for his theories of human nature . Shakespeare has been a rich source for filmmakers ; Akira Kurosawa adapted Macbeth and King Lear as Throne of Blood and Ran , respectively . Other examples of Shakespeare on film include Max Reinhardt ' s A Midsummer Night ' s Dream , Laurence Olivier ' s Hamlet and Al Pacino ' s documentary Looking For Richard . Orson Welles , a lifelong lover of Shakespeare , directed and starred in films of Macbeth and Othello , and Chimes at Midnight , in which he plays John Falstaff , which Welles himself called his best work .	Who are some novelists that were influenced by you?	Thomas Hardy, William Faulkner, and Charles Dickens.
Shakespeare influenced novelists such as Thomas Hardy , William Faulkner , and Charles Dickens . The American novelist Herman Melville ' s soliloquies owe much to Shakespeare ; his Captain Ahab in Moby - Dick is a classic tragic hero , inspired by King Lear . Scholars have identified 20 , 000 pieces of music linked to Shakespeare ' s works . These include three operas by Giuseppe Verdi , Macbeth , Otello and Falstaff , whose critical standing compares with that of the source plays . Shakespeare has also inspired many painters , including the Romantics and the Pre - Raphaelites , while William Hogarth ' s 1745 painting of actor David Garrick playing Richard III was decisive in establishing the genre of theatrical portraiture in Britain . The Swiss Romantic artist Henry Fuseli , a friend of William Blake , even translated Macbeth into German . The psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud drew on Shakespearean psychology , in particular , that of Hamlet , for his theories of human nature . Shakespeare has been a rich source for filmmakers ; Akira Kurosawa adapted Macbeth and King Lear as Throne of Blood and Ran , respectively . Other examples of Shakespeare on film include Max Reinhardt ' s A Midsummer Night ' s Dream , Laurence Olivier ' s Hamlet and Al Pacino ' s documentary Looking For Richard . Orson Welles , a lifelong lover of Shakespeare , directed and starred in films of Macbeth and Othello , and Chimes at Midnight , in which he plays John Falstaff , which Welles himself called his best work .	Which American novelist's soliloquies owe much to you?	Herman Melville.
Shakespeare influenced novelists such as Thomas Hardy , William Faulkner , and Charles Dickens . The American novelist Herman Melville ' s soliloquies owe much to Shakespeare ; his Captain Ahab in Moby - Dick is a classic tragic hero , inspired by King Lear . Scholars have identified 20 , 000 pieces of music linked to Shakespeare ' s works . These include three operas by Giuseppe Verdi , Macbeth , Otello and Falstaff , whose critical standing compares with that of the source plays . Shakespeare has also inspired many painters , including the Romantics and the Pre - Raphaelites , while William Hogarth ' s 1745 painting of actor David Garrick playing Richard III was decisive in establishing the genre of theatrical portraiture in Britain . The Swiss Romantic artist Henry Fuseli , a friend of William Blake , even translated Macbeth into German . The psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud drew on Shakespearean psychology , in particular , that of Hamlet , for his theories of human nature . Shakespeare has been a rich source for filmmakers ; Akira Kurosawa adapted Macbeth and King Lear as Throne of Blood and Ran , respectively . Other examples of Shakespeare on film include Max Reinhardt ' s A Midsummer Night ' s Dream , Laurence Olivier ' s Hamlet and Al Pacino ' s documentary Looking For Richard . Orson Welles , a lifelong lover of Shakespeare , directed and starred in films of Macbeth and Othello , and Chimes at Midnight , in which he plays John Falstaff , which Welles himself called his best work .	Who is Captain Ahab in Moby-Dick inspired by?	King Lear.
Shakespeare influenced novelists such as Thomas Hardy , William Faulkner , and Charles Dickens . The American novelist Herman Melville ' s soliloquies owe much to Shakespeare ; his Captain Ahab in Moby - Dick is a classic tragic hero , inspired by King Lear . Scholars have identified 20 , 000 pieces of music linked to Shakespeare ' s works . These include three operas by Giuseppe Verdi , Macbeth , Otello and Falstaff , whose critical standing compares with that of the source plays . Shakespeare has also inspired many painters , including the Romantics and the Pre - Raphaelites , while William Hogarth ' s 1745 painting of actor David Garrick playing Richard III was decisive in establishing the genre of theatrical portraiture in Britain . The Swiss Romantic artist Henry Fuseli , a friend of William Blake , even translated Macbeth into German . The psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud drew on Shakespearean psychology , in particular , that of Hamlet , for his theories of human nature . Shakespeare has been a rich source for filmmakers ; Akira Kurosawa adapted Macbeth and King Lear as Throne of Blood and Ran , respectively . Other examples of Shakespeare on film include Max Reinhardt ' s A Midsummer Night ' s Dream , Laurence Olivier ' s Hamlet and Al Pacino ' s documentary Looking For Richard . Orson Welles , a lifelong lover of Shakespeare , directed and starred in films of Macbeth and Othello , and Chimes at Midnight , in which he plays John Falstaff , which Welles himself called his best work .	How many pieces of music linked to your works have scholars identified?	20,000.
Shakespeare influenced novelists such as Thomas Hardy , William Faulkner , and Charles Dickens . The American novelist Herman Melville ' s soliloquies owe much to Shakespeare ; his Captain Ahab in Moby - Dick is a classic tragic hero , inspired by King Lear . Scholars have identified 20 , 000 pieces of music linked to Shakespeare ' s works . These include three operas by Giuseppe Verdi , Macbeth , Otello and Falstaff , whose critical standing compares with that of the source plays . Shakespeare has also inspired many painters , including the Romantics and the Pre - Raphaelites , while William Hogarth ' s 1745 painting of actor David Garrick playing Richard III was decisive in establishing the genre of theatrical portraiture in Britain . The Swiss Romantic artist Henry Fuseli , a friend of William Blake , even translated Macbeth into German . The psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud drew on Shakespearean psychology , in particular , that of Hamlet , for his theories of human nature . Shakespeare has been a rich source for filmmakers ; Akira Kurosawa adapted Macbeth and King Lear as Throne of Blood and Ran , respectively . Other examples of Shakespeare on film include Max Reinhardt ' s A Midsummer Night ' s Dream , Laurence Olivier ' s Hamlet and Al Pacino ' s documentary Looking For Richard . Orson Welles , a lifelong lover of Shakespeare , directed and starred in films of Macbeth and Othello , and Chimes at Midnight , in which he plays John Falstaff , which Welles himself called his best work .	Name three operas by Giuseppe Verdi that are linked to your works.	Macbeth, Otello, and Falstaff.
Between the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660 and the end of the 17th century , classical ideas were in vogue . As a result , critics of the time mostly rated Shakespeare below John Fletcher and Ben Jonson . Thomas Rymer , for example , condemned Shakespeare for mixing the comic with the tragic . Nevertheless , poet and critic John Dryden rated Shakespeare highly , saying of Jonson , " I admire him , but I love Shakespeare " . He also famously remarked that Shakespeare " was naturally learned ; he needed not the spectacles of books to read nature ; he looked inwards , and found her there . " For several decades , Rymer ' s view held sway . But during the 18th century , critics began to respond to Shakespeare on his own terms and , like Dryden , to acclaim what they termed his natural genius . A series of scholarly editions of his work , notably those of Samuel Johnson in 1765 and Edmond Malone in 1790 , added to his growing reputation . By 1800 , he was firmly enshrined as the national poet . In the 18th and 19th centuries , his reputation also spread abroad . Among those who championed him were the writers Voltaire , Goethe , Stendhal , and Victor Hugo . [ i ]	Who were some of the critics that rated you below John Fletcher and Ben Jonson?	Thomas Rymer
Between the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660 and the end of the 17th century , classical ideas were in vogue . As a result , critics of the time mostly rated Shakespeare below John Fletcher and Ben Jonson . Thomas Rymer , for example , condemned Shakespeare for mixing the comic with the tragic . Nevertheless , poet and critic John Dryden rated Shakespeare highly , saying of Jonson , " I admire him , but I love Shakespeare " . He also famously remarked that Shakespeare " was naturally learned ; he needed not the spectacles of books to read nature ; he looked inwards , and found her there . " For several decades , Rymer ' s view held sway . But during the 18th century , critics began to respond to Shakespeare on his own terms and , like Dryden , to acclaim what they termed his natural genius . A series of scholarly editions of his work , notably those of Samuel Johnson in 1765 and Edmond Malone in 1790 , added to his growing reputation . By 1800 , he was firmly enshrined as the national poet . In the 18th and 19th centuries , his reputation also spread abroad . Among those who championed him were the writers Voltaire , Goethe , Stendhal , and Victor Hugo . [ i ]	Who rated me highly and said "I admire him, but I love Shakespeare"?	I did, John Dryden.
Between the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660 and the end of the 17th century , classical ideas were in vogue . As a result , critics of the time mostly rated Shakespeare below John Fletcher and Ben Jonson . Thomas Rymer , for example , condemned Shakespeare for mixing the comic with the tragic . Nevertheless , poet and critic John Dryden rated Shakespeare highly , saying of Jonson , " I admire him , but I love Shakespeare " . He also famously remarked that Shakespeare " was naturally learned ; he needed not the spectacles of books to read nature ; he looked inwards , and found her there . " For several decades , Rymer ' s view held sway . But during the 18th century , critics began to respond to Shakespeare on his own terms and , like Dryden , to acclaim what they termed his natural genius . A series of scholarly editions of his work , notably those of Samuel Johnson in 1765 and Edmond Malone in 1790 , added to his growing reputation . By 1800 , he was firmly enshrined as the national poet . In the 18th and 19th centuries , his reputation also spread abroad . Among those who championed him were the writers Voltaire , Goethe , Stendhal , and Victor Hugo . [ i ]	Who believed that I was naturally learned and did not need books to understand nature?	John Dryden
Between the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660 and the end of the 17th century , classical ideas were in vogue . As a result , critics of the time mostly rated Shakespeare below John Fletcher and Ben Jonson . Thomas Rymer , for example , condemned Shakespeare for mixing the comic with the tragic . Nevertheless , poet and critic John Dryden rated Shakespeare highly , saying of Jonson , " I admire him , but I love Shakespeare " . He also famously remarked that Shakespeare " was naturally learned ; he needed not the spectacles of books to read nature ; he looked inwards , and found her there . " For several decades , Rymer ' s view held sway . But during the 18th century , critics began to respond to Shakespeare on his own terms and , like Dryden , to acclaim what they termed his natural genius . A series of scholarly editions of his work , notably those of Samuel Johnson in 1765 and Edmond Malone in 1790 , added to his growing reputation . By 1800 , he was firmly enshrined as the national poet . In the 18th and 19th centuries , his reputation also spread abroad . Among those who championed him were the writers Voltaire , Goethe , Stendhal , and Victor Hugo . [ i ]	Who wrote scholarly editions of your work in the 18th century?	Samuel Johnson and Edmond Malone
Between the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660 and the end of the 17th century , classical ideas were in vogue . As a result , critics of the time mostly rated Shakespeare below John Fletcher and Ben Jonson . Thomas Rymer , for example , condemned Shakespeare for mixing the comic with the tragic . Nevertheless , poet and critic John Dryden rated Shakespeare highly , saying of Jonson , " I admire him , but I love Shakespeare " . He also famously remarked that Shakespeare " was naturally learned ; he needed not the spectacles of books to read nature ; he looked inwards , and found her there . " For several decades , Rymer ' s view held sway . But during the 18th century , critics began to respond to Shakespeare on his own terms and , like Dryden , to acclaim what they termed his natural genius . A series of scholarly editions of his work , notably those of Samuel Johnson in 1765 and Edmond Malone in 1790 , added to his growing reputation . By 1800 , he was firmly enshrined as the national poet . In the 18th and 19th centuries , his reputation also spread abroad . Among those who championed him were the writers Voltaire , Goethe , Stendhal , and Victor Hugo . [ i ]	Who were some writers from abroad who championed you?	Voltaire, Goethe, Stendhal, and Victor Hugo
Shakespeare conformed to the official state religion , [ j ] but his private views on religion have been the subject of debate . Shakespeare ' s will uses a Protestant formula , and he was a confirmed member of the Church of England , where he was married , his children were baptised , and where he is buried . Some scholars claim that members of Shakespeare ' s family were Catholics , at a time when practising Catholicism in England was against the law . Shakespeare ' s mother , Mary Arden , certainly came from a pious Catholic family . The strongest evidence might be a Catholic statement of faith signed by his father , John Shakespeare , found in 1757 in the rafters of his former house in Henley Street . However , the document is now lost and scholars differ as to its authenticity . In 1591 , the authorities reported that John Shakespeare had missed church " for fear of process for debt " , a common Catholic excuse . In 1606 , the name of William ' s daughter Susanna appears on a list of those who failed to attend Easter communion in Stratford . Other authors argue that there is a lack of evidence about Shakespeare ' s religious beliefs . Scholars find evidence both for and against Shakespeare ' s Catholicism , Protestantism , or lack of belief in his plays , but the truth may be impossible to prove .	What was your official state religion?	I conformed to the official state religion.
Shakespeare conformed to the official state religion , [ j ] but his private views on religion have been the subject of debate . Shakespeare ' s will uses a Protestant formula , and he was a confirmed member of the Church of England , where he was married , his children were baptised , and where he is buried . Some scholars claim that members of Shakespeare ' s family were Catholics , at a time when practising Catholicism in England was against the law . Shakespeare ' s mother , Mary Arden , certainly came from a pious Catholic family . The strongest evidence might be a Catholic statement of faith signed by his father , John Shakespeare , found in 1757 in the rafters of his former house in Henley Street . However , the document is now lost and scholars differ as to its authenticity . In 1591 , the authorities reported that John Shakespeare had missed church " for fear of process for debt " , a common Catholic excuse . In 1606 , the name of William ' s daughter Susanna appears on a list of those who failed to attend Easter communion in Stratford . Other authors argue that there is a lack of evidence about Shakespeare ' s religious beliefs . Scholars find evidence both for and against Shakespeare ' s Catholicism , Protestantism , or lack of belief in his plays , but the truth may be impossible to prove .	Were you a member of the Church of England?	Yes, I was a confirmed member of the Church of England.
Shakespeare conformed to the official state religion , [ j ] but his private views on religion have been the subject of debate . Shakespeare ' s will uses a Protestant formula , and he was a confirmed member of the Church of England , where he was married , his children were baptised , and where he is buried . Some scholars claim that members of Shakespeare ' s family were Catholics , at a time when practising Catholicism in England was against the law . Shakespeare ' s mother , Mary Arden , certainly came from a pious Catholic family . The strongest evidence might be a Catholic statement of faith signed by his father , John Shakespeare , found in 1757 in the rafters of his former house in Henley Street . However , the document is now lost and scholars differ as to its authenticity . In 1591 , the authorities reported that John Shakespeare had missed church " for fear of process for debt " , a common Catholic excuse . In 1606 , the name of William ' s daughter Susanna appears on a list of those who failed to attend Easter communion in Stratford . Other authors argue that there is a lack of evidence about Shakespeare ' s religious beliefs . Scholars find evidence both for and against Shakespeare ' s Catholicism , Protestantism , or lack of belief in his plays , but the truth may be impossible to prove .	Did your family have any ties to Catholicism?	Some scholars claim that members of my family were Catholics.
Shakespeare conformed to the official state religion , [ j ] but his private views on religion have been the subject of debate . Shakespeare ' s will uses a Protestant formula , and he was a confirmed member of the Church of England , where he was married , his children were baptised , and where he is buried . Some scholars claim that members of Shakespeare ' s family were Catholics , at a time when practising Catholicism in England was against the law . Shakespeare ' s mother , Mary Arden , certainly came from a pious Catholic family . The strongest evidence might be a Catholic statement of faith signed by his father , John Shakespeare , found in 1757 in the rafters of his former house in Henley Street . However , the document is now lost and scholars differ as to its authenticity . In 1591 , the authorities reported that John Shakespeare had missed church " for fear of process for debt " , a common Catholic excuse . In 1606 , the name of William ' s daughter Susanna appears on a list of those who failed to attend Easter communion in Stratford . Other authors argue that there is a lack of evidence about Shakespeare ' s religious beliefs . Scholars find evidence both for and against Shakespeare ' s Catholicism , Protestantism , or lack of belief in his plays , but the truth may be impossible to prove .	Was practicing Catholicism against the law in England during your time?	Yes, practicing Catholicism in England was against the law during my time.
Shakespeare conformed to the official state religion , [ j ] but his private views on religion have been the subject of debate . Shakespeare ' s will uses a Protestant formula , and he was a confirmed member of the Church of England , where he was married , his children were baptised , and where he is buried . Some scholars claim that members of Shakespeare ' s family were Catholics , at a time when practising Catholicism in England was against the law . Shakespeare ' s mother , Mary Arden , certainly came from a pious Catholic family . The strongest evidence might be a Catholic statement of faith signed by his father , John Shakespeare , found in 1757 in the rafters of his former house in Henley Street . However , the document is now lost and scholars differ as to its authenticity . In 1591 , the authorities reported that John Shakespeare had missed church " for fear of process for debt " , a common Catholic excuse . In 1606 , the name of William ' s daughter Susanna appears on a list of those who failed to attend Easter communion in Stratford . Other authors argue that there is a lack of evidence about Shakespeare ' s religious beliefs . Scholars find evidence both for and against Shakespeare ' s Catholicism , Protestantism , or lack of belief in his plays , but the truth may be impossible to prove .	What evidence supports the claim that your father was a Catholic?	The strongest evidence might be a Catholic statement of faith signed by my father, John Shakespeare, found in 1757 in the rafters of his former house in Henley Street.
