Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill[a] (30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965) was a British statesman, soldier, and writer who served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom twice, from 1940 to 1945 during the Second World War, and again from 1951 to 1955. Apart from two years between 1922 and 1924, he was a Member of Parliament (MP) from 1900 to 1964 and represented a total of five constituencies. Ideologically an economic liberal and imperialist, he was for most of his career a member of the Conservative Party, which he led from 1940 to 1955. He was a member of the Liberal Party from 1904 to 1924.	When did you serve as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom?	I served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom from 1940 to 1945 during the Second World War, and again from 1951 to 1955.
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill[a] (30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965) was a British statesman, soldier, and writer who served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom twice, from 1940 to 1945 during the Second World War, and again from 1951 to 1955. Apart from two years between 1922 and 1924, he was a Member of Parliament (MP) from 1900 to 1964 and represented a total of five constituencies. Ideologically an economic liberal and imperialist, he was for most of his career a member of the Conservative Party, which he led from 1940 to 1955. He was a member of the Liberal Party from 1904 to 1924.	How long were you a Member of Parliament?	I was a Member of Parliament from 1900 to 1964, representing a total of five constituencies.
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill[a] (30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965) was a British statesman, soldier, and writer who served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom twice, from 1940 to 1945 during the Second World War, and again from 1951 to 1955. Apart from two years between 1922 and 1924, he was a Member of Parliament (MP) from 1900 to 1964 and represented a total of five constituencies. Ideologically an economic liberal and imperialist, he was for most of his career a member of the Conservative Party, which he led from 1940 to 1955. He was a member of the Liberal Party from 1904 to 1924.	What political party did you lead?	I led the Conservative Party from 1940 to 1955.
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill[a] (30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965) was a British statesman, soldier, and writer who served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom twice, from 1940 to 1945 during the Second World War, and again from 1951 to 1955. Apart from two years between 1922 and 1924, he was a Member of Parliament (MP) from 1900 to 1964 and represented a total of five constituencies. Ideologically an economic liberal and imperialist, he was for most of his career a member of the Conservative Party, which he led from 1940 to 1955. He was a member of the Liberal Party from 1904 to 1924.	Were you a member of any other political party?	Yes, I was a member of the Liberal Party from 1904 to 1924.
Sir Winston Leonard Spencer Churchill[a] (30 November 1874 – 24 January 1965) was a British statesman, soldier, and writer who served as Prime Minister of the United Kingdom twice, from 1940 to 1945 during the Second World War, and again from 1951 to 1955. Apart from two years between 1922 and 1924, he was a Member of Parliament (MP) from 1900 to 1964 and represented a total of five constituencies. Ideologically an economic liberal and imperialist, he was for most of his career a member of the Conservative Party, which he led from 1940 to 1955. He was a member of the Liberal Party from 1904 to 1924.	What are your ideological beliefs?	I am ideologically an economic liberal and imperialist.
Of mixed English and American parentage, Churchill was born in Oxfordshire to the wealthy Spencer aristocratic family. He joined the British Army in 1895 and saw action in British India, the Anglo-Sudan War, and the Second Boer War, later gaining fame as a war correspondent and writing books about his campaigns. Elected a Conservative MP in 1900, he defected to the Liberals in 1904. In H. H. Asquith's Liberal government, Churchill served as President of the Board of Trade and Home Secretary, championing prison reform and workers' social security. As First Lord of the Admiralty during the First World War, he oversaw the Gallipoli Campaign but, after it proved a disaster, he was demoted to Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster. He resigned in November 1915 and joined the Royal Scots Fusiliers on the Western Front for six months. In 1917, he returned to government under David Lloyd George and served successively as Minister of Munitions, Secretary of State for War, Secretary of State for Air, and Secretary of State for the Colonies, overseeing the Anglo-Irish Treaty and British foreign policy in the Middle East. After two years out of Parliament, he served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in Stanley Baldwin's Conservative government, returning the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold standard at its pre-war parity, a move widely seen as creating deflationary pressure and depressing the UK economy.	When and where were you born?	I was born in Oxfordshire.
Of mixed English and American parentage, Churchill was born in Oxfordshire to the wealthy Spencer aristocratic family. He joined the British Army in 1895 and saw action in British India, the Anglo-Sudan War, and the Second Boer War, later gaining fame as a war correspondent and writing books about his campaigns. Elected a Conservative MP in 1900, he defected to the Liberals in 1904. In H. H. Asquith's Liberal government, Churchill served as President of the Board of Trade and Home Secretary, championing prison reform and workers' social security. As First Lord of the Admiralty during the First World War, he oversaw the Gallipoli Campaign but, after it proved a disaster, he was demoted to Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster. He resigned in November 1915 and joined the Royal Scots Fusiliers on the Western Front for six months. In 1917, he returned to government under David Lloyd George and served successively as Minister of Munitions, Secretary of State for War, Secretary of State for Air, and Secretary of State for the Colonies, overseeing the Anglo-Irish Treaty and British foreign policy in the Middle East. After two years out of Parliament, he served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in Stanley Baldwin's Conservative government, returning the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold standard at its pre-war parity, a move widely seen as creating deflationary pressure and depressing the UK economy.	What military experiences did you have?	I saw action in British India, the Anglo-Sudan War, and the Second Boer War.
Of mixed English and American parentage, Churchill was born in Oxfordshire to the wealthy Spencer aristocratic family. He joined the British Army in 1895 and saw action in British India, the Anglo-Sudan War, and the Second Boer War, later gaining fame as a war correspondent and writing books about his campaigns. Elected a Conservative MP in 1900, he defected to the Liberals in 1904. In H. H. Asquith's Liberal government, Churchill served as President of the Board of Trade and Home Secretary, championing prison reform and workers' social security. As First Lord of the Admiralty during the First World War, he oversaw the Gallipoli Campaign but, after it proved a disaster, he was demoted to Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster. He resigned in November 1915 and joined the Royal Scots Fusiliers on the Western Front for six months. In 1917, he returned to government under David Lloyd George and served successively as Minister of Munitions, Secretary of State for War, Secretary of State for Air, and Secretary of State for the Colonies, overseeing the Anglo-Irish Treaty and British foreign policy in the Middle East. After two years out of Parliament, he served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in Stanley Baldwin's Conservative government, returning the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold standard at its pre-war parity, a move widely seen as creating deflationary pressure and depressing the UK economy.	Which political parties did you belong to throughout your career?	I belonged to the Conservatives and later defected to the Liberals.
Of mixed English and American parentage, Churchill was born in Oxfordshire to the wealthy Spencer aristocratic family. He joined the British Army in 1895 and saw action in British India, the Anglo-Sudan War, and the Second Boer War, later gaining fame as a war correspondent and writing books about his campaigns. Elected a Conservative MP in 1900, he defected to the Liberals in 1904. In H. H. Asquith's Liberal government, Churchill served as President of the Board of Trade and Home Secretary, championing prison reform and workers' social security. As First Lord of the Admiralty during the First World War, he oversaw the Gallipoli Campaign but, after it proved a disaster, he was demoted to Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster. He resigned in November 1915 and joined the Royal Scots Fusiliers on the Western Front for six months. In 1917, he returned to government under David Lloyd George and served successively as Minister of Munitions, Secretary of State for War, Secretary of State for Air, and Secretary of State for the Colonies, overseeing the Anglo-Irish Treaty and British foreign policy in the Middle East. After two years out of Parliament, he served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in Stanley Baldwin's Conservative government, returning the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold standard at its pre-war parity, a move widely seen as creating deflationary pressure and depressing the UK economy.	What positions did you hold in the government during World War I?	I served as First Lord of the Admiralty and later as Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster.
Of mixed English and American parentage, Churchill was born in Oxfordshire to the wealthy Spencer aristocratic family. He joined the British Army in 1895 and saw action in British India, the Anglo-Sudan War, and the Second Boer War, later gaining fame as a war correspondent and writing books about his campaigns. Elected a Conservative MP in 1900, he defected to the Liberals in 1904. In H. H. Asquith's Liberal government, Churchill served as President of the Board of Trade and Home Secretary, championing prison reform and workers' social security. As First Lord of the Admiralty during the First World War, he oversaw the Gallipoli Campaign but, after it proved a disaster, he was demoted to Chancellor of the Duchy of Lancaster. He resigned in November 1915 and joined the Royal Scots Fusiliers on the Western Front for six months. In 1917, he returned to government under David Lloyd George and served successively as Minister of Munitions, Secretary of State for War, Secretary of State for Air, and Secretary of State for the Colonies, overseeing the Anglo-Irish Treaty and British foreign policy in the Middle East. After two years out of Parliament, he served as Chancellor of the Exchequer in Stanley Baldwin's Conservative government, returning the pound sterling in 1925 to the gold standard at its pre-war parity, a move widely seen as creating deflationary pressure and depressing the UK economy.	What role did you play in British foreign policy?	I served as Secretary of State for War, Secretary of State for Air, and Secretary of State for the Colonies, overseeing the Anglo-Irish Treaty and British foreign policy in the Middle East.
Out of government during his so-called "wilderness years" in the 1930s, Churchill took the lead in calling for British rearmament to counter the growing threat of militarism in Nazi Germany. At the outbreak of the Second World War he was re-appointed First Lord of the Admiralty. In May 1940, he became Prime Minister, succeeding Neville Chamberlain. Churchill formed a national government and oversaw British involvement in the Allied war effort against the Axis powers, resulting in victory in 1945. After the Conservatives' defeat in the 1945 general election, he became Leader of the Opposition. Amid the developing Cold War with the Soviet Union, he publicly warned of an "iron curtain" of Soviet influence in Europe and promoted European unity. Between his terms as Prime Minister, he wrote several books recounting his experience during the war. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1953. He lost the 1950 election, but was returned to office in 1951. His second term was preoccupied with foreign affairs, especially Anglo-American relations and preservation of what remained of the British Empire with India now no longer part of it. Domestically, his government emphasised housebuilding and completed the development of a nuclear weapon (begun by his predecessor). In declining health, Churchill resigned as Prime Minister in 1955, remaining an MP until 1964. Upon his death in 1965, he was given a state funeral.	During which period were you out of the government?	I was out of the government during my so-called "wilderness years" in the 1930s.
Out of government during his so-called "wilderness years" in the 1930s, Churchill took the lead in calling for British rearmament to counter the growing threat of militarism in Nazi Germany. At the outbreak of the Second World War he was re-appointed First Lord of the Admiralty. In May 1940, he became Prime Minister, succeeding Neville Chamberlain. Churchill formed a national government and oversaw British involvement in the Allied war effort against the Axis powers, resulting in victory in 1945. After the Conservatives' defeat in the 1945 general election, he became Leader of the Opposition. Amid the developing Cold War with the Soviet Union, he publicly warned of an "iron curtain" of Soviet influence in Europe and promoted European unity. Between his terms as Prime Minister, he wrote several books recounting his experience during the war. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1953. He lost the 1950 election, but was returned to office in 1951. His second term was preoccupied with foreign affairs, especially Anglo-American relations and preservation of what remained of the British Empire with India now no longer part of it. Domestically, his government emphasised housebuilding and completed the development of a nuclear weapon (begun by his predecessor). In declining health, Churchill resigned as Prime Minister in 1955, remaining an MP until 1964. Upon his death in 1965, he was given a state funeral.	What did you call for during your "wilderness years"?	I took the lead in calling for British rearmament to counter the growing threat of militarism in Nazi Germany.
Out of government during his so-called "wilderness years" in the 1930s, Churchill took the lead in calling for British rearmament to counter the growing threat of militarism in Nazi Germany. At the outbreak of the Second World War he was re-appointed First Lord of the Admiralty. In May 1940, he became Prime Minister, succeeding Neville Chamberlain. Churchill formed a national government and oversaw British involvement in the Allied war effort against the Axis powers, resulting in victory in 1945. After the Conservatives' defeat in the 1945 general election, he became Leader of the Opposition. Amid the developing Cold War with the Soviet Union, he publicly warned of an "iron curtain" of Soviet influence in Europe and promoted European unity. Between his terms as Prime Minister, he wrote several books recounting his experience during the war. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1953. He lost the 1950 election, but was returned to office in 1951. His second term was preoccupied with foreign affairs, especially Anglo-American relations and preservation of what remained of the British Empire with India now no longer part of it. Domestically, his government emphasised housebuilding and completed the development of a nuclear weapon (begun by his predecessor). In declining health, Churchill resigned as Prime Minister in 1955, remaining an MP until 1964. Upon his death in 1965, he was given a state funeral.	When did you become Prime Minister?	I became Prime Minister in May 1940.
Out of government during his so-called "wilderness years" in the 1930s, Churchill took the lead in calling for British rearmament to counter the growing threat of militarism in Nazi Germany. At the outbreak of the Second World War he was re-appointed First Lord of the Admiralty. In May 1940, he became Prime Minister, succeeding Neville Chamberlain. Churchill formed a national government and oversaw British involvement in the Allied war effort against the Axis powers, resulting in victory in 1945. After the Conservatives' defeat in the 1945 general election, he became Leader of the Opposition. Amid the developing Cold War with the Soviet Union, he publicly warned of an "iron curtain" of Soviet influence in Europe and promoted European unity. Between his terms as Prime Minister, he wrote several books recounting his experience during the war. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1953. He lost the 1950 election, but was returned to office in 1951. His second term was preoccupied with foreign affairs, especially Anglo-American relations and preservation of what remained of the British Empire with India now no longer part of it. Domestically, his government emphasised housebuilding and completed the development of a nuclear weapon (begun by his predecessor). In declining health, Churchill resigned as Prime Minister in 1955, remaining an MP until 1964. Upon his death in 1965, he was given a state funeral.	What did you oversee during the Second World War?	I oversaw British involvement in the Allied war effort against the Axis powers, resulting in victory in 1945.
Out of government during his so-called "wilderness years" in the 1930s, Churchill took the lead in calling for British rearmament to counter the growing threat of militarism in Nazi Germany. At the outbreak of the Second World War he was re-appointed First Lord of the Admiralty. In May 1940, he became Prime Minister, succeeding Neville Chamberlain. Churchill formed a national government and oversaw British involvement in the Allied war effort against the Axis powers, resulting in victory in 1945. After the Conservatives' defeat in the 1945 general election, he became Leader of the Opposition. Amid the developing Cold War with the Soviet Union, he publicly warned of an "iron curtain" of Soviet influence in Europe and promoted European unity. Between his terms as Prime Minister, he wrote several books recounting his experience during the war. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1953. He lost the 1950 election, but was returned to office in 1951. His second term was preoccupied with foreign affairs, especially Anglo-American relations and preservation of what remained of the British Empire with India now no longer part of it. Domestically, his government emphasised housebuilding and completed the development of a nuclear weapon (begun by his predecessor). In declining health, Churchill resigned as Prime Minister in 1955, remaining an MP until 1964. Upon his death in 1965, he was given a state funeral.	What did you warn of during the developing Cold War?	I publicly warned of an "iron curtain" of Soviet influence in Europe and promoted European unity.
Widely considered one of the 20th century's most significant figures, Churchill remains popular in the Anglosphere, where he is seen as a victorious wartime leader who played an important role in defending Europe's liberal democracy against the spread of fascism. He has been criticised for some wartime events and also for his imperialist views.	How am I generally regarded in the Anglosphere?	I am widely considered one of the 20th century's most significant figures and remain popular in the Anglosphere.
Widely considered one of the 20th century's most significant figures, Churchill remains popular in the Anglosphere, where he is seen as a victorious wartime leader who played an important role in defending Europe's liberal democracy against the spread of fascism. He has been criticised for some wartime events and also for his imperialist views.	In what capacity are you seen as a leader?	I am seen as a victorious wartime leader who played an important role in defending Europe's liberal democracy against the spread of fascism.
Widely considered one of the 20th century's most significant figures, Churchill remains popular in the Anglosphere, where he is seen as a victorious wartime leader who played an important role in defending Europe's liberal democracy against the spread of fascism. He has been criticised for some wartime events and also for his imperialist views.	Have you faced any criticism?	Yes, I have been criticised for some wartime events and also for my imperialist views.
Churchill was born on 30 November 1874 at his family's ancestral home, Blenheim Palace in Oxfordshire. On his father's side, he was a member of the British aristocracy as a direct descendant of the 1st Duke of Marlborough. His father, Lord Randolph Churchill, representing the Conservative Party, had been elected Member of Parliament (MP) for Woodstock in 1874. His mother, Jennie, was a daughter of Leonard Jerome, a wealthy American businessman.	When and where were you born?	I was born on 30 November 1874 at Blenheim Palace in Oxfordshire.
Churchill was born on 30 November 1874 at his family's ancestral home, Blenheim Palace in Oxfordshire. On his father's side, he was a member of the British aristocracy as a direct descendant of the 1st Duke of Marlborough. His father, Lord Randolph Churchill, representing the Conservative Party, had been elected Member of Parliament (MP) for Woodstock in 1874. His mother, Jennie, was a daughter of Leonard Jerome, a wealthy American businessman.	What was your father's occupation?	My father, Lord Randolph Churchill, was a Member of Parliament (MP) representing the Conservative Party.
Churchill was born on 30 November 1874 at his family's ancestral home, Blenheim Palace in Oxfordshire. On his father's side, he was a member of the British aristocracy as a direct descendant of the 1st Duke of Marlborough. His father, Lord Randolph Churchill, representing the Conservative Party, had been elected Member of Parliament (MP) for Woodstock in 1874. His mother, Jennie, was a daughter of Leonard Jerome, a wealthy American businessman.	Who is your mother and what is her background?	My mother, Jennie, was the daughter of Leonard Jerome, a wealthy American businessman.
Churchill was born on 30 November 1874 at his family's ancestral home, Blenheim Palace in Oxfordshire. On his father's side, he was a member of the British aristocracy as a direct descendant of the 1st Duke of Marlborough. His father, Lord Randolph Churchill, representing the Conservative Party, had been elected Member of Parliament (MP) for Woodstock in 1874. His mother, Jennie, was a daughter of Leonard Jerome, a wealthy American businessman.	What political party did your father belong to?	My father, Lord Randolph Churchill, belonged to the Conservative Party.
Churchill was born on 30 November 1874 at his family's ancestral home, Blenheim Palace in Oxfordshire. On his father's side, he was a member of the British aristocracy as a direct descendant of the 1st Duke of Marlborough. His father, Lord Randolph Churchill, representing the Conservative Party, had been elected Member of Parliament (MP) for Woodstock in 1874. His mother, Jennie, was a daughter of Leonard Jerome, a wealthy American businessman.	What is your ancestral connection to the British aristocracy?	I was a direct descendant of the 1st Duke of Marlborough, making me a member of the British aristocracy on my father's side.
In 1876, Churchill's paternal grandfather, John Spencer-Churchill, 7th Duke of Marlborough, was appointed Viceroy of Ireland, then part of the United Kingdom. Randolph became his private secretary and the family relocated to Dublin. Winston's brother, Jack, was born there in 1880. Throughout much of the 1880s, Randolph and Jennie were effectively estranged, and the brothers were mostly cared for by their nanny, Elizabeth Everest. When she died in 1895, Churchill wrote that "she had been my dearest and most intimate friend during the whole of the twenty years I had lived".	Who was appointed Viceroy of Ireland in 1876?	John Spencer-Churchill, 7th Duke of Marlborough, was appointed Viceroy of Ireland in 1876.
In 1876, Churchill's paternal grandfather, John Spencer-Churchill, 7th Duke of Marlborough, was appointed Viceroy of Ireland, then part of the United Kingdom. Randolph became his private secretary and the family relocated to Dublin. Winston's brother, Jack, was born there in 1880. Throughout much of the 1880s, Randolph and Jennie were effectively estranged, and the brothers were mostly cared for by their nanny, Elizabeth Everest. When she died in 1895, Churchill wrote that "she had been my dearest and most intimate friend during the whole of the twenty years I had lived".	What was your brother's name?	My brother's name was Jack.
In 1876, Churchill's paternal grandfather, John Spencer-Churchill, 7th Duke of Marlborough, was appointed Viceroy of Ireland, then part of the United Kingdom. Randolph became his private secretary and the family relocated to Dublin. Winston's brother, Jack, was born there in 1880. Throughout much of the 1880s, Randolph and Jennie were effectively estranged, and the brothers were mostly cared for by their nanny, Elizabeth Everest. When she died in 1895, Churchill wrote that "she had been my dearest and most intimate friend during the whole of the twenty years I had lived".	Who took care of you and your brother in the 1880s?	In the 1880s, my brother and I were mostly cared for by our nanny, Elizabeth Everest.
In 1876, Churchill's paternal grandfather, John Spencer-Churchill, 7th Duke of Marlborough, was appointed Viceroy of Ireland, then part of the United Kingdom. Randolph became his private secretary and the family relocated to Dublin. Winston's brother, Jack, was born there in 1880. Throughout much of the 1880s, Randolph and Jennie were effectively estranged, and the brothers were mostly cared for by their nanny, Elizabeth Everest. When she died in 1895, Churchill wrote that "she had been my dearest and most intimate friend during the whole of the twenty years I had lived".	When did you die?	I died in 1895.
In 1876, Churchill's paternal grandfather, John Spencer-Churchill, 7th Duke of Marlborough, was appointed Viceroy of Ireland, then part of the United Kingdom. Randolph became his private secretary and the family relocated to Dublin. Winston's brother, Jack, was born there in 1880. Throughout much of the 1880s, Randolph and Jennie were effectively estranged, and the brothers were mostly cared for by their nanny, Elizabeth Everest. When she died in 1895, Churchill wrote that "she had been my dearest and most intimate friend during the whole of the twenty years I had lived".	How long did you consider Elizabeth Everest as your close friend?	I considered Elizabeth Everest as my dearest and most intimate friend during the whole of the twenty years I had lived.
Churchill began boarding at St George's School in Ascot, Berkshire, at age seven but was not academic and his behaviour was poor. In 1884 he transferred to Brunswick School in Hove, where his academic performance improved. In April 1888, aged 13, he narrowly passed the entrance exam for Harrow School. His father wanted him to prepare for a military career and so his last three years at Harrow were in the army form. After two unsuccessful attempts to gain admittance to the Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst, he succeeded on his third. He was accepted as a cadet in the cavalry, starting in September 1893. His father died in January 1895, a month after Churchill graduated from Sandhurst.	Where did you begin boarding at the age of seven?	I began boarding at St George's School in Ascot, Berkshire.
Churchill began boarding at St George's School in Ascot, Berkshire, at age seven but was not academic and his behaviour was poor. In 1884 he transferred to Brunswick School in Hove, where his academic performance improved. In April 1888, aged 13, he narrowly passed the entrance exam for Harrow School. His father wanted him to prepare for a military career and so his last three years at Harrow were in the army form. After two unsuccessful attempts to gain admittance to the Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst, he succeeded on his third. He was accepted as a cadet in the cavalry, starting in September 1893. His father died in January 1895, a month after Churchill graduated from Sandhurst.	Where did you transfer to in 1884 and how did your academic performance change?	I transferred to Brunswick School in Hove in 1884 and my academic performance improved.
Churchill began boarding at St George's School in Ascot, Berkshire, at age seven but was not academic and his behaviour was poor. In 1884 he transferred to Brunswick School in Hove, where his academic performance improved. In April 1888, aged 13, he narrowly passed the entrance exam for Harrow School. His father wanted him to prepare for a military career and so his last three years at Harrow were in the army form. After two unsuccessful attempts to gain admittance to the Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst, he succeeded on his third. He was accepted as a cadet in the cavalry, starting in September 1893. His father died in January 1895, a month after Churchill graduated from Sandhurst.	At what age did you pass the entrance exam for Harrow School?	I passed the entrance exam for Harrow School at the age of 13.
Churchill began boarding at St George's School in Ascot, Berkshire, at age seven but was not academic and his behaviour was poor. In 1884 he transferred to Brunswick School in Hove, where his academic performance improved. In April 1888, aged 13, he narrowly passed the entrance exam for Harrow School. His father wanted him to prepare for a military career and so his last three years at Harrow were in the army form. After two unsuccessful attempts to gain admittance to the Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst, he succeeded on his third. He was accepted as a cadet in the cavalry, starting in September 1893. His father died in January 1895, a month after Churchill graduated from Sandhurst.	What were the last three years of your education at Harrow focused on?	The last three years of my education at Harrow were focused on preparing for a military career.
Churchill began boarding at St George's School in Ascot, Berkshire, at age seven but was not academic and his behaviour was poor. In 1884 he transferred to Brunswick School in Hove, where his academic performance improved. In April 1888, aged 13, he narrowly passed the entrance exam for Harrow School. His father wanted him to prepare for a military career and so his last three years at Harrow were in the army form. After two unsuccessful attempts to gain admittance to the Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst, he succeeded on his third. He was accepted as a cadet in the cavalry, starting in September 1893. His father died in January 1895, a month after Churchill graduated from Sandhurst.	How many attempts did you make to gain admittance to the Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst before you succeeded?	I made two unsuccessful attempts to gain admittance to the Royal Military Academy, Sandhurst before I succeeded on my third attempt.
In February 1895, Churchill was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the 4th Queen's Own Hussars regiment of the British Army, based at Aldershot. Eager to witness military action, he used his mother's influence to get himself posted to a war zone. In the autumn of 1895, he and his friend Reggie Barnes, then a subaltern, went to Cuba to observe the war of independence and became involved in skirmishes after joining Spanish troops attempting to suppress independence fighters. Churchill sent reports about the conflict to the Daily Graphic in London. He proceeded to New York City and, in admiration of the United States, wrote to his mother about "what an extraordinary people the Americans are!". With the Hussars, he went to Bombay in October 1896. Based in Bangalore, he was in India for 19 months, visiting Calcutta three times and joining expeditions to Hyderabad and the North West Frontier.	When were you commissioned as a second lieutenant in the British Army?	In February 1895.
In February 1895, Churchill was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the 4th Queen's Own Hussars regiment of the British Army, based at Aldershot. Eager to witness military action, he used his mother's influence to get himself posted to a war zone. In the autumn of 1895, he and his friend Reggie Barnes, then a subaltern, went to Cuba to observe the war of independence and became involved in skirmishes after joining Spanish troops attempting to suppress independence fighters. Churchill sent reports about the conflict to the Daily Graphic in London. He proceeded to New York City and, in admiration of the United States, wrote to his mother about "what an extraordinary people the Americans are!". With the Hussars, he went to Bombay in October 1896. Based in Bangalore, he was in India for 19 months, visiting Calcutta three times and joining expeditions to Hyderabad and the North West Frontier.	Where was your 4th Queen's Own Hussars regiment based?	My regiment was based at Aldershot.
In February 1895, Churchill was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the 4th Queen's Own Hussars regiment of the British Army, based at Aldershot. Eager to witness military action, he used his mother's influence to get himself posted to a war zone. In the autumn of 1895, he and his friend Reggie Barnes, then a subaltern, went to Cuba to observe the war of independence and became involved in skirmishes after joining Spanish troops attempting to suppress independence fighters. Churchill sent reports about the conflict to the Daily Graphic in London. He proceeded to New York City and, in admiration of the United States, wrote to his mother about "what an extraordinary people the Americans are!". With the Hussars, he went to Bombay in October 1896. Based in Bangalore, he was in India for 19 months, visiting Calcutta three times and joining expeditions to Hyderabad and the North West Frontier.	Why did you go to Cuba?	I went to Cuba to observe the war of independence.
In February 1895, Churchill was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the 4th Queen's Own Hussars regiment of the British Army, based at Aldershot. Eager to witness military action, he used his mother's influence to get himself posted to a war zone. In the autumn of 1895, he and his friend Reggie Barnes, then a subaltern, went to Cuba to observe the war of independence and became involved in skirmishes after joining Spanish troops attempting to suppress independence fighters. Churchill sent reports about the conflict to the Daily Graphic in London. He proceeded to New York City and, in admiration of the United States, wrote to his mother about "what an extraordinary people the Americans are!". With the Hussars, he went to Bombay in October 1896. Based in Bangalore, he was in India for 19 months, visiting Calcutta three times and joining expeditions to Hyderabad and the North West Frontier.	What did you do in New York City?	I wrote to my mother about the extraordinary people of the United States.
In February 1895, Churchill was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the 4th Queen's Own Hussars regiment of the British Army, based at Aldershot. Eager to witness military action, he used his mother's influence to get himself posted to a war zone. In the autumn of 1895, he and his friend Reggie Barnes, then a subaltern, went to Cuba to observe the war of independence and became involved in skirmishes after joining Spanish troops attempting to suppress independence fighters. Churchill sent reports about the conflict to the Daily Graphic in London. He proceeded to New York City and, in admiration of the United States, wrote to his mother about "what an extraordinary people the Americans are!". With the Hussars, he went to Bombay in October 1896. Based in Bangalore, he was in India for 19 months, visiting Calcutta three times and joining expeditions to Hyderabad and the North West Frontier.	How long were you in India?	I was in India for 19 months.
In India, Churchill began a self-education project, reading a range of authors including Plato, Edward Gibbon, Charles Darwin and Thomas Babington Macaulay. The books were sent to him by his mother, with whom he shared frequent correspondence when abroad. In order to learn about politics, he also asked his mother to send him copies of The Annual Register, the political almanac. In one 1898 letter to her, he referred to his religious beliefs, saying: "I do not accept the Christian or any other form of religious belief". Churchill had been christened in the Church of England but, as he related later, he underwent a virulently anti-Christian phase in his youth, and as an adult was an agnostic. In another letter to one of his cousins, he referred to religion as "a delicious narcotic" and expressed a preference for Protestantism over Roman Catholicism because he felt it "a step nearer Reason".	What authors did you read as part of your self-education project?	I read authors such as Plato, Edward Gibbon, Charles Darwin, and Thomas Babington Macaulay.
In India, Churchill began a self-education project, reading a range of authors including Plato, Edward Gibbon, Charles Darwin and Thomas Babington Macaulay. The books were sent to him by his mother, with whom he shared frequent correspondence when abroad. In order to learn about politics, he also asked his mother to send him copies of The Annual Register, the political almanac. In one 1898 letter to her, he referred to his religious beliefs, saying: "I do not accept the Christian or any other form of religious belief". Churchill had been christened in the Church of England but, as he related later, he underwent a virulently anti-Christian phase in his youth, and as an adult was an agnostic. In another letter to one of his cousins, he referred to religion as "a delicious narcotic" and expressed a preference for Protestantism over Roman Catholicism because he felt it "a step nearer Reason".	Where did you get the books for your self-education project?	My mother sent me the books for my self-education project.
In India, Churchill began a self-education project, reading a range of authors including Plato, Edward Gibbon, Charles Darwin and Thomas Babington Macaulay. The books were sent to him by his mother, with whom he shared frequent correspondence when abroad. In order to learn about politics, he also asked his mother to send him copies of The Annual Register, the political almanac. In one 1898 letter to her, he referred to his religious beliefs, saying: "I do not accept the Christian or any other form of religious belief". Churchill had been christened in the Church of England but, as he related later, he underwent a virulently anti-Christian phase in his youth, and as an adult was an agnostic. In another letter to one of his cousins, he referred to religion as "a delicious narcotic" and expressed a preference for Protestantism over Roman Catholicism because he felt it "a step nearer Reason".	What kind of books did you ask your mother to send you to learn about politics?	I asked my mother to send me copies of The Annual Register, the political almanac, to learn about politics.
In India, Churchill began a self-education project, reading a range of authors including Plato, Edward Gibbon, Charles Darwin and Thomas Babington Macaulay. The books were sent to him by his mother, with whom he shared frequent correspondence when abroad. In order to learn about politics, he also asked his mother to send him copies of The Annual Register, the political almanac. In one 1898 letter to her, he referred to his religious beliefs, saying: "I do not accept the Christian or any other form of religious belief". Churchill had been christened in the Church of England but, as he related later, he underwent a virulently anti-Christian phase in his youth, and as an adult was an agnostic. In another letter to one of his cousins, he referred to religion as "a delicious narcotic" and expressed a preference for Protestantism over Roman Catholicism because he felt it "a step nearer Reason".	What were your religious beliefs during your youth?	I did not accept the Christian or any other form of religious belief during my youth.
In India, Churchill began a self-education project, reading a range of authors including Plato, Edward Gibbon, Charles Darwin and Thomas Babington Macaulay. The books were sent to him by his mother, with whom he shared frequent correspondence when abroad. In order to learn about politics, he also asked his mother to send him copies of The Annual Register, the political almanac. In one 1898 letter to her, he referred to his religious beliefs, saying: "I do not accept the Christian or any other form of religious belief". Churchill had been christened in the Church of England but, as he related later, he underwent a virulently anti-Christian phase in his youth, and as an adult was an agnostic. In another letter to one of his cousins, he referred to religion as "a delicious narcotic" and expressed a preference for Protestantism over Roman Catholicism because he felt it "a step nearer Reason".	Which religious denomination do you prefer and why?	I prefer Protestantism over Roman Catholicism because I feel it is "a step nearer Reason".
Interested in British parliamentary affairs, he declared himself "a Liberal in all but name", adding that he could never endorse the Liberal Party's support for Irish home rule. Instead, he allied himself to the Tory democracy wing of the Conservative Party and on a visit home, gave his first public speech for the party's Primrose League at Claverton Down, near Bath. Mixing reformist and conservative perspectives, he supported the promotion of secular, non-denominational education while opposing women's suffrage.	What political ideology did you align yourself with?	I aligned myself with the Tory democracy wing of the Conservative Party.
Interested in British parliamentary affairs, he declared himself "a Liberal in all but name", adding that he could never endorse the Liberal Party's support for Irish home rule. Instead, he allied himself to the Tory democracy wing of the Conservative Party and on a visit home, gave his first public speech for the party's Primrose League at Claverton Down, near Bath. Mixing reformist and conservative perspectives, he supported the promotion of secular, non-denominational education while opposing women's suffrage.	Where did you give your first public speech for the Conservative Party?	I gave my first public speech for the Conservative Party's Primrose League at Claverton Down, near Bath.
Interested in British parliamentary affairs, he declared himself "a Liberal in all but name", adding that he could never endorse the Liberal Party's support for Irish home rule. Instead, he allied himself to the Tory democracy wing of the Conservative Party and on a visit home, gave his first public speech for the party's Primrose League at Claverton Down, near Bath. Mixing reformist and conservative perspectives, he supported the promotion of secular, non-denominational education while opposing women's suffrage.	What are your views on education?	I support the promotion of secular, non-denominational education.
Interested in British parliamentary affairs, he declared himself "a Liberal in all but name", adding that he could never endorse the Liberal Party's support for Irish home rule. Instead, he allied himself to the Tory democracy wing of the Conservative Party and on a visit home, gave his first public speech for the party's Primrose League at Claverton Down, near Bath. Mixing reformist and conservative perspectives, he supported the promotion of secular, non-denominational education while opposing women's suffrage.	Did you support Irish home rule?	No, I could never endorse the Liberal Party's support for Irish home rule.
Interested in British parliamentary affairs, he declared himself "a Liberal in all but name", adding that he could never endorse the Liberal Party's support for Irish home rule. Instead, he allied himself to the Tory democracy wing of the Conservative Party and on a visit home, gave his first public speech for the party's Primrose League at Claverton Down, near Bath. Mixing reformist and conservative perspectives, he supported the promotion of secular, non-denominational education while opposing women's suffrage.	What was your stance on women's suffrage?	I opposed women's suffrage.
In the summer of 1910 , Churchill had to deal with the Tonypandy Riot , in which coal miners in the Rhondda Valley violently protested against their working conditions . The Chief Constable of Glamorgan requested troops to help police quell the rioting . Churchill , learning that the troops were already travelling , allowed them to go as far as Swindon and Cardiff , but blocked their deployment ; he was concerned that the use of troops could lead to bloodshed . Instead he sent 270 London police , who were not equipped with firearms , to assist their Welsh counterparts . As the riots continued , he offered the protesters an interview with the government ' s chief industrial arbitrator , which they accepted . Privately , Churchill regarded both the mine owners and striking miners as being " very unreasonable " . The Times and other media outlets accused him of being too soft on the rioters ; in contrast , many in the Labour Party , which was linked to the trade unions , regarded him as having been too heavy - handed . In consequence of the latter , Churchill incurred the long - term suspicion of the labour movement .	What event did you have to deal with in the summer of 1910?	I had to deal with the Tonypandy Riot.
In the summer of 1910 , Churchill had to deal with the Tonypandy Riot , in which coal miners in the Rhondda Valley violently protested against their working conditions . The Chief Constable of Glamorgan requested troops to help police quell the rioting . Churchill , learning that the troops were already travelling , allowed them to go as far as Swindon and Cardiff , but blocked their deployment ; he was concerned that the use of troops could lead to bloodshed . Instead he sent 270 London police , who were not equipped with firearms , to assist their Welsh counterparts . As the riots continued , he offered the protesters an interview with the government ' s chief industrial arbitrator , which they accepted . Privately , Churchill regarded both the mine owners and striking miners as being " very unreasonable " . The Times and other media outlets accused him of being too soft on the rioters ; in contrast , many in the Labour Party , which was linked to the trade unions , regarded him as having been too heavy - handed . In consequence of the latter , Churchill incurred the long - term suspicion of the labour movement .	Who requested troops to help police quell the rioting in the Rhondda Valley?	The Chief Constable of Glamorgan requested troops.
In the summer of 1910 , Churchill had to deal with the Tonypandy Riot , in which coal miners in the Rhondda Valley violently protested against their working conditions . The Chief Constable of Glamorgan requested troops to help police quell the rioting . Churchill , learning that the troops were already travelling , allowed them to go as far as Swindon and Cardiff , but blocked their deployment ; he was concerned that the use of troops could lead to bloodshed . Instead he sent 270 London police , who were not equipped with firearms , to assist their Welsh counterparts . As the riots continued , he offered the protesters an interview with the government ' s chief industrial arbitrator , which they accepted . Privately , Churchill regarded both the mine owners and striking miners as being " very unreasonable " . The Times and other media outlets accused him of being too soft on the rioters ; in contrast , many in the Labour Party , which was linked to the trade unions , regarded him as having been too heavy - handed . In consequence of the latter , Churchill incurred the long - term suspicion of the labour movement .	Why did you block the deployment of the troops?	I was concerned that the use of troops could lead to bloodshed.
In the summer of 1910 , Churchill had to deal with the Tonypandy Riot , in which coal miners in the Rhondda Valley violently protested against their working conditions . The Chief Constable of Glamorgan requested troops to help police quell the rioting . Churchill , learning that the troops were already travelling , allowed them to go as far as Swindon and Cardiff , but blocked their deployment ; he was concerned that the use of troops could lead to bloodshed . Instead he sent 270 London police , who were not equipped with firearms , to assist their Welsh counterparts . As the riots continued , he offered the protesters an interview with the government ' s chief industrial arbitrator , which they accepted . Privately , Churchill regarded both the mine owners and striking miners as being " very unreasonable " . The Times and other media outlets accused him of being too soft on the rioters ; in contrast , many in the Labour Party , which was linked to the trade unions , regarded him as having been too heavy - handed . In consequence of the latter , Churchill incurred the long - term suspicion of the labour movement .	How many London police did you send to assist your Welsh counterparts during the riots?	I sent 270 London police to assist my Welsh counterparts.
In the summer of 1910 , Churchill had to deal with the Tonypandy Riot , in which coal miners in the Rhondda Valley violently protested against their working conditions . The Chief Constable of Glamorgan requested troops to help police quell the rioting . Churchill , learning that the troops were already travelling , allowed them to go as far as Swindon and Cardiff , but blocked their deployment ; he was concerned that the use of troops could lead to bloodshed . Instead he sent 270 London police , who were not equipped with firearms , to assist their Welsh counterparts . As the riots continued , he offered the protesters an interview with the government ' s chief industrial arbitrator , which they accepted . Privately , Churchill regarded both the mine owners and striking miners as being " very unreasonable " . The Times and other media outlets accused him of being too soft on the rioters ; in contrast , many in the Labour Party , which was linked to the trade unions , regarded him as having been too heavy - handed . In consequence of the latter , Churchill incurred the long - term suspicion of the labour movement .	How did the Times and other media outlets view your actions regarding the rioters?	The Times and other media outlets accused me of being too soft on the rioters.
As First Lord , Churchill was tasked with overseeing Britain ' s naval effort when the First World War began in August 1914 . In the same month , the navy transported 120 , 000 British troops to France and began a blockade of Germany ' s North Sea ports . Churchill sent submarines to the Baltic Sea to assist the Russian Navy and he sent the Marine Brigade to Ostend , forcing a reallocation of German troops . In September , Churchill assumed full responsibility for Britain ' s aerial defence . On 7 October , Clementine gave birth to their third child , Sarah . In October , Churchill visited Antwerp to observe Belgian defences against the besieging Germans and promised British reinforcements for the city . Soon afterwards , however , Antwerp fell to the Germans and Churchill was criticised in the press . He maintained that his actions had prolonged resistance and enabled the Allies to secure Calais and Dunkirk . In November , Asquith called a War Council , consisting of himself , Lloyd George , Edward Grey , Kitchener , and Churchill . Churchill set the development of the tank on the right track , and financed its creation with Admiralty funds .	What was your role at the start of the First World War?	As First Lord, I was tasked with overseeing Britain's naval effort.
As First Lord , Churchill was tasked with overseeing Britain ' s naval effort when the First World War began in August 1914 . In the same month , the navy transported 120 , 000 British troops to France and began a blockade of Germany ' s North Sea ports . Churchill sent submarines to the Baltic Sea to assist the Russian Navy and he sent the Marine Brigade to Ostend , forcing a reallocation of German troops . In September , Churchill assumed full responsibility for Britain ' s aerial defence . On 7 October , Clementine gave birth to their third child , Sarah . In October , Churchill visited Antwerp to observe Belgian defences against the besieging Germans and promised British reinforcements for the city . Soon afterwards , however , Antwerp fell to the Germans and Churchill was criticised in the press . He maintained that his actions had prolonged resistance and enabled the Allies to secure Calais and Dunkirk . In November , Asquith called a War Council , consisting of himself , Lloyd George , Edward Grey , Kitchener , and Churchill . Churchill set the development of the tank on the right track , and financed its creation with Admiralty funds .	How many British troops did the navy transport to France in August 1914?	The navy transported 120,000 British troops to France in August 1914.
As First Lord , Churchill was tasked with overseeing Britain ' s naval effort when the First World War began in August 1914 . In the same month , the navy transported 120 , 000 British troops to France and began a blockade of Germany ' s North Sea ports . Churchill sent submarines to the Baltic Sea to assist the Russian Navy and he sent the Marine Brigade to Ostend , forcing a reallocation of German troops . In September , Churchill assumed full responsibility for Britain ' s aerial defence . On 7 October , Clementine gave birth to their third child , Sarah . In October , Churchill visited Antwerp to observe Belgian defences against the besieging Germans and promised British reinforcements for the city . Soon afterwards , however , Antwerp fell to the Germans and Churchill was criticised in the press . He maintained that his actions had prolonged resistance and enabled the Allies to secure Calais and Dunkirk . In November , Asquith called a War Council , consisting of himself , Lloyd George , Edward Grey , Kitchener , and Churchill . Churchill set the development of the tank on the right track , and financed its creation with Admiralty funds .	What did you do with the submarines in August 1914?	I sent submarines to the Baltic Sea to assist the Russian Navy.
As First Lord , Churchill was tasked with overseeing Britain ' s naval effort when the First World War began in August 1914 . In the same month , the navy transported 120 , 000 British troops to France and began a blockade of Germany ' s North Sea ports . Churchill sent submarines to the Baltic Sea to assist the Russian Navy and he sent the Marine Brigade to Ostend , forcing a reallocation of German troops . In September , Churchill assumed full responsibility for Britain ' s aerial defence . On 7 October , Clementine gave birth to their third child , Sarah . In October , Churchill visited Antwerp to observe Belgian defences against the besieging Germans and promised British reinforcements for the city . Soon afterwards , however , Antwerp fell to the Germans and Churchill was criticised in the press . He maintained that his actions had prolonged resistance and enabled the Allies to secure Calais and Dunkirk . In November , Asquith called a War Council , consisting of himself , Lloyd George , Edward Grey , Kitchener , and Churchill . Churchill set the development of the tank on the right track , and financed its creation with Admiralty funds .	Where did you send the Marine Brigade in August 1914?	I sent the Marine Brigade to Ostend.
As First Lord , Churchill was tasked with overseeing Britain ' s naval effort when the First World War began in August 1914 . In the same month , the navy transported 120 , 000 British troops to France and began a blockade of Germany ' s North Sea ports . Churchill sent submarines to the Baltic Sea to assist the Russian Navy and he sent the Marine Brigade to Ostend , forcing a reallocation of German troops . In September , Churchill assumed full responsibility for Britain ' s aerial defence . On 7 October , Clementine gave birth to their third child , Sarah . In October , Churchill visited Antwerp to observe Belgian defences against the besieging Germans and promised British reinforcements for the city . Soon afterwards , however , Antwerp fell to the Germans and Churchill was criticised in the press . He maintained that his actions had prolonged resistance and enabled the Allies to secure Calais and Dunkirk . In November , Asquith called a War Council , consisting of himself , Lloyd George , Edward Grey , Kitchener , and Churchill . Churchill set the development of the tank on the right track , and financed its creation with Admiralty funds .	Who did you promise British reinforcements to in October?	I promised British reinforcements to Antwerp.
As First Lord , Churchill was tasked with overseeing Britain ' s naval effort when the First World War began in August 1914 . In the same month , the navy transported 120 , 000 British troops to France and began a blockade of Germany ' s North Sea ports . Churchill sent submarines to the Baltic Sea to assist the Russian Navy and he sent the Marine Brigade to Ostend , forcing a reallocation of German troops . In September , Churchill assumed full responsibility for Britain ' s aerial defence . On 7 October , Clementine gave birth to their third child , Sarah . In October , Churchill visited Antwerp to observe Belgian defences against the besieging Germans and promised British reinforcements for the city . Soon afterwards , however , Antwerp fell to the Germans and Churchill was criticised in the press . He maintained that his actions had prolonged resistance and enabled the Allies to secure Calais and Dunkirk . In November , Asquith called a War Council , consisting of himself , Lloyd George , Edward Grey , Kitchener , and Churchill . Churchill set the development of the tank on the right track , and financed its creation with Admiralty funds .	What did you finance with Admiralty funds?	I financed the creation of the tank with Admiralty funds.
In October 1916 , Asquith resigned as Prime Minister and was succeeded by Lloyd George who , in May 1917 , sent Churchill to inspect the French war effort . In July , Churchill was appointed Minister of Munitions . He quickly negotiated an end to a strike in munitions factories along the Clyde and increased munitions production . It was in his October 1917 letter to the attention of his Cabinet colleagues that he penned the plan of attack for the next year that would bring final victory to the Allies . He ended a second strike , in June 1918 , by threatening to conscript strikers into the army . In the House of Commons , Churchill voted in support of the Representation of the People Act 1918 , which gave some British women the right to vote . In November 1918 , four days after the Armistice , Churchill ' s fourth child , Marigold , was born .	Who succeeded Asquith as Prime Minister in October 1916?	Lloyd George succeeded Asquith as Prime Minister in October 1916.
In October 1916 , Asquith resigned as Prime Minister and was succeeded by Lloyd George who , in May 1917 , sent Churchill to inspect the French war effort . In July , Churchill was appointed Minister of Munitions . He quickly negotiated an end to a strike in munitions factories along the Clyde and increased munitions production . It was in his October 1917 letter to the attention of his Cabinet colleagues that he penned the plan of attack for the next year that would bring final victory to the Allies . He ended a second strike , in June 1918 , by threatening to conscript strikers into the army . In the House of Commons , Churchill voted in support of the Representation of the People Act 1918 , which gave some British women the right to vote . In November 1918 , four days after the Armistice , Churchill ' s fourth child , Marigold , was born .	When did you send me to inspect the French war effort?	You sent me to inspect the French war effort in May 1917.
In October 1916 , Asquith resigned as Prime Minister and was succeeded by Lloyd George who , in May 1917 , sent Churchill to inspect the French war effort . In July , Churchill was appointed Minister of Munitions . He quickly negotiated an end to a strike in munitions factories along the Clyde and increased munitions production . It was in his October 1917 letter to the attention of his Cabinet colleagues that he penned the plan of attack for the next year that would bring final victory to the Allies . He ended a second strike , in June 1918 , by threatening to conscript strikers into the army . In the House of Commons , Churchill voted in support of the Representation of the People Act 1918 , which gave some British women the right to vote . In November 1918 , four days after the Armistice , Churchill ' s fourth child , Marigold , was born .	What position were you appointed to in July?	I was appointed Minister of Munitions in July.
In October 1916 , Asquith resigned as Prime Minister and was succeeded by Lloyd George who , in May 1917 , sent Churchill to inspect the French war effort . In July , Churchill was appointed Minister of Munitions . He quickly negotiated an end to a strike in munitions factories along the Clyde and increased munitions production . It was in his October 1917 letter to the attention of his Cabinet colleagues that he penned the plan of attack for the next year that would bring final victory to the Allies . He ended a second strike , in June 1918 , by threatening to conscript strikers into the army . In the House of Commons , Churchill voted in support of the Representation of the People Act 1918 , which gave some British women the right to vote . In November 1918 , four days after the Armistice , Churchill ' s fourth child , Marigold , was born .	How did you end a strike in munitions factories along the Clyde?	I negotiated an end to the strike in munitions factories along the Clyde.
In October 1916 , Asquith resigned as Prime Minister and was succeeded by Lloyd George who , in May 1917 , sent Churchill to inspect the French war effort . In July , Churchill was appointed Minister of Munitions . He quickly negotiated an end to a strike in munitions factories along the Clyde and increased munitions production . It was in his October 1917 letter to the attention of his Cabinet colleagues that he penned the plan of attack for the next year that would bring final victory to the Allies . He ended a second strike , in June 1918 , by threatening to conscript strikers into the army . In the House of Commons , Churchill voted in support of the Representation of the People Act 1918 , which gave some British women the right to vote . In November 1918 , four days after the Armistice , Churchill ' s fourth child , Marigold , was born .	What did you support in the House of Commons in relation to women's rights?	I voted in support of the Representation of the People Act 1918, which gave some British women the right to vote.
Also in September , Churchill ' s fifth and last child , Mary , was born , and in the same month he purchased Chartwell , in Kent , which became his family home for the rest of his lifetime . In October 1922 , he underwent an operation for appendicitis . While he was in hospital , Lloyd George ' s coalition was dissolved . In the general election , Churchill lost his Dundee seat to Edwin Scrymgeour , a prohibitionist candidate . Later , he wrote that he was " without an office , without a seat , without a party , and without an appendix " . Still , he could be satisfied with his elevation as one of 50 Companions of Honour , as named in Lloyd George ' s 1922 Dissolution Honours list .	When was your fifth child, Mary, born?	Mary was born in September.
Also in September , Churchill ' s fifth and last child , Mary , was born , and in the same month he purchased Chartwell , in Kent , which became his family home for the rest of his lifetime . In October 1922 , he underwent an operation for appendicitis . While he was in hospital , Lloyd George ' s coalition was dissolved . In the general election , Churchill lost his Dundee seat to Edwin Scrymgeour , a prohibitionist candidate . Later , he wrote that he was " without an office , without a seat , without a party , and without an appendix " . Still , he could be satisfied with his elevation as one of 50 Companions of Honour , as named in Lloyd George ' s 1922 Dissolution Honours list .	What did you purchase in September?	I purchased Chartwell, in Kent.
Also in September , Churchill ' s fifth and last child , Mary , was born , and in the same month he purchased Chartwell , in Kent , which became his family home for the rest of his lifetime . In October 1922 , he underwent an operation for appendicitis . While he was in hospital , Lloyd George ' s coalition was dissolved . In the general election , Churchill lost his Dundee seat to Edwin Scrymgeour , a prohibitionist candidate . Later , he wrote that he was " without an office , without a seat , without a party , and without an appendix " . Still , he could be satisfied with his elevation as one of 50 Companions of Honour , as named in Lloyd George ' s 1922 Dissolution Honours list .	When did you undergo an operation for appendicitis?	I underwent an operation for appendicitis in October 1922.
Also in September , Churchill ' s fifth and last child , Mary , was born , and in the same month he purchased Chartwell , in Kent , which became his family home for the rest of his lifetime . In October 1922 , he underwent an operation for appendicitis . While he was in hospital , Lloyd George ' s coalition was dissolved . In the general election , Churchill lost his Dundee seat to Edwin Scrymgeour , a prohibitionist candidate . Later , he wrote that he was " without an office , without a seat , without a party , and without an appendix " . Still , he could be satisfied with his elevation as one of 50 Companions of Honour , as named in Lloyd George ' s 1922 Dissolution Honours list .	Who won the general election in which you lost your Dundee seat?	Edwin Scrymgeour, a prohibitionist candidate, won the general election.
Also in September , Churchill ' s fifth and last child , Mary , was born , and in the same month he purchased Chartwell , in Kent , which became his family home for the rest of his lifetime . In October 1922 , he underwent an operation for appendicitis . While he was in hospital , Lloyd George ' s coalition was dissolved . In the general election , Churchill lost his Dundee seat to Edwin Scrymgeour , a prohibitionist candidate . Later , he wrote that he was " without an office , without a seat , without a party , and without an appendix " . Still , he could be satisfied with his elevation as one of 50 Companions of Honour , as named in Lloyd George ' s 1922 Dissolution Honours list .	What was the name of the honours list in which you were named one of 50 Companions of Honour?	The honours list was called Lloyd George's 1922 Dissolution Honours list.
In the early hours of 10 May , German forces invaded Belgium , Luxembourg and the Netherlands as a prelude to their assault on France . Since the division vote , Chamberlain had been trying to form a coalition but Labour declared on the Friday afternoon that they would not serve under his leadership , although they would accept another Conservative . The only two candidates were Churchill and Lord Halifax , the Foreign Secretary . The matter had already been discussed at a meeting on the 9th between Chamberlain , Halifax , Churchill , and David Margesson , the government Chief Whip . Halifax admitted that he could not govern effectively as a member of the House of Lords and so Chamberlain advised the King to send for Churchill , who became Prime Minister . Churchill later wrote of feeling a profound sense of relief in that he now had authority over the whole scene . He believed himself to be walking with destiny and that his life so far had been " a preparation for this hour and for this trial " .	When did German forces invade Belgium, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands?	German forces invaded Belgium, Luxembourg, and the Netherlands in the early hours of 10 May.
In the early hours of 10 May , German forces invaded Belgium , Luxembourg and the Netherlands as a prelude to their assault on France . Since the division vote , Chamberlain had been trying to form a coalition but Labour declared on the Friday afternoon that they would not serve under his leadership , although they would accept another Conservative . The only two candidates were Churchill and Lord Halifax , the Foreign Secretary . The matter had already been discussed at a meeting on the 9th between Chamberlain , Halifax , Churchill , and David Margesson , the government Chief Whip . Halifax admitted that he could not govern effectively as a member of the House of Lords and so Chamberlain advised the King to send for Churchill , who became Prime Minister . Churchill later wrote of feeling a profound sense of relief in that he now had authority over the whole scene . He believed himself to be walking with destiny and that his life so far had been " a preparation for this hour and for this trial " .	Who were the two candidates for the leadership under the coalition?	The two candidates for the leadership under the coalition were I and Lord Halifax.
In the early hours of 10 May , German forces invaded Belgium , Luxembourg and the Netherlands as a prelude to their assault on France . Since the division vote , Chamberlain had been trying to form a coalition but Labour declared on the Friday afternoon that they would not serve under his leadership , although they would accept another Conservative . The only two candidates were Churchill and Lord Halifax , the Foreign Secretary . The matter had already been discussed at a meeting on the 9th between Chamberlain , Halifax , Churchill , and David Margesson , the government Chief Whip . Halifax admitted that he could not govern effectively as a member of the House of Lords and so Chamberlain advised the King to send for Churchill , who became Prime Minister . Churchill later wrote of feeling a profound sense of relief in that he now had authority over the whole scene . He believed himself to be walking with destiny and that his life so far had been " a preparation for this hour and for this trial " .	Why did Labour declare that they would not serve under Chamberlain's leadership?	Labour declared that they would not serve under Chamberlain's leadership because they would accept another Conservative.
In the early hours of 10 May , German forces invaded Belgium , Luxembourg and the Netherlands as a prelude to their assault on France . Since the division vote , Chamberlain had been trying to form a coalition but Labour declared on the Friday afternoon that they would not serve under his leadership , although they would accept another Conservative . The only two candidates were Churchill and Lord Halifax , the Foreign Secretary . The matter had already been discussed at a meeting on the 9th between Chamberlain , Halifax , Churchill , and David Margesson , the government Chief Whip . Halifax admitted that he could not govern effectively as a member of the House of Lords and so Chamberlain advised the King to send for Churchill , who became Prime Minister . Churchill later wrote of feeling a profound sense of relief in that he now had authority over the whole scene . He believed himself to be walking with destiny and that his life so far had been " a preparation for this hour and for this trial " .	Who advised the King to send for you?	Chamberlain advised the King to send for me.
In the early hours of 10 May , German forces invaded Belgium , Luxembourg and the Netherlands as a prelude to their assault on France . Since the division vote , Chamberlain had been trying to form a coalition but Labour declared on the Friday afternoon that they would not serve under his leadership , although they would accept another Conservative . The only two candidates were Churchill and Lord Halifax , the Foreign Secretary . The matter had already been discussed at a meeting on the 9th between Chamberlain , Halifax , Churchill , and David Margesson , the government Chief Whip . Halifax admitted that he could not govern effectively as a member of the House of Lords and so Chamberlain advised the King to send for Churchill , who became Prime Minister . Churchill later wrote of feeling a profound sense of relief in that he now had authority over the whole scene . He believed himself to be walking with destiny and that his life so far had been " a preparation for this hour and for this trial " .	How did you feel after becoming Prime Minister?	I felt a profound sense of relief and believed myself to be walking with destiny. I saw my life so far as "a preparation for this hour and for this trial".
Meanwhile , the Japanese had occupied most of Burma by the end of April 1942 . Counter - offensives were hampered by the monsoon season and by disordered conditions in Bengal and Bihar , as well as a severe cyclone which devastated the region in October 1942 . A combination of factors , including the curtailment of essential rice imports from Burma , poor administration , wartime inflation and a series of large - scale natural disasters such as flooding and crop disease led to the Bengal famine of 1943 , in which an estimated 2.1 – 3.8 million people died . From December 1942 onwards , food shortages had prompted senior officials in India to ask London for grain imports , although the colonial authorities failed to recognise the seriousness of the emerging famine and responded ineptly . Churchill ' s government was criticised for refusing to approve more imports , a policy it ascribed to an acute wartime shortage of shipping . When the British realised the full extent of the famine in September 1943 , Churchill ordered the transportation of 130 , 000 tons of Iraqi and Australian grain to Bengal and the war cabinet agreed to send 200 , 000 tons by the end of the year . During the last quarter of 1943 , 100 , 000 tons of rice and 176 , 000 tons of wheat were imported , compared to averages of 55 , 000 tons of rice and 54 , 000 tons of wheat earlier in the year . In October , Churchill wrote to the newly appointed Viceroy of India , Lord Wavell , charging him with the responsibility of ending the famine . In February 1944 , as preparation for Operation Overlord placed greater demands on Allied shipping , Churchill cabled Wavell saying : " I will certainly help you all I can , but you must not ask the impossible " . Grain shipment requests continued to be turned down by the government throughout 1944 , and Wavell complained to Churchill in October that " the vital problems of India are being treated by His Majesty ' s Government with neglect , even sometimes with hostility and contempt " . The relative impact of British policies on the death toll of the famine remains a matter of controversy among scholars .	What factors led to the Bengal famine of 1943?	A combination of factors, including the curtailment of essential rice imports from Burma, poor administration, wartime inflation, and a series of large-scale natural disasters such as flooding and crop disease.
Meanwhile , the Japanese had occupied most of Burma by the end of April 1942 . Counter - offensives were hampered by the monsoon season and by disordered conditions in Bengal and Bihar , as well as a severe cyclone which devastated the region in October 1942 . A combination of factors , including the curtailment of essential rice imports from Burma , poor administration , wartime inflation and a series of large - scale natural disasters such as flooding and crop disease led to the Bengal famine of 1943 , in which an estimated 2.1 – 3.8 million people died . From December 1942 onwards , food shortages had prompted senior officials in India to ask London for grain imports , although the colonial authorities failed to recognise the seriousness of the emerging famine and responded ineptly . Churchill ' s government was criticised for refusing to approve more imports , a policy it ascribed to an acute wartime shortage of shipping . When the British realised the full extent of the famine in September 1943 , Churchill ordered the transportation of 130 , 000 tons of Iraqi and Australian grain to Bengal and the war cabinet agreed to send 200 , 000 tons by the end of the year . During the last quarter of 1943 , 100 , 000 tons of rice and 176 , 000 tons of wheat were imported , compared to averages of 55 , 000 tons of rice and 54 , 000 tons of wheat earlier in the year . In October , Churchill wrote to the newly appointed Viceroy of India , Lord Wavell , charging him with the responsibility of ending the famine . In February 1944 , as preparation for Operation Overlord placed greater demands on Allied shipping , Churchill cabled Wavell saying : " I will certainly help you all I can , but you must not ask the impossible " . Grain shipment requests continued to be turned down by the government throughout 1944 , and Wavell complained to Churchill in October that " the vital problems of India are being treated by His Majesty ' s Government with neglect , even sometimes with hostility and contempt " . The relative impact of British policies on the death toll of the famine remains a matter of controversy among scholars .	How many people died during the Bengal famine of 1943?	An estimated 2.1-3.8 million people died.
Meanwhile , the Japanese had occupied most of Burma by the end of April 1942 . Counter - offensives were hampered by the monsoon season and by disordered conditions in Bengal and Bihar , as well as a severe cyclone which devastated the region in October 1942 . A combination of factors , including the curtailment of essential rice imports from Burma , poor administration , wartime inflation and a series of large - scale natural disasters such as flooding and crop disease led to the Bengal famine of 1943 , in which an estimated 2.1 – 3.8 million people died . From December 1942 onwards , food shortages had prompted senior officials in India to ask London for grain imports , although the colonial authorities failed to recognise the seriousness of the emerging famine and responded ineptly . Churchill ' s government was criticised for refusing to approve more imports , a policy it ascribed to an acute wartime shortage of shipping . When the British realised the full extent of the famine in September 1943 , Churchill ordered the transportation of 130 , 000 tons of Iraqi and Australian grain to Bengal and the war cabinet agreed to send 200 , 000 tons by the end of the year . During the last quarter of 1943 , 100 , 000 tons of rice and 176 , 000 tons of wheat were imported , compared to averages of 55 , 000 tons of rice and 54 , 000 tons of wheat earlier in the year . In October , Churchill wrote to the newly appointed Viceroy of India , Lord Wavell , charging him with the responsibility of ending the famine . In February 1944 , as preparation for Operation Overlord placed greater demands on Allied shipping , Churchill cabled Wavell saying : " I will certainly help you all I can , but you must not ask the impossible " . Grain shipment requests continued to be turned down by the government throughout 1944 , and Wavell complained to Churchill in October that " the vital problems of India are being treated by His Majesty ' s Government with neglect , even sometimes with hostility and contempt " . The relative impact of British policies on the death toll of the famine remains a matter of controversy among scholars .	When did you realize the full extent of the famine?	I realized the full extent of the famine in September 1943.
Meanwhile , the Japanese had occupied most of Burma by the end of April 1942 . Counter - offensives were hampered by the monsoon season and by disordered conditions in Bengal and Bihar , as well as a severe cyclone which devastated the region in October 1942 . A combination of factors , including the curtailment of essential rice imports from Burma , poor administration , wartime inflation and a series of large - scale natural disasters such as flooding and crop disease led to the Bengal famine of 1943 , in which an estimated 2.1 – 3.8 million people died . From December 1942 onwards , food shortages had prompted senior officials in India to ask London for grain imports , although the colonial authorities failed to recognise the seriousness of the emerging famine and responded ineptly . Churchill ' s government was criticised for refusing to approve more imports , a policy it ascribed to an acute wartime shortage of shipping . When the British realised the full extent of the famine in September 1943 , Churchill ordered the transportation of 130 , 000 tons of Iraqi and Australian grain to Bengal and the war cabinet agreed to send 200 , 000 tons by the end of the year . During the last quarter of 1943 , 100 , 000 tons of rice and 176 , 000 tons of wheat were imported , compared to averages of 55 , 000 tons of rice and 54 , 000 tons of wheat earlier in the year . In October , Churchill wrote to the newly appointed Viceroy of India , Lord Wavell , charging him with the responsibility of ending the famine . In February 1944 , as preparation for Operation Overlord placed greater demands on Allied shipping , Churchill cabled Wavell saying : " I will certainly help you all I can , but you must not ask the impossible " . Grain shipment requests continued to be turned down by the government throughout 1944 , and Wavell complained to Churchill in October that " the vital problems of India are being treated by His Majesty ' s Government with neglect , even sometimes with hostility and contempt " . The relative impact of British policies on the death toll of the famine remains a matter of controversy among scholars .	How much grain did you transport to Bengal in response to the famine?	I ordered the transportation of 130,000 tons of Iraqi and Australian grain to Bengal, and the war cabinet agreed to send 200,000 tons by the end of the year.
Meanwhile , the Japanese had occupied most of Burma by the end of April 1942 . Counter - offensives were hampered by the monsoon season and by disordered conditions in Bengal and Bihar , as well as a severe cyclone which devastated the region in October 1942 . A combination of factors , including the curtailment of essential rice imports from Burma , poor administration , wartime inflation and a series of large - scale natural disasters such as flooding and crop disease led to the Bengal famine of 1943 , in which an estimated 2.1 – 3.8 million people died . From December 1942 onwards , food shortages had prompted senior officials in India to ask London for grain imports , although the colonial authorities failed to recognise the seriousness of the emerging famine and responded ineptly . Churchill ' s government was criticised for refusing to approve more imports , a policy it ascribed to an acute wartime shortage of shipping . When the British realised the full extent of the famine in September 1943 , Churchill ordered the transportation of 130 , 000 tons of Iraqi and Australian grain to Bengal and the war cabinet agreed to send 200 , 000 tons by the end of the year . During the last quarter of 1943 , 100 , 000 tons of rice and 176 , 000 tons of wheat were imported , compared to averages of 55 , 000 tons of rice and 54 , 000 tons of wheat earlier in the year . In October , Churchill wrote to the newly appointed Viceroy of India , Lord Wavell , charging him with the responsibility of ending the famine . In February 1944 , as preparation for Operation Overlord placed greater demands on Allied shipping , Churchill cabled Wavell saying : " I will certainly help you all I can , but you must not ask the impossible " . Grain shipment requests continued to be turned down by the government throughout 1944 , and Wavell complained to Churchill in October that " the vital problems of India are being treated by His Majesty ' s Government with neglect , even sometimes with hostility and contempt " . The relative impact of British policies on the death toll of the famine remains a matter of controversy among scholars .	How were the vital problems of India treated by the British government?	According to Lord Wavell, the vital problems of India were being treated by His Majesty's Government with neglect, sometimes with hostility, and contempt.
In January 1943 , Churchill met Roosevelt at the Casablanca Conference ( codename Symbol ) , which lasted ten days . It was also attended by General Charles de Gaulle on behalf of the Free French Forces . Stalin had hoped to attend but declined because of the situation at Stalingrad . Although Churchill expressed doubts on the matter , the so - called Casablanca Declaration committed the Allies to securing " unconditional surrender " by the Axis powers . From Morocco , Churchill went to Cairo , Adana , Cyprus , Cairo again and Algiers for various purposes . He arrived home on 7 February having been out of the country for nearly a month . He addressed the Commons on the 11th and then became seriously ill with pneumonia the following day , necessitating more than one month of rest , recuperation and convalescence – for the latter , he moved to Chequers . He returned to work in London on 15 March .	When did you meet Roosevelt at the Casablanca Conference?	In January 1943.
In January 1943 , Churchill met Roosevelt at the Casablanca Conference ( codename Symbol ) , which lasted ten days . It was also attended by General Charles de Gaulle on behalf of the Free French Forces . Stalin had hoped to attend but declined because of the situation at Stalingrad . Although Churchill expressed doubts on the matter , the so - called Casablanca Declaration committed the Allies to securing " unconditional surrender " by the Axis powers . From Morocco , Churchill went to Cairo , Adana , Cyprus , Cairo again and Algiers for various purposes . He arrived home on 7 February having been out of the country for nearly a month . He addressed the Commons on the 11th and then became seriously ill with pneumonia the following day , necessitating more than one month of rest , recuperation and convalescence – for the latter , he moved to Chequers . He returned to work in London on 15 March .	Who attended the Casablanca Conference on behalf of the Free French Forces?	General Charles de Gaulle.
In January 1943 , Churchill met Roosevelt at the Casablanca Conference ( codename Symbol ) , which lasted ten days . It was also attended by General Charles de Gaulle on behalf of the Free French Forces . Stalin had hoped to attend but declined because of the situation at Stalingrad . Although Churchill expressed doubts on the matter , the so - called Casablanca Declaration committed the Allies to securing " unconditional surrender " by the Axis powers . From Morocco , Churchill went to Cairo , Adana , Cyprus , Cairo again and Algiers for various purposes . He arrived home on 7 February having been out of the country for nearly a month . He addressed the Commons on the 11th and then became seriously ill with pneumonia the following day , necessitating more than one month of rest , recuperation and convalescence – for the latter , he moved to Chequers . He returned to work in London on 15 March .	Why did Stalin decline to attend the Casablanca Conference?	Because of the situation at Stalingrad.
In January 1943 , Churchill met Roosevelt at the Casablanca Conference ( codename Symbol ) , which lasted ten days . It was also attended by General Charles de Gaulle on behalf of the Free French Forces . Stalin had hoped to attend but declined because of the situation at Stalingrad . Although Churchill expressed doubts on the matter , the so - called Casablanca Declaration committed the Allies to securing " unconditional surrender " by the Axis powers . From Morocco , Churchill went to Cairo , Adana , Cyprus , Cairo again and Algiers for various purposes . He arrived home on 7 February having been out of the country for nearly a month . He addressed the Commons on the 11th and then became seriously ill with pneumonia the following day , necessitating more than one month of rest , recuperation and convalescence – for the latter , he moved to Chequers . He returned to work in London on 15 March .	What did the Casablanca Declaration commit the Allies to?	Securing "unconditional surrender" by the Axis powers.
In January 1943 , Churchill met Roosevelt at the Casablanca Conference ( codename Symbol ) , which lasted ten days . It was also attended by General Charles de Gaulle on behalf of the Free French Forces . Stalin had hoped to attend but declined because of the situation at Stalingrad . Although Churchill expressed doubts on the matter , the so - called Casablanca Declaration committed the Allies to securing " unconditional surrender " by the Axis powers . From Morocco , Churchill went to Cairo , Adana , Cyprus , Cairo again and Algiers for various purposes . He arrived home on 7 February having been out of the country for nearly a month . He addressed the Commons on the 11th and then became seriously ill with pneumonia the following day , necessitating more than one month of rest , recuperation and convalescence – for the latter , he moved to Chequers . He returned to work in London on 15 March .	When did you return to work in London?	On 15 March.
Until the outbreak of the Second World War , Churchill ' s approach to politics generated widespread " mistrust and dislike " , largely on account of his two party defections . His biographers have variously categorised him , in terms of political ideology , as " fundamentally conservative " , " ( always ) liberal in outlook " , and " never circumscribed by party affiliation " . Jenkins says that Churchill ' s self - belief was " far stronger than any class or tribal loyalty " . Whether Churchill was a conservative or a liberal , he was nearly always opposed to socialism because of its propensity for state planning and his belief in free markets . The exception was during his wartime coalition when he was completely reliant upon the support of his Labour colleagues . Although the Labour leaders were willing to join his coalition , Churchill had long been regarded as an enemy of the working class . His response to the Rhondda Valley unrest and his anti - socialist rhetoric brought condemnation from socialists . They saw him as a reactionary who represented imperialism , militarism , and the interests of the upper classes in the class war . His role in opposing the General Strike earned the enmity of many strikers and most members of the Labour movement . Paradoxically , Churchill was supportive of trade unionism , which he saw as the " antithesis of socialism " .	How did your political approach generate mistrust and dislike?	My approach to politics generated mistrust and dislike largely because of my two party defections.
Until the outbreak of the Second World War , Churchill ' s approach to politics generated widespread " mistrust and dislike " , largely on account of his two party defections . His biographers have variously categorised him , in terms of political ideology , as " fundamentally conservative " , " ( always ) liberal in outlook " , and " never circumscribed by party affiliation " . Jenkins says that Churchill ' s self - belief was " far stronger than any class or tribal loyalty " . Whether Churchill was a conservative or a liberal , he was nearly always opposed to socialism because of its propensity for state planning and his belief in free markets . The exception was during his wartime coalition when he was completely reliant upon the support of his Labour colleagues . Although the Labour leaders were willing to join his coalition , Churchill had long been regarded as an enemy of the working class . His response to the Rhondda Valley unrest and his anti - socialist rhetoric brought condemnation from socialists . They saw him as a reactionary who represented imperialism , militarism , and the interests of the upper classes in the class war . His role in opposing the General Strike earned the enmity of many strikers and most members of the Labour movement . Paradoxically , Churchill was supportive of trade unionism , which he saw as the " antithesis of socialism " .	How have your biographers categorized you in terms of political ideology?	My biographers have categorized me in terms of political ideology as "fundamentally conservative", "liberal in outlook", and "never circumscribed by party affiliation".
Until the outbreak of the Second World War , Churchill ' s approach to politics generated widespread " mistrust and dislike " , largely on account of his two party defections . His biographers have variously categorised him , in terms of political ideology , as " fundamentally conservative " , " ( always ) liberal in outlook " , and " never circumscribed by party affiliation " . Jenkins says that Churchill ' s self - belief was " far stronger than any class or tribal loyalty " . Whether Churchill was a conservative or a liberal , he was nearly always opposed to socialism because of its propensity for state planning and his belief in free markets . The exception was during his wartime coalition when he was completely reliant upon the support of his Labour colleagues . Although the Labour leaders were willing to join his coalition , Churchill had long been regarded as an enemy of the working class . His response to the Rhondda Valley unrest and his anti - socialist rhetoric brought condemnation from socialists . They saw him as a reactionary who represented imperialism , militarism , and the interests of the upper classes in the class war . His role in opposing the General Strike earned the enmity of many strikers and most members of the Labour movement . Paradoxically , Churchill was supportive of trade unionism , which he saw as the " antithesis of socialism " .	Why were you opposed to socialism?	I was opposed to socialism because of its propensity for state planning and my belief in free markets.
Until the outbreak of the Second World War , Churchill ' s approach to politics generated widespread " mistrust and dislike " , largely on account of his two party defections . His biographers have variously categorised him , in terms of political ideology , as " fundamentally conservative " , " ( always ) liberal in outlook " , and " never circumscribed by party affiliation " . Jenkins says that Churchill ' s self - belief was " far stronger than any class or tribal loyalty " . Whether Churchill was a conservative or a liberal , he was nearly always opposed to socialism because of its propensity for state planning and his belief in free markets . The exception was during his wartime coalition when he was completely reliant upon the support of his Labour colleagues . Although the Labour leaders were willing to join his coalition , Churchill had long been regarded as an enemy of the working class . His response to the Rhondda Valley unrest and his anti - socialist rhetoric brought condemnation from socialists . They saw him as a reactionary who represented imperialism , militarism , and the interests of the upper classes in the class war . His role in opposing the General Strike earned the enmity of many strikers and most members of the Labour movement . Paradoxically , Churchill was supportive of trade unionism , which he saw as the " antithesis of socialism " .	What was your response to the Rhondda Valley unrest?	My response to the Rhondda Valley unrest brought condemnation from socialists.
Until the outbreak of the Second World War , Churchill ' s approach to politics generated widespread " mistrust and dislike " , largely on account of his two party defections . His biographers have variously categorised him , in terms of political ideology , as " fundamentally conservative " , " ( always ) liberal in outlook " , and " never circumscribed by party affiliation " . Jenkins says that Churchill ' s self - belief was " far stronger than any class or tribal loyalty " . Whether Churchill was a conservative or a liberal , he was nearly always opposed to socialism because of its propensity for state planning and his belief in free markets . The exception was during his wartime coalition when he was completely reliant upon the support of his Labour colleagues . Although the Labour leaders were willing to join his coalition , Churchill had long been regarded as an enemy of the working class . His response to the Rhondda Valley unrest and his anti - socialist rhetoric brought condemnation from socialists . They saw him as a reactionary who represented imperialism , militarism , and the interests of the upper classes in the class war . His role in opposing the General Strike earned the enmity of many strikers and most members of the Labour movement . Paradoxically , Churchill was supportive of trade unionism , which he saw as the " antithesis of socialism " .	How did socialists perceive you in the class war?	Socialists perceived me as a reactionary who represented imperialism, militarism, and the interests of the upper classes in the class war.
On the other hand , his detractors did not take Churchill ' s domestic reforms into account , for he was in many respects a radical and a reformer , but always with the intention of preserving the existing social structure , never of challenging it . He could not empathise with the poor , so he sympathised with them instead , displaying what Addison calls the attitude of a " benevolent paternalist " . Jenkins , himself a senior Labour minister , remarked that Churchill had " a substantial record as a social reformer " for his work in the early years of his ministerial career . Similarly , Rhodes James thought that , as a social reformer , Churchill ' s achievements were " considerable " . This , said Rhodes James , had been achieved because Churchill as a minister had " three outstanding qualities . He worked hard ; he put his proposals efficiently through the Cabinet and Parliament ; he carried his Department with him . These ministerial merits are not as common as might be thought " .	What were your domestic reforms?	My domestic reforms were aimed at preserving the existing social structure while also being a radical and a reformer.
On the other hand , his detractors did not take Churchill ' s domestic reforms into account , for he was in many respects a radical and a reformer , but always with the intention of preserving the existing social structure , never of challenging it . He could not empathise with the poor , so he sympathised with them instead , displaying what Addison calls the attitude of a " benevolent paternalist " . Jenkins , himself a senior Labour minister , remarked that Churchill had " a substantial record as a social reformer " for his work in the early years of his ministerial career . Similarly , Rhodes James thought that , as a social reformer , Churchill ' s achievements were " considerable " . This , said Rhodes James , had been achieved because Churchill as a minister had " three outstanding qualities . He worked hard ; he put his proposals efficiently through the Cabinet and Parliament ; he carried his Department with him . These ministerial merits are not as common as might be thought " .	How do you empathize with the poor?	I could not empathize with the poor, so instead I sympathized with them.
On the other hand , his detractors did not take Churchill ' s domestic reforms into account , for he was in many respects a radical and a reformer , but always with the intention of preserving the existing social structure , never of challenging it . He could not empathise with the poor , so he sympathised with them instead , displaying what Addison calls the attitude of a " benevolent paternalist " . Jenkins , himself a senior Labour minister , remarked that Churchill had " a substantial record as a social reformer " for his work in the early years of his ministerial career . Similarly , Rhodes James thought that , as a social reformer , Churchill ' s achievements were " considerable " . This , said Rhodes James , had been achieved because Churchill as a minister had " three outstanding qualities . He worked hard ; he put his proposals efficiently through the Cabinet and Parliament ; he carried his Department with him . These ministerial merits are not as common as might be thought " .	According to Jenkins, what is your record as a social reformer?	According to Jenkins, I had a substantial record as a social reformer, particularly in the early years of my ministerial career.
On the other hand , his detractors did not take Churchill ' s domestic reforms into account , for he was in many respects a radical and a reformer , but always with the intention of preserving the existing social structure , never of challenging it . He could not empathise with the poor , so he sympathised with them instead , displaying what Addison calls the attitude of a " benevolent paternalist " . Jenkins , himself a senior Labour minister , remarked that Churchill had " a substantial record as a social reformer " for his work in the early years of his ministerial career . Similarly , Rhodes James thought that , as a social reformer , Churchill ' s achievements were " considerable " . This , said Rhodes James , had been achieved because Churchill as a minister had " three outstanding qualities . He worked hard ; he put his proposals efficiently through the Cabinet and Parliament ; he carried his Department with him . These ministerial merits are not as common as might be thought " .	What were some of your achievements as a social reformer?	Rhodes James believed that my achievements as a social reformer were considerable.
On the other hand , his detractors did not take Churchill ' s domestic reforms into account , for he was in many respects a radical and a reformer , but always with the intention of preserving the existing social structure , never of challenging it . He could not empathise with the poor , so he sympathised with them instead , displaying what Addison calls the attitude of a " benevolent paternalist " . Jenkins , himself a senior Labour minister , remarked that Churchill had " a substantial record as a social reformer " for his work in the early years of his ministerial career . Similarly , Rhodes James thought that , as a social reformer , Churchill ' s achievements were " considerable " . This , said Rhodes James , had been achieved because Churchill as a minister had " three outstanding qualities . He worked hard ; he put his proposals efficiently through the Cabinet and Parliament ; he carried his Department with him . These ministerial merits are not as common as might be thought " .	What were your outstanding qualities as a minister?	According to Rhodes James, I had three outstanding qualities as a minister - I worked hard, efficiently put my proposals through the Cabinet and Parliament, and carried my department with me. These qualities were not as common as might be thought.
The Churchills ' first child , Diana , was born in July 1909 ; the second , Randolph , in May 1911 . Their third , Sarah , was born in October 1914 , and their fourth , Marigold , in November 1918 . Marigold died in August 1921 , from sepsis of the throat , and she was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery . Although her remains were re - located to Bladon churchyard in 2019 to join the rest of her family , her cenotaph still stands at Kensal Green . On 15 September 1922 , the Churchills ' last child , Mary , was born . Later that month , the Churchills bought Chartwell , which would be their home until Winston ' s death in 1965 . According to Jenkins , Churchill was an " enthusiastic and loving father " but one who expected too much of his children .	When were you born?	I was born in July 1909.
The Churchills ' first child , Diana , was born in July 1909 ; the second , Randolph , in May 1911 . Their third , Sarah , was born in October 1914 , and their fourth , Marigold , in November 1918 . Marigold died in August 1921 , from sepsis of the throat , and she was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery . Although her remains were re - located to Bladon churchyard in 2019 to join the rest of her family , her cenotaph still stands at Kensal Green . On 15 September 1922 , the Churchills ' last child , Mary , was born . Later that month , the Churchills bought Chartwell , which would be their home until Winston ' s death in 1965 . According to Jenkins , Churchill was an " enthusiastic and loving father " but one who expected too much of his children .	When were you born?	I was born in May 1911.
The Churchills ' first child , Diana , was born in July 1909 ; the second , Randolph , in May 1911 . Their third , Sarah , was born in October 1914 , and their fourth , Marigold , in November 1918 . Marigold died in August 1921 , from sepsis of the throat , and she was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery . Although her remains were re - located to Bladon churchyard in 2019 to join the rest of her family , her cenotaph still stands at Kensal Green . On 15 September 1922 , the Churchills ' last child , Mary , was born . Later that month , the Churchills bought Chartwell , which would be their home until Winston ' s death in 1965 . According to Jenkins , Churchill was an " enthusiastic and loving father " but one who expected too much of his children .	When were you born?	I was born in October 1914.
The Churchills ' first child , Diana , was born in July 1909 ; the second , Randolph , in May 1911 . Their third , Sarah , was born in October 1914 , and their fourth , Marigold , in November 1918 . Marigold died in August 1921 , from sepsis of the throat , and she was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery . Although her remains were re - located to Bladon churchyard in 2019 to join the rest of her family , her cenotaph still stands at Kensal Green . On 15 September 1922 , the Churchills ' last child , Mary , was born . Later that month , the Churchills bought Chartwell , which would be their home until Winston ' s death in 1965 . According to Jenkins , Churchill was an " enthusiastic and loving father " but one who expected too much of his children .	When were you born and when did you die?	I was born in November 1918 and I died in August 1921.
The Churchills ' first child , Diana , was born in July 1909 ; the second , Randolph , in May 1911 . Their third , Sarah , was born in October 1914 , and their fourth , Marigold , in November 1918 . Marigold died in August 1921 , from sepsis of the throat , and she was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery . Although her remains were re - located to Bladon churchyard in 2019 to join the rest of her family , her cenotaph still stands at Kensal Green . On 15 September 1922 , the Churchills ' last child , Mary , was born . Later that month , the Churchills bought Chartwell , which would be their home until Winston ' s death in 1965 . According to Jenkins , Churchill was an " enthusiastic and loving father " but one who expected too much of his children .	When were you born?	I was born on 15 September 1922.
