Lincoln ' s assassination left him a national martyr . He was viewed by abolitionists as a champion of human liberty . Republicans linked Lincoln ' s name to their party . Many , though not all , in the South considered Lincoln as a man of outstanding ability . Historians have said he was " a classical liberal " in the 19th - century sense . Allen C . Guelzo states that Lincoln was a " classical liberal democrat — an enemy of artificial hierarchy , a friend to trade and business as ennobling and enabling , and an American counterpart to Mill , Cobden , and Bright " , whose portrait Lincoln hung in his White House office .	How were you considered by some people in the South?	Many, though not all, in the South considered me as a man of outstanding ability.
Lincoln ' s assassination left him a national martyr . He was viewed by abolitionists as a champion of human liberty . Republicans linked Lincoln ' s name to their party . Many , though not all , in the South considered Lincoln as a man of outstanding ability . Historians have said he was " a classical liberal " in the 19th - century sense . Allen C . Guelzo states that Lincoln was a " classical liberal democrat — an enemy of artificial hierarchy , a friend to trade and business as ennobling and enabling , and an American counterpart to Mill , Cobden , and Bright " , whose portrait Lincoln hung in his White House office .	Which party linked your name to their party?	The Republicans linked my name to their party.
On May 9 – 10 , 1860 , the Illinois Republican State Convention was held in Decatur . Lincoln ' s followers organized a campaign team led by David Davis , Norman Judd , Leonard Swett , and Jesse DuBois , and Lincoln received his first endorsement . Exploiting his embellished frontier legend ( clearing land and splitting fence rails ) , Lincoln ' s supporters adopted the label of " The Rail Candidate " . In 1860 , Lincoln described himself : " I am in height , six feet , four inches , nearly ; lean in flesh , weighing , on an average , one hundred and eighty pounds ; dark complexion , with coarse black hair , and gray eyes . " Michael Martinez wrote about the effective imaging of Lincoln by his campaign . At times he was presented as the plain - talking " Rail Splitter " and at other times he was " Honest Abe " , unpolished but trustworthy .	How do you describe yourself in terms of physical appearance?	I describe myself as being six feet four inches tall, lean in flesh, weighing around one hundred and eighty pounds, with a dark complexion, coarse black hair, and gray eyes.
Though the Republican legislative candidates won more popular votes , the Democrats won more seats , and the legislature re - elected Douglas . However , Lincoln ' s articulation of the issues had given him a national political presence . In May 1859 , Lincoln purchased the Illinois Staats - Anzeiger , a German - language newspaper that was consistently supportive ; most of the state ' s 130 , 000 German Americans voted for Democrats , but the German - language paper mobilized Republican support . In the aftermath of the 1858 election , newspapers frequently mentioned Lincoln as a potential Republican presidential candidate , rivaled by William H . Seward , Salmon P . Chase , Edward Bates , and Simon Cameron . While Lincoln was popular in the Midwest , he lacked support in the Northeast and was unsure whether to seek the office . In January 1860 , Lincoln told a group of political allies that he would accept the presidential nomination if offered and , in the following months , several local papers endorsed his candidacy .	What did the German-language paper mobilize support for?	The German-language paper mobilized Republican support.
Grant in 1864 waged the bloody Overland Campaign , which exacted heavy losses on both sides . When Lincoln asked what Grant ' s plans were , the persistent general replied , " I propose to fight it out on this line if it takes all summer . " Grant ' s army moved steadily south . Lincoln traveled to Grant ' s headquarters at City Point , Virginia , to confer with Grant and William Tecumseh Sherman . Lincoln reacted to Union losses by mobilizing support throughout the North . Lincoln authorized Grant to target infrastructure — plantations , railroads , and bridges — hoping to weaken the South ' s morale and fighting ability . He emphasized defeat of the Confederate armies over destruction ( which was considerable ) for its own sake . Lincoln ' s engagement became distinctly personal on one occasion in 1864 when Confederate general Jubal Early raided Washington , D . C . Legend has it that while Lincoln watched from an exposed position , Union Captain ( and future Supreme Court Justice ) Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr . shouted at him , " Get down , you damn fool , before you get shot ! "	When did Confederate general Jubal Early raid Washington, D.C.?	Confederate general Jubal Early raided Washington, D.C. in 1864.
On August 17 , 1862 , the Sioux or Dakota uprising broke out in Minnesota . Hundreds of settlers were killed , 30 , 000 were displaced from their homes , and Washington was deeply alarmed . Some feared incorrectly that it might represent a Confederate conspiracy to start a war on the Northwestern frontier . Lincoln ordered thousands of Confederate prisoners of war sent by railroad to put down the uprising . When the Confederates protested forcing Confederate prisoners to fight Indians , Lincoln revoked the policy and none set foot in Minnesota . Lincoln sent General John Pope to Minnesota as commander of the new Department of the Northwest a couple of weeks into the hostilities . Before he arrived , the Fond Du Lac band of Chippewa sent Lincoln a letter begging to go to war for the United States against the Sioux , so Lincoln could send Minnesota ' s troops to fight the South . Shortly after , a Mille Lacs Band Chief offered the same at St . Cloud , Minnesota . In it the Chippewa specified that they wanted to use the indigenous rules of warfare . That meant there would be no prisoners of war , no surrender , no peace agreement . Lincoln did not accept the Chippewa offer , as he had no means to control the outcome and women and children were considered legitimate casualties in native American warfare . Once word reached the other bands of Chippewa , he had no way of knowing how they would react to his sending the Fond Du Lac on the warpath . [ citation needed ] One of the Chippewa signing the letter , Chief Naw - Gaw - Nub , had received a Presidential medal from Lincoln earlier in the year .	Who did you send to Minnesota as commander of the Department of the Northwest?	I sent General John Pope to Minnesota.
Lincoln was an affectionate husband and father of four sons , though his work regularly kept him away from home . The oldest , Robert Todd Lincoln , was born in 1843 and was the only child to live to maturity . Edward Baker Lincoln ( Eddie ) , born in 1846 , died February 1 , 1850 , probably of tuberculosis . Lincoln ' s third son , " Willie " Lincoln was born on December 21 , 1850 , and died of a fever at the White House on February 20 , 1862 . The youngest , Thomas " Tad " Lincoln , was born on April 4 , 1853 , and survived his father but died of heart failure at age 18 on July 16 , 1871 . [ f ] Lincoln " was remarkably fond of children " and the Lincolns were not considered to be strict with their own . In fact , Lincoln ' s law partner William H . Herndon would grow irritated when Lincoln brought his children to the law office . Their father , it seemed , was often too absorbed in his work to notice his children ' s behavior . Herndon recounted , " I have felt many and many a time that I wanted to wring their little necks , and yet out of respect for Lincoln I kept my mouth shut . Lincoln did not note what his children were doing or had done . "	When were Robert Todd Lincoln born?	He was born in 1843.
Lincoln was an affectionate husband and father of four sons , though his work regularly kept him away from home . The oldest , Robert Todd Lincoln , was born in 1843 and was the only child to live to maturity . Edward Baker Lincoln ( Eddie ) , born in 1846 , died February 1 , 1850 , probably of tuberculosis . Lincoln ' s third son , " Willie " Lincoln was born on December 21 , 1850 , and died of a fever at the White House on February 20 , 1862 . The youngest , Thomas " Tad " Lincoln , was born on April 4 , 1853 , and survived his father but died of heart failure at age 18 on July 16 , 1871 . [ f ] Lincoln " was remarkably fond of children " and the Lincolns were not considered to be strict with their own . In fact , Lincoln ' s law partner William H . Herndon would grow irritated when Lincoln brought his children to the law office . Their father , it seemed , was often too absorbed in his work to notice his children ' s behavior . Herndon recounted , " I have felt many and many a time that I wanted to wring their little necks , and yet out of respect for Lincoln I kept my mouth shut . Lincoln did not note what his children were doing or had done . "	How many sons did you have?	I had four sons.
Grant in 1864 waged the bloody Overland Campaign , which exacted heavy losses on both sides . When Lincoln asked what Grant ' s plans were , the persistent general replied , " I propose to fight it out on this line if it takes all summer . " Grant ' s army moved steadily south . Lincoln traveled to Grant ' s headquarters at City Point , Virginia , to confer with Grant and William Tecumseh Sherman . Lincoln reacted to Union losses by mobilizing support throughout the North . Lincoln authorized Grant to target infrastructure — plantations , railroads , and bridges — hoping to weaken the South ' s morale and fighting ability . He emphasized defeat of the Confederate armies over destruction ( which was considerable ) for its own sake . Lincoln ' s engagement became distinctly personal on one occasion in 1864 when Confederate general Jubal Early raided Washington , D . C . Legend has it that while Lincoln watched from an exposed position , Union Captain ( and future Supreme Court Justice ) Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr . shouted at him , " Get down , you damn fool , before you get shot ! "	What campaign did Grant wage in 1864?	Grant waged the bloody Overland Campaign in 1864.
Lincoln was an affectionate husband and father of four sons , though his work regularly kept him away from home . The oldest , Robert Todd Lincoln , was born in 1843 and was the only child to live to maturity . Edward Baker Lincoln ( Eddie ) , born in 1846 , died February 1 , 1850 , probably of tuberculosis . Lincoln ' s third son , " Willie " Lincoln was born on December 21 , 1850 , and died of a fever at the White House on February 20 , 1862 . The youngest , Thomas " Tad " Lincoln , was born on April 4 , 1853 , and survived his father but died of heart failure at age 18 on July 16 , 1871 . [ f ] Lincoln " was remarkably fond of children " and the Lincolns were not considered to be strict with their own . In fact , Lincoln ' s law partner William H . Herndon would grow irritated when Lincoln brought his children to the law office . Their father , it seemed , was often too absorbed in his work to notice his children ' s behavior . Herndon recounted , " I have felt many and many a time that I wanted to wring their little necks , and yet out of respect for Lincoln I kept my mouth shut . Lincoln did not note what his children were doing or had done . "	When was Willie Lincoln born?	Willie Lincoln was born on December 21, 1850.
On August 17 , 1862 , the Sioux or Dakota uprising broke out in Minnesota . Hundreds of settlers were killed , 30 , 000 were displaced from their homes , and Washington was deeply alarmed . Some feared incorrectly that it might represent a Confederate conspiracy to start a war on the Northwestern frontier . Lincoln ordered thousands of Confederate prisoners of war sent by railroad to put down the uprising . When the Confederates protested forcing Confederate prisoners to fight Indians , Lincoln revoked the policy and none set foot in Minnesota . Lincoln sent General John Pope to Minnesota as commander of the new Department of the Northwest a couple of weeks into the hostilities . Before he arrived , the Fond Du Lac band of Chippewa sent Lincoln a letter begging to go to war for the United States against the Sioux , so Lincoln could send Minnesota ' s troops to fight the South . Shortly after , a Mille Lacs Band Chief offered the same at St . Cloud , Minnesota . In it the Chippewa specified that they wanted to use the indigenous rules of warfare . That meant there would be no prisoners of war , no surrender , no peace agreement . Lincoln did not accept the Chippewa offer , as he had no means to control the outcome and women and children were considered legitimate casualties in native American warfare . Once word reached the other bands of Chippewa , he had no way of knowing how they would react to his sending the Fond Du Lac on the warpath . [ citation needed ] One of the Chippewa signing the letter , Chief Naw - Gaw - Nub , had received a Presidential medal from Lincoln earlier in the year .	Who did you order to put down the uprising?	I ordered thousands of Confederate prisoners of war.
On May 9 – 10 , 1860 , the Illinois Republican State Convention was held in Decatur . Lincoln ' s followers organized a campaign team led by David Davis , Norman Judd , Leonard Swett , and Jesse DuBois , and Lincoln received his first endorsement . Exploiting his embellished frontier legend ( clearing land and splitting fence rails ) , Lincoln ' s supporters adopted the label of " The Rail Candidate " . In 1860 , Lincoln described himself : " I am in height , six feet , four inches , nearly ; lean in flesh , weighing , on an average , one hundred and eighty pounds ; dark complexion , with coarse black hair , and gray eyes . " Michael Martinez wrote about the effective imaging of Lincoln by his campaign . At times he was presented as the plain - talking " Rail Splitter " and at other times he was " Honest Abe " , unpolished but trustworthy .	When and where was the Illinois Republican State Convention held?	The Illinois Republican State Convention was held in Decatur on May 9 - 10, 1860.
On April 14 , 1865 , hours before he was assassinated , Lincoln signed legislation establishing the United States Secret Service , and , at 10 : 15 in the evening , Booth entered the back of Lincoln ' s theater box , crept up from behind , and fired at the back of Lincoln ' s head , mortally wounding him . Lincoln ' s guest , Major Henry Rathbone , momentarily grappled with Booth , but Booth stabbed him and escaped . After being attended by Doctor Charles Leale and two other doctors , Lincoln was taken across the street to Petersen House . After remaining in a coma for eight hours , Lincoln died at 7 : 22 in the morning on April 15 . [ k ] Stanton saluted and said , " Now he belongs to the ages . " [ l ] Lincoln ' s body was placed in a flag - wrapped coffin , which was loaded into a hearse and escorted to the White House by Union soldiers . President Johnson was sworn in later that same day .	Who grappled with Booth when he attacked you?	Major Henry Rathbone.
Reconstruction preceded the war ' s end , as Lincoln and his associates considered the reintegration of the nation , and the fates of Confederate leaders and freed slaves . When a general asked Lincoln how the defeated Confederates were to be treated , Lincoln replied , " Let ' em up easy . " Lincoln was determined to find meaning in the war in its aftermath , and did not want to continue to outcast the southern states . His main goal was to keep the union together , so he proceeded by focusing not on whom to blame , but on how to rebuild the nation as one . Lincoln led the moderates in Reconstruction policy and was opposed by the Radicals , under Rep . Thaddeus Stevens , Sen . Charles Sumner and Sen . Benjamin Wade , who otherwise remained Lincoln ' s allies . Determined to reunite the nation and not alienate the South , Lincoln urged that speedy elections under generous terms be held . His Amnesty Proclamation of December 8 , 1863 , offered pardons to those who had not held a Confederate civil office and had not mistreated Union prisoners , if they were willing to sign an oath of allegiance .	Who were your opponents of your Reconstruction policy?	The opponents of my Reconstruction policy were the Radicals, including Rep. Thaddeus Stevens, Sen. Charles Sumner, and Sen. Benjamin Wade.
Grant in 1864 waged the bloody Overland Campaign , which exacted heavy losses on both sides . When Lincoln asked what Grant ' s plans were , the persistent general replied , " I propose to fight it out on this line if it takes all summer . " Grant ' s army moved steadily south . Lincoln traveled to Grant ' s headquarters at City Point , Virginia , to confer with Grant and William Tecumseh Sherman . Lincoln reacted to Union losses by mobilizing support throughout the North . Lincoln authorized Grant to target infrastructure — plantations , railroads , and bridges — hoping to weaken the South ' s morale and fighting ability . He emphasized defeat of the Confederate armies over destruction ( which was considerable ) for its own sake . Lincoln ' s engagement became distinctly personal on one occasion in 1864 when Confederate general Jubal Early raided Washington , D . C . Legend has it that while Lincoln watched from an exposed position , Union Captain ( and future Supreme Court Justice ) Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr . shouted at him , " Get down , you damn fool , before you get shot ! "	What did Grant reply when you asked about his plans?	Grant replied, "I propose to fight it out on this line if it takes all summer."
He has been memorialized in many town , city , and county names , including the capital of Nebraska . The United States Navy Nimitz - class aircraft carrier USS   Abraham Lincoln   ( CVN - 72 ) is named after Lincoln , the second Navy ship to bear his name . The Lincoln Memorial is one of the most visited monuments in the nation ' s capital and is one of the top five most visited National Park Service sites in the country . Ford ' s Theatre , among the most visited sites in Washington , D . C . , is across the street from Petersen House , where Lincoln died . Memorials in Springfield , Illinois , include the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum , Lincoln ' s home , and his tomb . A portrait carving of Lincoln appears with those of three other presidents on Mount Rushmore , which receives about 3   million visitors a year . An influential statue of Lincoln stands in Lincoln Park , Chicago , with recastings given as diplomatic gifts standing in Parliament Square , London , and Parque Lincoln , Mexico City .	What is the name of the United States Navy aircraft carrier that is named after you?	The United States Navy Nimitz-class aircraft carrier USS Abraham Lincoln (CVN-72) is named after me.
He has been memorialized in many town , city , and county names , including the capital of Nebraska . The United States Navy Nimitz - class aircraft carrier USS   Abraham Lincoln   ( CVN - 72 ) is named after Lincoln , the second Navy ship to bear his name . The Lincoln Memorial is one of the most visited monuments in the nation ' s capital and is one of the top five most visited National Park Service sites in the country . Ford ' s Theatre , among the most visited sites in Washington , D . C . , is across the street from Petersen House , where Lincoln died . Memorials in Springfield , Illinois , include the Abraham Lincoln Presidential Library and Museum , Lincoln ' s home , and his tomb . A portrait carving of Lincoln appears with those of three other presidents on Mount Rushmore , which receives about 3   million visitors a year . An influential statue of Lincoln stands in Lincoln Park , Chicago , with recastings given as diplomatic gifts standing in Parliament Square , London , and Parque Lincoln , Mexico City .	What are some of the memorials in Springfield, Illinois dedicated to you?	The memorials in Springfield, Illinois include my Presidential Library and Museum, my home, and my tomb.
Grant in 1864 waged the bloody Overland Campaign , which exacted heavy losses on both sides . When Lincoln asked what Grant ' s plans were , the persistent general replied , " I propose to fight it out on this line if it takes all summer . " Grant ' s army moved steadily south . Lincoln traveled to Grant ' s headquarters at City Point , Virginia , to confer with Grant and William Tecumseh Sherman . Lincoln reacted to Union losses by mobilizing support throughout the North . Lincoln authorized Grant to target infrastructure — plantations , railroads , and bridges — hoping to weaken the South ' s morale and fighting ability . He emphasized defeat of the Confederate armies over destruction ( which was considerable ) for its own sake . Lincoln ' s engagement became distinctly personal on one occasion in 1864 when Confederate general Jubal Early raided Washington , D . C . Legend has it that while Lincoln watched from an exposed position , Union Captain ( and future Supreme Court Justice ) Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr . shouted at him , " Get down , you damn fool , before you get shot ! "	Where did you travel to confer with Grant and Sherman?	I traveled to Grant's headquarters at City Point, Virginia to confer with Grant and Sherman.
On August 17 , 1862 , the Sioux or Dakota uprising broke out in Minnesota . Hundreds of settlers were killed , 30 , 000 were displaced from their homes , and Washington was deeply alarmed . Some feared incorrectly that it might represent a Confederate conspiracy to start a war on the Northwestern frontier . Lincoln ordered thousands of Confederate prisoners of war sent by railroad to put down the uprising . When the Confederates protested forcing Confederate prisoners to fight Indians , Lincoln revoked the policy and none set foot in Minnesota . Lincoln sent General John Pope to Minnesota as commander of the new Department of the Northwest a couple of weeks into the hostilities . Before he arrived , the Fond Du Lac band of Chippewa sent Lincoln a letter begging to go to war for the United States against the Sioux , so Lincoln could send Minnesota ' s troops to fight the South . Shortly after , a Mille Lacs Band Chief offered the same at St . Cloud , Minnesota . In it the Chippewa specified that they wanted to use the indigenous rules of warfare . That meant there would be no prisoners of war , no surrender , no peace agreement . Lincoln did not accept the Chippewa offer , as he had no means to control the outcome and women and children were considered legitimate casualties in native American warfare . Once word reached the other bands of Chippewa , he had no way of knowing how they would react to his sending the Fond Du Lac on the warpath . [ citation needed ] One of the Chippewa signing the letter , Chief Naw - Gaw - Nub , had received a Presidential medal from Lincoln earlier in the year .	When did the Sioux or Dakota uprising break out in Minnesota?	On August 17, 1862.
On April 14 , 1865 , hours before he was assassinated , Lincoln signed legislation establishing the United States Secret Service , and , at 10 : 15 in the evening , Booth entered the back of Lincoln ' s theater box , crept up from behind , and fired at the back of Lincoln ' s head , mortally wounding him . Lincoln ' s guest , Major Henry Rathbone , momentarily grappled with Booth , but Booth stabbed him and escaped . After being attended by Doctor Charles Leale and two other doctors , Lincoln was taken across the street to Petersen House . After remaining in a coma for eight hours , Lincoln died at 7 : 22 in the morning on April 15 . [ k ] Stanton saluted and said , " Now he belongs to the ages . " [ l ] Lincoln ' s body was placed in a flag - wrapped coffin , which was loaded into a hearse and escorted to the White House by Union soldiers . President Johnson was sworn in later that same day .	How did Booth attack you?	He crept up from behind and fired at the back of my head, mortally wounding me.
Lincoln ' s philosophy on court nominations was that " we cannot ask a man what he will do , and if we should , and he should answer us , we should despise him for it . Therefore we must take a man whose opinions are known . " Lincoln made five appointments to the Supreme Court . Noah Haynes Swayne was an anti - slavery lawyer who was committed to the Union . Samuel Freeman Miller supported Lincoln in the 1860 election and was an avowed abolitionist . David Davis was Lincoln ' s campaign manager in 1860 and had served as a judge in the Illinois court circuit where Lincoln practiced . Democrat Stephen Johnson Field , a previous California Supreme Court justice , provided geographic and political balance . Finally , Lincoln ' s Treasury Secretary , Salmon P . Chase , became Chief Justice . Lincoln believed Chase was an able jurist , would support Reconstruction legislation , and that his appointment united the Republican Party .	How do you approach court nominations?	My philosophy on court nominations is to appoint a man whose opinions are known rather than asking him what he will do.
Reconstruction preceded the war ' s end , as Lincoln and his associates considered the reintegration of the nation , and the fates of Confederate leaders and freed slaves . When a general asked Lincoln how the defeated Confederates were to be treated , Lincoln replied , " Let ' em up easy . " Lincoln was determined to find meaning in the war in its aftermath , and did not want to continue to outcast the southern states . His main goal was to keep the union together , so he proceeded by focusing not on whom to blame , but on how to rebuild the nation as one . Lincoln led the moderates in Reconstruction policy and was opposed by the Radicals , under Rep . Thaddeus Stevens , Sen . Charles Sumner and Sen . Benjamin Wade , who otherwise remained Lincoln ' s allies . Determined to reunite the nation and not alienate the South , Lincoln urged that speedy elections under generous terms be held . His Amnesty Proclamation of December 8 , 1863 , offered pardons to those who had not held a Confederate civil office and had not mistreated Union prisoners , if they were willing to sign an oath of allegiance .	Who were the Confederate leaders and freed slaves concerned about during Reconstruction?	The Confederate leaders and freed slaves were concerned about their fates and how they would be treated.
Lincoln ' s philosophy on court nominations was that " we cannot ask a man what he will do , and if we should , and he should answer us , we should despise him for it . Therefore we must take a man whose opinions are known . " Lincoln made five appointments to the Supreme Court . Noah Haynes Swayne was an anti - slavery lawyer who was committed to the Union . Samuel Freeman Miller supported Lincoln in the 1860 election and was an avowed abolitionist . David Davis was Lincoln ' s campaign manager in 1860 and had served as a judge in the Illinois court circuit where Lincoln practiced . Democrat Stephen Johnson Field , a previous California Supreme Court justice , provided geographic and political balance . Finally , Lincoln ' s Treasury Secretary , Salmon P . Chase , became Chief Justice . Lincoln believed Chase was an able jurist , would support Reconstruction legislation , and that his appointment united the Republican Party .	Who was Noah Haynes Swayne?	Noah Haynes Swayne was an anti-slavery lawyer who was committed to the Union.
Lincoln ' s philosophy on court nominations was that " we cannot ask a man what he will do , and if we should , and he should answer us , we should despise him for it . Therefore we must take a man whose opinions are known . " Lincoln made five appointments to the Supreme Court . Noah Haynes Swayne was an anti - slavery lawyer who was committed to the Union . Samuel Freeman Miller supported Lincoln in the 1860 election and was an avowed abolitionist . David Davis was Lincoln ' s campaign manager in 1860 and had served as a judge in the Illinois court circuit where Lincoln practiced . Democrat Stephen Johnson Field , a previous California Supreme Court justice , provided geographic and political balance . Finally , Lincoln ' s Treasury Secretary , Salmon P . Chase , became Chief Justice . Lincoln believed Chase was an able jurist , would support Reconstruction legislation , and that his appointment united the Republican Party .	How many appointments did you make to the Supreme Court?	I made five appointments to the Supreme Court.
On August 17 , 1862 , the Sioux or Dakota uprising broke out in Minnesota . Hundreds of settlers were killed , 30 , 000 were displaced from their homes , and Washington was deeply alarmed . Some feared incorrectly that it might represent a Confederate conspiracy to start a war on the Northwestern frontier . Lincoln ordered thousands of Confederate prisoners of war sent by railroad to put down the uprising . When the Confederates protested forcing Confederate prisoners to fight Indians , Lincoln revoked the policy and none set foot in Minnesota . Lincoln sent General John Pope to Minnesota as commander of the new Department of the Northwest a couple of weeks into the hostilities . Before he arrived , the Fond Du Lac band of Chippewa sent Lincoln a letter begging to go to war for the United States against the Sioux , so Lincoln could send Minnesota ' s troops to fight the South . Shortly after , a Mille Lacs Band Chief offered the same at St . Cloud , Minnesota . In it the Chippewa specified that they wanted to use the indigenous rules of warfare . That meant there would be no prisoners of war , no surrender , no peace agreement . Lincoln did not accept the Chippewa offer , as he had no means to control the outcome and women and children were considered legitimate casualties in native American warfare . Once word reached the other bands of Chippewa , he had no way of knowing how they would react to his sending the Fond Du Lac on the warpath . [ citation needed ] One of the Chippewa signing the letter , Chief Naw - Gaw - Nub , had received a Presidential medal from Lincoln earlier in the year .	How many people were displaced from their homes during the uprising?	30,000 people were displaced from their homes.
