Adele has cited the Spice Girls as a major influence in regard to her love and passion for music , stating that " they made me what I am today " . During childhood , she impersonated the Spice Girls at dinner parties . She says she was " heartbroken " when her favourite Spice Girls member , Geri Halliwell aka " Ginger Spice " , departed from the group . Lauryn Hill is also one of her major influences . In a 2011 interview , Adele deemed Hill ' s record The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill as her favourite album , while also stating " I was analyzing the record for about a month at the age of 8 , I was constantly wondering when I would be that passionate about something , to write a record about it , even though I didn ' t know I was going to make a record when I was older " ; while also thanking Hill " for existing " in a penned letter , that she dedicated in honour of the 20th anniversary of Hill ' s album . Growing up she also listened to Sin é ad O ' Connor , the Cranberries , Bob Marley , the Cure , Dusty Springfield , Whitney Houston , Aretha Franklin , Celine Dion , Jeff Buckley , and Annie Lennox . Gabrielle was an early influence , whom Adele has admired since age five . During Adele ' s school years , her mother made her an eye patch with sequins which she used to perform as the Hackney - born star in a school talent contest .	Who are some of your major influences in music?	The Spice Girls, Lauryn Hill, Sin é ad O'Connor, the Cranberries, Bob Marley, the Cure, Dusty Springfield, Whitney Houston, Aretha Franklin, Celine Dion, Jeff Buckley, Annie Lennox, and Gabrielle.
On 1 October 2021 , projections and billboards of the number " 30 " appeared on significant landmarks and buildings in different cities around the world , fuelling speculation that Adele was responsible , and that 30 would be the title of her fourth album . Soon after , Adele ' s website and social media accounts matched the aesthetic of the projections and billboards , hinting that her new album would be titled 30 , which was subsequently confirmed . On 5 October 2021 , Adele announced her single " Easy on Me " for release on 15 October . A release date of 19 November 2021 was announced for the album shortly thereafter . On 7 October , Adele was announced to be the November cover star on both Vogue and British Vogue , the first person to simultaneously cover both publications at the same time . On 15 October , Adele released " Easy on Me " to a positive reception , breaking Spotify and Amazon Music records for most streams for a song in a day . The song debuted at number one on the UK Singles Chart , Adele ' s third UK number one , and had the highest first - week sales for a single since January 2017 . Reaching the top of the Billboard Hot 100 , it is her fifth US number - one single . On 28 October 2021 , pre - sale tickets for her two concerts in Hyde Park , London , scheduled for 1 and 2 July 2022 , sold out in less than an hour . The total number of tickets sold were 130 , 000 , without prior promotion . More than 1 , 3 million people attempted to buy tickets for these two concerts . Jim King , CEO of the European Festivals division at AEG stated that Adele " could have sold several million tickets to the shows , such is the demand for her " .	When was the release date announced for your album?	Shortly after announcing my single, the release date for the album was announced on 19 November 2021.
At the end of 2016 , Billboard named Adele Artist of the Year for the third time , and also received the Top Billboard 200 album . 25 was the best - selling album for a second consecutive year in the US . With 235 million views , Adele ' s Carpool Karaoke through the streets of London with James Corden , a sketch which featured on Corden ' s talk show The Late Late Show with James Corden in January 2016 , was the biggest YouTube viral video of 2016 . At the 59th Annual Grammy Awards in February 2017 , Adele won all five of her nominations , bringing her number of awards to fifteen . She won Album of the Year and Best Pop Vocal Album for 25 , and Record of the Year , Song of the Year and Best Pop Solo Performance for " Hello " . She also performed a tribute to the late George Michael by singing a rendition of his song " Fastlove " ; due to technical difficulties which occurred during the performance , Adele decided to stop and restart , explaining " I can ' t mess this up for him " . As announced on 31 July 2017 , Adele switched performance rights management in the US from BMI to SESAC .	How many awards did you win at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards?	Five awards
At the 36th Brit Awards in London on 24 February , Adele received the awards for British Female Solo Artist , British Album of the Year for 25 , British Single of the Year for " Hello " , and British Global Success , bringing her Brit Award wins to eight . She closed the ceremony by performing " When We Were Young " , the second single from 25 . Two more singles from 25 were released in 2016 : " Send My Love ( To Your New Lover ) " and " Water Under the Bridge " . While on stage at London ' s O2 Arena on 17 March , Adele announced that she would be headlining on the Pyramid Stage at the 2016 Glastonbury Festival , which was later confirmed by the festival ' s organisers . She appeared for a 90 - minute 15 - song set at the festival on 25 June in front of 150 , 000 people , and described the experience as " by far , the best moment of my life so far " . In an interview with Jo Whiley on BBC Radio 2 around 30 minutes before going on stage , Adele had said she had been going to Glastonbury since she was a child and that the festival had meant a lot to her , before she broke down . Whiley recalls , " She was really scared , really , really scared . We were doing the interview and at one point she had to stop as she was in tears . It was amazing to see somebody like that , then to witness her walking out on stage and doing the most incredible set . To know that half an hour before she ' d been in tears at the thought of walking out there . "	Which songs did you perform at the 36th Brit Awards?	I performed "When We Were Young" at the 36th Brit Awards.
To promote the album , Adele embarked upon the " Adele Live " tour , which sold out its North American leg . In October 2011 , Adele was forced to cancel two tours because of a vocal - cord haemorrhage . She released a statement saying she needed an extended period of rest to avoid permanent damage to her voice . In the first week of November 2011 Steven M . Zeitels , director of the Center for Laryngeal Surgery and Voice Rehabilitation at the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston , performed laser microsurgery on Adele ' s vocal cords to remove a benign polyp . A recording of her tour , Live at the Royal Albert Hall , was released in November 2011 , debuting at number one in the US with 96 , 000 copies sold , the highest one - week tally for a music DVD in four years , becoming the best - selling music DVD of 2011 . Adele is the first artist in Nielsen SoundScan history to have the year ' s number - one album ( 21 ) , number - one single ( " Rolling in the Deep " ) , and number - one music video ( Live at the Royal Albert Hall ) . At the 2011 American Music Awards on 20 November , Adele won three awards ; Favorite Pop / Rock Female Artist , Favorite Adult Contemporary Artist , and Favorite Pop / Rock Album for 21 . On 9 December , Billboard named Adele Artist of the Year , Billboard 200 Album of the Year ( 21 ) , and the Billboard Hot 100 Song of the Year ( " Rolling in the Deep " ) , becoming the first woman ever to top all three categories .	What three awards did you win at the 2011 American Music Awards?	At the 2011 American Music Awards, I won three awards: Favorite Pop/Rock Female Artist, Favorite Adult Contemporary Artist, and Favorite Pop/Rock Album for 21.
Adele ' s singing has received acclaim from music critics . In a review of 19 , The Observer stated , " The way she stretched the vowels , her wonderful soulful phrasing , the sheer unadulterated pleasure of her voice , stood out all the more ; little doubt that she ' s a rare singer " . BBC Music wrote , " Her melodies exude warmth , her singing is occasionally stunning and , ... she has tracks that make Lily Allen and Kate Nash sound every bit as ordinary as they are . " Also in 2008 , Sylvia Patterson of The Guardian wrote , " Of all the gobby new girls , only Adele ' s bewitching singing voice has the enigmatic quality which causes tears of involuntary emotion to splash down your face in the way Eva Cassidy ' s did before her . " For their reviews of 21 , The New York Times ' chief music critic Jon Pareles commended Adele ' s emotive timbre , likening her to Dusty Springfield , Petula Clark , and Annie Lennox : " [ Adele ] can seethe , sob , rasp , swoop , lilt and belt , in ways that draw more attention to the song than to the singer " . Ryan Reed of Paste magazine regarded her voice as " a raspy , aged - beyond - its - years thing of full - blooded beauty " , while MSN Music ' s Tom Townshend called her " the finest singer of [ our ] generation " . Adele has also been dubbed a " vocal goddess " .	What have you been dubbed by some?	"A vocal goddess."
Adele has cited the Spice Girls as a major influence in regard to her love and passion for music , stating that " they made me what I am today " . During childhood , she impersonated the Spice Girls at dinner parties . She says she was " heartbroken " when her favourite Spice Girls member , Geri Halliwell aka " Ginger Spice " , departed from the group . Lauryn Hill is also one of her major influences . In a 2011 interview , Adele deemed Hill ' s record The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill as her favourite album , while also stating " I was analyzing the record for about a month at the age of 8 , I was constantly wondering when I would be that passionate about something , to write a record about it , even though I didn ' t know I was going to make a record when I was older " ; while also thanking Hill " for existing " in a penned letter , that she dedicated in honour of the 20th anniversary of Hill ' s album . Growing up she also listened to Sin é ad O ' Connor , the Cranberries , Bob Marley , the Cure , Dusty Springfield , Whitney Houston , Aretha Franklin , Celine Dion , Jeff Buckley , and Annie Lennox . Gabrielle was an early influence , whom Adele has admired since age five . During Adele ' s school years , her mother made her an eye patch with sequins which she used to perform as the Hackney - born star in a school talent contest .	What did you say about the Spice Girls?	I cited the Spice Girls as a major influence in regard to my love and passion for music, stating that "they made me what I am today."
In a statement released three days later , Adele confirmed the album ' s title to be 25 , with her stating , " My last record was a break - up record , and if I had to label this one , I would call it a make - up record . Making up for lost time . Making up for everything I ever did and never did . 25 is about getting to know who I ' ve become without realising . And I ' m sorry it took so long but , you know , life happened . " At the time , Adele said 25 would be her last album titled after her age , believing it would be the end to a trilogy . On 22 October , Adele confirmed that 25 would be released on 20 November , while the lead single from the album , " Hello " would be released on 23 October . The song was first played on Nick Grimshaw ' s Radio 1 Breakfast Show on the BBC on the morning of 23 October with Adele interviewed live .	When was the lead single from your album '25', "Hello", released?	The lead single from my album '25', "Hello", was released on 23 October.
Adele has cited the Spice Girls as a major influence in regard to her love and passion for music , stating that " they made me what I am today " . During childhood , she impersonated the Spice Girls at dinner parties . She says she was " heartbroken " when her favourite Spice Girls member , Geri Halliwell aka " Ginger Spice " , departed from the group . Lauryn Hill is also one of her major influences . In a 2011 interview , Adele deemed Hill ' s record The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill as her favourite album , while also stating " I was analyzing the record for about a month at the age of 8 , I was constantly wondering when I would be that passionate about something , to write a record about it , even though I didn ' t know I was going to make a record when I was older " ; while also thanking Hill " for existing " in a penned letter , that she dedicated in honour of the 20th anniversary of Hill ' s album . Growing up she also listened to Sin é ad O ' Connor , the Cranberries , Bob Marley , the Cure , Dusty Springfield , Whitney Houston , Aretha Franklin , Celine Dion , Jeff Buckley , and Annie Lennox . Gabrielle was an early influence , whom Adele has admired since age five . During Adele ' s school years , her mother made her an eye patch with sequins which she used to perform as the Hackney - born star in a school talent contest .	What did you say about Lauryn Hill's record "The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill"?	I deemed Lauryn Hill's record "The Miseducation of Lauryn Hill" as my favorite album and analyzed it for about a month at the age of 8. I also thanked Hill "for existing" in a penned letter dedicated to the 20th anniversary of Hill's album.
At the end of 2016 , Billboard named Adele Artist of the Year for the third time , and also received the Top Billboard 200 album . 25 was the best - selling album for a second consecutive year in the US . With 235 million views , Adele ' s Carpool Karaoke through the streets of London with James Corden , a sketch which featured on Corden ' s talk show The Late Late Show with James Corden in January 2016 , was the biggest YouTube viral video of 2016 . At the 59th Annual Grammy Awards in February 2017 , Adele won all five of her nominations , bringing her number of awards to fifteen . She won Album of the Year and Best Pop Vocal Album for 25 , and Record of the Year , Song of the Year and Best Pop Solo Performance for " Hello " . She also performed a tribute to the late George Michael by singing a rendition of his song " Fastlove " ; due to technical difficulties which occurred during the performance , Adele decided to stop and restart , explaining " I can ' t mess this up for him " . As announced on 31 July 2017 , Adele switched performance rights management in the US from BMI to SESAC .	How many times have you been named Artist of the Year by Billboard?	Three times
She has also expressed admiration for Lana Del Rey , Grimes , Chvrches , FKA Twigs , Alabama Shakes , Kanye West , Rihanna , Britney Spears , Frank Ocean , Queen , and Stevie Nicks . In 2017 , she described Beyonc é as a particular inspiration , calling her " [ the ] artist of my life " and added " the other artists who mean that much to me are all dead . " Adele cited Madonna ' s 1998 album Ray of Light as a " chief inspiration " for her album 25 . She stated that the release of 25 and her own comeback was inspired by the enigmatic Kate Bush who in 2014 made a comeback to the stage 35 years after her last live shows from her only tour in 1979 . Adele mentioned that Max Martin ' s work on Taylor Swift ' s " I Knew You Were Trouble " was the inspiration behind her song " Send My Love ( To Your New Lover ) " , saying : " I was like , ' Who did this ? ' I knew it was Taylor , and I ' ve always loved her , but this is a totally other side – like , ' I want to know who brought that out in her . ' I was unaware that I knew who Max Martin was . I Googled him , and I was like , ' He ' s literally written every massive soundtrack of my life . ' So I got my management to reach out . They came to London , and I took my guitar along and was like , ' I ' ve got this riff , ' and then ' Send My Love ' happened really quickly . "	Who did you describe as the "artist of your life"?	I described Beyoncé as the "artist of my life".
On 1 October 2021 , projections and billboards of the number " 30 " appeared on significant landmarks and buildings in different cities around the world , fuelling speculation that Adele was responsible , and that 30 would be the title of her fourth album . Soon after , Adele ' s website and social media accounts matched the aesthetic of the projections and billboards , hinting that her new album would be titled 30 , which was subsequently confirmed . On 5 October 2021 , Adele announced her single " Easy on Me " for release on 15 October . A release date of 19 November 2021 was announced for the album shortly thereafter . On 7 October , Adele was announced to be the November cover star on both Vogue and British Vogue , the first person to simultaneously cover both publications at the same time . On 15 October , Adele released " Easy on Me " to a positive reception , breaking Spotify and Amazon Music records for most streams for a song in a day . The song debuted at number one on the UK Singles Chart , Adele ' s third UK number one , and had the highest first - week sales for a single since January 2017 . Reaching the top of the Billboard Hot 100 , it is her fifth US number - one single . On 28 October 2021 , pre - sale tickets for her two concerts in Hyde Park , London , scheduled for 1 and 2 July 2022 , sold out in less than an hour . The total number of tickets sold were 130 , 000 , without prior promotion . More than 1 , 3 million people attempted to buy tickets for these two concerts . Jim King , CEO of the European Festivals division at AEG stated that Adele " could have sold several million tickets to the shows , such is the demand for her " .	What did the projections and billboards hint about?	They hinted that my new album would be titled "30".
At the 36th Brit Awards in London on 24 February , Adele received the awards for British Female Solo Artist , British Album of the Year for 25 , British Single of the Year for " Hello " , and British Global Success , bringing her Brit Award wins to eight . She closed the ceremony by performing " When We Were Young " , the second single from 25 . Two more singles from 25 were released in 2016 : " Send My Love ( To Your New Lover ) " and " Water Under the Bridge " . While on stage at London ' s O2 Arena on 17 March , Adele announced that she would be headlining on the Pyramid Stage at the 2016 Glastonbury Festival , which was later confirmed by the festival ' s organisers . She appeared for a 90 - minute 15 - song set at the festival on 25 June in front of 150 , 000 people , and described the experience as " by far , the best moment of my life so far " . In an interview with Jo Whiley on BBC Radio 2 around 30 minutes before going on stage , Adele had said she had been going to Glastonbury since she was a child and that the festival had meant a lot to her , before she broke down . Whiley recalls , " She was really scared , really , really scared . We were doing the interview and at one point she had to stop as she was in tears . It was amazing to see somebody like that , then to witness her walking out on stage and doing the most incredible set . To know that half an hour before she ' d been in tears at the thought of walking out there . "	How many more singles were you released from your album "25" in 2016?	Two more singles were released from my album "25" in 2016.
To promote the album , Adele embarked upon the " Adele Live " tour , which sold out its North American leg . In October 2011 , Adele was forced to cancel two tours because of a vocal - cord haemorrhage . She released a statement saying she needed an extended period of rest to avoid permanent damage to her voice . In the first week of November 2011 Steven M . Zeitels , director of the Center for Laryngeal Surgery and Voice Rehabilitation at the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston , performed laser microsurgery on Adele ' s vocal cords to remove a benign polyp . A recording of her tour , Live at the Royal Albert Hall , was released in November 2011 , debuting at number one in the US with 96 , 000 copies sold , the highest one - week tally for a music DVD in four years , becoming the best - selling music DVD of 2011 . Adele is the first artist in Nielsen SoundScan history to have the year ' s number - one album ( 21 ) , number - one single ( " Rolling in the Deep " ) , and number - one music video ( Live at the Royal Albert Hall ) . At the 2011 American Music Awards on 20 November , Adele won three awards ; Favorite Pop / Rock Female Artist , Favorite Adult Contemporary Artist , and Favorite Pop / Rock Album for 21 . On 9 December , Billboard named Adele Artist of the Year , Billboard 200 Album of the Year ( 21 ) , and the Billboard Hot 100 Song of the Year ( " Rolling in the Deep " ) , becoming the first woman ever to top all three categories .	What was the highest one-week tally for a music DVD in four years?	The highest one-week tally for a music DVD in four years was 96,000 copies sold.
Her second album , 21 , shares the folk and soul influences of her debut album , but was further inspired by American country and Southern blues music to which she had been exposed during her 2008 – 09 tour An Evening with Adele in North America . Conceived in the aftermath of Adele ' s breakup with a partner , the album typifies the near dormant tradition of the confessional singer - songwriter in its exploration of heartbreak , self - examination , and forgiveness . Having referred to 21 as a " break - up record " , Adele labelled her third studio album , 25 , a " make - up record " , adding it is about " Making up for lost time . Making up for everything I ever did and never did . " 30 is a collection of pop , soul , and jazz songs . Journalists have described it as Adele ' s most creative work sonically , expanding on her past works by incorporating dance - pop , gospel and jazz elements .	What genres of music are included in your album, 30?	My album 30 includes pop, soul, and jazz songs, with elements of dance-pop, gospel, and jazz incorporated.
Her second album , 21 , shares the folk and soul influences of her debut album , but was further inspired by American country and Southern blues music to which she had been exposed during her 2008 – 09 tour An Evening with Adele in North America . Conceived in the aftermath of Adele ' s breakup with a partner , the album typifies the near dormant tradition of the confessional singer - songwriter in its exploration of heartbreak , self - examination , and forgiveness . Having referred to 21 as a " break - up record " , Adele labelled her third studio album , 25 , a " make - up record " , adding it is about " Making up for lost time . Making up for everything I ever did and never did . " 30 is a collection of pop , soul , and jazz songs . Journalists have described it as Adele ' s most creative work sonically , expanding on her past works by incorporating dance - pop , gospel and jazz elements .	How do you describe your third studio album, 25?	I describe 25 as a "make-up record" and state that it is about making up for lost time and everything I ever did and never did.
At the 36th Brit Awards in London on 24 February , Adele received the awards for British Female Solo Artist , British Album of the Year for 25 , British Single of the Year for " Hello " , and British Global Success , bringing her Brit Award wins to eight . She closed the ceremony by performing " When We Were Young " , the second single from 25 . Two more singles from 25 were released in 2016 : " Send My Love ( To Your New Lover ) " and " Water Under the Bridge " . While on stage at London ' s O2 Arena on 17 March , Adele announced that she would be headlining on the Pyramid Stage at the 2016 Glastonbury Festival , which was later confirmed by the festival ' s organisers . She appeared for a 90 - minute 15 - song set at the festival on 25 June in front of 150 , 000 people , and described the experience as " by far , the best moment of my life so far " . In an interview with Jo Whiley on BBC Radio 2 around 30 minutes before going on stage , Adele had said she had been going to Glastonbury since she was a child and that the festival had meant a lot to her , before she broke down . Whiley recalls , " She was really scared , really , really scared . We were doing the interview and at one point she had to stop as she was in tears . It was amazing to see somebody like that , then to witness her walking out on stage and doing the most incredible set . To know that half an hour before she ' d been in tears at the thought of walking out there . "	How many British Awards did you receive at the 36th Brit Awards?	I received four British Awards at the 36th Brit Awards.
On 1 October 2021 , projections and billboards of the number " 30 " appeared on significant landmarks and buildings in different cities around the world , fuelling speculation that Adele was responsible , and that 30 would be the title of her fourth album . Soon after , Adele ' s website and social media accounts matched the aesthetic of the projections and billboards , hinting that her new album would be titled 30 , which was subsequently confirmed . On 5 October 2021 , Adele announced her single " Easy on Me " for release on 15 October . A release date of 19 November 2021 was announced for the album shortly thereafter . On 7 October , Adele was announced to be the November cover star on both Vogue and British Vogue , the first person to simultaneously cover both publications at the same time . On 15 October , Adele released " Easy on Me " to a positive reception , breaking Spotify and Amazon Music records for most streams for a song in a day . The song debuted at number one on the UK Singles Chart , Adele ' s third UK number one , and had the highest first - week sales for a single since January 2017 . Reaching the top of the Billboard Hot 100 , it is her fifth US number - one single . On 28 October 2021 , pre - sale tickets for her two concerts in Hyde Park , London , scheduled for 1 and 2 July 2022 , sold out in less than an hour . The total number of tickets sold were 130 , 000 , without prior promotion . More than 1 , 3 million people attempted to buy tickets for these two concerts . Jim King , CEO of the European Festivals division at AEG stated that Adele " could have sold several million tickets to the shows , such is the demand for her " .	What records did your song "Easy on Me" break upon its release?	"Easy on Me" broke Spotify and Amazon Music records for most streams for a song in a day.
Her second album , 21 , shares the folk and soul influences of her debut album , but was further inspired by American country and Southern blues music to which she had been exposed during her 2008 – 09 tour An Evening with Adele in North America . Conceived in the aftermath of Adele ' s breakup with a partner , the album typifies the near dormant tradition of the confessional singer - songwriter in its exploration of heartbreak , self - examination , and forgiveness . Having referred to 21 as a " break - up record " , Adele labelled her third studio album , 25 , a " make - up record " , adding it is about " Making up for lost time . Making up for everything I ever did and never did . " 30 is a collection of pop , soul , and jazz songs . Journalists have described it as Adele ' s most creative work sonically , expanding on her past works by incorporating dance - pop , gospel and jazz elements .	What are the influences of your second album, 21?	The influences of 21 include folk, soul, American country, and Southern blues music.
To promote the album , Adele embarked upon the " Adele Live " tour , which sold out its North American leg . In October 2011 , Adele was forced to cancel two tours because of a vocal - cord haemorrhage . She released a statement saying she needed an extended period of rest to avoid permanent damage to her voice . In the first week of November 2011 Steven M . Zeitels , director of the Center for Laryngeal Surgery and Voice Rehabilitation at the Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston , performed laser microsurgery on Adele ' s vocal cords to remove a benign polyp . A recording of her tour , Live at the Royal Albert Hall , was released in November 2011 , debuting at number one in the US with 96 , 000 copies sold , the highest one - week tally for a music DVD in four years , becoming the best - selling music DVD of 2011 . Adele is the first artist in Nielsen SoundScan history to have the year ' s number - one album ( 21 ) , number - one single ( " Rolling in the Deep " ) , and number - one music video ( Live at the Royal Albert Hall ) . At the 2011 American Music Awards on 20 November , Adele won three awards ; Favorite Pop / Rock Female Artist , Favorite Adult Contemporary Artist , and Favorite Pop / Rock Album for 21 . On 9 December , Billboard named Adele Artist of the Year , Billboard 200 Album of the Year ( 21 ) , and the Billboard Hot 100 Song of the Year ( " Rolling in the Deep " ) , becoming the first woman ever to top all three categories .	Why did you cancel two tours in October 2011?	I cancelled two tours in October 2011 because of a vocal-cord haemorrhage.
Adele ' s singing has received acclaim from music critics . In a review of 19 , The Observer stated , " The way she stretched the vowels , her wonderful soulful phrasing , the sheer unadulterated pleasure of her voice , stood out all the more ; little doubt that she ' s a rare singer " . BBC Music wrote , " Her melodies exude warmth , her singing is occasionally stunning and , ... she has tracks that make Lily Allen and Kate Nash sound every bit as ordinary as they are . " Also in 2008 , Sylvia Patterson of The Guardian wrote , " Of all the gobby new girls , only Adele ' s bewitching singing voice has the enigmatic quality which causes tears of involuntary emotion to splash down your face in the way Eva Cassidy ' s did before her . " For their reviews of 21 , The New York Times ' chief music critic Jon Pareles commended Adele ' s emotive timbre , likening her to Dusty Springfield , Petula Clark , and Annie Lennox : " [ Adele ] can seethe , sob , rasp , swoop , lilt and belt , in ways that draw more attention to the song than to the singer " . Ryan Reed of Paste magazine regarded her voice as " a raspy , aged - beyond - its - years thing of full - blooded beauty " , while MSN Music ' s Tom Townshend called her " the finest singer of [ our ] generation " . Adele has also been dubbed a " vocal goddess " .	Which musicians did Jon Pareles of The New York Times compare you to in terms of your emotive timbre?	"Dusty Springfield, Petula Clark, and Annie Lennox."
At the end of 2016 , Billboard named Adele Artist of the Year for the third time , and also received the Top Billboard 200 album . 25 was the best - selling album for a second consecutive year in the US . With 235 million views , Adele ' s Carpool Karaoke through the streets of London with James Corden , a sketch which featured on Corden ' s talk show The Late Late Show with James Corden in January 2016 , was the biggest YouTube viral video of 2016 . At the 59th Annual Grammy Awards in February 2017 , Adele won all five of her nominations , bringing her number of awards to fifteen . She won Album of the Year and Best Pop Vocal Album for 25 , and Record of the Year , Song of the Year and Best Pop Solo Performance for " Hello " . She also performed a tribute to the late George Michael by singing a rendition of his song " Fastlove " ; due to technical difficulties which occurred during the performance , Adele decided to stop and restart , explaining " I can ' t mess this up for him " . As announced on 31 July 2017 , Adele switched performance rights management in the US from BMI to SESAC .	What was the title of the YouTube viral video featuring you and James Corden?	My Carpool Karaoke
She has also expressed admiration for Lana Del Rey , Grimes , Chvrches , FKA Twigs , Alabama Shakes , Kanye West , Rihanna , Britney Spears , Frank Ocean , Queen , and Stevie Nicks . In 2017 , she described Beyonc é as a particular inspiration , calling her " [ the ] artist of my life " and added " the other artists who mean that much to me are all dead . " Adele cited Madonna ' s 1998 album Ray of Light as a " chief inspiration " for her album 25 . She stated that the release of 25 and her own comeback was inspired by the enigmatic Kate Bush who in 2014 made a comeback to the stage 35 years after her last live shows from her only tour in 1979 . Adele mentioned that Max Martin ' s work on Taylor Swift ' s " I Knew You Were Trouble " was the inspiration behind her song " Send My Love ( To Your New Lover ) " , saying : " I was like , ' Who did this ? ' I knew it was Taylor , and I ' ve always loved her , but this is a totally other side – like , ' I want to know who brought that out in her . ' I was unaware that I knew who Max Martin was . I Googled him , and I was like , ' He ' s literally written every massive soundtrack of my life . ' So I got my management to reach out . They came to London , and I took my guitar along and was like , ' I ' ve got this riff , ' and then ' Send My Love ' happened really quickly . "	Who inspired your own comeback and the release of your album 25?	My own comeback and the release of my album 25 were inspired by Kate Bush, who made a comeback to the stage in 2014 after 35 years.
In early 2017 , tabloids started speculating that Adele and Konecki had secretly married when they were spotted wearing matching rings on their ring fingers . During her acceptance speech at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards for Album of the Year , Adele seemed to have confirmed these reports by referring to Konecki as " my husband " when thanking him . She repeated this in March 2017 , telling the audience at a concert in Brisbane , Australia , " I ' m married now " . However , in a 2021 interview with British Vogue , she revealed that they actually married in 2018 , and separated the same year . During this time , Adele became a stay - at - home mother . In April 2019 , Adele ' s representatives confirmed the separation via Associated Press , and affirmed that she and Konecki would continue to raise their son together . On 13 September 2019 , Adele filed for divorce from Konecki , with it being finalised on 4 March 2021 . In 2021 , Adele entered into a relationship with American sports agent Rich Paul .	When did you reveal the actual year of your marriage to Konecki?	In a 2021 interview with British Vogue.
Adele ' s singing has received acclaim from music critics . In a review of 19 , The Observer stated , " The way she stretched the vowels , her wonderful soulful phrasing , the sheer unadulterated pleasure of her voice , stood out all the more ; little doubt that she ' s a rare singer " . BBC Music wrote , " Her melodies exude warmth , her singing is occasionally stunning and , ... she has tracks that make Lily Allen and Kate Nash sound every bit as ordinary as they are . " Also in 2008 , Sylvia Patterson of The Guardian wrote , " Of all the gobby new girls , only Adele ' s bewitching singing voice has the enigmatic quality which causes tears of involuntary emotion to splash down your face in the way Eva Cassidy ' s did before her . " For their reviews of 21 , The New York Times ' chief music critic Jon Pareles commended Adele ' s emotive timbre , likening her to Dusty Springfield , Petula Clark , and Annie Lennox : " [ Adele ] can seethe , sob , rasp , swoop , lilt and belt , in ways that draw more attention to the song than to the singer " . Ryan Reed of Paste magazine regarded her voice as " a raspy , aged - beyond - its - years thing of full - blooded beauty " , while MSN Music ' s Tom Townshend called her " the finest singer of [ our ] generation " . Adele has also been dubbed a " vocal goddess " .	According to BBC Music, what can be said about your melodies and singing?	"My melodies exude warmth, my singing is occasionally stunning and... I have tracks that make Lily Allen and Kate Nash sound every bit as ordinary as they are."
