In October 1936 , Count Galeazzo Ciano , foreign minister of Mussolini ' s government , visited Germany , where he signed a Nine - Point Protocol as an expression of rapprochement and had a personal meeting with Hitler . On 1 November , Mussolini declared an " axis " between Germany and Italy . On 25 November , Germany signed the Anti - Comintern Pact with Japan . Britain , China , Italy , and Poland were also invited to join the Anti - Comintern Pact , but only Italy signed in 1937 . Hitler abandoned his plan of an Anglo - German alliance , blaming " inadequate " British leadership . At a meeting in the Reich Chancellery with his foreign ministers and military chiefs that November , Hitler restated his intention of acquiring Lebensraum for the German people . He ordered preparations for war in the East , to begin as early as 1938 and no later than 1943 . In the event of his death , the conference minutes , recorded as the Hossbach Memorandum , were to be regarded as his " political testament " . He felt that a severe decline in living standards in Germany as a result of the economic crisis could only be stopped by military aggression aimed at seizing Austria and Czechoslovakia . Hitler urged quick action before Britain and France gained a permanent lead in the arms race . In early 1938 , in the wake of the Blomberg – Fritsch affair , Hitler asserted control of the military - foreign policy apparatus , dismissing Neurath as foreign minister and appointing himself as War Minister . From early 1938 onwards , Hitler was carrying out a foreign policy ultimately aimed at war .	Which countries signed the Anti-Comintern Pact with you and when?	I signed the Anti-Comintern Pact with Japan on November 25th. Britain, China, Italy, and Poland were also invited to join, but only Italy signed in 1937.
By the end of June , the other parties had been intimidated into disbanding . This included the Nazis ' nominal coalition partner , the DNVP ; with the SA ' s help , Hitler forced its leader , Hugenberg , to resign on 29 June . On 14 July 1933 , the Nazi Party was declared the only legal political party in Germany . The demands of the SA for more political and military power caused anxiety among military , industrial , and political leaders . In response , Hitler purged the entire SA leadership in the Night of the Long Knives , which took place from 30 June to 2 July 1934 . Hitler targeted Ernst R ö hm and other SA leaders who , along with a number of Hitler ' s political adversaries ( such as Gregor Strasser and former chancellor Kurt von Schleicher ) , were rounded up , arrested , and shot . While the international community and some Germans were shocked by the murders , many in Germany believed Hitler was restoring order .	Who did you target and purge in the Night of the Long Knives?	I targeted and purged Ernst R ö hm and other leaders of the SA, along with a number of my political adversaries.
While at Landsberg , Hitler dictated most of the first volume of Mein Kampf ( My Struggle ; originally entitled Four and a Half Years of Struggle against Lies , Stupidity , and Cowardice ) at first to his chauffeur , Emil Maurice , and then to his deputy , Rudolf Hess . The book , dedicated to Thule Society member Dietrich Eckart , was an autobiography and exposition of his ideology . The book laid out Hitler ' s plans for transforming German society into one based on race . Throughout the book , Jews are equated with " germs " and presented as the " international poisoners " of society . According to Hitler ' s ideology , the only solution was their extermination . While Hitler did not describe exactly how this was to be accomplished , his " inherent genocidal thrust is undeniable " , according to Ian Kershaw .	Who did you dictate most of the first volume of Mein Kampf to?	I dictated most of the first volume of Mein Kampf to my chauffeur, Emil Maurice, and then to my deputy, Rudolf Hess.
While at Landsberg , Hitler dictated most of the first volume of Mein Kampf ( My Struggle ; originally entitled Four and a Half Years of Struggle against Lies , Stupidity , and Cowardice ) at first to his chauffeur , Emil Maurice , and then to his deputy , Rudolf Hess . The book , dedicated to Thule Society member Dietrich Eckart , was an autobiography and exposition of his ideology . The book laid out Hitler ' s plans for transforming German society into one based on race . Throughout the book , Jews are equated with " germs " and presented as the " international poisoners " of society . According to Hitler ' s ideology , the only solution was their extermination . While Hitler did not describe exactly how this was to be accomplished , his " inherent genocidal thrust is undeniable " , according to Ian Kershaw .	According to Ian Kershaw, what is the "undeniable" thrust of your ideology in Mein Kampf?	According to Ian Kershaw, the "undeniable" thrust of my ideology in Mein Kampf is the extermination of Jews, although I did not describe exactly how this was to be accomplished.
By the end of June , the other parties had been intimidated into disbanding . This included the Nazis ' nominal coalition partner , the DNVP ; with the SA ' s help , Hitler forced its leader , Hugenberg , to resign on 29 June . On 14 July 1933 , the Nazi Party was declared the only legal political party in Germany . The demands of the SA for more political and military power caused anxiety among military , industrial , and political leaders . In response , Hitler purged the entire SA leadership in the Night of the Long Knives , which took place from 30 June to 2 July 1934 . Hitler targeted Ernst R ö hm and other SA leaders who , along with a number of Hitler ' s political adversaries ( such as Gregor Strasser and former chancellor Kurt von Schleicher ) , were rounded up , arrested , and shot . While the international community and some Germans were shocked by the murders , many in Germany believed Hitler was restoring order .	When did the Night of the Long Knives take place?	The Night of the Long Knives took place from 30 June to 2 July 1934.
By the end of June , the other parties had been intimidated into disbanding . This included the Nazis ' nominal coalition partner , the DNVP ; with the SA ' s help , Hitler forced its leader , Hugenberg , to resign on 29 June . On 14 July 1933 , the Nazi Party was declared the only legal political party in Germany . The demands of the SA for more political and military power caused anxiety among military , industrial , and political leaders . In response , Hitler purged the entire SA leadership in the Night of the Long Knives , which took place from 30 June to 2 July 1934 . Hitler targeted Ernst R ö hm and other SA leaders who , along with a number of Hitler ' s political adversaries ( such as Gregor Strasser and former chancellor Kurt von Schleicher ) , were rounded up , arrested , and shot . While the international community and some Germans were shocked by the murders , many in Germany believed Hitler was restoring order .	How did many Germans view your actions during the Night of the Long Knives?	Many Germans believed that I was restoring order with my actions during the Night of the Long Knives.
On 8 November 1923 , Hitler and the SA stormed a public meeting of 3 , 000 people organised by Kahr in the B ü rgerbr ä ukeller , a beer hall in Munich . Interrupting Kahr ' s speech , he announced that the national revolution had begun and declared the formation of a new government with Ludendorff . Retiring to a back room , Hitler , with handgun drawn , demanded and got the support of Kahr , Seisser , and Lossow . Hitler ' s forces initially succeeded in occupying the local Reichswehr and police headquarters , but Kahr and his cohorts quickly withdrew their support . Neither the army , nor the state police , joined forces with Hitler . The next day , Hitler and his followers marched from the beer hall to the Bavarian War Ministry to overthrow the Bavarian government , but police dispersed them . Sixteen Nazi Party members and four police officers were killed in the failed coup .	Where did you announce the formation of a new government with Ludendorff?	I announced the formation of a new government with Ludendorff in a back room of the Bürgerbräukeller, a beer hall in Munich.
By late 1944 , both the Red Army and the Western Allies were advancing into Germany . Recognising the strength and determination of the Red Army , Hitler decided to use his remaining mobile reserves against the American and British armies , which he perceived as far weaker . On 16 December , he launched the Ardennes Offensive to incite disunity among the Western Allies and perhaps convince them to join his fight against the Soviets . After some temporary successes , the offensive failed . With much of Germany in ruins in January 1945 , Hitler spoke on the radio : " However grave as the crisis may be at this moment , it will , despite everything , be mastered by our unalterable will . " Acting on his view that Germany ' s military failures meant it had forfeited its right to survive as a nation , Hitler ordered the destruction of all German industrial infrastructure before it could fall into Allied hands . Minister for Armaments Albert Speer was entrusted with executing this scorched earth policy , but he secretly disobeyed the order . Hitler ' s hope to negotiate peace with the United States and Britain was encouraged by the death of US President Franklin D . Roosevelt on 12 April 1945 , but contrary to his expectations , this caused no rift among the Allies .	What did you perceive about the American and British armies?	I perceived the American and British armies as far weaker than the Red Army.
In October 1936 , Count Galeazzo Ciano , foreign minister of Mussolini ' s government , visited Germany , where he signed a Nine - Point Protocol as an expression of rapprochement and had a personal meeting with Hitler . On 1 November , Mussolini declared an " axis " between Germany and Italy . On 25 November , Germany signed the Anti - Comintern Pact with Japan . Britain , China , Italy , and Poland were also invited to join the Anti - Comintern Pact , but only Italy signed in 1937 . Hitler abandoned his plan of an Anglo - German alliance , blaming " inadequate " British leadership . At a meeting in the Reich Chancellery with his foreign ministers and military chiefs that November , Hitler restated his intention of acquiring Lebensraum for the German people . He ordered preparations for war in the East , to begin as early as 1938 and no later than 1943 . In the event of his death , the conference minutes , recorded as the Hossbach Memorandum , were to be regarded as his " political testament " . He felt that a severe decline in living standards in Germany as a result of the economic crisis could only be stopped by military aggression aimed at seizing Austria and Czechoslovakia . Hitler urged quick action before Britain and France gained a permanent lead in the arms race . In early 1938 , in the wake of the Blomberg – Fritsch affair , Hitler asserted control of the military - foreign policy apparatus , dismissing Neurath as foreign minister and appointing himself as War Minister . From early 1938 onwards , Hitler was carrying out a foreign policy ultimately aimed at war .	Why did you abandon your plan of an Anglo-German alliance?	I abandoned my plan of an Anglo-German alliance, blaming "inadequate" British leadership.
During his service at headquarters , Hitler pursued his artwork , drawing cartoons and instructions for an army newspaper . During the Battle of the Somme in October 1916 , he was wounded in the left thigh when a shell exploded in the dispatch runners ' dugout . Hitler spent almost two months recovering in hospital at Beelitz , returning to his regiment on 5 March 1917 . He was present at the Battle of Arras of 1917 and the Battle of Passchendaele . He received the Black Wound Badge on 18 May 1918 and in August 1918 , on a recommendation by Lieutenant Hugo Gutmann , his Jewish superior , Hitler received the Iron Cross , First Class , a decoration rarely awarded to one of Hitler ' s Gefreiter rank . On 15 October 1918 , he was temporarily blinded in a mustard gas attack and was hospitalised in Pasewalk . While there , Hitler learned of Germany ' s defeat , and – by his own account – upon receiving this news , suffered a second bout of blindness .	What did you pursue during your service at headquarters?	I pursued my artwork, drawing cartoons and instructions for an army newspaper.
In private discussions in 1939 , Hitler declared Britain the main enemy to be defeated and that Poland ' s obliteration was a necessary prelude for that goal . The eastern flank would be secured and land would be added to Germany ' s Lebensraum . Offended by the British " guarantee " on 31 March 1939 of Polish independence , he said , " I shall brew them a devil ' s drink " . In a speech in Wilhelmshaven for the launch of the battleship Tirpitz on 1 April , he threatened to denounce the Anglo - German Naval Agreement if the British continued to guarantee Polish independence , which he perceived as an " encirclement " policy . Poland was to either become a German satellite state or it would be neutralised in order to secure the Reich ' s eastern flank and prevent a possible British blockade . Hitler initially favoured the idea of a satellite state , but upon its rejection by the Polish government , he decided to invade and made this the main foreign policy goal of 1939 . On 3 April , Hitler ordered the military to prepare for Fall Weiss ( " Case White " ) , the plan for invading Poland on 25 August . In a Reichstag speech on 28 April , he renounced both the Anglo - German Naval Agreement and the German – Polish Non - Aggression Pact . Historians such as William Carr , Gerhard Weinberg , and Ian Kershaw have argued that one reason for Hitler ' s rush to war was his fear of an early death . He had repeatedly claimed that he must lead Germany into war before he got too old , as his successors might lack his strength of will .	What did you declare was a necessary prelude for defeating the main enemy?	I declared that Poland's obliteration was necessary.
In October 1936 , Count Galeazzo Ciano , foreign minister of Mussolini ' s government , visited Germany , where he signed a Nine - Point Protocol as an expression of rapprochement and had a personal meeting with Hitler . On 1 November , Mussolini declared an " axis " between Germany and Italy . On 25 November , Germany signed the Anti - Comintern Pact with Japan . Britain , China , Italy , and Poland were also invited to join the Anti - Comintern Pact , but only Italy signed in 1937 . Hitler abandoned his plan of an Anglo - German alliance , blaming " inadequate " British leadership . At a meeting in the Reich Chancellery with his foreign ministers and military chiefs that November , Hitler restated his intention of acquiring Lebensraum for the German people . He ordered preparations for war in the East , to begin as early as 1938 and no later than 1943 . In the event of his death , the conference minutes , recorded as the Hossbach Memorandum , were to be regarded as his " political testament " . He felt that a severe decline in living standards in Germany as a result of the economic crisis could only be stopped by military aggression aimed at seizing Austria and Czechoslovakia . Hitler urged quick action before Britain and France gained a permanent lead in the arms race . In early 1938 , in the wake of the Blomberg – Fritsch affair , Hitler asserted control of the military - foreign policy apparatus , dismissing Neurath as foreign minister and appointing himself as War Minister . From early 1938 onwards , Hitler was carrying out a foreign policy ultimately aimed at war .	When was the "axis" between your country and Italy declared?	The "axis" between my country and Italy was declared on November 1st.
The genocide was organised and executed by Heinrich Himmler and Reinhard Heydrich . The records of the Wannsee Conference , held on 20 January 1942 and led by Heydrich , with fifteen senior Nazi officials participating , provide the clearest evidence of systematic planning for the Holocaust . On 22 February , Hitler was recorded saying , " we shall regain our health only by eliminating the Jews " . Similarly , at a meeting in July 1941 with leading functionaries of the Eastern territories , Hitler said that the easiest way to quickly pacify the areas would be best achieved by " shooting everyone who even looks odd " . Although no direct order from Hitler authorising the mass killings has surfaced , his public speeches , orders to his generals , and the diaries of Nazi officials demonstrate that he conceived and authorised the extermination of European Jewry . During the war , Hitler repeatedly stated his prophecy of 1939 was being fulfilled , namely , that a world war would bring about the annihilation of the Jewish race . Hitler approved the Einsatzgruppen — killing squads that followed the German army through Poland , the Baltic , and the Soviet Union — and was well informed about their activities . By summer 1942 , Auschwitz concentration camp was expanded to accommodate large numbers of deportees for murder or enslavement . Scores of other concentration camps and satellite camps were set up throughout Europe , with several camps devoted exclusively to extermination .	On what date did you make a statement about eliminating the Jews?	February 22.
Hitler was born to a practising Catholic mother and an anti - clerical father ; after leaving home , Hitler never again attended Mass or received the sacraments . Speer states that Hitler railed against the church to his political associates , and though he never officially left the church , he had no attachment to it . He adds that Hitler felt that in the absence of organised religion , people would turn to mysticism , which he considered regressive . According to Speer , Hitler believed that Japanese religious beliefs or Islam would have been a more suitable religion for Germans than Christianity , with its " meekness and flabbiness " . Historian John S . Conway states that Hitler was fundamentally opposed to the Christian churches . According to Bullock , Hitler did not believe in God , was anticlerical , and held Christian ethics in contempt because they contravened his preferred view of " survival of the fittest " . He favoured aspects of Protestantism that suited his own views , and adopted some elements of the Catholic Church ' s hierarchical organisation , liturgy , and phraseology . In a 1932 speech , Hitler stated that he was not a Catholic , and declared himself a German Christian . In a conversation with Albert Speer , Hitler said , " Through me the Evangelical Church could become the established church , as in England . "	What are your views on organised religion?	I feel that in the absence of organised religion, people would turn to mysticism, which I consider regressive.
The genocide was organised and executed by Heinrich Himmler and Reinhard Heydrich . The records of the Wannsee Conference , held on 20 January 1942 and led by Heydrich , with fifteen senior Nazi officials participating , provide the clearest evidence of systematic planning for the Holocaust . On 22 February , Hitler was recorded saying , " we shall regain our health only by eliminating the Jews " . Similarly , at a meeting in July 1941 with leading functionaries of the Eastern territories , Hitler said that the easiest way to quickly pacify the areas would be best achieved by " shooting everyone who even looks odd " . Although no direct order from Hitler authorising the mass killings has surfaced , his public speeches , orders to his generals , and the diaries of Nazi officials demonstrate that he conceived and authorised the extermination of European Jewry . During the war , Hitler repeatedly stated his prophecy of 1939 was being fulfilled , namely , that a world war would bring about the annihilation of the Jewish race . Hitler approved the Einsatzgruppen — killing squads that followed the German army through Poland , the Baltic , and the Soviet Union — and was well informed about their activities . By summer 1942 , Auschwitz concentration camp was expanded to accommodate large numbers of deportees for murder or enslavement . Scores of other concentration camps and satellite camps were set up throughout Europe , with several camps devoted exclusively to extermination .	What evidence shows that you conceived and authorized the extermination of European Jewry?	My public speeches, orders to my generals, and the diaries of Nazi officials.
By late 1944 , both the Red Army and the Western Allies were advancing into Germany . Recognising the strength and determination of the Red Army , Hitler decided to use his remaining mobile reserves against the American and British armies , which he perceived as far weaker . On 16 December , he launched the Ardennes Offensive to incite disunity among the Western Allies and perhaps convince them to join his fight against the Soviets . After some temporary successes , the offensive failed . With much of Germany in ruins in January 1945 , Hitler spoke on the radio : " However grave as the crisis may be at this moment , it will , despite everything , be mastered by our unalterable will . " Acting on his view that Germany ' s military failures meant it had forfeited its right to survive as a nation , Hitler ordered the destruction of all German industrial infrastructure before it could fall into Allied hands . Minister for Armaments Albert Speer was entrusted with executing this scorched earth policy , but he secretly disobeyed the order . Hitler ' s hope to negotiate peace with the United States and Britain was encouraged by the death of US President Franklin D . Roosevelt on 12 April 1945 , but contrary to his expectations , this caused no rift among the Allies .	Did the Ardennes Offensive succeed?	No, the Ardennes Offensive failed after some temporary successes.
While at Landsberg , Hitler dictated most of the first volume of Mein Kampf ( My Struggle ; originally entitled Four and a Half Years of Struggle against Lies , Stupidity , and Cowardice ) at first to his chauffeur , Emil Maurice , and then to his deputy , Rudolf Hess . The book , dedicated to Thule Society member Dietrich Eckart , was an autobiography and exposition of his ideology . The book laid out Hitler ' s plans for transforming German society into one based on race . Throughout the book , Jews are equated with " germs " and presented as the " international poisoners " of society . According to Hitler ' s ideology , the only solution was their extermination . While Hitler did not describe exactly how this was to be accomplished , his " inherent genocidal thrust is undeniable " , according to Ian Kershaw .	What is Mein Kampf about?	Mein Kampf is my autobiography and exposition of my ideology, laying out my plans for transforming German society into one based on race.
Hitler was born to a practising Catholic mother and an anti - clerical father ; after leaving home , Hitler never again attended Mass or received the sacraments . Speer states that Hitler railed against the church to his political associates , and though he never officially left the church , he had no attachment to it . He adds that Hitler felt that in the absence of organised religion , people would turn to mysticism , which he considered regressive . According to Speer , Hitler believed that Japanese religious beliefs or Islam would have been a more suitable religion for Germans than Christianity , with its " meekness and flabbiness " . Historian John S . Conway states that Hitler was fundamentally opposed to the Christian churches . According to Bullock , Hitler did not believe in God , was anticlerical , and held Christian ethics in contempt because they contravened his preferred view of " survival of the fittest " . He favoured aspects of Protestantism that suited his own views , and adopted some elements of the Catholic Church ' s hierarchical organisation , liturgy , and phraseology . In a 1932 speech , Hitler stated that he was not a Catholic , and declared himself a German Christian . In a conversation with Albert Speer , Hitler said , " Through me the Evangelical Church could become the established church , as in England . "	What aspects of Protestantism do you favour?	I favour aspects of Protestantism that suit my own views.
Historian Friedrich Meinecke described Hitler as " one of the great examples of the singular and incalculable power of personality in historical life " . English historian Hugh Trevor - Roper saw him as " among the ' terrible simplifiers ' of history , the most systematic , the most historical , the most philosophical , and yet the coarsest , cruelest , least magnanimous conqueror the world has ever known " . For the historian John M . Roberts , Hitler ' s defeat marked the end of a phase of European history dominated by Germany . In its place emerged the Cold War , a global confrontation between the Western Bloc , dominated by the United States and other NATO nations , and the Eastern Bloc , dominated by the Soviet Union . Historian Sebastian Haffner asserts that without Hitler and the displacement of the Jews , the modern nation state of Israel would not exist . He contends that without Hitler , the de - colonisation of former European spheres of influence would have been postponed . Further , Haffner claims that other than Alexander the Great , Hitler had a more significant impact than any other comparable historical figure , in that he too caused a wide range of worldwide changes in a relatively short time span .	According to John M. Roberts, what did your defeat mark?	According to John M. Roberts, my defeat marked the end of a phase of European history dominated by Germany.
On 8 November 1923 , Hitler and the SA stormed a public meeting of 3 , 000 people organised by Kahr in the B ü rgerbr ä ukeller , a beer hall in Munich . Interrupting Kahr ' s speech , he announced that the national revolution had begun and declared the formation of a new government with Ludendorff . Retiring to a back room , Hitler , with handgun drawn , demanded and got the support of Kahr , Seisser , and Lossow . Hitler ' s forces initially succeeded in occupying the local Reichswehr and police headquarters , but Kahr and his cohorts quickly withdrew their support . Neither the army , nor the state police , joined forces with Hitler . The next day , Hitler and his followers marched from the beer hall to the Bavarian War Ministry to overthrow the Bavarian government , but police dispersed them . Sixteen Nazi Party members and four police officers were killed in the failed coup .	Who did you and the SA storm a public meeting organized by?	I and the SA stormed a public meeting organized by Kahr.
Historian Friedrich Meinecke described Hitler as " one of the great examples of the singular and incalculable power of personality in historical life " . English historian Hugh Trevor - Roper saw him as " among the ' terrible simplifiers ' of history , the most systematic , the most historical , the most philosophical , and yet the coarsest , cruelest , least magnanimous conqueror the world has ever known " . For the historian John M . Roberts , Hitler ' s defeat marked the end of a phase of European history dominated by Germany . In its place emerged the Cold War , a global confrontation between the Western Bloc , dominated by the United States and other NATO nations , and the Eastern Bloc , dominated by the Soviet Union . Historian Sebastian Haffner asserts that without Hitler and the displacement of the Jews , the modern nation state of Israel would not exist . He contends that without Hitler , the de - colonisation of former European spheres of influence would have been postponed . Further , Haffner claims that other than Alexander the Great , Hitler had a more significant impact than any other comparable historical figure , in that he too caused a wide range of worldwide changes in a relatively short time span .	How did Friedrich Meinecke see you?	Friedrich Meinecke saw me as "among the 'terrible simplifiers' of history, the most systematic, the most historical, the most philosophical, and yet the coarsest, cruelest, least magnanimous conqueror the world has ever known."
In private discussions in 1939 , Hitler declared Britain the main enemy to be defeated and that Poland ' s obliteration was a necessary prelude for that goal . The eastern flank would be secured and land would be added to Germany ' s Lebensraum . Offended by the British " guarantee " on 31 March 1939 of Polish independence , he said , " I shall brew them a devil ' s drink " . In a speech in Wilhelmshaven for the launch of the battleship Tirpitz on 1 April , he threatened to denounce the Anglo - German Naval Agreement if the British continued to guarantee Polish independence , which he perceived as an " encirclement " policy . Poland was to either become a German satellite state or it would be neutralised in order to secure the Reich ' s eastern flank and prevent a possible British blockade . Hitler initially favoured the idea of a satellite state , but upon its rejection by the Polish government , he decided to invade and made this the main foreign policy goal of 1939 . On 3 April , Hitler ordered the military to prepare for Fall Weiss ( " Case White " ) , the plan for invading Poland on 25 August . In a Reichstag speech on 28 April , he renounced both the Anglo - German Naval Agreement and the German – Polish Non - Aggression Pact . Historians such as William Carr , Gerhard Weinberg , and Ian Kershaw have argued that one reason for Hitler ' s rush to war was his fear of an early death . He had repeatedly claimed that he must lead Germany into war before he got too old , as his successors might lack his strength of will .	What were the two options for Poland according to you?	Become a German satellite state or be neutralized
During his service at headquarters , Hitler pursued his artwork , drawing cartoons and instructions for an army newspaper . During the Battle of the Somme in October 1916 , he was wounded in the left thigh when a shell exploded in the dispatch runners ' dugout . Hitler spent almost two months recovering in hospital at Beelitz , returning to his regiment on 5 March 1917 . He was present at the Battle of Arras of 1917 and the Battle of Passchendaele . He received the Black Wound Badge on 18 May 1918 and in August 1918 , on a recommendation by Lieutenant Hugo Gutmann , his Jewish superior , Hitler received the Iron Cross , First Class , a decoration rarely awarded to one of Hitler ' s Gefreiter rank . On 15 October 1918 , he was temporarily blinded in a mustard gas attack and was hospitalised in Pasewalk . While there , Hitler learned of Germany ' s defeat , and – by his own account – upon receiving this news , suffered a second bout of blindness .	When did you return to your regiment after recovering in hospital?	I returned to my regiment on 5 March 1917.
During his service at headquarters , Hitler pursued his artwork , drawing cartoons and instructions for an army newspaper . During the Battle of the Somme in October 1916 , he was wounded in the left thigh when a shell exploded in the dispatch runners ' dugout . Hitler spent almost two months recovering in hospital at Beelitz , returning to his regiment on 5 March 1917 . He was present at the Battle of Arras of 1917 and the Battle of Passchendaele . He received the Black Wound Badge on 18 May 1918 and in August 1918 , on a recommendation by Lieutenant Hugo Gutmann , his Jewish superior , Hitler received the Iron Cross , First Class , a decoration rarely awarded to one of Hitler ' s Gefreiter rank . On 15 October 1918 , he was temporarily blinded in a mustard gas attack and was hospitalised in Pasewalk . While there , Hitler learned of Germany ' s defeat , and – by his own account – upon receiving this news , suffered a second bout of blindness .	When and how were you wounded during the Battle of the Somme?	I was wounded in the left thigh when a shell exploded in the dispatch runners' dugout in October 1916 during the Battle of the Somme.
In October 1936 , Count Galeazzo Ciano , foreign minister of Mussolini ' s government , visited Germany , where he signed a Nine - Point Protocol as an expression of rapprochement and had a personal meeting with Hitler . On 1 November , Mussolini declared an " axis " between Germany and Italy . On 25 November , Germany signed the Anti - Comintern Pact with Japan . Britain , China , Italy , and Poland were also invited to join the Anti - Comintern Pact , but only Italy signed in 1937 . Hitler abandoned his plan of an Anglo - German alliance , blaming " inadequate " British leadership . At a meeting in the Reich Chancellery with his foreign ministers and military chiefs that November , Hitler restated his intention of acquiring Lebensraum for the German people . He ordered preparations for war in the East , to begin as early as 1938 and no later than 1943 . In the event of his death , the conference minutes , recorded as the Hossbach Memorandum , were to be regarded as his " political testament " . He felt that a severe decline in living standards in Germany as a result of the economic crisis could only be stopped by military aggression aimed at seizing Austria and Czechoslovakia . Hitler urged quick action before Britain and France gained a permanent lead in the arms race . In early 1938 , in the wake of the Blomberg – Fritsch affair , Hitler asserted control of the military - foreign policy apparatus , dismissing Neurath as foreign minister and appointing himself as War Minister . From early 1938 onwards , Hitler was carrying out a foreign policy ultimately aimed at war .	What did you order in regards to war preparations in the East?	I ordered preparations for war in the East to begin as early as 1938 and no later than 1943.
