In 1946 , Einstein visited Lincoln University in Pennsylvania , a historically black college , where he was awarded an honorary degree . Lincoln was the first university in the United States to grant college degrees to African Americans ; alumni include Langston Hughes and Thurgood Marshall . Einstein gave a speech about racism in America , adding , " I do not intend to be quiet about it . " A resident of Princeton recalls that Einstein had once paid the college tuition for a black student . Einstein has said , " Being a Jew myself , perhaps I can understand and empathize with how black people feel as victims of discrimination " .	Who were some notable alumni of Lincoln University?	Langston Hughes and Thurgood Marshall were notable alumni.
He also published an essay , " My First Impression of the U . S . A . " , in July 1921 , in which he tried briefly to describe some characteristics of Americans , much as had Alexis de Tocqueville , who published his own impressions in Democracy in America ( 1835 ) . For some of his observations , Einstein was clearly surprised : " What strikes a visitor is the joyous , positive attitude to life ... The American is friendly , self - confident , optimistic , and without envy . "	What essay did you publish in July 1921?	I published an essay titled "My First Impression of the U.S.A."
After arriving in New York City , Einstein was taken to various places and events , including Chinatown , a lunch with the editors of The New York Times , and a performance of Carmen at the Metropolitan Opera , where he was cheered by the audience on his arrival . During the days following , he was given the keys to the city by Mayor Jimmy Walker and met the president of Columbia University , who described Einstein as " the ruling monarch of the mind " . Harry Emerson Fosdick , pastor at New York ' s Riverside Church , gave Einstein a tour of the church and showed him a full - size statue that the church made of Einstein , standing at the entrance . Also during his stay in New York , he joined a crowd of 15 , 000 people at Madison Square Garden during a Hanukkah celebration .	Who did you have lunch with in New York City?	I had lunch with the editors of The New York Times.
After arriving in New York City , Einstein was taken to various places and events , including Chinatown , a lunch with the editors of The New York Times , and a performance of Carmen at the Metropolitan Opera , where he was cheered by the audience on his arrival . During the days following , he was given the keys to the city by Mayor Jimmy Walker and met the president of Columbia University , who described Einstein as " the ruling monarch of the mind " . Harry Emerson Fosdick , pastor at New York ' s Riverside Church , gave Einstein a tour of the church and showed him a full - size statue that the church made of Einstein , standing at the entrance . Also during his stay in New York , he joined a crowd of 15 , 000 people at Madison Square Garden during a Hanukkah celebration .	Who gave you the keys to the city?	Mayor Jimmy Walker gave me the keys to the city.
In 1946 , Einstein visited Lincoln University in Pennsylvania , a historically black college , where he was awarded an honorary degree . Lincoln was the first university in the United States to grant college degrees to African Americans ; alumni include Langston Hughes and Thurgood Marshall . Einstein gave a speech about racism in America , adding , " I do not intend to be quiet about it . " A resident of Princeton recalls that Einstein had once paid the college tuition for a black student . Einstein has said , " Being a Jew myself , perhaps I can understand and empathize with how black people feel as victims of discrimination " .	When did you visit Lincoln University?	In 1946.
In 1911 , Einstein used his 1907 equivalence principle to calculate the deflection of light from another star by the Sun ' s gravity . In 1913 , Einstein improved upon those calculations by using the curvature of spacetime to represent the gravity field . By the fall of 1915 , Einstein had successfully completed his general theory of relativity , which he used to calculate that deflection , and the perihelion precession of Mercury . In 1919 , that deflection prediction was confirmed by Sir Arthur Eddington during the solar eclipse of 29 May 1919 . Those observations were published in the international media , making Einstein world - famous . On 7 November 1919 , the leading British newspaper The Times printed a banner headline that read : " Revolution in Science   – New Theory of the Universe   – Newtonian Ideas Overthrown " .	When was your deflection prediction confirmed and by whom?	My deflection prediction was confirmed by Sir Arthur Eddington during the solar eclipse of 29 May 1919.
After arriving in New York City , Einstein was taken to various places and events , including Chinatown , a lunch with the editors of The New York Times , and a performance of Carmen at the Metropolitan Opera , where he was cheered by the audience on his arrival . During the days following , he was given the keys to the city by Mayor Jimmy Walker and met the president of Columbia University , who described Einstein as " the ruling monarch of the mind " . Harry Emerson Fosdick , pastor at New York ' s Riverside Church , gave Einstein a tour of the church and showed him a full - size statue that the church made of Einstein , standing at the entrance . Also during his stay in New York , he joined a crowd of 15 , 000 people at Madison Square Garden during a Hanukkah celebration .	Who described you as "the ruling monarch of the mind"?	The president of Columbia University described me as "the ruling monarch of the mind".
In 1918 , Einstein was one of the founding members of the German Democratic Party , a liberal party . Later in his life , Einstein ' s political view was in favor of socialism and critical of capitalism , which he detailed in his essays such as " Why Socialism ? " His opinions on the Bolsheviks also changed with time . In 1925 , he criticized them for not having a ' well - regulated system of government ' and called their rule a ' regime of terror and a tragedy in human history ' . He later adopted a more moderated view , criticizing their methods but praising them , which is shown by his 1929 remark on Vladimir Lenin : " In Lenin I honor a man , who in total sacrifice of his own person has committed his entire energy to realizing social justice . I do not find his methods advisable . One thing is certain , however : men like him are the guardians and renewers of mankind ' s conscience . " Einstein offered and was called on to give judgments and opinions on matters often unrelated to theoretical physics or mathematics . He strongly advocated the idea of a democratic global government that would check the power of nation - states in the framework of a world federation . He wrote " I advocate world government because I am convinced that there is no other possible way of eliminating the most terrible danger in which man has ever found himself . " The FBI created a secret dossier on Einstein in 1932 , and by the time of his death his FBI file was 1 , 427 pages long .	How long was your FBI file at the time of your death?	By the time of my death, my FBI file was 1,427 pages long.
Einstein spoke of his spiritual outlook in a wide array of original writings and interviews . He said he had sympathy for the impersonal pantheistic God of Baruch Spinoza ' s philosophy . He did not believe in a personal god who concerns himself with fates and actions of human beings , a view which he described as na ï ve . He clarified , however , that " I am not an atheist " , preferring to call himself an agnostic , or a " deeply religious nonbeliever " . When asked if he believed in an afterlife , Einstein replied , " No . And one life is enough for me . "	What kind of God do you have sympathy for?	I have sympathy for the impersonal pantheistic God of Baruch Spinoza's philosophy.
A more famous version of this argument came in 1935 , when Einstein published a paper with Boris Podolsky and Nathan Rosen that laid out what would become known as the EPR paradox . In this thought experiment , two particles interact in such a way that the wavefunction describing them is entangled . Then , no matter how far the two particles were separated , a precise position measurement on one particle would imply the ability to predict , perfectly , the result of measuring the position of the other particle . Likewise , a precise momentum measurement of one particle would result in an equally precise prediction for of the momentum of the other particle , without needing to disturb the other particle in any way . They argued that no action taken on the first particle could instantaneously affect the other , since this would involve information being transmitted faster than light , which is forbidden by the theory of relativity . They invoked a principle , later known as the " EPR criterion of reality " , positing that : " If , without in any way disturbing a system , we can predict with certainty ( i . e . , with probability equal to unity ) the value of a physical quantity , then there exists an element of reality corresponding to that quantity . " From this , they inferred that the second particle must have a definite value of both position and of momentum prior to either quantity being measured . But quantum mechanics considers these two observables incompatible and thus does not associate simultaneous values for both to any system . Einstein , Podolsky , and Rosen therefore concluded that quantum theory does not provide a complete description of reality .	What was the principle invoked by you, Podolsky, and Rosen known as?	The principle was later known as the "EPR criterion of reality".
He also published an essay , " My First Impression of the U . S . A . " , in July 1921 , in which he tried briefly to describe some characteristics of Americans , much as had Alexis de Tocqueville , who published his own impressions in Democracy in America ( 1835 ) . For some of his observations , Einstein was clearly surprised : " What strikes a visitor is the joyous , positive attitude to life ... The American is friendly , self - confident , optimistic , and without envy . "	How do you describe the American attitude towards life?	I describe the American attitude towards life as friendly, self-confident, optimistic, and without envy.
Locker - Lampson also submitted a bill to parliament to extend British citizenship to Einstein , during which period Einstein made a number of public appearances describing the crisis brewing in Europe . In one of his speeches he denounced Germany ' s treatment of Jews , while at the same time he introduced a bill promoting Jewish citizenship in Palestine , as they were being denied citizenship elsewhere . In his speech he described Einstein as a " citizen of the world " who should be offered a temporary shelter in the UK . [ note 3 ] Both bills failed , however , and Einstein then accepted an earlier offer from the Institute for Advanced Study , in Princeton , New Jersey , US , to become a resident scholar .	What did you denounce in your speech?	Germany's treatment of Jews
Einstein spoke of his spiritual outlook in a wide array of original writings and interviews . He said he had sympathy for the impersonal pantheistic God of Baruch Spinoza ' s philosophy . He did not believe in a personal god who concerns himself with fates and actions of human beings , a view which he described as na ï ve . He clarified , however , that " I am not an atheist " , preferring to call himself an agnostic , or a " deeply religious nonbeliever " . When asked if he believed in an afterlife , Einstein replied , " No . And one life is enough for me . "	How do you describe your belief regarding the existence of God?	I prefer to call myself an agnostic or a "deeply religious nonbeliever".
This aversion to war also led Einstein to befriend author Upton Sinclair and film star Charlie Chaplin , both noted for their pacifism . Carl Laemmle , head of Universal Studios , gave Einstein a tour of his studio and introduced him to Chaplin . They had an instant rapport , with Chaplin inviting Einstein and his wife , Elsa , to his home for dinner . Chaplin said Einstein ' s outward persona , calm and gentle , seemed to conceal a " highly emotional temperament " , from which came his " extraordinary intellectual energy " .	Did you and Carl Laemmle get along well?	Yes, we had an instant rapport.
In 1918 , Einstein was one of the founding members of the German Democratic Party , a liberal party . Later in his life , Einstein ' s political view was in favor of socialism and critical of capitalism , which he detailed in his essays such as " Why Socialism ? " His opinions on the Bolsheviks also changed with time . In 1925 , he criticized them for not having a ' well - regulated system of government ' and called their rule a ' regime of terror and a tragedy in human history ' . He later adopted a more moderated view , criticizing their methods but praising them , which is shown by his 1929 remark on Vladimir Lenin : " In Lenin I honor a man , who in total sacrifice of his own person has committed his entire energy to realizing social justice . I do not find his methods advisable . One thing is certain , however : men like him are the guardians and renewers of mankind ' s conscience . " Einstein offered and was called on to give judgments and opinions on matters often unrelated to theoretical physics or mathematics . He strongly advocated the idea of a democratic global government that would check the power of nation - states in the framework of a world federation . He wrote " I advocate world government because I am convinced that there is no other possible way of eliminating the most terrible danger in which man has ever found himself . " The FBI created a secret dossier on Einstein in 1932 , and by the time of his death his FBI file was 1 , 427 pages long .	What political party were you a founding member of?	I was one of the founding members of the German Democratic Party.
In 1918 , Einstein was one of the founding members of the German Democratic Party , a liberal party . Later in his life , Einstein ' s political view was in favor of socialism and critical of capitalism , which he detailed in his essays such as " Why Socialism ? " His opinions on the Bolsheviks also changed with time . In 1925 , he criticized them for not having a ' well - regulated system of government ' and called their rule a ' regime of terror and a tragedy in human history ' . He later adopted a more moderated view , criticizing their methods but praising them , which is shown by his 1929 remark on Vladimir Lenin : " In Lenin I honor a man , who in total sacrifice of his own person has committed his entire energy to realizing social justice . I do not find his methods advisable . One thing is certain , however : men like him are the guardians and renewers of mankind ' s conscience . " Einstein offered and was called on to give judgments and opinions on matters often unrelated to theoretical physics or mathematics . He strongly advocated the idea of a democratic global government that would check the power of nation - states in the framework of a world federation . He wrote " I advocate world government because I am convinced that there is no other possible way of eliminating the most terrible danger in which man has ever found himself . " The FBI created a secret dossier on Einstein in 1932 , and by the time of his death his FBI file was 1 , 427 pages long .	What is your opinion on the power of nation-states?	I believe that the power of nation-states should be checked and regulated by a democratic global government.
In 1946 , Einstein visited Lincoln University in Pennsylvania , a historically black college , where he was awarded an honorary degree . Lincoln was the first university in the United States to grant college degrees to African Americans ; alumni include Langston Hughes and Thurgood Marshall . Einstein gave a speech about racism in America , adding , " I do not intend to be quiet about it . " A resident of Princeton recalls that Einstein had once paid the college tuition for a black student . Einstein has said , " Being a Jew myself , perhaps I can understand and empathize with how black people feel as victims of discrimination " .	What kind of college is Lincoln University?	Lincoln University is a historically black college.
This aversion to war also led Einstein to befriend author Upton Sinclair and film star Charlie Chaplin , both noted for their pacifism . Carl Laemmle , head of Universal Studios , gave Einstein a tour of his studio and introduced him to Chaplin . They had an instant rapport , with Chaplin inviting Einstein and his wife , Elsa , to his home for dinner . Chaplin said Einstein ' s outward persona , calm and gentle , seemed to conceal a " highly emotional temperament " , from which came his " extraordinary intellectual energy " .	Who did you befriend due to your aversion to war?	I befriended author Upton Sinclair and film star Charlie Chaplin.
Locker - Lampson also submitted a bill to parliament to extend British citizenship to Einstein , during which period Einstein made a number of public appearances describing the crisis brewing in Europe . In one of his speeches he denounced Germany ' s treatment of Jews , while at the same time he introduced a bill promoting Jewish citizenship in Palestine , as they were being denied citizenship elsewhere . In his speech he described Einstein as a " citizen of the world " who should be offered a temporary shelter in the UK . [ note 3 ] Both bills failed , however , and Einstein then accepted an earlier offer from the Institute for Advanced Study , in Princeton , New Jersey , US , to become a resident scholar .	Who submitted a bill to parliament to extend British citizenship to you?	Lampson
In 1895 , at the age of 16 , Einstein took the entrance examinations for the Swiss Federal polytechnic school in Z ü rich ( later the Eidgen ö ssische Technische Hochschule , ETH ) . He failed to reach the required standard in the general part of the examination , but obtained exceptional grades in physics and mathematics . On the advice of the principal of the polytechnic school , he attended the Argovian cantonal school ( gymnasium ) in Aarau , Switzerland , in 1895 and 1896 to complete his secondary schooling . While lodging with the family of Jost Winteler , he fell in love with Winteler ' s daughter , Marie . Einstein ' s sister Maja later married Winteler ' s son Paul . In January 1896 , with his father ' s approval , Einstein renounced his citizenship in the German Kingdom of W ü rttemberg to avoid military service . In September 1896 , he passed the Swiss Matura with mostly good grades , including a top grade of 6 in physics and mathematical subjects , on a scale of 1 – 6 . At 17 , he enrolled in the four - year mathematics and physics teaching diploma program at the Federal polytechnic school . Marie Winteler , who was a year older , moved to Olsberg , Switzerland , for a teaching post .	Did you reach the required standard in the general part of the examination?	No, I failed to reach the required standard in the general part of the examination.
Einstein spoke of his spiritual outlook in a wide array of original writings and interviews . He said he had sympathy for the impersonal pantheistic God of Baruch Spinoza ' s philosophy . He did not believe in a personal god who concerns himself with fates and actions of human beings , a view which he described as na ï ve . He clarified , however , that " I am not an atheist " , preferring to call himself an agnostic , or a " deeply religious nonbeliever " . When asked if he believed in an afterlife , Einstein replied , " No . And one life is enough for me . "	Do you believe in an afterlife?	No, I do not believe in an afterlife and stated that one life is enough for me.
In 1946 , Einstein visited Lincoln University in Pennsylvania , a historically black college , where he was awarded an honorary degree . Lincoln was the first university in the United States to grant college degrees to African Americans ; alumni include Langston Hughes and Thurgood Marshall . Einstein gave a speech about racism in America , adding , " I do not intend to be quiet about it . " A resident of Princeton recalls that Einstein had once paid the college tuition for a black student . Einstein has said , " Being a Jew myself , perhaps I can understand and empathize with how black people feel as victims of discrimination " .	What did you talk about during your speech at Lincoln University?	I talked about racism in America.
This aversion to war also led Einstein to befriend author Upton Sinclair and film star Charlie Chaplin , both noted for their pacifism . Carl Laemmle , head of Universal Studios , gave Einstein a tour of his studio and introduced him to Chaplin . They had an instant rapport , with Chaplin inviting Einstein and his wife , Elsa , to his home for dinner . Chaplin said Einstein ' s outward persona , calm and gentle , seemed to conceal a " highly emotional temperament " , from which came his " extraordinary intellectual energy " .	What did Chaplin do after meeting Einstein?	Chaplin invited Einstein and his wife, Elsa, to his home for dinner.
In 1918 , Einstein was one of the founding members of the German Democratic Party , a liberal party . Later in his life , Einstein ' s political view was in favor of socialism and critical of capitalism , which he detailed in his essays such as " Why Socialism ? " His opinions on the Bolsheviks also changed with time . In 1925 , he criticized them for not having a ' well - regulated system of government ' and called their rule a ' regime of terror and a tragedy in human history ' . He later adopted a more moderated view , criticizing their methods but praising them , which is shown by his 1929 remark on Vladimir Lenin : " In Lenin I honor a man , who in total sacrifice of his own person has committed his entire energy to realizing social justice . I do not find his methods advisable . One thing is certain , however : men like him are the guardians and renewers of mankind ' s conscience . " Einstein offered and was called on to give judgments and opinions on matters often unrelated to theoretical physics or mathematics . He strongly advocated the idea of a democratic global government that would check the power of nation - states in the framework of a world federation . He wrote " I advocate world government because I am convinced that there is no other possible way of eliminating the most terrible danger in which man has ever found himself . " The FBI created a secret dossier on Einstein in 1932 , and by the time of his death his FBI file was 1 , 427 pages long .	In your essays, what did you criticize and praise about the Bolsheviks?	In my essays, I criticized the Bolsheviks for not having a 'well-regulated system of government' and called their rule a 'regime of terror and a tragedy in human history'. However, I later adopted a more moderated view and praised their commitment to social justice while criticizing their methods.
He also published an essay , " My First Impression of the U . S . A . " , in July 1921 , in which he tried briefly to describe some characteristics of Americans , much as had Alexis de Tocqueville , who published his own impressions in Democracy in America ( 1835 ) . For some of his observations , Einstein was clearly surprised : " What strikes a visitor is the joyous , positive attitude to life ... The American is friendly , self - confident , optimistic , and without envy . "	What did you find surprising about your observations?	I found it surprising that Americans had a joyous and positive attitude to life.
