On March 10 , 2002 , Jolie adopted her first child , seven - month - old Maddox Chivan , from an orphanage in Battambang , Cambodia . He was born as Rath Vibol on August 5 , 2001 , in a local village . After twice visiting Cambodia , while filming Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) and on a UNHCR field mission , Jolie returned in November 2001 with her then - husband , Billy Bob Thornton , where they met and subsequently applied to adopt Maddox . The adoption process was halted the following month when the U . S . government banned adoptions from Cambodia amid allegations of child trafficking . Although Jolie ' s adoption facilitator was later convicted of visa fraud and money laundering , her adoption of Maddox was deemed lawful . Once the process was finalized , she took custody of Maddox in Namibia , where she was filming Beyond Borders ( 2003 ) . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption together , but she adopted Maddox alone , becoming a single parent following her separation from Thornton three months later .	Where did you adopt your first child from?	I adopted my first child from an orphanage in Battambang, Cambodia.
As the daughter of actor Jon Voight , Jolie appeared in the media from an early age . After embarking on her own career , she earned a reputation as a " wild child " , which contributed to her early success in the late 1990s and early 2000s . Celebrity profiles routinely covered her fascination with blood and knives , experiences with drugs , and her sex life , particularly her bisexuality and interest in sadomasochism . In 2000 , when asked about her outspokenness , she stated : " I say things that other people might go through . That ' s what artists should do — throw things out there and not be perfect and not have answers for anything and see if people understand . " Another contributing factor to her controversial image were tabloid rumors of incest that began when Jolie , upon winning her Oscar for Girl , Interrupted , kissed her brother on the lips and said , " I ' m so in love with my brother right now . " She dismissed the rumors , saying , " It was disappointing that something so beautiful and pure could be turned into a circus , " and explained that , as children of divorced parents , she and James relied on one another for emotional support .	What contributed to your early success in the late 1990s and early 2000s?	My reputation as a "wild child" and my own career.
During their 12 - year relationship , the couple were dubbed " Brangelina " — a portmanteau coined by the media — and were the subject of worldwide media coverage . They became known as one of Hollywood ' s most glamorous couples . Their family grew to include six children , three of whom were adopted , before they announced their engagement in April 2012 . Jolie and Pitt were legally married on August 14 , 2014 , and had their wedding on August 23 , 2014 , at their estate Ch â teau Miraval in Correns , France . She subsequently took on the name " Angelina Jolie Pitt " . After two years of marriage , the couple separated on September 15 , 2016 . On September 19 , Jolie filed for divorce citing irreconcilable differences . They were declared legally single on April 12 , 2019 . After Pitt sued Jolie for selling her share of a winery they owned to a third party , she filed a countersuit , in which she alleged that he physically and verbally abused her and their children on a plane in 2016 .	Where did we have our wedding?	We had our wedding at our estate Château Miraval in Correns, France.
After a two - month courtship , Jolie married actor Billy Bob Thornton on May 5 , 2000 , in Las Vegas . They had met on the set of Pushing Tin ( 1999 ) but did not pursue a relationship at that time , as Thornton was engaged to actress Laura Dern , while Jolie was reportedly dating actor Timothy Hutton , her co - star in Playing God ( 1997 ) . As a result of their frequent public declarations of passion and gestures of love — most famously wearing one another ' s blood in vials around their necks — their marriage became a favorite topic of the entertainment media . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption of a child from Cambodia in March 2002 but abruptly separated three months later . Their divorce was finalized on May 27 , 2003 . When asked about the sudden dissolution of their marriage , Jolie stated , " It took me by surprise , too , because overnight , we totally changed . I think one day we had just nothing in common . And it ' s scary but   ... I think it can happen when you get involved and you don ' t know yourself yet . "	What was the reason for the sudden dissolution of our marriage?	According to me, the dissolution was because overnight we totally changed and had nothing in common.
Jolie ' s reputation began to change positively after she , at age 26 , became a Goodwill Ambassador for the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees , later commenting , " In my early 20s I was fighting with myself . Now I take that punk in me to Washington , and I fight for something important . " Owing to her extensive activism , her Q Score — a marketing industry measure of celebrities ' likability — nearly doubled to 25 between 2000 and 2006 . Her recognizability grew accordingly ; by 2006 , she was familiar to 81% of Americans , compared to 31% in 2000 . She became noted for her ability to positively influence her public image through the media , without employing a publicist or an agent . Her Q Score remained above average even when , in 2005 , she was accused of ending Brad Pitt ' s marriage to Jennifer Aniston , at which point her public persona became an unlikely combination of alleged homewrecker , mother , sex symbol , and humanitarian . A decade later , Jolie was found to be the most admired woman in the world in global surveys conducted by YouGov in 2015 and 2016 .	Who conducted global surveys in 2015 and 2016 that found you to be the most admired woman in the world?	YouGov conducted global surveys in 2015 and 2016 that found me to be the most admired woman in the world.
On March 10 , 2002 , Jolie adopted her first child , seven - month - old Maddox Chivan , from an orphanage in Battambang , Cambodia . He was born as Rath Vibol on August 5 , 2001 , in a local village . After twice visiting Cambodia , while filming Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) and on a UNHCR field mission , Jolie returned in November 2001 with her then - husband , Billy Bob Thornton , where they met and subsequently applied to adopt Maddox . The adoption process was halted the following month when the U . S . government banned adoptions from Cambodia amid allegations of child trafficking . Although Jolie ' s adoption facilitator was later convicted of visa fraud and money laundering , her adoption of Maddox was deemed lawful . Once the process was finalized , she took custody of Maddox in Namibia , where she was filming Beyond Borders ( 2003 ) . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption together , but she adopted Maddox alone , becoming a single parent following her separation from Thornton three months later .	When did you adopt your first child?	On March 10, 2002.
As the daughter of actor Jon Voight , Jolie appeared in the media from an early age . After embarking on her own career , she earned a reputation as a " wild child " , which contributed to her early success in the late 1990s and early 2000s . Celebrity profiles routinely covered her fascination with blood and knives , experiences with drugs , and her sex life , particularly her bisexuality and interest in sadomasochism . In 2000 , when asked about her outspokenness , she stated : " I say things that other people might go through . That ' s what artists should do — throw things out there and not be perfect and not have answers for anything and see if people understand . " Another contributing factor to her controversial image were tabloid rumors of incest that began when Jolie , upon winning her Oscar for Girl , Interrupted , kissed her brother on the lips and said , " I ' m so in love with my brother right now . " She dismissed the rumors , saying , " It was disappointing that something so beautiful and pure could be turned into a circus , " and explained that , as children of divorced parents , she and James relied on one another for emotional support .	In 2000, what did you say about your outspokenness?	I stated, "I say things that other people might go through. That's what artists should do — throw things out there and not be perfect and not have answers for anything and see if people understand."
Jolie ' s next directorial effort was the marital drama By the Sea ( 2015 ) , in which she starred opposite her husband , Brad Pitt , marking their first collaboration since 2005 ' s Mr . & Mrs . Smith . Based on her screenplay , the film was a deeply personal project for Jolie , who drew inspiration from her own mother ' s life . Critics , however , dismissed it as a " vanity project , " as part of an overall poor reception . Writing for The Washington Post , Stephanie Merry noted its dearth of genuine emotion , stating , " By the Sea is dazzlingly gorgeous , as are its stars . But peeling back layer upon layer of exquisite ennui reveals nothing but emptiness , sprinkled with stilted sentiments . " Despite starring two of Hollywood ' s leading actors , the film received only a limited release .	Who dismissed By the Sea as a "vanity project"?	Critics dismissed By the Sea as a "vanity project".
Jolie ' s next directorial effort was the marital drama By the Sea ( 2015 ) , in which she starred opposite her husband , Brad Pitt , marking their first collaboration since 2005 ' s Mr . & Mrs . Smith . Based on her screenplay , the film was a deeply personal project for Jolie , who drew inspiration from her own mother ' s life . Critics , however , dismissed it as a " vanity project , " as part of an overall poor reception . Writing for The Washington Post , Stephanie Merry noted its dearth of genuine emotion , stating , " By the Sea is dazzlingly gorgeous , as are its stars . But peeling back layer upon layer of exquisite ennui reveals nothing but emptiness , sprinkled with stilted sentiments . " Despite starring two of Hollywood ' s leading actors , the film received only a limited release .	What was your next directorial effort after By the Sea?	My next directorial effort after By the Sea was a marital drama.
Through her work on the PSVI , Jolie met foreign policy experts Chloe Dalton and Arminka Helic , who served as special advisers to Hague . Their collaboration resulted in the 2015 founding of Jolie Pitt Dalton Helic , a partnership dedicated to women ' s rights and international justice , among other causes . In May 2016 , Jolie was appointed a visiting professor at the London School of Economics to contribute to a postgraduate degree program at the university ' s Centre on Women , Peace and Security , which she had launched with Hague the previous year . In February 2022 , Jolie with her daughter Zahara visited Washington , D . C . for the Senate introduction of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act , a bill designed to prevent and respond to domestic violence , sexual assault , dating violence , and stalking . She worked closely with the bill ' s sponsors and advocates . She ' s also an advocate for Kayden ' s Law , a law focuses on trauma - informed court processes , legal standards and judicial training that minimizes the risk of harm to children .	What was the purpose of the bill you worked on during your visit to Washington, D.C. in February 2022?	The purpose of the bill I worked on during my visit to Washington, D.C. in February 2022 was to prevent and respond to domestic violence, sexual assault, dating violence, and stalking.
Through her work on the PSVI , Jolie met foreign policy experts Chloe Dalton and Arminka Helic , who served as special advisers to Hague . Their collaboration resulted in the 2015 founding of Jolie Pitt Dalton Helic , a partnership dedicated to women ' s rights and international justice , among other causes . In May 2016 , Jolie was appointed a visiting professor at the London School of Economics to contribute to a postgraduate degree program at the university ' s Centre on Women , Peace and Security , which she had launched with Hague the previous year . In February 2022 , Jolie with her daughter Zahara visited Washington , D . C . for the Senate introduction of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act , a bill designed to prevent and respond to domestic violence , sexual assault , dating violence , and stalking . She worked closely with the bill ' s sponsors and advocates . She ' s also an advocate for Kayden ' s Law , a law focuses on trauma - informed court processes , legal standards and judicial training that minimizes the risk of harm to children .	What is the name of the partnership founded by you, Chloe Dalton, and Arminka Helic?	The partnership founded by me, Chloe Dalton, and Arminka Helic is called Jolie Pitt Dalton Helic.
On March 10 , 2002 , Jolie adopted her first child , seven - month - old Maddox Chivan , from an orphanage in Battambang , Cambodia . He was born as Rath Vibol on August 5 , 2001 , in a local village . After twice visiting Cambodia , while filming Lara Croft : Tomb Raider ( 2001 ) and on a UNHCR field mission , Jolie returned in November 2001 with her then - husband , Billy Bob Thornton , where they met and subsequently applied to adopt Maddox . The adoption process was halted the following month when the U . S . government banned adoptions from Cambodia amid allegations of child trafficking . Although Jolie ' s adoption facilitator was later convicted of visa fraud and money laundering , her adoption of Maddox was deemed lawful . Once the process was finalized , she took custody of Maddox in Namibia , where she was filming Beyond Borders ( 2003 ) . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption together , but she adopted Maddox alone , becoming a single parent following her separation from Thornton three months later .	Who did you adopt your first child with?	I adopted my first child alone, becoming a single parent following my separation from my then-husband, Billy Bob Thornton, three months later.
Jolie is considered a style icon and trendsetter for celebrity fashion . She first began making red carpet appearances at age ten . In the 1990s , she established an enduring partnership with Versace . In her early film career , she became known for wearing gothic styles and leather , " coquette " looks . Around this time , her style was regarded as dark , vampish , dramatic , and alluring . Her sequined Randolph Duke gown at the 1999 Golden Globe Awards was regarded as her fashion debut . Jolie wore a white satin dress by Marc Bouwer to the 76th Academy Awards , which drew critical praise and comparisons to the fashion of several classic film stars . As she transitioned to directorial and humanitarian work , her style grew more sophisticated , minimalist , and glamorous , with looks associated with Old Hollywood . In the 2010s , Jolie wore satin gowns , diamond jewelry , and Grecian silhouettes . She attended the 84th Academy Awards in a black velvet gown , designed by Versace , which has been deemed one of the most significant gowns in fashion history and pop culture , with Jolie ' s posing becoming the subject of Internet memes . Jolie prefers to invest in quality pieces , and in the 2020s , adopted more sustainable fashion while dressing .	What kind of styles were you known for wearing in your early film career?	I was known for wearing gothic styles and leather, as well as "coquette" looks in my early film career.
During their 12 - year relationship , the couple were dubbed " Brangelina " — a portmanteau coined by the media — and were the subject of worldwide media coverage . They became known as one of Hollywood ' s most glamorous couples . Their family grew to include six children , three of whom were adopted , before they announced their engagement in April 2012 . Jolie and Pitt were legally married on August 14 , 2014 , and had their wedding on August 23 , 2014 , at their estate Ch â teau Miraval in Correns , France . She subsequently took on the name " Angelina Jolie Pitt " . After two years of marriage , the couple separated on September 15 , 2016 . On September 19 , Jolie filed for divorce citing irreconcilable differences . They were declared legally single on April 12 , 2019 . After Pitt sued Jolie for selling her share of a winery they owned to a third party , she filed a countersuit , in which she alleged that he physically and verbally abused her and their children on a plane in 2016 .	What was the nickname given to us during our 12-year relationship?	We were dubbed "Brangelina".
Through her work on the PSVI , Jolie met foreign policy experts Chloe Dalton and Arminka Helic , who served as special advisers to Hague . Their collaboration resulted in the 2015 founding of Jolie Pitt Dalton Helic , a partnership dedicated to women ' s rights and international justice , among other causes . In May 2016 , Jolie was appointed a visiting professor at the London School of Economics to contribute to a postgraduate degree program at the university ' s Centre on Women , Peace and Security , which she had launched with Hague the previous year . In February 2022 , Jolie with her daughter Zahara visited Washington , D . C . for the Senate introduction of the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act , a bill designed to prevent and respond to domestic violence , sexual assault , dating violence , and stalking . She worked closely with the bill ' s sponsors and advocates . She ' s also an advocate for Kayden ' s Law , a law focuses on trauma - informed court processes , legal standards and judicial training that minimizes the risk of harm to children .	In which year were you appointed a visiting professor at the London School of Economics?	I was appointed a visiting professor at the London School of Economics in May 2016.
After a two - month courtship , Jolie married actor Billy Bob Thornton on May 5 , 2000 , in Las Vegas . They had met on the set of Pushing Tin ( 1999 ) but did not pursue a relationship at that time , as Thornton was engaged to actress Laura Dern , while Jolie was reportedly dating actor Timothy Hutton , her co - star in Playing God ( 1997 ) . As a result of their frequent public declarations of passion and gestures of love — most famously wearing one another ' s blood in vials around their necks — their marriage became a favorite topic of the entertainment media . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption of a child from Cambodia in March 2002 but abruptly separated three months later . Their divorce was finalized on May 27 , 2003 . When asked about the sudden dissolution of their marriage , Jolie stated , " It took me by surprise , too , because overnight , we totally changed . I think one day we had just nothing in common . And it ' s scary but   ... I think it can happen when you get involved and you don ' t know yourself yet . "	Why did you think the dissolution of your marriage happened?	I believed that it happened because we got involved without knowing ourselves yet.
During their 12 - year relationship , the couple were dubbed " Brangelina " — a portmanteau coined by the media — and were the subject of worldwide media coverage . They became known as one of Hollywood ' s most glamorous couples . Their family grew to include six children , three of whom were adopted , before they announced their engagement in April 2012 . Jolie and Pitt were legally married on August 14 , 2014 , and had their wedding on August 23 , 2014 , at their estate Ch â teau Miraval in Correns , France . She subsequently took on the name " Angelina Jolie Pitt " . After two years of marriage , the couple separated on September 15 , 2016 . On September 19 , Jolie filed for divorce citing irreconcilable differences . They were declared legally single on April 12 , 2019 . After Pitt sued Jolie for selling her share of a winery they owned to a third party , she filed a countersuit , in which she alleged that he physically and verbally abused her and their children on a plane in 2016 .	When did you two separate?	We separated on September 15, 2016.
During their 12 - year relationship , the couple were dubbed " Brangelina " — a portmanteau coined by the media — and were the subject of worldwide media coverage . They became known as one of Hollywood ' s most glamorous couples . Their family grew to include six children , three of whom were adopted , before they announced their engagement in April 2012 . Jolie and Pitt were legally married on August 14 , 2014 , and had their wedding on August 23 , 2014 , at their estate Ch â teau Miraval in Correns , France . She subsequently took on the name " Angelina Jolie Pitt " . After two years of marriage , the couple separated on September 15 , 2016 . On September 19 , Jolie filed for divorce citing irreconcilable differences . They were declared legally single on April 12 , 2019 . After Pitt sued Jolie for selling her share of a winery they owned to a third party , she filed a countersuit , in which she alleged that he physically and verbally abused her and their children on a plane in 2016 .	When did you and Pitt announce your engagement?	We announced our engagement in April 2012.
As the daughter of actor Jon Voight , Jolie appeared in the media from an early age . After embarking on her own career , she earned a reputation as a " wild child " , which contributed to her early success in the late 1990s and early 2000s . Celebrity profiles routinely covered her fascination with blood and knives , experiences with drugs , and her sex life , particularly her bisexuality and interest in sadomasochism . In 2000 , when asked about her outspokenness , she stated : " I say things that other people might go through . That ' s what artists should do — throw things out there and not be perfect and not have answers for anything and see if people understand . " Another contributing factor to her controversial image were tabloid rumors of incest that began when Jolie , upon winning her Oscar for Girl , Interrupted , kissed her brother on the lips and said , " I ' m so in love with my brother right now . " She dismissed the rumors , saying , " It was disappointing that something so beautiful and pure could be turned into a circus , " and explained that , as children of divorced parents , she and James relied on one another for emotional support .	What were some things that celebrity profiles covered about you?	My fascination with blood and knives, experiences with drugs, and my sex life, particularly my bisexuality and interest in sadomasochism.
After a two - month courtship , Jolie married actor Billy Bob Thornton on May 5 , 2000 , in Las Vegas . They had met on the set of Pushing Tin ( 1999 ) but did not pursue a relationship at that time , as Thornton was engaged to actress Laura Dern , while Jolie was reportedly dating actor Timothy Hutton , her co - star in Playing God ( 1997 ) . As a result of their frequent public declarations of passion and gestures of love — most famously wearing one another ' s blood in vials around their necks — their marriage became a favorite topic of the entertainment media . Jolie and Thornton announced the adoption of a child from Cambodia in March 2002 but abruptly separated three months later . Their divorce was finalized on May 27 , 2003 . When asked about the sudden dissolution of their marriage , Jolie stated , " It took me by surprise , too , because overnight , we totally changed . I think one day we had just nothing in common . And it ' s scary but   ... I think it can happen when you get involved and you don ' t know yourself yet . "	When did you and Thornton finalize your divorce?	We finalized our divorce on May 27, 2003.
Jolie ' s next directorial effort was the marital drama By the Sea ( 2015 ) , in which she starred opposite her husband , Brad Pitt , marking their first collaboration since 2005 ' s Mr . & Mrs . Smith . Based on her screenplay , the film was a deeply personal project for Jolie , who drew inspiration from her own mother ' s life . Critics , however , dismissed it as a " vanity project , " as part of an overall poor reception . Writing for The Washington Post , Stephanie Merry noted its dearth of genuine emotion , stating , " By the Sea is dazzlingly gorgeous , as are its stars . But peeling back layer upon layer of exquisite ennui reveals nothing but emptiness , sprinkled with stilted sentiments . " Despite starring two of Hollywood ' s leading actors , the film received only a limited release .	Who did you star opposite in By the Sea?	I starred opposite my husband, Brad Pitt, in By the Sea.
Jolie is considered a style icon and trendsetter for celebrity fashion . She first began making red carpet appearances at age ten . In the 1990s , she established an enduring partnership with Versace . In her early film career , she became known for wearing gothic styles and leather , " coquette " looks . Around this time , her style was regarded as dark , vampish , dramatic , and alluring . Her sequined Randolph Duke gown at the 1999 Golden Globe Awards was regarded as her fashion debut . Jolie wore a white satin dress by Marc Bouwer to the 76th Academy Awards , which drew critical praise and comparisons to the fashion of several classic film stars . As she transitioned to directorial and humanitarian work , her style grew more sophisticated , minimalist , and glamorous , with looks associated with Old Hollywood . In the 2010s , Jolie wore satin gowns , diamond jewelry , and Grecian silhouettes . She attended the 84th Academy Awards in a black velvet gown , designed by Versace , which has been deemed one of the most significant gowns in fashion history and pop culture , with Jolie ' s posing becoming the subject of Internet memes . Jolie prefers to invest in quality pieces , and in the 2020s , adopted more sustainable fashion while dressing .	Who is considered a style icon and trendsetter for celebrity fashion?	I am considered a style icon and trendsetter for celebrity fashion.
Jolie ' s public image is strongly tied to her perceived beauty and sex appeal . Many media outlets , including Vogue , People , and Vanity Fair , have cited her as the world ' s most beautiful woman , while others such as Esquire , FHM , and Empire have named her the sexiest woman alive ; both titles have often been based on public polls in which Jolie places far ahead of other celebrity women . Her most recognizable physical features are her many tattoos , eyes , and in particular her full lips , which The New York Times considered as defining a feature as Kirk Douglas ' chin or Bette Davis ' eyes . Among her estimated 20 tattoos are the Latin proverb quod me nutrit me destruit ( " what nourishes me destroys me " ) , the Tennessee Williams quote " A prayer for the wild at heart , kept in cages " , four Buddhist Sanskrit prayers of protection , a 12 - inch tiger , and geographical coordinates of where she first met her adopted children . Over time , she has covered or lasered several of her tattoos , including " Billy Bob " , the name of her second husband .	Which media outlets have named you as the sexiest woman alive?	Media outlets such as Esquire, FHM, and Empire have named me as the sexiest woman alive.
Jolie ' s next directorial effort was the marital drama By the Sea ( 2015 ) , in which she starred opposite her husband , Brad Pitt , marking their first collaboration since 2005 ' s Mr . & Mrs . Smith . Based on her screenplay , the film was a deeply personal project for Jolie , who drew inspiration from her own mother ' s life . Critics , however , dismissed it as a " vanity project , " as part of an overall poor reception . Writing for The Washington Post , Stephanie Merry noted its dearth of genuine emotion , stating , " By the Sea is dazzlingly gorgeous , as are its stars . But peeling back layer upon layer of exquisite ennui reveals nothing but emptiness , sprinkled with stilted sentiments . " Despite starring two of Hollywood ' s leading actors , the film received only a limited release .	What was the critical reception of By the Sea?	By the Sea received an overall poor reception from critics.
Jolie is considered a style icon and trendsetter for celebrity fashion . She first began making red carpet appearances at age ten . In the 1990s , she established an enduring partnership with Versace . In her early film career , she became known for wearing gothic styles and leather , " coquette " looks . Around this time , her style was regarded as dark , vampish , dramatic , and alluring . Her sequined Randolph Duke gown at the 1999 Golden Globe Awards was regarded as her fashion debut . Jolie wore a white satin dress by Marc Bouwer to the 76th Academy Awards , which drew critical praise and comparisons to the fashion of several classic film stars . As she transitioned to directorial and humanitarian work , her style grew more sophisticated , minimalist , and glamorous , with looks associated with Old Hollywood . In the 2010s , Jolie wore satin gowns , diamond jewelry , and Grecian silhouettes . She attended the 84th Academy Awards in a black velvet gown , designed by Versace , which has been deemed one of the most significant gowns in fashion history and pop culture , with Jolie ' s posing becoming the subject of Internet memes . Jolie prefers to invest in quality pieces , and in the 2020s , adopted more sustainable fashion while dressing .	At what age did you first begin making red carpet appearances?	I first began making red carpet appearances at age ten.
