In October 2014 , Grande joined the bottled water brand WAT - AAH ! as an equity holder and partner . In November 2015 , she released a limited edition handbag in collaboration with Coach . In January 2016 , she launched a makeup collection with MAC Cosmetics , donating 100% of proceeds to the MAC AIDS Fund . In February 2016 , Grande launched a fashion line with Lipsy London . Later that year , she teamed up with Brookstone , using the concept art of artist Wenqing Yan , to design cat ear headphones . In 2017 , Grande collaborated with Square Enix to create a character based on herself for the mobile game Final Fantasy Brave Exvius . Grande was a limited - time unlockable character as part of the Dangerous Woman Tour event , which also included an orchestral remix of Grande ' s song " Touch It " ; the character , Dangerous Ariana , is a magical support character who uses music - based attacks . In September 2017 , she became a brand ambassador for Reebok . In August 2018 , she partnered with American Express for The Sweetener Sessions , a partnership which continued through the Sweetener World Tour in 2019 , alongside T - Mobile . In March 2019 , she partnered with Starbucks for the launch of the Cloud Macchiato beverage . In May 2019 , Grande was announced as the face of Givenchy ' s Fall - Winter campaign . The campaign began in July and generated $ 25.13 million in media impact value . Beats , Samsung , Fiat , Reebok , and Guess products have been featured in Grande ' s music videos . She has appeared in commercials for Macy ' s , T - Mobile , and Apple , as well as for her own fragrances . Since 2019 , Grande was among the ten of the highest paid individuals on Instagram . In 2023 , Grande earns $ 1.6 million per sponsored Instagram post .	Which artist's concept art did you use to design cat ear headphones in collaboration with Brookstone?	Wenqing Yan.
In June 2019 , Grande announced that she co - executive produced the soundtrack to the film Charlie ' s Angels ; a collaboration with Miley Cyrus and Lana Del Rey , titled " Don ' t Call Me Angel " , was released as the lead single on September 13 , 2019 . It was later nominated for Best Original Song , at the 24th Satellite Awards . In August 2019 , she released a single titled " Boyfriend " with pop duo Social House . Grande co - wrote singer Normani ' s debut solo single " Motivation " , which was released on August 16 , 2019 . Grande won three awards at the 2019 MTV Video Music Awards , including the Artist of the Year award . She was nominated for 12 awards in total , including Video of the Year for " Thank U , Next " . Grande was featured on the remix of American singer and rapper Lizzo ' s song " Good as Hell " , which was released on October 25 , 2019 . By the end of the year , Billboard named Grande the most accomplished female artist to debut in the 2010s , while NME named her one of the defining music artists of the decade . She also became the most streamed female artist of the decade on music streaming service Spotify . Also , Forbes ranked her amongst the highest - paid celebrities in 2019 , placing at number 62 on the list , while Billboard ranked her as 2019 ' s highest - paid solo musician .	When was the lead single released?	September 13, 2019
Grande recorded her debut studio album Yours Truly , originally titled Daydreamin ' , over three years . It was released on August 30 , 2013 , and debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200 albums chart , with 138 , 000 copies sold in its first week . Yours Truly also debuted in the top ten in several other countries , including Australia , the UK , Ireland , and the Netherlands . Its lead single , " The Way " , featuring Pittsburgh rapper Mac Miller , debuted at number ten on the US Billboard Hot 100 , eventually peaking at number nine for two weeks . Grande was later sued by Minder Music for copying the line " What we gotta do right here is go back , back in time " from the 1972 song " Troglodyte ( Cave Man ) " by The Jimmy Castor Bunch . The album ' s second single , " Baby I " , was released in July . Its third single , " Right There " , featuring Detroit rapper Big Sean , was released in August 2013 . They respectively peaked at number 21 and 84 on the Billboard Hot 100 .	When was your debut studio album Yours Truly released?	It was released on August 30, 2013.
Grande began recording songs for her third studio album , Dangerous Woman , originally titled Moonlight , in 2015 . In October of that year , she released the single " Focus " , initially intended as the lead single from the album ; the song debuted at number seven on the Billboard Hot 100 . The next month American singer Who Is Fancy released the single " Boys Like You " , which features her and Meghan Trainor . She was featured in the remix version of " Over and Over Again " , a song by English singer Nathan Sykes ' debut studio solo album Unfinished Business , which was released in January 2016 . Grande made a cameo appearance in the comedy film Zoolander 2 starring Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson . In March 2016 , Grande released " Dangerous Woman " as the lead single from the retitled album of the same name . The single debuted at number ten on the Billboard Hot 100 , becoming the first artist to have the lead single from each of her first three albums debut in the top ten . The same month , Grande appeared as host and musical guest of Saturday Night Live , where she performed " Dangerous Woman " and debuted the promotional single " Be Alright " , which charted at number 43 on the Billboard Hot 100 . Grande garnered positive reviews for her appearance on the show , including praise for her impressions of various singers , some of which she had done on The Tonight Show . Grande won an online voting poll on Entertainment Weekly as the " best host of the season " . In May 2016 , Grande appeared on The Voice season 10 finale , performing the second single from the album , " Into You " , which peaked at number 13 in the United States , and duetted with Christina Aguilera on " Dangerous Woman " . In March 2021 , she returned to the show , to join as a coach of the twenty - first season of The Voice ; Grande became the highest - paid coach in the show ' s history , earning a reported $ 25 million per season . Grande did not return for the show ' s twenty - second season .	Which American singer released the single "Boys Like You" featuring you and Meghan Trainor?	Who Is Fancy released the single "Boys Like You" featuring me and Meghan Trainor.
In December 2021 , Grande appeared in Adam McKay ' s film Don ' t Look Up , alongside Leonardo DiCaprio , Jennifer Lawrence , and Meryl Streep . With streams of more than 152 million hours in a week , it broke the record for the biggest week of views in Netflix history . To promote the film , Grande released the song " Just Look Up " , in collaboration with rapper Kid Cudi , on December 3 , 2021 . At the 27th Critics ' Choice Awards , Grande received nominations in the categories Best Song and Best Acting Ensemble , as a part of the cast . She also received a nomination at the 28th Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture . On November 13 , 2020 , Grande made a surprise appearance on the Adult Swim Festival , performing alongside music artist Thundercat , performing his song " Them Changes " , which Grande had previously covered . Grande and Jennifer Hudson also featured on a remix of Mariah Carey ' s 2010 Christmas song " Oh Santa ! " . The song was released on December 4 , 2020 , as part of Mariah Carey ' s Magical Christmas Special . Grande released the concert film for her Sweetener World Tour , Excuse Me , I Love You , on December 21 , 2020 , exclusively on Netflix .	Which song did you release to promote the film "Don't Look Up"?	I released the song "Just Look Up" in collaboration with rapper Kid Cudi.
In November 2018 , Grande released the single " Thank U , Next " and announced her fifth studio album of the same name . The song debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , becoming Grande ' s first chart topping single in the United States , spending seven non - consecutive weeks atop . Since then , it has been certified five - times platinum in the United States ; the song ' s music video broke records for most - watched music video on YouTube within 24 hours of release and fastest Vevo video to reach 100 million views on YouTube , both of which were later surpassed by other artists . On Spotify , it became the fastest song to reach 100 million streams ( 11 days ) and most - streamed song by a female artist in a 24 - hour period , with 9.6 million streams , before being surpassed by her own song " 7 Rings " ( nearly 15 million streams ) . Later the same month , Grande released , in collaboration with YouTube , a four - part docuseries titled Ariana Grande : Dangerous Woman Diaries . It shows behind the scenes and concert footage from Grande ' s Dangerous Woman Tour , including moments from the One Love Manchester concert , and follows her professional life during the tour and the making of Sweetener . The series debuted on November 29 , 2018 . By the end of the year , she became the most streamed female artist on Spotify , and was named Billboard ' s Woman of the Year . In January 2019 , it was announced that Grande would be headlining the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival , where she became the youngest and only the fourth female artist ever to headline the festival . It took place April 12 – 14 and April 19 – 21 . Grande brought a number of guest artists to perform with her , including NSYNC , P . Diddy , Nicki Minaj and Justin Bieber . Her set has received critical acclaim .	What title did you receive from Billboard in the end of the year?	I was named Billboard's Woman of the Year.
In November 2018 , Grande released the single " Thank U , Next " and announced her fifth studio album of the same name . The song debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , becoming Grande ' s first chart topping single in the United States , spending seven non - consecutive weeks atop . Since then , it has been certified five - times platinum in the United States ; the song ' s music video broke records for most - watched music video on YouTube within 24 hours of release and fastest Vevo video to reach 100 million views on YouTube , both of which were later surpassed by other artists . On Spotify , it became the fastest song to reach 100 million streams ( 11 days ) and most - streamed song by a female artist in a 24 - hour period , with 9.6 million streams , before being surpassed by her own song " 7 Rings " ( nearly 15 million streams ) . Later the same month , Grande released , in collaboration with YouTube , a four - part docuseries titled Ariana Grande : Dangerous Woman Diaries . It shows behind the scenes and concert footage from Grande ' s Dangerous Woman Tour , including moments from the One Love Manchester concert , and follows her professional life during the tour and the making of Sweetener . The series debuted on November 29 , 2018 . By the end of the year , she became the most streamed female artist on Spotify , and was named Billboard ' s Woman of the Year . In January 2019 , it was announced that Grande would be headlining the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival , where she became the youngest and only the fourth female artist ever to headline the festival . It took place April 12 – 14 and April 19 – 21 . Grande brought a number of guest artists to perform with her , including NSYNC , P . Diddy , Nicki Minaj and Justin Bieber . Her set has received critical acclaim .	How long did your song "Thank U, Next" spend at the top of the Billboard Hot 100 chart?	It spent seven non-consecutive weeks atop the Billboard Hot 100 chart.
Grande has broken numerous Hot 100 records . Seven singles by Grande have topped the US Billboard Hot 100 , her most recent being " Die for You " . Grande has a total of fourteen top ten debuts thus far , beginning with her first single " The Way " ; the lead single from each of her first five studio albums have debuted in the top ten , making her the only artist to achieve this . In 2020 , she became the first act to have her first five number one singles , " Thank U , Next " , " 7 Rings " , " Stuck With U " , " Rain on Me " , and " Positions " debut at number one ; that year , Grande also broke the record for the most number one debuts and became the first female artist topping Global 200 , Global 200 Excl . US and Hot 100 simultaneously . Grande would also become the first artist to have three singles debut at number one on a single calendar year . She later broke the record for most simultaneously charting songs on the top 40 of the Hot 100 for a female artist with the release of her fifth studio album , Thank U , Next , when eleven of the twelve tracks charted within the region ( later surpassed by Billie Eilish ) . The three singles from Thank U , Next , " 7 Rings " , " Break Up with Your Girlfriend , I ' m Bored " , and " Thank U , Next " charted at numbers one , two , and three respectively on the week of February 23 , 2019 , making Grande the first solo artist to occupy the top three spots of the Billboard Hot 100 and the first artist to do so since the Beatles in 1964 . With her album Thank U , Next , Grande set the record for the largest streaming week for a pop album and for a female artist , with 307 million on - demand audio streams . With " Die for You " with The Weeknd reaching number one , Grande surpassed Paul McCartney as the artist with the most number - one duets in Hot 100 history , with four songs . As of March 2023 , Grande has 73 entries on the Hot 100 , tying Aretha Franklin as the fourth female artist with the most number of 100 entries . She was also named the Billboard Year - End Top Female Artist for 2017 and 2019 and was named the sixth top female artist ( twelfth overall ) on the magazine ' s Decade - End Top Artists Chart for the 2010s .	Which singles from your album "Thank U, Next" charted at numbers one, two, and three respectively?	The singles "7 Rings," "Break Up with Your Girlfriend, I'm Bored," and "Thank U, Next" charted at numbers one, two, and three respectively on the week of February 23, 2019.
In June 2019 , Grande announced that she co - executive produced the soundtrack to the film Charlie ' s Angels ; a collaboration with Miley Cyrus and Lana Del Rey , titled " Don ' t Call Me Angel " , was released as the lead single on September 13 , 2019 . It was later nominated for Best Original Song , at the 24th Satellite Awards . In August 2019 , she released a single titled " Boyfriend " with pop duo Social House . Grande co - wrote singer Normani ' s debut solo single " Motivation " , which was released on August 16 , 2019 . Grande won three awards at the 2019 MTV Video Music Awards , including the Artist of the Year award . She was nominated for 12 awards in total , including Video of the Year for " Thank U , Next " . Grande was featured on the remix of American singer and rapper Lizzo ' s song " Good as Hell " , which was released on October 25 , 2019 . By the end of the year , Billboard named Grande the most accomplished female artist to debut in the 2010s , while NME named her one of the defining music artists of the decade . She also became the most streamed female artist of the decade on music streaming service Spotify . Also , Forbes ranked her amongst the highest - paid celebrities in 2019 , placing at number 62 on the list , while Billboard ranked her as 2019 ' s highest - paid solo musician .	What was the lead single released from the film's soundtrack?	"Don't Call Me Angel"
Grande began working on songs for her fourth studio album , Sweetener , with Pharrell Williams in 2016 , but " the events in Manchester gave a hard reset to the project ' s expectations " . Grande released " No Tears Left to Cry " as the lead single from Sweetener in April 2018 , with the song debuting at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 , making Grande the only artist to have debuted the first single from each of her first four albums in the top ten of the Hot 100 . In June 2018 , she was featured in " Bed " , the second single from Nicki Minaj ' s fourth studio album Queen . The same month , she was featured on Troye Sivan ' s single " Dance to This " from his sophomore album Bloom . The second single , " God Is a Woman " , peaked at number 8 on the Hot 100 and became Grande ' s tenth top ten single in the US . Released in August 2018 , Sweetener debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 and received acclaim from critics . She simultaneously charted nine songs from the album on the Hot 100 , along with a collaboration , making her the fourth female artist to reach the ten - song mark . Grande gave four concerts to promote the album , billed as The Sweetener Sessions , in New York City , Chicago , Los Angeles , and London between August 20 and September 4 , 2018 . In October 2018 , Grande participated in the NBC broadcast , A Very Wicked Halloween , singing " The Wizard and I " from the musical Wicked . The following month , the BBC aired a one - hour special , Ariana Grande at the BBC , featuring interviews and performances .	How many songs from your album Sweetener simultaneously charted on the Hot 100?	Nine songs from my album Sweetener simultaneously charted on the Hot 100.
Grande began recording songs for her third studio album , Dangerous Woman , originally titled Moonlight , in 2015 . In October of that year , she released the single " Focus " , initially intended as the lead single from the album ; the song debuted at number seven on the Billboard Hot 100 . The next month American singer Who Is Fancy released the single " Boys Like You " , which features her and Meghan Trainor . She was featured in the remix version of " Over and Over Again " , a song by English singer Nathan Sykes ' debut studio solo album Unfinished Business , which was released in January 2016 . Grande made a cameo appearance in the comedy film Zoolander 2 starring Ben Stiller and Owen Wilson . In March 2016 , Grande released " Dangerous Woman " as the lead single from the retitled album of the same name . The single debuted at number ten on the Billboard Hot 100 , becoming the first artist to have the lead single from each of her first three albums debut in the top ten . The same month , Grande appeared as host and musical guest of Saturday Night Live , where she performed " Dangerous Woman " and debuted the promotional single " Be Alright " , which charted at number 43 on the Billboard Hot 100 . Grande garnered positive reviews for her appearance on the show , including praise for her impressions of various singers , some of which she had done on The Tonight Show . Grande won an online voting poll on Entertainment Weekly as the " best host of the season " . In May 2016 , Grande appeared on The Voice season 10 finale , performing the second single from the album , " Into You " , which peaked at number 13 in the United States , and duetted with Christina Aguilera on " Dangerous Woman " . In March 2021 , she returned to the show , to join as a coach of the twenty - first season of The Voice ; Grande became the highest - paid coach in the show ' s history , earning a reported $ 25 million per season . Grande did not return for the show ' s twenty - second season .	In which comedy film did you make a cameo appearance?	I made a cameo appearance in the comedy film Zoolander 2.
Grande recorded her debut studio album Yours Truly , originally titled Daydreamin ' , over three years . It was released on August 30 , 2013 , and debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200 albums chart , with 138 , 000 copies sold in its first week . Yours Truly also debuted in the top ten in several other countries , including Australia , the UK , Ireland , and the Netherlands . Its lead single , " The Way " , featuring Pittsburgh rapper Mac Miller , debuted at number ten on the US Billboard Hot 100 , eventually peaking at number nine for two weeks . Grande was later sued by Minder Music for copying the line " What we gotta do right here is go back , back in time " from the 1972 song " Troglodyte ( Cave Man ) " by The Jimmy Castor Bunch . The album ' s second single , " Baby I " , was released in July . Its third single , " Right There " , featuring Detroit rapper Big Sean , was released in August 2013 . They respectively peaked at number 21 and 84 on the Billboard Hot 100 .	In which countries did Your album "Yours Truly" debut in the top ten?	My album debuted in the top ten in several other countries including Australia, the UK, Ireland, and the Netherlands.
In November 2018 , Grande released the single " Thank U , Next " and announced her fifth studio album of the same name . The song debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , becoming Grande ' s first chart topping single in the United States , spending seven non - consecutive weeks atop . Since then , it has been certified five - times platinum in the United States ; the song ' s music video broke records for most - watched music video on YouTube within 24 hours of release and fastest Vevo video to reach 100 million views on YouTube , both of which were later surpassed by other artists . On Spotify , it became the fastest song to reach 100 million streams ( 11 days ) and most - streamed song by a female artist in a 24 - hour period , with 9.6 million streams , before being surpassed by her own song " 7 Rings " ( nearly 15 million streams ) . Later the same month , Grande released , in collaboration with YouTube , a four - part docuseries titled Ariana Grande : Dangerous Woman Diaries . It shows behind the scenes and concert footage from Grande ' s Dangerous Woman Tour , including moments from the One Love Manchester concert , and follows her professional life during the tour and the making of Sweetener . The series debuted on November 29 , 2018 . By the end of the year , she became the most streamed female artist on Spotify , and was named Billboard ' s Woman of the Year . In January 2019 , it was announced that Grande would be headlining the Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival , where she became the youngest and only the fourth female artist ever to headline the festival . It took place April 12 – 14 and April 19 – 21 . Grande brought a number of guest artists to perform with her , including NSYNC , P . Diddy , Nicki Minaj and Justin Bieber . Her set has received critical acclaim .	What record did your song "Thank U, Next" break on YouTube?	My song's music video broke records for most-watched music video on YouTube within 24 hours of release.
In January 2020 , Grande received multiple nominations at the 2020 iHeartRadio Music Awards , including Female Artist of the Year . The following month , she made a guest appearance in the second season of the American television series Kidding , which stars Jim Carrey . On March 27 , 2020 , she appeared on Childish Gambino ' s fourth studio album 3.15 . 20 on the track " Time " . Grande and Justin Bieber released a collaboration song titled " Stuck with U " on May 8 , 2020 ; net proceeds from the sales of the song were donated to the First Responders Children ' s Foundation in light of the COVID - 19 pandemic . The song debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , becoming Grande ' s third chart - topping single . Alongside Bieber , both artists tied Mariah Carey and Drake for the most songs to debut at number one on the Hot 100 ; Grande is the first artist to have her first three number ones debut at the top , following " Thank U , Next " and " 7 Rings " . Grande also released a collaboration with Lady Gaga , " Rain on Me " , as the second single from Gaga ' s sixth studio album Chromatica . The song also debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , becoming Grande ' s fourth number - one single and helping Grande break the record for the most number - one debuts on that chart . The song won the Best Pop Duo / Group Performance category at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards . In 2020 , Grande became the highest - earning woman in music on Forbes ' s 2020 Celebrity 100 list , placing 17th overall with $ 72 million . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , she was nominated for nine awards for both " Stuck with U " ( with Bieber ) and " Rain on Me " ( with Gaga ) . For the latter , Grande received her third consecutive nomination for Video of the Year . She won four awards , including Song of the Year for " Rain on Me " .	Which foundation did you and Justin Bieber donate the proceeds from the sales of "Stuck with U" to?	I and Justin Bieber donated the proceeds from the sales of "Stuck with U" to the First Responders Children's Foundation in light of the COVID-19 pandemic.
In October 2014 , Grande joined the bottled water brand WAT - AAH ! as an equity holder and partner . In November 2015 , she released a limited edition handbag in collaboration with Coach . In January 2016 , she launched a makeup collection with MAC Cosmetics , donating 100% of proceeds to the MAC AIDS Fund . In February 2016 , Grande launched a fashion line with Lipsy London . Later that year , she teamed up with Brookstone , using the concept art of artist Wenqing Yan , to design cat ear headphones . In 2017 , Grande collaborated with Square Enix to create a character based on herself for the mobile game Final Fantasy Brave Exvius . Grande was a limited - time unlockable character as part of the Dangerous Woman Tour event , which also included an orchestral remix of Grande ' s song " Touch It " ; the character , Dangerous Ariana , is a magical support character who uses music - based attacks . In September 2017 , she became a brand ambassador for Reebok . In August 2018 , she partnered with American Express for The Sweetener Sessions , a partnership which continued through the Sweetener World Tour in 2019 , alongside T - Mobile . In March 2019 , she partnered with Starbucks for the launch of the Cloud Macchiato beverage . In May 2019 , Grande was announced as the face of Givenchy ' s Fall - Winter campaign . The campaign began in July and generated $ 25.13 million in media impact value . Beats , Samsung , Fiat , Reebok , and Guess products have been featured in Grande ' s music videos . She has appeared in commercials for Macy ' s , T - Mobile , and Apple , as well as for her own fragrances . Since 2019 , Grande was among the ten of the highest paid individuals on Instagram . In 2023 , Grande earns $ 1.6 million per sponsored Instagram post .	When did you join the bottled water brand WAT - AAH !?	In October 2014.
In December 2011 , Grande released her first single , " Put Your Hearts Up " , which was recorded for a potential teen - oriented pop album that was never issued . She later disowned the track for its bubblegum pop sound , saying she had no interest in recording music of that genre . The song was later certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) . On a second soundtrack , Victorious 2.0 , released on June 5 , 2012 , as an extended play , she supplied vocals as part of the show ' s cast for the song " 5 Fingaz to the Face " . The third and final soundtrack , Victorious 3.0 , was released on November 6 , 2012 , which featured a duet by Grande and Victoria Justice titled " L . A . Boyz " , with an accompanying music video being released shortly after . In December 2012 , Grande collaborated on the single version of " Popular Song " , a duet with British singer and songwriter Mika . [ citation needed ]	What was the title of your duet on the soundtrack Victorious 3.0?	Our duet was titled "L.A. Boyz".
In January 2020 , Grande received multiple nominations at the 2020 iHeartRadio Music Awards , including Female Artist of the Year . The following month , she made a guest appearance in the second season of the American television series Kidding , which stars Jim Carrey . On March 27 , 2020 , she appeared on Childish Gambino ' s fourth studio album 3.15 . 20 on the track " Time " . Grande and Justin Bieber released a collaboration song titled " Stuck with U " on May 8 , 2020 ; net proceeds from the sales of the song were donated to the First Responders Children ' s Foundation in light of the COVID - 19 pandemic . The song debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , becoming Grande ' s third chart - topping single . Alongside Bieber , both artists tied Mariah Carey and Drake for the most songs to debut at number one on the Hot 100 ; Grande is the first artist to have her first three number ones debut at the top , following " Thank U , Next " and " 7 Rings " . Grande also released a collaboration with Lady Gaga , " Rain on Me " , as the second single from Gaga ' s sixth studio album Chromatica . The song also debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , becoming Grande ' s fourth number - one single and helping Grande break the record for the most number - one debuts on that chart . The song won the Best Pop Duo / Group Performance category at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards . In 2020 , Grande became the highest - earning woman in music on Forbes ' s 2020 Celebrity 100 list , placing 17th overall with $ 72 million . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , she was nominated for nine awards for both " Stuck with U " ( with Bieber ) and " Rain on Me " ( with Gaga ) . For the latter , Grande received her third consecutive nomination for Video of the Year . She won four awards , including Song of the Year for " Rain on Me " .	In which television series did you make a guest appearance in the second season?	I made a guest appearance in the second season of the American television series Kidding, which stars Jim Carrey.
In January 2020 , Grande received multiple nominations at the 2020 iHeartRadio Music Awards , including Female Artist of the Year . The following month , she made a guest appearance in the second season of the American television series Kidding , which stars Jim Carrey . On March 27 , 2020 , she appeared on Childish Gambino ' s fourth studio album 3.15 . 20 on the track " Time " . Grande and Justin Bieber released a collaboration song titled " Stuck with U " on May 8 , 2020 ; net proceeds from the sales of the song were donated to the First Responders Children ' s Foundation in light of the COVID - 19 pandemic . The song debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , becoming Grande ' s third chart - topping single . Alongside Bieber , both artists tied Mariah Carey and Drake for the most songs to debut at number one on the Hot 100 ; Grande is the first artist to have her first three number ones debut at the top , following " Thank U , Next " and " 7 Rings " . Grande also released a collaboration with Lady Gaga , " Rain on Me " , as the second single from Gaga ' s sixth studio album Chromatica . The song also debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , becoming Grande ' s fourth number - one single and helping Grande break the record for the most number - one debuts on that chart . The song won the Best Pop Duo / Group Performance category at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards . In 2020 , Grande became the highest - earning woman in music on Forbes ' s 2020 Celebrity 100 list , placing 17th overall with $ 72 million . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , she was nominated for nine awards for both " Stuck with U " ( with Bieber ) and " Rain on Me " ( with Gaga ) . For the latter , Grande received her third consecutive nomination for Video of the Year . She won four awards , including Song of the Year for " Rain on Me " .	What nominations did you receive at the 2020 iHeartRadio Music Awards?	I received multiple nominations at the 2020 iHeartRadio Music Awards, including Female Artist of the Year.
In December 2021 , Grande appeared in Adam McKay ' s film Don ' t Look Up , alongside Leonardo DiCaprio , Jennifer Lawrence , and Meryl Streep . With streams of more than 152 million hours in a week , it broke the record for the biggest week of views in Netflix history . To promote the film , Grande released the song " Just Look Up " , in collaboration with rapper Kid Cudi , on December 3 , 2021 . At the 27th Critics ' Choice Awards , Grande received nominations in the categories Best Song and Best Acting Ensemble , as a part of the cast . She also received a nomination at the 28th Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture . On November 13 , 2020 , Grande made a surprise appearance on the Adult Swim Festival , performing alongside music artist Thundercat , performing his song " Them Changes " , which Grande had previously covered . Grande and Jennifer Hudson also featured on a remix of Mariah Carey ' s 2010 Christmas song " Oh Santa ! " . The song was released on December 4 , 2020 , as part of Mariah Carey ' s Magical Christmas Special . Grande released the concert film for her Sweetener World Tour , Excuse Me , I Love You , on December 21 , 2020 , exclusively on Netflix .	What record did the film "Don't Look Up" break on Netflix?	The film "Don't Look Up" broke the record for the biggest week of views in Netflix history with streams of more than 152 million hours in a week.
In December 2011 , Grande released her first single , " Put Your Hearts Up " , which was recorded for a potential teen - oriented pop album that was never issued . She later disowned the track for its bubblegum pop sound , saying she had no interest in recording music of that genre . The song was later certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) . On a second soundtrack , Victorious 2.0 , released on June 5 , 2012 , as an extended play , she supplied vocals as part of the show ' s cast for the song " 5 Fingaz to the Face " . The third and final soundtrack , Victorious 3.0 , was released on November 6 , 2012 , which featured a duet by Grande and Victoria Justice titled " L . A . Boyz " , with an accompanying music video being released shortly after . In December 2012 , Grande collaborated on the single version of " Popular Song " , a duet with British singer and songwriter Mika . [ citation needed ]	What was the certification of "Put Your Hearts Up"?	It was certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA).
Grande began working on songs for her fourth studio album , Sweetener , with Pharrell Williams in 2016 , but " the events in Manchester gave a hard reset to the project ' s expectations " . Grande released " No Tears Left to Cry " as the lead single from Sweetener in April 2018 , with the song debuting at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 , making Grande the only artist to have debuted the first single from each of her first four albums in the top ten of the Hot 100 . In June 2018 , she was featured in " Bed " , the second single from Nicki Minaj ' s fourth studio album Queen . The same month , she was featured on Troye Sivan ' s single " Dance to This " from his sophomore album Bloom . The second single , " God Is a Woman " , peaked at number 8 on the Hot 100 and became Grande ' s tenth top ten single in the US . Released in August 2018 , Sweetener debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 and received acclaim from critics . She simultaneously charted nine songs from the album on the Hot 100 , along with a collaboration , making her the fourth female artist to reach the ten - song mark . Grande gave four concerts to promote the album , billed as The Sweetener Sessions , in New York City , Chicago , Los Angeles , and London between August 20 and September 4 , 2018 . In October 2018 , Grande participated in the NBC broadcast , A Very Wicked Halloween , singing " The Wizard and I " from the musical Wicked . The following month , the BBC aired a one - hour special , Ariana Grande at the BBC , featuring interviews and performances .	Where were the four concerts held to promote your Sweetener album?	The four concerts to promote my Sweetener album were held in New York City, Chicago, Los Angeles, and London.
In December 2021 , Grande appeared in Adam McKay ' s film Don ' t Look Up , alongside Leonardo DiCaprio , Jennifer Lawrence , and Meryl Streep . With streams of more than 152 million hours in a week , it broke the record for the biggest week of views in Netflix history . To promote the film , Grande released the song " Just Look Up " , in collaboration with rapper Kid Cudi , on December 3 , 2021 . At the 27th Critics ' Choice Awards , Grande received nominations in the categories Best Song and Best Acting Ensemble , as a part of the cast . She also received a nomination at the 28th Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture . On November 13 , 2020 , Grande made a surprise appearance on the Adult Swim Festival , performing alongside music artist Thundercat , performing his song " Them Changes " , which Grande had previously covered . Grande and Jennifer Hudson also featured on a remix of Mariah Carey ' s 2010 Christmas song " Oh Santa ! " . The song was released on December 4 , 2020 , as part of Mariah Carey ' s Magical Christmas Special . Grande released the concert film for her Sweetener World Tour , Excuse Me , I Love You , on December 21 , 2020 , exclusively on Netflix .	When did you appear in Adam McKay's film "Don't Look Up"?	In December 2021.
In December 2011 , Grande released her first single , " Put Your Hearts Up " , which was recorded for a potential teen - oriented pop album that was never issued . She later disowned the track for its bubblegum pop sound , saying she had no interest in recording music of that genre . The song was later certified Gold by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) . On a second soundtrack , Victorious 2.0 , released on June 5 , 2012 , as an extended play , she supplied vocals as part of the show ' s cast for the song " 5 Fingaz to the Face " . The third and final soundtrack , Victorious 3.0 , was released on November 6 , 2012 , which featured a duet by Grande and Victoria Justice titled " L . A . Boyz " , with an accompanying music video being released shortly after . In December 2012 , Grande collaborated on the single version of " Popular Song " , a duet with British singer and songwriter Mika . [ citation needed ]	What genre of music did you disown the track "Put Your Hearts Up" for?	Bubblegum pop.
Grande recorded her debut studio album Yours Truly , originally titled Daydreamin ' , over three years . It was released on August 30 , 2013 , and debuted at number one on the US Billboard 200 albums chart , with 138 , 000 copies sold in its first week . Yours Truly also debuted in the top ten in several other countries , including Australia , the UK , Ireland , and the Netherlands . Its lead single , " The Way " , featuring Pittsburgh rapper Mac Miller , debuted at number ten on the US Billboard Hot 100 , eventually peaking at number nine for two weeks . Grande was later sued by Minder Music for copying the line " What we gotta do right here is go back , back in time " from the 1972 song " Troglodyte ( Cave Man ) " by The Jimmy Castor Bunch . The album ' s second single , " Baby I " , was released in July . Its third single , " Right There " , featuring Detroit rapper Big Sean , was released in August 2013 . They respectively peaked at number 21 and 84 on the Billboard Hot 100 .	How many copies of Yours Truly did you sell in its first week?	I sold 138,000 copies in its first week.
In December 2021 , Grande appeared in Adam McKay ' s film Don ' t Look Up , alongside Leonardo DiCaprio , Jennifer Lawrence , and Meryl Streep . With streams of more than 152 million hours in a week , it broke the record for the biggest week of views in Netflix history . To promote the film , Grande released the song " Just Look Up " , in collaboration with rapper Kid Cudi , on December 3 , 2021 . At the 27th Critics ' Choice Awards , Grande received nominations in the categories Best Song and Best Acting Ensemble , as a part of the cast . She also received a nomination at the 28th Screen Actors Guild Awards for Outstanding Performance by a Cast in a Motion Picture . On November 13 , 2020 , Grande made a surprise appearance on the Adult Swim Festival , performing alongside music artist Thundercat , performing his song " Them Changes " , which Grande had previously covered . Grande and Jennifer Hudson also featured on a remix of Mariah Carey ' s 2010 Christmas song " Oh Santa ! " . The song was released on December 4 , 2020 , as part of Mariah Carey ' s Magical Christmas Special . Grande released the concert film for her Sweetener World Tour , Excuse Me , I Love You , on December 21 , 2020 , exclusively on Netflix .	Who did you appear alongside in the film "Don't Look Up"?	I appeared alongside Leonardo DiCaprio, Jennifer Lawrence, and Meryl Streep.
