Schwarzenegger , who dreamed of moving to the US since age ten , and saw bodybuilding as his avenue of opportunity , realized his dream by moving to the US in October 1968 at age 21 , speaking little English . There he trained at Gold ' s Gym in Venice , Los Angeles , California , under Joe Weider ' s supervision . From 1970 to 1974 , one of Schwarzenegger ' s weight training partners was Ric Drasin , a professional wrestler who designed the original Gold ' s Gym logo in 1973 . Schwarzenegger also became good friends with professional wrestler Superstar Billy Graham . In 1970 , at age 23 , Schwarzenegger captured his first Mr . Olympia title in New York , and would go on to win the title seven times .	Who supervised your training at Gold's Gym?	Joe Weider supervised my training at Gold's Gym.
Also in 1966 , at Bennett ' s home , Schwarzenegger had the opportunity to meet childhood idol Reg Park , who became his friend and mentor . The training paid off and , in 1967 , Schwarzenegger won the title for the first time , becoming the youngest ever Mr . Universe at age 20 . He would go on to win the title another three times . He then returned to Munich , where he attended business school and worked at Rolf Putziger ' s gym , where he worked and trained from 1966 to 1968 before returning to London in 1968 to win his next Mr . Universe title . He frequently told Roger C . Field , his English coach and friend in Munich at thw time , " I ' m going to become the greatest actor ! "	In what year did you win your first Mr. Universe title?	1967.
On April 26 , 1986 , Schwarzenegger married Shriver in Hyannis , Massachusetts . They have four children , including Katherine Schwarzenegger and Patrick Schwarzenegger . All of their children were born in Los Angeles . The family lived in an 11 , 000 - square - foot ( 1 , 000   m2 ) home in the Brentwood neighborhood of Los Angeles , California , with vacation homes in Sun Valley , Idaho , and Hyannis Port , Massachusetts . They attended St . Monica ' s Catholic Church .	When did you marry Shriver and in which location?	I married Shriver on April 26, 1986 in Hyannis, Massachusetts.
Schwarzenegger came out of retirement , however , to compete in the 1980 Mr . Olympia . Schwarzenegger was training for his role in Conan , and he got into such good shape because of the running , horseback riding and sword training , that he decided he wanted to win the Mr . Olympia contest one last time . He kept this plan a secret in the event that a training accident would prevent his entry and cause him to lose face . Schwarzenegger had been hired to provide color commentary for network television when he announced at the eleventh hour that , while he was there , " Why not compete ? " Schwarzenegger ended up winning the event with only seven weeks of preparation . Having been declared Mr . Olympia for a seventh time , Schwarzenegger then officially retired from competition . This victory ( subject of the documentary The Comeback ) was highly controversial , though , as fellow competitors and many observers felt that his lack of muscle mass ( especially in his thighs ) and subpar conditioning should have precluded him from winning against a very competitive lineup that year . Mike Mentzer , in particular , felt cheated and withdrew from competitive bodybuilding after that contest .	How was your victory in the 1980 Mr. Olympia viewed by fellow competitors and observers?	My victory in the 1980 Mr. Olympia was highly controversial as many felt that my lack of muscle mass and subpar conditioning should have prevented me from winning against a competitive lineup.
Moreover , he came to develop an interest in large vehicles and became the first civilian in the U . S . to purchase a Humvee . He was so enamored by the vehicle that he lobbied the Humvee ' s manufacturer , AM General , to produce a street - legal , civilian version , which they did in 1992 ; the first two Hummer H1s they sold were also purchased by Schwarzenegger . In 2010 , he had one regular and three running on non - fossil power sources ; one for hydrogen , one for vegetable oil , and one for biodiesel . Schwarzenegger was in the news in 2014 for buying a rare Bugatti Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse . He was spotted and filmed in 2015 in his car , painted silver with bright aluminum forged wheels . His Bugatti has its interior adorned in dark brown leather . In 2017 , Schwarzenegger acquired a Mercedes G - Class modified for all - electric drive .	What did you do after purchasing a Humvee?	I lobbied the Humvee's manufacturer, AM General, to produce a street-legal, civilian version.
Schwarzenegger ' s brother , Meinhard , died in a car crash on May 20 , 1971 . He was driving drunk and died instantly . Schwarzenegger did not attend his funeral . Meinhard was engaged to Erika Knapp , and they had a three - year - old son named Patrick . Schwarzenegger paid for Patrick ' s education and helped him to move to the U . S . Schwarzenegger ' s father , Gustav , died of a stroke on December 13 , 1972 . In Pumping Iron , Schwarzenegger claimed that he did not attend his father ' s funeral because he was training for a bodybuilding contest . Later , he and the film ' s producer said this story was taken from another bodybuilder to show the extremes some would go to for their sport and to make Schwarzenegger ' s image colder to create controversy for the film . However , Barbara Baker , his first serious girlfriend , recalled that he informed her of his father ' s death without emotion and that he never spoke of his brother . Over time , he has given at least three versions of why he was absent from his father ' s funeral .	Who did Meinhard leave behind?	Meinhard was engaged to Erika Knapp, and they had a three-year-old son named Patrick.
Schwarzenegger ' s breakthrough film was the sword and sorcery epic Conan the Barbarian in 1982 , which was a box - office hit . This was followed by a sequel , Conan the Destroyer , in 1984 , although it was not as successful as its predecessor . In 1983 , Schwarzenegger starred in the promotional video Carnival in Rio . In 1984 , he made his first appearance as the eponymous character in James Cameron ' s science fiction action film The Terminator . It has been called his acting career ' s signature role . Following this , Schwarzenegger made another sword and sorcery film , Red Sonja , in 1985 . During the 1980s , audiences had an appetite for action films , with both Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone becoming international stars . During the Schwarzenegger - Stallone rivalry they attacked each other in the press , and tried to surpass the other with more on - screen killings and larger weapons . Schwarzenegger ' s roles reflected his sense of humor , separating him from more serious action hero films . He made a number of successful action films in the 1980s , such as Commando ( 1985 ) , Raw Deal ( 1986 ) , The Running Man ( 1987 ) , Predator ( 1987 ) , and Red Heat ( 1988 ) .	What was your breakthrough film?	My breakthrough film was Conan the Barbarian in 1982.
Schwarzenegger ' s breakthrough film was the sword and sorcery epic Conan the Barbarian in 1982 , which was a box - office hit . This was followed by a sequel , Conan the Destroyer , in 1984 , although it was not as successful as its predecessor . In 1983 , Schwarzenegger starred in the promotional video Carnival in Rio . In 1984 , he made his first appearance as the eponymous character in James Cameron ' s science fiction action film The Terminator . It has been called his acting career ' s signature role . Following this , Schwarzenegger made another sword and sorcery film , Red Sonja , in 1985 . During the 1980s , audiences had an appetite for action films , with both Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone becoming international stars . During the Schwarzenegger - Stallone rivalry they attacked each other in the press , and tried to surpass the other with more on - screen killings and larger weapons . Schwarzenegger ' s roles reflected his sense of humor , separating him from more serious action hero films . He made a number of successful action films in the 1980s , such as Commando ( 1985 ) , Raw Deal ( 1986 ) , The Running Man ( 1987 ) , Predator ( 1987 ) , and Red Heat ( 1988 ) .	In which film did you first appear as the eponymous character?	I first appeared as the eponymous character in James Cameron's science fiction action film The Terminator.
Also in 1966 , at Bennett ' s home , Schwarzenegger had the opportunity to meet childhood idol Reg Park , who became his friend and mentor . The training paid off and , in 1967 , Schwarzenegger won the title for the first time , becoming the youngest ever Mr . Universe at age 20 . He would go on to win the title another three times . He then returned to Munich , where he attended business school and worked at Rolf Putziger ' s gym , where he worked and trained from 1966 to 1968 before returning to London in 1968 to win his next Mr . Universe title . He frequently told Roger C . Field , his English coach and friend in Munich at thw time , " I ' m going to become the greatest actor ! "	Who was your English coach and friend in Munich?	Roger C. Field.
Schwarzenegger ' s breakthrough film was the sword and sorcery epic Conan the Barbarian in 1982 , which was a box - office hit . This was followed by a sequel , Conan the Destroyer , in 1984 , although it was not as successful as its predecessor . In 1983 , Schwarzenegger starred in the promotional video Carnival in Rio . In 1984 , he made his first appearance as the eponymous character in James Cameron ' s science fiction action film The Terminator . It has been called his acting career ' s signature role . Following this , Schwarzenegger made another sword and sorcery film , Red Sonja , in 1985 . During the 1980s , audiences had an appetite for action films , with both Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone becoming international stars . During the Schwarzenegger - Stallone rivalry they attacked each other in the press , and tried to surpass the other with more on - screen killings and larger weapons . Schwarzenegger ' s roles reflected his sense of humor , separating him from more serious action hero films . He made a number of successful action films in the 1980s , such as Commando ( 1985 ) , Raw Deal ( 1986 ) , The Running Man ( 1987 ) , Predator ( 1987 ) , and Red Heat ( 1988 ) .	Was Conan the Barbarian a box-office hit?	Yes, Conan the Barbarian was a box-office hit.
Charles " Wag " Bennett , one of the judges at the 1966 competition , was impressed with Schwarzenegger and offered to coach him . As Schwarzenegger had little money , Bennett invited him to stay in his crowded family home above one of his two gyms in Forest Gate , London . Yorton ' s leg definition had been judged superior , and Schwarzenegger , under a training program devised by Bennett , concentrated on improving his . Staying in the East End of London helped Schwarzenegger improve his rudimentary English . Living with the Bennetts also changed him as a person : " Being with them made me so much more sophisticated . When you ' re the age I was then , you ' re always looking for approval , for love , for attention and also for guidance . At the time , I wasn ' t really aware of that . But now , looking back , I see that the Bennett family fulfilled all those needs . Especially my need to be the best in the world . To be recognized and to feel unique and special . They saw that I needed that care and attention and love . "	Who offered to coach you?	Charles "Wag" Bennett.
Also in 1966 , at Bennett ' s home , Schwarzenegger had the opportunity to meet childhood idol Reg Park , who became his friend and mentor . The training paid off and , in 1967 , Schwarzenegger won the title for the first time , becoming the youngest ever Mr . Universe at age 20 . He would go on to win the title another three times . He then returned to Munich , where he attended business school and worked at Rolf Putziger ' s gym , where he worked and trained from 1966 to 1968 before returning to London in 1968 to win his next Mr . Universe title . He frequently told Roger C . Field , his English coach and friend in Munich at thw time , " I ' m going to become the greatest actor ! "	How old were you when you won your first Mr. Universe title?	20.
On April 26 , 1986 , Schwarzenegger married Shriver in Hyannis , Massachusetts . They have four children , including Katherine Schwarzenegger and Patrick Schwarzenegger . All of their children were born in Los Angeles . The family lived in an 11 , 000 - square - foot ( 1 , 000   m2 ) home in the Brentwood neighborhood of Los Angeles , California , with vacation homes in Sun Valley , Idaho , and Hyannis Port , Massachusetts . They attended St . Monica ' s Catholic Church .	How many children do you and Shriver have?	I and Shriver have four children.
Moreover , he came to develop an interest in large vehicles and became the first civilian in the U . S . to purchase a Humvee . He was so enamored by the vehicle that he lobbied the Humvee ' s manufacturer , AM General , to produce a street - legal , civilian version , which they did in 1992 ; the first two Hummer H1s they sold were also purchased by Schwarzenegger . In 2010 , he had one regular and three running on non - fossil power sources ; one for hydrogen , one for vegetable oil , and one for biodiesel . Schwarzenegger was in the news in 2014 for buying a rare Bugatti Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse . He was spotted and filmed in 2015 in his car , painted silver with bright aluminum forged wheels . His Bugatti has its interior adorned in dark brown leather . In 2017 , Schwarzenegger acquired a Mercedes G - Class modified for all - electric drive .	What were the power sources of the three Hummer H1s you had in 2010?	One ran on hydrogen, one ran on vegetable oil, and one ran on biodiesel.
On April 26 , 1986 , Schwarzenegger married Shriver in Hyannis , Massachusetts . They have four children , including Katherine Schwarzenegger and Patrick Schwarzenegger . All of their children were born in Los Angeles . The family lived in an 11 , 000 - square - foot ( 1 , 000   m2 ) home in the Brentwood neighborhood of Los Angeles , California , with vacation homes in Sun Valley , Idaho , and Hyannis Port , Massachusetts . They attended St . Monica ' s Catholic Church .	Where did your family live?	My family lived in an 11,000-square-foot home in the Brentwood neighborhood of Los Angeles, California.
Also in 1966 , at Bennett ' s home , Schwarzenegger had the opportunity to meet childhood idol Reg Park , who became his friend and mentor . The training paid off and , in 1967 , Schwarzenegger won the title for the first time , becoming the youngest ever Mr . Universe at age 20 . He would go on to win the title another three times . He then returned to Munich , where he attended business school and worked at Rolf Putziger ' s gym , where he worked and trained from 1966 to 1968 before returning to London in 1968 to win his next Mr . Universe title . He frequently told Roger C . Field , his English coach and friend in Munich at thw time , " I ' m going to become the greatest actor ! "	Where did you attend business school?	Munich.
Schwarzenegger ' s brother , Meinhard , died in a car crash on May 20 , 1971 . He was driving drunk and died instantly . Schwarzenegger did not attend his funeral . Meinhard was engaged to Erika Knapp , and they had a three - year - old son named Patrick . Schwarzenegger paid for Patrick ' s education and helped him to move to the U . S . Schwarzenegger ' s father , Gustav , died of a stroke on December 13 , 1972 . In Pumping Iron , Schwarzenegger claimed that he did not attend his father ' s funeral because he was training for a bodybuilding contest . Later , he and the film ' s producer said this story was taken from another bodybuilder to show the extremes some would go to for their sport and to make Schwarzenegger ' s image colder to create controversy for the film . However , Barbara Baker , his first serious girlfriend , recalled that he informed her of his father ' s death without emotion and that he never spoke of his brother . Over time , he has given at least three versions of why he was absent from his father ' s funeral .	Did you attend Meinhard's funeral?	No, I did not attend his funeral.
Schwarzenegger ' s brother , Meinhard , died in a car crash on May 20 , 1971 . He was driving drunk and died instantly . Schwarzenegger did not attend his funeral . Meinhard was engaged to Erika Knapp , and they had a three - year - old son named Patrick . Schwarzenegger paid for Patrick ' s education and helped him to move to the U . S . Schwarzenegger ' s father , Gustav , died of a stroke on December 13 , 1972 . In Pumping Iron , Schwarzenegger claimed that he did not attend his father ' s funeral because he was training for a bodybuilding contest . Later , he and the film ' s producer said this story was taken from another bodybuilder to show the extremes some would go to for their sport and to make Schwarzenegger ' s image colder to create controversy for the film . However , Barbara Baker , his first serious girlfriend , recalled that he informed her of his father ' s death without emotion and that he never spoke of his brother . Over time , he has given at least three versions of why he was absent from his father ' s funeral .	What was the cause of your brother's death?	He was driving drunk.
Moreover , he came to develop an interest in large vehicles and became the first civilian in the U . S . to purchase a Humvee . He was so enamored by the vehicle that he lobbied the Humvee ' s manufacturer , AM General , to produce a street - legal , civilian version , which they did in 1992 ; the first two Hummer H1s they sold were also purchased by Schwarzenegger . In 2010 , he had one regular and three running on non - fossil power sources ; one for hydrogen , one for vegetable oil , and one for biodiesel . Schwarzenegger was in the news in 2014 for buying a rare Bugatti Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse . He was spotted and filmed in 2015 in his car , painted silver with bright aluminum forged wheels . His Bugatti has its interior adorned in dark brown leather . In 2017 , Schwarzenegger acquired a Mercedes G - Class modified for all - electric drive .	When did AM General produce a street-legal, civilian version of the Humvee?	In 1992
Moreover , he came to develop an interest in large vehicles and became the first civilian in the U . S . to purchase a Humvee . He was so enamored by the vehicle that he lobbied the Humvee ' s manufacturer , AM General , to produce a street - legal , civilian version , which they did in 1992 ; the first two Hummer H1s they sold were also purchased by Schwarzenegger . In 2010 , he had one regular and three running on non - fossil power sources ; one for hydrogen , one for vegetable oil , and one for biodiesel . Schwarzenegger was in the news in 2014 for buying a rare Bugatti Veyron Grand Sport Vitesse . He was spotted and filmed in 2015 in his car , painted silver with bright aluminum forged wheels . His Bugatti has its interior adorned in dark brown leather . In 2017 , Schwarzenegger acquired a Mercedes G - Class modified for all - electric drive .	How many Hummer H1s did you purchase?	The first two Hummer H1s sold by AM General were purchased by me.
On April 26 , 1986 , Schwarzenegger married Shriver in Hyannis , Massachusetts . They have four children , including Katherine Schwarzenegger and Patrick Schwarzenegger . All of their children were born in Los Angeles . The family lived in an 11 , 000 - square - foot ( 1 , 000   m2 ) home in the Brentwood neighborhood of Los Angeles , California , with vacation homes in Sun Valley , Idaho , and Hyannis Port , Massachusetts . They attended St . Monica ' s Catholic Church .	Where were all of your and Shriver's children born?	All of my children were born in Los Angeles.
On May 20 , 2011 , Schwarzenegger ' s entertainment counsel announced that all film projects currently in development were being halted : " Schwarzenegger is focusing on personal matters and is not willing to commit to any production schedules or timelines . " On July 11 , 2011 , it was announced that Schwarzenegger was considering a comeback film , despite legal problems related to his divorce . He starred in The Expendables 2 ( 2012 ) as Trench Mauser , and starred in The Last Stand ( 2013 ) , his first leading role in 10 years , and Escape Plan ( 2013 ) , his first co - starring role alongside Sylvester Stallone . He starred in Sabotage , released in March 2014 , and returned as Trench Mauser in The Expendables 3 , released in August 2014 . He starred in the fifth Terminator film Terminator Genisys in 2015 , and would reprise his role as Conan the Barbarian in The Legend of Conan , later renamed Conan the Conqueror . However , in April 2017 , producer Chris Morgan stated that Universal had dropped the project , although there was a possibility of a TV show . The story of the film was supposed to be set 30 years after the first , with some inspiration from Clint Eastwood ' s Unforgiven .	When were your film projects halted?	On May 20, 2011.
Schwarzenegger came out of retirement , however , to compete in the 1980 Mr . Olympia . Schwarzenegger was training for his role in Conan , and he got into such good shape because of the running , horseback riding and sword training , that he decided he wanted to win the Mr . Olympia contest one last time . He kept this plan a secret in the event that a training accident would prevent his entry and cause him to lose face . Schwarzenegger had been hired to provide color commentary for network television when he announced at the eleventh hour that , while he was there , " Why not compete ? " Schwarzenegger ended up winning the event with only seven weeks of preparation . Having been declared Mr . Olympia for a seventh time , Schwarzenegger then officially retired from competition . This victory ( subject of the documentary The Comeback ) was highly controversial , though , as fellow competitors and many observers felt that his lack of muscle mass ( especially in his thighs ) and subpar conditioning should have precluded him from winning against a very competitive lineup that year . Mike Mentzer , in particular , felt cheated and withdrew from competitive bodybuilding after that contest .	When did you compete in the 1980 Mr. Olympia?	I competed in the 1980 Mr. Olympia after coming out of retirement.
Schwarzenegger came out of retirement , however , to compete in the 1980 Mr . Olympia . Schwarzenegger was training for his role in Conan , and he got into such good shape because of the running , horseback riding and sword training , that he decided he wanted to win the Mr . Olympia contest one last time . He kept this plan a secret in the event that a training accident would prevent his entry and cause him to lose face . Schwarzenegger had been hired to provide color commentary for network television when he announced at the eleventh hour that , while he was there , " Why not compete ? " Schwarzenegger ended up winning the event with only seven weeks of preparation . Having been declared Mr . Olympia for a seventh time , Schwarzenegger then officially retired from competition . This victory ( subject of the documentary The Comeback ) was highly controversial , though , as fellow competitors and many observers felt that his lack of muscle mass ( especially in his thighs ) and subpar conditioning should have precluded him from winning against a very competitive lineup that year . Mike Mentzer , in particular , felt cheated and withdrew from competitive bodybuilding after that contest .	Why did you decide to compete in the 1980 Mr. Olympia?	I decided to compete in the 1980 Mr. Olympia because I got into such good shape while training for my role in Conan.
Schwarzenegger ' s breakthrough film was the sword and sorcery epic Conan the Barbarian in 1982 , which was a box - office hit . This was followed by a sequel , Conan the Destroyer , in 1984 , although it was not as successful as its predecessor . In 1983 , Schwarzenegger starred in the promotional video Carnival in Rio . In 1984 , he made his first appearance as the eponymous character in James Cameron ' s science fiction action film The Terminator . It has been called his acting career ' s signature role . Following this , Schwarzenegger made another sword and sorcery film , Red Sonja , in 1985 . During the 1980s , audiences had an appetite for action films , with both Schwarzenegger and Sylvester Stallone becoming international stars . During the Schwarzenegger - Stallone rivalry they attacked each other in the press , and tried to surpass the other with more on - screen killings and larger weapons . Schwarzenegger ' s roles reflected his sense of humor , separating him from more serious action hero films . He made a number of successful action films in the 1980s , such as Commando ( 1985 ) , Raw Deal ( 1986 ) , The Running Man ( 1987 ) , Predator ( 1987 ) , and Red Heat ( 1988 ) .	What was the sequel to Conan the Barbarian?	The sequel to Conan the Barbarian was Conan the Destroyer.
