As president , Obama advanced LGBT rights . In 2010 , he signed the Don ' t Ask , Don ' t Tell Repeal Act , which brought an end to " don ' t ask , don ' t tell " policy in the U . S . armed forces that banned open service from LGB people ; the law went into effect the following year . In 2016 , his administration brought an end to the ban on transgender people serving openly in the U . S . armed forces . A Gallup poll , taken in the final days of Obama ' s term , showed that 68 percent of Americans believed the U . S . had made progress on LGBT rights during Obama ' s eight years in office .	What act did you sign in 2010 regarding LGBT rights?	I signed the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act in 2010.
Obama ' s presidency ended on January 20 , 2017 , upon the inauguration of his successor , Donald Trump . The family moved to a house they rented in Kalorama , Washington , D . C . On March 2 , the John F . Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum awarded the Profile in Courage Award to Obama " for his enduring commitment to democratic ideals and elevating the standard of political courage . " His first public appearance since leaving the office was a seminar at the University of Chicago on April 24 , where he appealed for a new generation to participate in politics . On September 7 , Obama partnered with former presidents Jimmy Carter , George H . W . Bush , Bill Clinton , and George W . Bush to work with One America Appeal to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma in the Gulf Coast and Texas communities . From October 31 to November 1 , Obama hosted the inaugural summit of the Obama Foundation , which he intended for it to be the central focus of his post - presidency and part of his ambitions for his subsequent activities following his presidency to be more consequential than his time in office .	When did you make your first public appearance after leaving the office?	I made my first public appearance at a seminar at the University of Chicago on April 24.
The next day , on Obama ' s orders , the U . S . military took part in air strikes to destroy the Libyan government ' s air defense capabilities to protect civilians and enforce a no - fly - zone , including the use of Tomahawk missiles , B - 2 Spirits , and fighter jets . Six days later , on March 25 , by unanimous vote of all its 28 members , NATO took over leadership of the effort , dubbed Operation Unified Protector . Some Representatives questioned whether Obama had the constitutional authority to order military action in addition to questioning its cost , structure and aftermath . Obama later expressed regret for playing a leading role in the destabilization of Libya , calling the certain situation there " a mess . " He has stated that the lack of preparation surrounding the days following the government ' s overthrow was the " worst mistake " of his presidency .	Who questioned your authority to order military action in Libya?	Some Representatives questioned my authority to order military action in Libya.
Obama was reluctant to make an endorsement in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries because he wanted to position himself to unify the party , regardless of the nominee . On April 14 , 2020 , Obama endorsed Biden , the presumptive nominee , for president in the presidential election , stating that he has " all the qualities we need in a president right now . " In May , Obama criticized President Trump for his handling of the COVID - 19 pandemic , calling his response to the crisis " an absolute chaotic disaster " , and stating that the consequences of the Trump presidency have been " our worst impulses unleashed , our proud reputation around the world badly diminished , and our democratic institutions threatened like never before . " On November 17 , Obama ' s presidential memoir , A Promised Land , was released .	What were the consequences of the Trump presidency according to you?	According to me, the consequences were "our worst impulses unleashed, our proud reputation around the world badly diminished, and our democratic institutions threatened like never before."
In June 2014 , following the capture of Mosul by ISIL , Obama sent 275 troops to provide support and security for U . S . personnel and the U . S . Embassy in Baghdad . ISIS continued to gain ground and to commit widespread massacres and ethnic cleansing . In August 2014 , during the Sinjar massacre , Obama ordered a campaign of U . S . airstrikes against ISIL . By the end of 2014 , 3 , 100 American ground troops were committed to the conflict and 16 , 000 sorties were flown over the battlefield , primarily by U . S . Air Force and Navy pilots . In early 2015 , with the addition of the " Panther Brigade " of the 82nd Airborne Division the number of U . S . ground troops in Iraq increased to 4 , 400 , and by July American - led coalition air forces counted 44 , 000 sorties over the battlefield .	How many U.S. ground troops were there in Iraq after the addition of the "Panther Brigade" in early 2015?	4,400.
In his election campaign , Obama called the war in Iraq a " dangerous distraction " and that emphasis should instead be put on the war in Afghanistan , the region he cites as being most likely where an attack against the United States could be launched again . Early in his presidency , Obama moved to bolster U . S . troop strength in Afghanistan . He announced an increase in U . S . troop levels to 17 , 000 military personnel in February 2009 to " stabilize a deteriorating situation in Afghanistan " , an area he said had not received the " strategic attention , direction and resources it urgently requires . " He replaced the military commander in Afghanistan , General David D . McKiernan , with former Special Forces commander Lt . Gen . Stanley A . McChrystal in May 2009 , indicating that McChrystal ' s Special Forces experience would facilitate the use of counterinsurgency tactics in the war . On December 1 , 2009 , Obama announced the deployment of an additional 30 , 000 military personnel to Afghanistan and proposed to begin troop withdrawals 18 months from that date ; this took place in July 2011 . David Petraeus replaced McChrystal in June 2010 , after McChrystal ' s staff criticized White House personnel in a magazine article . In February 2013 , Obama said the U . S . military would reduce the troop level in Afghanistan from 68 , 000 to 34 , 000 U . S . troops by February 2014 . In October 2015 , the White House announced a plan to keep U . S . Forces in Afghanistan indefinitely in light of the deteriorating security situation .	Who did you replace General David D. McKiernan with in May 2009?	I replaced General David D. McKiernan with former Special Forces commander Lt. Gen. Stanley A. McChrystal in May 2009.
Obama substantially escalated the use of drone strikes against suspected militants and terrorists associated with al - Qaeda and the Taliban . In 2016 , the last year of his presidency , the U . S . dropped 26 , 171 bombs on seven different countries . Obama left about 8 , 400 U . S . troops in Afghanistan , 5 , 262 in Iraq , 503 in Syria , 133 in Pakistan , 106 in Somalia , seven in Yemen , and two in Libya at the end of his presidency .	How did you escalate the use of drone strikes?	I substantially escalated the use of drone strikes against suspected militants and terrorists associated with al-Qaeda and the Taliban.
Obama ' s presidency ended on January 20 , 2017 , upon the inauguration of his successor , Donald Trump . The family moved to a house they rented in Kalorama , Washington , D . C . On March 2 , the John F . Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum awarded the Profile in Courage Award to Obama " for his enduring commitment to democratic ideals and elevating the standard of political courage . " His first public appearance since leaving the office was a seminar at the University of Chicago on April 24 , where he appealed for a new generation to participate in politics . On September 7 , Obama partnered with former presidents Jimmy Carter , George H . W . Bush , Bill Clinton , and George W . Bush to work with One America Appeal to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma in the Gulf Coast and Texas communities . From October 31 to November 1 , Obama hosted the inaugural summit of the Obama Foundation , which he intended for it to be the central focus of his post - presidency and part of his ambitions for his subsequent activities following his presidency to be more consequential than his time in office .	Where did your family move after your presidency?	We moved to a rented house in Kalorama, Washington, D.C.
In June 1989 , Obama met Michelle Robinson when he was employed as a summer associate at the Chicago law firm of Sidley Austin . Robinson was assigned for three months as Obama ' s adviser at the firm , and she joined him at several group social functions but declined his initial requests to date . They began dating later that summer , became engaged in 1991 , and were married on October 3 , 1992 . After suffering a miscarriage , Michelle underwent in vitro fertilization to conceive their children . The couple ' s first daughter , Malia Ann , was born in 1998 , followed by a second daughter , Natasha ( " Sasha " ) , in 2001 . The Obama daughters attended the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools . When they moved to Washington , D . C . , in January 2009 , the girls started at the Sidwell Friends School . The Obamas had two Portuguese Water Dogs ; the first , a male named Bo , was a gift from Senator Ted Kennedy . In 2013 , Bo was joined by Sunny , a female . Bo died of cancer on May 8 , 2021 .	Where were you employed when you met Michelle Robinson?	I was employed at the Chicago law firm of Sidley Austin.
As president , Obama advanced LGBT rights . In 2010 , he signed the Don ' t Ask , Don ' t Tell Repeal Act , which brought an end to " don ' t ask , don ' t tell " policy in the U . S . armed forces that banned open service from LGB people ; the law went into effect the following year . In 2016 , his administration brought an end to the ban on transgender people serving openly in the U . S . armed forces . A Gallup poll , taken in the final days of Obama ' s term , showed that 68 percent of Americans believed the U . S . had made progress on LGBT rights during Obama ' s eight years in office .	What did the Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act bring an end to?	The Don't Ask, Don't Tell Repeal Act brought an end to the "don't ask, don't tell" policy in the U.S. armed forces.
The next day , on Obama ' s orders , the U . S . military took part in air strikes to destroy the Libyan government ' s air defense capabilities to protect civilians and enforce a no - fly - zone , including the use of Tomahawk missiles , B - 2 Spirits , and fighter jets . Six days later , on March 25 , by unanimous vote of all its 28 members , NATO took over leadership of the effort , dubbed Operation Unified Protector . Some Representatives questioned whether Obama had the constitutional authority to order military action in addition to questioning its cost , structure and aftermath . Obama later expressed regret for playing a leading role in the destabilization of Libya , calling the certain situation there " a mess . " He has stated that the lack of preparation surrounding the days following the government ' s overthrow was the " worst mistake " of his presidency .	How did you describe the situation in Libya after the government's overthrow?	I described the situation in Libya after the government's overthrow as "a mess" and expressed regret for the destabilization of Libya.
In June 1989 , Obama met Michelle Robinson when he was employed as a summer associate at the Chicago law firm of Sidley Austin . Robinson was assigned for three months as Obama ' s adviser at the firm , and she joined him at several group social functions but declined his initial requests to date . They began dating later that summer , became engaged in 1991 , and were married on October 3 , 1992 . After suffering a miscarriage , Michelle underwent in vitro fertilization to conceive their children . The couple ' s first daughter , Malia Ann , was born in 1998 , followed by a second daughter , Natasha ( " Sasha " ) , in 2001 . The Obama daughters attended the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools . When they moved to Washington , D . C . , in January 2009 , the girls started at the Sidwell Friends School . The Obamas had two Portuguese Water Dogs ; the first , a male named Bo , was a gift from Senator Ted Kennedy . In 2013 , Bo was joined by Sunny , a female . Bo died of cancer on May 8 , 2021 .	When were you and Michelle married?	We were married on October 3, 1992.
Obama ' s presidency ended on January 20 , 2017 , upon the inauguration of his successor , Donald Trump . The family moved to a house they rented in Kalorama , Washington , D . C . On March 2 , the John F . Kennedy Presidential Library and Museum awarded the Profile in Courage Award to Obama " for his enduring commitment to democratic ideals and elevating the standard of political courage . " His first public appearance since leaving the office was a seminar at the University of Chicago on April 24 , where he appealed for a new generation to participate in politics . On September 7 , Obama partnered with former presidents Jimmy Carter , George H . W . Bush , Bill Clinton , and George W . Bush to work with One America Appeal to help the victims of Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Irma in the Gulf Coast and Texas communities . From October 31 to November 1 , Obama hosted the inaugural summit of the Obama Foundation , which he intended for it to be the central focus of his post - presidency and part of his ambitions for his subsequent activities following his presidency to be more consequential than his time in office .	When did your presidency end?	My presidency ended on January 20, 2017.
In his election campaign , Obama called the war in Iraq a " dangerous distraction " and that emphasis should instead be put on the war in Afghanistan , the region he cites as being most likely where an attack against the United States could be launched again . Early in his presidency , Obama moved to bolster U . S . troop strength in Afghanistan . He announced an increase in U . S . troop levels to 17 , 000 military personnel in February 2009 to " stabilize a deteriorating situation in Afghanistan " , an area he said had not received the " strategic attention , direction and resources it urgently requires . " He replaced the military commander in Afghanistan , General David D . McKiernan , with former Special Forces commander Lt . Gen . Stanley A . McChrystal in May 2009 , indicating that McChrystal ' s Special Forces experience would facilitate the use of counterinsurgency tactics in the war . On December 1 , 2009 , Obama announced the deployment of an additional 30 , 000 military personnel to Afghanistan and proposed to begin troop withdrawals 18 months from that date ; this took place in July 2011 . David Petraeus replaced McChrystal in June 2010 , after McChrystal ' s staff criticized White House personnel in a magazine article . In February 2013 , Obama said the U . S . military would reduce the troop level in Afghanistan from 68 , 000 to 34 , 000 U . S . troops by February 2014 . In October 2015 , the White House announced a plan to keep U . S . Forces in Afghanistan indefinitely in light of the deteriorating security situation .	Where did you emphasize that the war in Afghanistan should be put?	I emphasized that the war in Afghanistan should be put as the region most likely where an attack against the United States could be launched again.
In June 2014 , following the capture of Mosul by ISIL , Obama sent 275 troops to provide support and security for U . S . personnel and the U . S . Embassy in Baghdad . ISIS continued to gain ground and to commit widespread massacres and ethnic cleansing . In August 2014 , during the Sinjar massacre , Obama ordered a campaign of U . S . airstrikes against ISIL . By the end of 2014 , 3 , 100 American ground troops were committed to the conflict and 16 , 000 sorties were flown over the battlefield , primarily by U . S . Air Force and Navy pilots . In early 2015 , with the addition of the " Panther Brigade " of the 82nd Airborne Division the number of U . S . ground troops in Iraq increased to 4 , 400 , and by July American - led coalition air forces counted 44 , 000 sorties over the battlefield .	How many American ground troops were committed to the conflict by the end of 2014?	3,100.
The next day , on Obama ' s orders , the U . S . military took part in air strikes to destroy the Libyan government ' s air defense capabilities to protect civilians and enforce a no - fly - zone , including the use of Tomahawk missiles , B - 2 Spirits , and fighter jets . Six days later , on March 25 , by unanimous vote of all its 28 members , NATO took over leadership of the effort , dubbed Operation Unified Protector . Some Representatives questioned whether Obama had the constitutional authority to order military action in addition to questioning its cost , structure and aftermath . Obama later expressed regret for playing a leading role in the destabilization of Libya , calling the certain situation there " a mess . " He has stated that the lack of preparation surrounding the days following the government ' s overthrow was the " worst mistake " of his presidency .	What was the purpose of the U.S. military air strikes in Libya?	The purpose of the U.S. military air strikes in Libya was to destroy the Libyan government's air defense capabilities and protect civilians.
In June 2014 , following the capture of Mosul by ISIL , Obama sent 275 troops to provide support and security for U . S . personnel and the U . S . Embassy in Baghdad . ISIS continued to gain ground and to commit widespread massacres and ethnic cleansing . In August 2014 , during the Sinjar massacre , Obama ordered a campaign of U . S . airstrikes against ISIL . By the end of 2014 , 3 , 100 American ground troops were committed to the conflict and 16 , 000 sorties were flown over the battlefield , primarily by U . S . Air Force and Navy pilots . In early 2015 , with the addition of the " Panther Brigade " of the 82nd Airborne Division the number of U . S . ground troops in Iraq increased to 4 , 400 , and by July American - led coalition air forces counted 44 , 000 sorties over the battlefield .	When did you send troops to provide support and security for U.S. personnel and the U.S. Embassy in Baghdad?	In June 2014.
In December 2014 , after the secret meetings , it was announced that Obama , with Pope Francis as an intermediary , had negotiated a restoration of relations with Cuba , after nearly sixty years of d é tente . Popularly dubbed the Cuban Thaw , The New Republic deemed the Cuban Thaw to be " Obama ' s finest foreign policy achievement . " On July 1 , 2015 , President Obama announced that formal diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States would resume , and embassies would be opened in Washington and Havana . The countries ' respective " interests sections " in one another ' s capitals were upgraded to embassies on July 20 and August 13 , 2015 , respectively . Obama visited Havana , Cuba for two days in March 2016 , becoming the first sitting U . S . president to arrive since Calvin Coolidge in 1928 .	When was the restoration of relations between Cuba and the United States announced?	In December 2014.
In June 1989 , Obama met Michelle Robinson when he was employed as a summer associate at the Chicago law firm of Sidley Austin . Robinson was assigned for three months as Obama ' s adviser at the firm , and she joined him at several group social functions but declined his initial requests to date . They began dating later that summer , became engaged in 1991 , and were married on October 3 , 1992 . After suffering a miscarriage , Michelle underwent in vitro fertilization to conceive their children . The couple ' s first daughter , Malia Ann , was born in 1998 , followed by a second daughter , Natasha ( " Sasha " ) , in 2001 . The Obama daughters attended the University of Chicago Laboratory Schools . When they moved to Washington , D . C . , in January 2009 , the girls started at the Sidwell Friends School . The Obamas had two Portuguese Water Dogs ; the first , a male named Bo , was a gift from Senator Ted Kennedy . In 2013 , Bo was joined by Sunny , a female . Bo died of cancer on May 8 , 2021 .	When did you meet Michelle Robinson?	In June 1989.
The next day , on Obama ' s orders , the U . S . military took part in air strikes to destroy the Libyan government ' s air defense capabilities to protect civilians and enforce a no - fly - zone , including the use of Tomahawk missiles , B - 2 Spirits , and fighter jets . Six days later , on March 25 , by unanimous vote of all its 28 members , NATO took over leadership of the effort , dubbed Operation Unified Protector . Some Representatives questioned whether Obama had the constitutional authority to order military action in addition to questioning its cost , structure and aftermath . Obama later expressed regret for playing a leading role in the destabilization of Libya , calling the certain situation there " a mess . " He has stated that the lack of preparation surrounding the days following the government ' s overthrow was the " worst mistake " of his presidency .	What weapons were used in the air strikes?	The U.S. military used Tomahawk missiles, B-2 Spirits, and fighter jets in the air strikes.
In December 2014 , after the secret meetings , it was announced that Obama , with Pope Francis as an intermediary , had negotiated a restoration of relations with Cuba , after nearly sixty years of d é tente . Popularly dubbed the Cuban Thaw , The New Republic deemed the Cuban Thaw to be " Obama ' s finest foreign policy achievement . " On July 1 , 2015 , President Obama announced that formal diplomatic relations between Cuba and the United States would resume , and embassies would be opened in Washington and Havana . The countries ' respective " interests sections " in one another ' s capitals were upgraded to embassies on July 20 and August 13 , 2015 , respectively . Obama visited Havana , Cuba for two days in March 2016 , becoming the first sitting U . S . president to arrive since Calvin Coolidge in 1928 .	Who was the intermediary between you and Cuba during the negotiations?	Pope Francis.
On February 27 , 2009 , Obama announced that combat operations in Iraq would end within 18 months . The Obama administration scheduled the withdrawal of combat troops to be completed by August 2010 , decreasing troop ' s levels from 142 , 000 while leaving a transitional force of about 50 , 000 in Iraq until the end of 2011 . On August 19 , 2010 , the last U . S . combat brigade exited Iraq . Remaining troops transitioned from combat operations to counter - terrorism and the training , equipping , and advising of Iraqi security forces . On August 31 , 2010 , Obama announced that the United States combat mission in Iraq was over . On October 21 , 2011 , President Obama announced that all U . S . troops would leave Iraq in time to be " home for the holidays . "	When did you announce that combat operations in Iraq would end?	On February 27, 2009.
Obama substantially escalated the use of drone strikes against suspected militants and terrorists associated with al - Qaeda and the Taliban . In 2016 , the last year of his presidency , the U . S . dropped 26 , 171 bombs on seven different countries . Obama left about 8 , 400 U . S . troops in Afghanistan , 5 , 262 in Iraq , 503 in Syria , 133 in Pakistan , 106 in Somalia , seven in Yemen , and two in Libya at the end of his presidency .	How many U.S. troops did you leave in Syria?	I left 503 U.S. troops in Syria at the end of my presidency.
Obama substantially escalated the use of drone strikes against suspected militants and terrorists associated with al - Qaeda and the Taliban . In 2016 , the last year of his presidency , the U . S . dropped 26 , 171 bombs on seven different countries . Obama left about 8 , 400 U . S . troops in Afghanistan , 5 , 262 in Iraq , 503 in Syria , 133 in Pakistan , 106 in Somalia , seven in Yemen , and two in Libya at the end of his presidency .	How many U.S. troops did you leave in Iraq?	I left 5,262 U.S. troops in Iraq at the end of my presidency.
Obama was reluctant to make an endorsement in the 2020 Democratic presidential primaries because he wanted to position himself to unify the party , regardless of the nominee . On April 14 , 2020 , Obama endorsed Biden , the presumptive nominee , for president in the presidential election , stating that he has " all the qualities we need in a president right now . " In May , Obama criticized President Trump for his handling of the COVID - 19 pandemic , calling his response to the crisis " an absolute chaotic disaster " , and stating that the consequences of the Trump presidency have been " our worst impulses unleashed , our proud reputation around the world badly diminished , and our democratic institutions threatened like never before . " On November 17 , Obama ' s presidential memoir , A Promised Land , was released .	Whom did you endorse for president in the presidential election?	I endorsed Biden, the presumptive nominee.
