Gates met regularly with Microsoft ' s senior managers and program managers , and the managers described him as being verbally combative . He also berated them for perceived holes in their business strategies or proposals that placed the company ' s long - term interests at risk . Gates saw competition in personal terms ; when Borland ' s Turbo Pascal performed better than Microsoft ' s own tools , he yelled at programming director Greg Whitten " for half an hour " because , Gates believed , Borland ' s Philippe Kahn had surpassed Gates . Gates interrupted presentations with such comments as " that ' s the stupidest thing I ' ve ever heard " and " why don ' t you just give up your options and join the Peace Corps ? " The target of his outburst would then have to defend the proposal in detail until Gates was fully convinced . Not all harsh language was criticism ; a manager recalled that " You ’ re full of shit . That ’ s the stupidest fucking thing I ’ ve ever heard " meant that Gates was amazed . " In the lore of Microsoft , if Bill says that to you , you ’ re made " . When subordinates appeared to be procrastinating , he was known to remark sarcastically , " I ' ll do it over the weekend " . Gates has been accused of bullying Microsoft employees .	What did you berate the managers for?	I berated them for perceived holes in their business strategies or proposals that placed the company's long-term interests at risk.
In 1999 , his wealth briefly surpassed US $ 100 billion making him the first person ever to achieve the feat . Since 2000 , the nominal value of his Microsoft holdings has declined due to a fall in Microsoft ' s stock price after the dot - com bubble burst and the multi - billion dollar donations he has made to his charitable foundations . In May 2006 , Gates remarked that he wished that he were not the richest man in the world because he disliked the attention that it brought . In March 2010 , Gates was the second wealthiest person after Carlos Slim , but regained the top position in 2013 , according to the Bloomberg Billionaires List . Slim retook the position again in June 2014 ( but then lost the top position back to Gates ) . Between 2009 and 2014 , his wealth doubled from US $ 40   billion to US $ 82   billion . In October 2017 , Gates was surpassed by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos as the richest person in the world . On November 15 , 2019 , he once again became the richest person in the world after a 48% increase in Microsoft shares , surpassing Bezos . Gates told the BBC , " I ' ve paid more tax than any individual ever , and gladly so   ... I ' ve paid over $ 6 billion in taxes . " He is a proponent of higher taxes , particularly for the rich .	When did your wealth briefly surpass US $100 billion?	In 1999.
In an interview with Rolling Stone , Gates said in regard to his faith : " The moral systems of religion , I think , are super important . We ' ve raised our kids in a religious way ; they ' ve gone to the Catholic church that Melinda goes to and I participate in . I ' ve been very lucky , and therefore I owe it to try and reduce the inequity in the world . And that ' s kind of a religious belief . I mean , it ' s at least a moral belief . " In the same 2014 interview he also said : " I agree with people like Richard Dawkins that mankind felt the need for creation myths . Before we really began to understand disease and the weather and things like that , we sought false explanations for them . Now science has filled in some of the realm   – not all   – that religion used to fill . But the mystery and the beauty of the world is overwhelmingly amazing , and there ' s no scientific explanation of how it came about . To say that it was generated by random numbers , that does seem , you know , sort of an uncharitable view [ laughs ] . I think it makes sense to believe in God , but exactly what decision in your life you make differently because of it , I don ' t know . "	What did you say about the moral systems of religion?	"The moral systems of religion, I think, are super important."
On April 29 , 2017 , Gates partnered with Swiss tennis legend Roger Federer in playing in the Match for Africa 4 , a noncompetitive tennis match at a sold - out Key Arena in Seattle . The event was in support of the Roger Federer Foundation ' s charity efforts in Africa . Federer and Gates played against John Isner , the top - ranked American player for much of this decade , and Mike McCready , the lead guitarist for Pearl Jam . The pair won the match 6 games to 4 . Overall , they raised $ 2   million for children in Africa . The following year , Gates and Federer returned to play in the Match for Africa 5 on March 5 , 2018 , at San Jose ' s SAP Center . Their opponents were Jack Sock , one of the top American players and a grand slam winner in doubles , and Savannah Guthrie , a co - anchor for NBC ' s Today show . Gates and Federer recorded their second match victory together by a score of 6 – 3 and the event raised over $ 2.5   million .	Who were your and Federer's opponents in the Match for Africa 4?	Our opponents were John Isner and Mike McCready.
Gates favours the normalization of COVID - 19 masks . In a November 2020 interview , he said : " What are these , like , nudists ? I mean , you know , we ask you to wear pants , and no American says , or very few Americans say , that that ' s , like , some terrible thing . "	When did you express your opinion about the normalization of COVID-19 masks?	In a November 2020 interview.
In an interview with Rolling Stone , Gates said in regard to his faith : " The moral systems of religion , I think , are super important . We ' ve raised our kids in a religious way ; they ' ve gone to the Catholic church that Melinda goes to and I participate in . I ' ve been very lucky , and therefore I owe it to try and reduce the inequity in the world . And that ' s kind of a religious belief . I mean , it ' s at least a moral belief . " In the same 2014 interview he also said : " I agree with people like Richard Dawkins that mankind felt the need for creation myths . Before we really began to understand disease and the weather and things like that , we sought false explanations for them . Now science has filled in some of the realm   – not all   – that religion used to fill . But the mystery and the beauty of the world is overwhelmingly amazing , and there ' s no scientific explanation of how it came about . To say that it was generated by random numbers , that does seem , you know , sort of an uncharitable view [ laughs ] . I think it makes sense to believe in God , but exactly what decision in your life you make differently because of it , I don ' t know . "	How did you raise your kids in terms of religion?	"I've raised my kids in a religious way; they've gone to the Catholic church that Melinda goes to and I participate in."
According to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index , Gates was the world ' s highest - earning billionaire in 2013 , as his net worth increased by US $ 15.8   billion to US $ 78.5   billion . As of January   2014 [ update ] , most of Gates ' s assets are held in Cascade Investment LLC , an entity through which he owns stakes in numerous businesses , including Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts , and Corbis Corp . On February 4 , 2014 , Gates stepped down as chairman of Microsoft to become " technology advisor " at the firm , alongside CEO Satya Nadella .	What is the name of the entity through which you hold most of your assets?	Most of my assets are held in Cascade Investment LLC, according to the information provided.
In 1999 , his wealth briefly surpassed US $ 100 billion making him the first person ever to achieve the feat . Since 2000 , the nominal value of his Microsoft holdings has declined due to a fall in Microsoft ' s stock price after the dot - com bubble burst and the multi - billion dollar donations he has made to his charitable foundations . In May 2006 , Gates remarked that he wished that he were not the richest man in the world because he disliked the attention that it brought . In March 2010 , Gates was the second wealthiest person after Carlos Slim , but regained the top position in 2013 , according to the Bloomberg Billionaires List . Slim retook the position again in June 2014 ( but then lost the top position back to Gates ) . Between 2009 and 2014 , his wealth doubled from US $ 40   billion to US $ 82   billion . In October 2017 , Gates was surpassed by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos as the richest person in the world . On November 15 , 2019 , he once again became the richest person in the world after a 48% increase in Microsoft shares , surpassing Bezos . Gates told the BBC , " I ' ve paid more tax than any individual ever , and gladly so   ... I ' ve paid over $ 6 billion in taxes . " He is a proponent of higher taxes , particularly for the rich .	Who surpassed you as the richest person in the world in October 2017?	Amazon founder Jeff Bezos.
Gates provided his perspective on a range of issues in a substantial interview that was published in the March 27 , 2014 , issue of Rolling Stone magazine . In the interview , Gates provided his perspective on climate change , his charitable activities , various tech companies and people involved in them , and the state of America . In response to a question about his greatest fear when he looks 50 years into the future , Gates stated : " there ' ll be some really bad things that ' ll happen in the next 50 or 100 years , but hopefully none of them on the scale of , say , a million people that you didn ' t expect to die from a pandemic , or nuclear or bioterrorism . " Gates also identified innovation as the " real driver of progress " and pronounced that " America ' s way better today than it ' s ever been . "	How do you view America today?	I stated that America is way better today than it's ever been.
On April 29 , 2017 , Gates partnered with Swiss tennis legend Roger Federer in playing in the Match for Africa 4 , a noncompetitive tennis match at a sold - out Key Arena in Seattle . The event was in support of the Roger Federer Foundation ' s charity efforts in Africa . Federer and Gates played against John Isner , the top - ranked American player for much of this decade , and Mike McCready , the lead guitarist for Pearl Jam . The pair won the match 6 games to 4 . Overall , they raised $ 2   million for children in Africa . The following year , Gates and Federer returned to play in the Match for Africa 5 on March 5 , 2018 , at San Jose ' s SAP Center . Their opponents were Jack Sock , one of the top American players and a grand slam winner in doubles , and Savannah Guthrie , a co - anchor for NBC ' s Today show . Gates and Federer recorded their second match victory together by a score of 6 – 3 and the event raised over $ 2.5   million .	Where did the Match for Africa 4 take place?	The Match for Africa 4 took place at the Key Arena in Seattle.
Gates favours the normalization of COVID - 19 masks . In a November 2020 interview , he said : " What are these , like , nudists ? I mean , you know , we ask you to wear pants , and no American says , or very few Americans say , that that ' s , like , some terrible thing . "	How do most Americans respond to the expectation of wearing pants?	According to me, most Americans do not consider it a terrible thing.
Gates studied the work of Andrew Carnegie and John D . Rockefeller , and donated some of his Microsoft stock in 1994 to create the " William H . Gates Foundation " . In 2000 , Gates and his wife combined three family foundations and Gates donated stock valued at $ 5   billion to create the charitable Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , which was identified by the Funds for NGOs company in 2013 , as the world ' s wealthiest charitable foundation , with assets reportedly valued at more than $ 34.6   billion . The foundation allows benefactors to access information that shows how its money is being spent , unlike other major charitable organizations such as the Wellcome Trust . Gates , through his foundation , also donated $ 20   million to Carnegie Mellon University for a new building to be named Gates Center for Computer Science which opened in 2009 .	What did you study?	I studied the work of Andrew Carnegie and John D. Rockefeller.
In an interview with Rolling Stone , Gates said in regard to his faith : " The moral systems of religion , I think , are super important . We ' ve raised our kids in a religious way ; they ' ve gone to the Catholic church that Melinda goes to and I participate in . I ' ve been very lucky , and therefore I owe it to try and reduce the inequity in the world . And that ' s kind of a religious belief . I mean , it ' s at least a moral belief . " In the same 2014 interview he also said : " I agree with people like Richard Dawkins that mankind felt the need for creation myths . Before we really began to understand disease and the weather and things like that , we sought false explanations for them . Now science has filled in some of the realm   – not all   – that religion used to fill . But the mystery and the beauty of the world is overwhelmingly amazing , and there ' s no scientific explanation of how it came about . To say that it was generated by random numbers , that does seem , you know , sort of an uncharitable view [ laughs ] . I think it makes sense to believe in God , but exactly what decision in your life you make differently because of it , I don ' t know . "	What do you agree with Richard Dawkins on?	"I agree with people like Richard Dawkins that mankind felt the need for creation myths."
According to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index , Gates was the world ' s highest - earning billionaire in 2013 , as his net worth increased by US $ 15.8   billion to US $ 78.5   billion . As of January   2014 [ update ] , most of Gates ' s assets are held in Cascade Investment LLC , an entity through which he owns stakes in numerous businesses , including Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts , and Corbis Corp . On February 4 , 2014 , Gates stepped down as chairman of Microsoft to become " technology advisor " at the firm , alongside CEO Satya Nadella .	Who was the world's highest-earning billionaire in 2013?	According to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index, I was the world's highest-earning billionaire in 2013.
In 1999 , his wealth briefly surpassed US $ 100 billion making him the first person ever to achieve the feat . Since 2000 , the nominal value of his Microsoft holdings has declined due to a fall in Microsoft ' s stock price after the dot - com bubble burst and the multi - billion dollar donations he has made to his charitable foundations . In May 2006 , Gates remarked that he wished that he were not the richest man in the world because he disliked the attention that it brought . In March 2010 , Gates was the second wealthiest person after Carlos Slim , but regained the top position in 2013 , according to the Bloomberg Billionaires List . Slim retook the position again in June 2014 ( but then lost the top position back to Gates ) . Between 2009 and 2014 , his wealth doubled from US $ 40   billion to US $ 82   billion . In October 2017 , Gates was surpassed by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos as the richest person in the world . On November 15 , 2019 , he once again became the richest person in the world after a 48% increase in Microsoft shares , surpassing Bezos . Gates told the BBC , " I ' ve paid more tax than any individual ever , and gladly so   ... I ' ve paid over $ 6 billion in taxes . " He is a proponent of higher taxes , particularly for the rich .	How much tax have you paid?	I have paid over $6 billion in taxes.
Gates provided his perspective on a range of issues in a substantial interview that was published in the March 27 , 2014 , issue of Rolling Stone magazine . In the interview , Gates provided his perspective on climate change , his charitable activities , various tech companies and people involved in them , and the state of America . In response to a question about his greatest fear when he looks 50 years into the future , Gates stated : " there ' ll be some really bad things that ' ll happen in the next 50 or 100 years , but hopefully none of them on the scale of , say , a million people that you didn ' t expect to die from a pandemic , or nuclear or bioterrorism . " Gates also identified innovation as the " real driver of progress " and pronounced that " America ' s way better today than it ' s ever been . "	When was the interview published?	The interview was published in the March 27, 2014, issue of Rolling Stone magazine.
By 2017 , Gates had held the top spot on the list of The World ' s Billionaires for 18 out of the previous 23 years . Gates has several investments outside Microsoft , which in 2006 paid him a salary of US $ 616 , 667 and US $ 350 , 000 bonus totalling US $ 966 , 667 . In 1989 , he founded Corbis , a digital imaging company . In 2004 , he became a director of Berkshire Hathaway , the investment company headed by long - time friend Warren Buffett .	Did you receive any bonus in 2006?	Yes, I received a bonus totaling US $350,000 in 2006.
Gates favours the normalization of COVID - 19 masks . In a November 2020 interview , he said : " What are these , like , nudists ? I mean , you know , we ask you to wear pants , and no American says , or very few Americans say , that that ' s , like , some terrible thing . "	What is your stance on the normalization of COVID-19 masks?	I support and favour the normalization of wearing masks during the COVID-19 pandemic.
Gates studied the work of Andrew Carnegie and John D . Rockefeller , and donated some of his Microsoft stock in 1994 to create the " William H . Gates Foundation " . In 2000 , Gates and his wife combined three family foundations and Gates donated stock valued at $ 5   billion to create the charitable Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation , which was identified by the Funds for NGOs company in 2013 , as the world ' s wealthiest charitable foundation , with assets reportedly valued at more than $ 34.6   billion . The foundation allows benefactors to access information that shows how its money is being spent , unlike other major charitable organizations such as the Wellcome Trust . Gates , through his foundation , also donated $ 20   million to Carnegie Mellon University for a new building to be named Gates Center for Computer Science which opened in 2009 .	When did you create the "William H. Gates Foundation"?	I created the "William H. Gates Foundation" in 1994.
In 1999 , his wealth briefly surpassed US $ 100 billion making him the first person ever to achieve the feat . Since 2000 , the nominal value of his Microsoft holdings has declined due to a fall in Microsoft ' s stock price after the dot - com bubble burst and the multi - billion dollar donations he has made to his charitable foundations . In May 2006 , Gates remarked that he wished that he were not the richest man in the world because he disliked the attention that it brought . In March 2010 , Gates was the second wealthiest person after Carlos Slim , but regained the top position in 2013 , according to the Bloomberg Billionaires List . Slim retook the position again in June 2014 ( but then lost the top position back to Gates ) . Between 2009 and 2014 , his wealth doubled from US $ 40   billion to US $ 82   billion . In October 2017 , Gates was surpassed by Amazon founder Jeff Bezos as the richest person in the world . On November 15 , 2019 , he once again became the richest person in the world after a 48% increase in Microsoft shares , surpassing Bezos . Gates told the BBC , " I ' ve paid more tax than any individual ever , and gladly so   ... I ' ve paid over $ 6 billion in taxes . " He is a proponent of higher taxes , particularly for the rich .	Who was the richest person in the world in March 2010?	Carlos Slim.
In an interview that was held at the TED conference in March 2015 , with Baidu ' s CEO , Robin Li , Gates said he would " highly recommend " Nick Bostrom ' s recent work , Superintelligence : Paths , Dangers , Strategies . During the conference , Gates warned that the world was not prepared for the next pandemic , a situation that would come to pass in late 2019 when the COVID - 19 pandemic began . In March 2018 , Gates met at his home in Seattle with Mohammed bin Salman , the reformist crown prince and de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia to discuss investment opportunities for Saudi Vision 2030 . In June 2019 , Gates admitted that losing the mobile operating system race to Android was his biggest mistake . He stated that it was within their skill set of being the dominant player , but partially blames the antitrust litigation during the time . That same year , Gates became an advisory board member of the Bloomberg New Economy Forum .	Who did you highly recommend in the TED conference in March 2015?	Nick Bostrom and his recent work, Superintelligence: Paths, Dangers, Strategies.
In an interview that was held at the TED conference in March 2015 , with Baidu ' s CEO , Robin Li , Gates said he would " highly recommend " Nick Bostrom ' s recent work , Superintelligence : Paths , Dangers , Strategies . During the conference , Gates warned that the world was not prepared for the next pandemic , a situation that would come to pass in late 2019 when the COVID - 19 pandemic began . In March 2018 , Gates met at his home in Seattle with Mohammed bin Salman , the reformist crown prince and de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia to discuss investment opportunities for Saudi Vision 2030 . In June 2019 , Gates admitted that losing the mobile operating system race to Android was his biggest mistake . He stated that it was within their skill set of being the dominant player , but partially blames the antitrust litigation during the time . That same year , Gates became an advisory board member of the Bloomberg New Economy Forum .	What did you warn about during the conference?	I warned that the world was not prepared for the next pandemic.
In an interview that was held at the TED conference in March 2015 , with Baidu ' s CEO , Robin Li , Gates said he would " highly recommend " Nick Bostrom ' s recent work , Superintelligence : Paths , Dangers , Strategies . During the conference , Gates warned that the world was not prepared for the next pandemic , a situation that would come to pass in late 2019 when the COVID - 19 pandemic began . In March 2018 , Gates met at his home in Seattle with Mohammed bin Salman , the reformist crown prince and de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia to discuss investment opportunities for Saudi Vision 2030 . In June 2019 , Gates admitted that losing the mobile operating system race to Android was his biggest mistake . He stated that it was within their skill set of being the dominant player , but partially blames the antitrust litigation during the time . That same year , Gates became an advisory board member of the Bloomberg New Economy Forum .	Who did you meet in your home in Seattle in March 2018?	I met Mohammed bin Salman, the reformist crown prince and de facto ruler of Saudi Arabia.
Gates met regularly with Microsoft ' s senior managers and program managers , and the managers described him as being verbally combative . He also berated them for perceived holes in their business strategies or proposals that placed the company ' s long - term interests at risk . Gates saw competition in personal terms ; when Borland ' s Turbo Pascal performed better than Microsoft ' s own tools , he yelled at programming director Greg Whitten " for half an hour " because , Gates believed , Borland ' s Philippe Kahn had surpassed Gates . Gates interrupted presentations with such comments as " that ' s the stupidest thing I ' ve ever heard " and " why don ' t you just give up your options and join the Peace Corps ? " The target of his outburst would then have to defend the proposal in detail until Gates was fully convinced . Not all harsh language was criticism ; a manager recalled that " You ’ re full of shit . That ’ s the stupidest fucking thing I ’ ve ever heard " meant that Gates was amazed . " In the lore of Microsoft , if Bill says that to you , you ’ re made " . When subordinates appeared to be procrastinating , he was known to remark sarcastically , " I ' ll do it over the weekend " . Gates has been accused of bullying Microsoft employees .	How did you react when Borland's Turbo Pascal performed better than your own tools?	I yelled at programming director Greg Whitten "for half an hour" because I believed Borland's Philippe Kahn had surpassed me.
According to the Bloomberg Billionaires Index , Gates was the world ' s highest - earning billionaire in 2013 , as his net worth increased by US $ 15.8   billion to US $ 78.5   billion . As of January   2014 [ update ] , most of Gates ' s assets are held in Cascade Investment LLC , an entity through which he owns stakes in numerous businesses , including Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts , and Corbis Corp . On February 4 , 2014 , Gates stepped down as chairman of Microsoft to become " technology advisor " at the firm , alongside CEO Satya Nadella .	Which businesses do you own stakes in through Cascade Investment LLC?	I own stakes in numerous businesses, including Four Seasons Hotels and Resorts, and Corbis Corp, through Cascade Investment LLC.
