Clinton issued 141 pardons and 36 commutations on his last day in office on January 20 , 2001 . Controversy surrounded Marc Rich and allegations that Hillary Clinton ' s brother , Hugh Rodham , accepted payments in return for influencing the president ' s decision - making regarding the pardons . Federal prosecutor Mary Jo White was appointed to investigate the pardon of Rich . She was later replaced by then - Republican James Comey . The investigation found no wrongdoing on Clinton ' s part . Clinton also pardoned 4 defendants in the Whitewater Scandal , Chris Wade , Susan McDougal , Stephen Smith , and Robert W . Palmer , all of whom had ties to Clinton when he was governor of Arkansas . Former Clinton HUD Secretary Henry Cisneros , who pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI , was also among Clinton ' s pardons .	Who were some of the defendants pardoned in the Whitewater Scandal?	Some of the defendants pardoned in the Whitewater Scandal were Chris Wade, Susan McDougal, Stephen Smith, and Robert W. Palmer.
In September 2004 , Clinton underwent quadruple bypass surgery . In March 2005 , he again underwent surgery , this time for a partially collapsed lung . On February 11 , 2010 , he was rushed to New York - Presbyterian / Columbia Hospital in Manhattan after complaining of chest pains , and he had two coronary stents implanted in his heart . After this procedure , Clinton adopted a plant - based whole foods ( vegan ) diet , which had been recommended by doctors Dean Ornish and Caldwell Esselstyn . However , he has since incorporated fish and lean proteins at the suggestion of Mark Hyman , a proponent of the pseudoscientific ethos of functional medicine . As a result , he is no longer a strict vegan .	What procedure did you have done on February 11, 2010?	I had two coronary stents implanted in my heart.
Since then , Clinton has been assigned many other diplomatic missions . He was named United Nations Special Envoy to Haiti in 2009 following a series of hurricanes which caused $ 1   billion in damages . Clinton organized a conference with the Inter - American Development Bank , where a new industrial park was discussed in an effort to " build back better " . In response to the 2010 Haiti earthquake , U . S . president Barack Obama announced that Clinton and George W . Bush would coordinate efforts to raise funds for Haiti ' s recovery . Funds began pouring into Haiti , which led to funding becoming available for Caracol Industrial Park in a part of the country unaffected by the earthquake . While Hillary Clinton was in South Korea , she and Cheryl Mills worked to convince SAE - A , a large apparel subcontractor , to invest in Haiti despite the company ' s deep concerns about plans to raise the minimum wage . In the summer of 2010 , the South Korean company signed a contract at the U . S . State Department , ensuring that the new industrial park would have a key tenant . In 2010 , Clinton announced support of , and delivered the keynote address for , the inauguration of NTR , Ireland ' s first environmental foundation . At the 2012 Democratic National Convention , Clinton gave a widely praised speech nominating Barack Obama .	What was the outcome of Hillary Clinton and Cheryl Mills' efforts to convince SAE-A to invest in Haiti?	The outcome was that SAE-A, a large apparel subcontractor, signed a contract at the U.S. State Department to ensure the new industrial park would have a key tenant.
In September 2004 , Clinton underwent quadruple bypass surgery . In March 2005 , he again underwent surgery , this time for a partially collapsed lung . On February 11 , 2010 , he was rushed to New York - Presbyterian / Columbia Hospital in Manhattan after complaining of chest pains , and he had two coronary stents implanted in his heart . After this procedure , Clinton adopted a plant - based whole foods ( vegan ) diet , which had been recommended by doctors Dean Ornish and Caldwell Esselstyn . However , he has since incorporated fish and lean proteins at the suggestion of Mark Hyman , a proponent of the pseudoscientific ethos of functional medicine . As a result , he is no longer a strict vegan .	When did you undergo quadruple bypass surgery?	In September 2004.
In the midst of a brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanian separatists in the province of Kosovo by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia , Clinton authorized the use of U . S . Armed Forces in a NATO bombing campaign against Yugoslavia in 1999 , named Operation Allied Force . The stated reasoning behind the intervention was to stop the ethnic cleansing ( and what the Clinton administration labeled genocide ) of Albanians by Yugoslav anti - guerilla military units . General Wesley Clark was Supreme Allied Commander of NATO and oversaw the mission . With United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 , the bombing campaign ended on June 10 , 1999 . The resolution placed Kosovo under UN administration and authorized a peacekeeping force to be deployed to the region . NATO announced its soldiers all survived combat , though two died in an Apache helicopter crash . Journalists in the popular press criticized genocide statements by the Clinton administration as false and greatly exaggerated . Prior to the bombing campaign on March 24 , 1999 , estimates showed that the number of civilians killed in the over year long conflict in Kosovo had been approximately 1 , 800 , with critics asserting that little or no evidence existed of genocide . In a post - war inquiry , the Organization for Security and Co - operation in Europe noted " the patterns of the expulsions and the vast increase in lootings , killings , rape , kidnappings and pillage once the NATO air war began on March 24 . " In 2001 , the UN - supervised Supreme Court of Kosovo ruled that genocide ( the intent to destroy a people ) did not take place , but recognized " a systematic campaign of terror , including murders , rapes , arsons and severe maltreatments " with the intention being the forceful departure of the Albanian population . The term " ethnic cleansing " was used as an alternative to " genocide " to denote not just ethnically motivated murder but also displacement , though critics charge there is little difference . Slobodan Milo š evi ć , the president of Yugoslavia at the time of the atrocities , was eventually brought to trial before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in the Hague on charges including crimes against humanity and war crimes for his role in the war . He died in 2006 , before the completion of the trial .	How many civilians were estimated to have been killed in the conflict in Kosovo before the bombing campaign?	Approximately 1,800.
In the midst of a brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanian separatists in the province of Kosovo by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia , Clinton authorized the use of U . S . Armed Forces in a NATO bombing campaign against Yugoslavia in 1999 , named Operation Allied Force . The stated reasoning behind the intervention was to stop the ethnic cleansing ( and what the Clinton administration labeled genocide ) of Albanians by Yugoslav anti - guerilla military units . General Wesley Clark was Supreme Allied Commander of NATO and oversaw the mission . With United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 , the bombing campaign ended on June 10 , 1999 . The resolution placed Kosovo under UN administration and authorized a peacekeeping force to be deployed to the region . NATO announced its soldiers all survived combat , though two died in an Apache helicopter crash . Journalists in the popular press criticized genocide statements by the Clinton administration as false and greatly exaggerated . Prior to the bombing campaign on March 24 , 1999 , estimates showed that the number of civilians killed in the over year long conflict in Kosovo had been approximately 1 , 800 , with critics asserting that little or no evidence existed of genocide . In a post - war inquiry , the Organization for Security and Co - operation in Europe noted " the patterns of the expulsions and the vast increase in lootings , killings , rape , kidnappings and pillage once the NATO air war began on March 24 . " In 2001 , the UN - supervised Supreme Court of Kosovo ruled that genocide ( the intent to destroy a people ) did not take place , but recognized " a systematic campaign of terror , including murders , rapes , arsons and severe maltreatments " with the intention being the forceful departure of the Albanian population . The term " ethnic cleansing " was used as an alternative to " genocide " to denote not just ethnically motivated murder but also displacement , though critics charge there is little difference . Slobodan Milo š evi ć , the president of Yugoslavia at the time of the atrocities , was eventually brought to trial before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in the Hague on charges including crimes against humanity and war crimes for his role in the war . He died in 2006 , before the completion of the trial .	Who was the Supreme Allied Commander of NATO during the bombing campaign?	General Wesley Clark.
On October 11 , 1975 , in Fayetteville , Arkansas , he married Hillary Rodham , whom he met while studying at Yale University . They had Chelsea Clinton , their only child , on February 27 , 1980 . He is the maternal grandfather to Chelsea ' s three children .	How many children do you have?	I have one child, Chelsea Clinton.
Various colleges and universities have awarded Clinton honorary degrees , including Doctorate of Law degrees and Doctor of Humane Letters degrees . He received an honorary degree from Georgetown University , his alma mater , and was the commencement speaker in 1980 . He is an honorary fellow of University College , Oxford , which he attended as a Rhodes Scholar , although he did not complete his studies there . Schools have been named for Clinton , and statues have been built to pay him homage . U . S . states where he has been honored include Missouri , Arkansas , Kentucky , and New York . He was presented with the Medal for Distinguished Public Service by Secretary of Defense William Cohen in 2001 . The Clinton Presidential Center was opened in Little Rock , Arkansas , in his honor on December 5 , 2001 .	Where is your Presidential Center located?	My Presidential Center is located in Little Rock, Arkansas.
In September 2004 , Clinton underwent quadruple bypass surgery . In March 2005 , he again underwent surgery , this time for a partially collapsed lung . On February 11 , 2010 , he was rushed to New York - Presbyterian / Columbia Hospital in Manhattan after complaining of chest pains , and he had two coronary stents implanted in his heart . After this procedure , Clinton adopted a plant - based whole foods ( vegan ) diet , which had been recommended by doctors Dean Ornish and Caldwell Esselstyn . However , he has since incorporated fish and lean proteins at the suggestion of Mark Hyman , a proponent of the pseudoscientific ethos of functional medicine . As a result , he is no longer a strict vegan .	Why were you rushed to New York - Presbyterian / Columbia Hospital in Manhattan on February 11, 2010?	I was rushed to the hospital after complaining of chest pains.
Various colleges and universities have awarded Clinton honorary degrees , including Doctorate of Law degrees and Doctor of Humane Letters degrees . He received an honorary degree from Georgetown University , his alma mater , and was the commencement speaker in 1980 . He is an honorary fellow of University College , Oxford , which he attended as a Rhodes Scholar , although he did not complete his studies there . Schools have been named for Clinton , and statues have been built to pay him homage . U . S . states where he has been honored include Missouri , Arkansas , Kentucky , and New York . He was presented with the Medal for Distinguished Public Service by Secretary of Defense William Cohen in 2001 . The Clinton Presidential Center was opened in Little Rock , Arkansas , in his honor on December 5 , 2001 .	Which universities have awarded you honorary degrees?	Various colleges and universities have awarded me honorary degrees, including Georgetown University and University College, Oxford.
Since then , Clinton has been assigned many other diplomatic missions . He was named United Nations Special Envoy to Haiti in 2009 following a series of hurricanes which caused $ 1   billion in damages . Clinton organized a conference with the Inter - American Development Bank , where a new industrial park was discussed in an effort to " build back better " . In response to the 2010 Haiti earthquake , U . S . president Barack Obama announced that Clinton and George W . Bush would coordinate efforts to raise funds for Haiti ' s recovery . Funds began pouring into Haiti , which led to funding becoming available for Caracol Industrial Park in a part of the country unaffected by the earthquake . While Hillary Clinton was in South Korea , she and Cheryl Mills worked to convince SAE - A , a large apparel subcontractor , to invest in Haiti despite the company ' s deep concerns about plans to raise the minimum wage . In the summer of 2010 , the South Korean company signed a contract at the U . S . State Department , ensuring that the new industrial park would have a key tenant . In 2010 , Clinton announced support of , and delivered the keynote address for , the inauguration of NTR , Ireland ' s first environmental foundation . At the 2012 Democratic National Convention , Clinton gave a widely praised speech nominating Barack Obama .	Who coordinated efforts with George W. Bush to raise funds for Haiti's recovery after the 2010 earthquake?	I coordinated efforts with George W. Bush to raise funds for Haiti's recovery.
After his presidential transition , Clinton was inaugurated as the 42nd president of the United States on January 20 , 1993 . Clinton was physically exhausted at the time , and had an inexperienced staff . His high levels of public support dropped in the first few weeks , as he made a series of mistakes . His first choice for attorney general had not paid her taxes on babysitters and was forced to withdraw . The second appointee also withdrew for the same reason . Clinton had repeatedly promised to encourage gays in the military service , despite what he knew to be the strong opposition of the military leadership . He tried anyway , and was publicly opposed by the top generals , and forced by Congress to a compromise position of " Don ' t ask , don ' t tell " whereby gays could serve if and only if they kept it secret . He devised a $ 16 - billion stimulus package primarily to aid inner - city programs desired by liberals , but it was defeated by a Republican filibuster in the Senate . His popularity at the 100 day mark of his term was the lowest of any president at that point .	What issue did you face regarding the appointment of attorney general?	My first choice for attorney general had not paid her taxes on babysitters and was forced to withdraw. The second appointee also withdrew for the same reason.
On July 29 , 1994 , the Clinton administration launched the first official White House website , whitehouse . gov . The site was followed with three more versions , with the final version being launched on July 21 , 2000 . The White House website was part of a wider movement of the Clinton administration toward web - based communication . According to Robert Longley , " Clinton and Gore were responsible for pressing almost all federal agencies , the U . S . court system and the U . S . military onto the Internet , thus opening up America ' s government to more of America ' s citizens than ever before . On July 17 , 1996 , Clinton issued Executive Order 13011 — Federal Information Technology , ordering the heads of all federal agencies to utilize information technology fully to make the information of the agency easily accessible to the public . "	How many versions of the White House website were launched?	Three more versions were launched after the first one.
On July 29 , 1994 , the Clinton administration launched the first official White House website , whitehouse . gov . The site was followed with three more versions , with the final version being launched on July 21 , 2000 . The White House website was part of a wider movement of the Clinton administration toward web - based communication . According to Robert Longley , " Clinton and Gore were responsible for pressing almost all federal agencies , the U . S . court system and the U . S . military onto the Internet , thus opening up America ' s government to more of America ' s citizens than ever before . On July 17 , 1996 , Clinton issued Executive Order 13011 — Federal Information Technology , ordering the heads of all federal agencies to utilize information technology fully to make the information of the agency easily accessible to the public . "	What was the purpose of your administration's movement toward web-based communication?	The purpose was to open up America's government to more of America's citizens.
Since then , Clinton has been assigned many other diplomatic missions . He was named United Nations Special Envoy to Haiti in 2009 following a series of hurricanes which caused $ 1   billion in damages . Clinton organized a conference with the Inter - American Development Bank , where a new industrial park was discussed in an effort to " build back better " . In response to the 2010 Haiti earthquake , U . S . president Barack Obama announced that Clinton and George W . Bush would coordinate efforts to raise funds for Haiti ' s recovery . Funds began pouring into Haiti , which led to funding becoming available for Caracol Industrial Park in a part of the country unaffected by the earthquake . While Hillary Clinton was in South Korea , she and Cheryl Mills worked to convince SAE - A , a large apparel subcontractor , to invest in Haiti despite the company ' s deep concerns about plans to raise the minimum wage . In the summer of 2010 , the South Korean company signed a contract at the U . S . State Department , ensuring that the new industrial park would have a key tenant . In 2010 , Clinton announced support of , and delivered the keynote address for , the inauguration of NTR , Ireland ' s first environmental foundation . At the 2012 Democratic National Convention , Clinton gave a widely praised speech nominating Barack Obama .	What event did you announce support of and deliver the keynote address for in Ireland?	I announced support of and delivered the keynote address for the inauguration of NTR, Ireland's first environmental foundation.
Clinton issued 141 pardons and 36 commutations on his last day in office on January 20 , 2001 . Controversy surrounded Marc Rich and allegations that Hillary Clinton ' s brother , Hugh Rodham , accepted payments in return for influencing the president ' s decision - making regarding the pardons . Federal prosecutor Mary Jo White was appointed to investigate the pardon of Rich . She was later replaced by then - Republican James Comey . The investigation found no wrongdoing on Clinton ' s part . Clinton also pardoned 4 defendants in the Whitewater Scandal , Chris Wade , Susan McDougal , Stephen Smith , and Robert W . Palmer , all of whom had ties to Clinton when he was governor of Arkansas . Former Clinton HUD Secretary Henry Cisneros , who pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI , was also among Clinton ' s pardons .	What was the result of the investigation into your pardons?	The investigation found no wrongdoing on my part regarding the pardons.
On July 29 , 1994 , the Clinton administration launched the first official White House website , whitehouse . gov . The site was followed with three more versions , with the final version being launched on July 21 , 2000 . The White House website was part of a wider movement of the Clinton administration toward web - based communication . According to Robert Longley , " Clinton and Gore were responsible for pressing almost all federal agencies , the U . S . court system and the U . S . military onto the Internet , thus opening up America ' s government to more of America ' s citizens than ever before . On July 17 , 1996 , Clinton issued Executive Order 13011 — Federal Information Technology , ordering the heads of all federal agencies to utilize information technology fully to make the information of the agency easily accessible to the public . "	When was the first official White House website launched?	On July 29, 1994.
On October 11 , 1975 , in Fayetteville , Arkansas , he married Hillary Rodham , whom he met while studying at Yale University . They had Chelsea Clinton , their only child , on February 27 , 1980 . He is the maternal grandfather to Chelsea ' s three children .	When was Chelsea Clinton born?	Chelsea Clinton was born on February 27, 1980.
In the midst of a brutal crackdown on ethnic Albanian separatists in the province of Kosovo by the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia , Clinton authorized the use of U . S . Armed Forces in a NATO bombing campaign against Yugoslavia in 1999 , named Operation Allied Force . The stated reasoning behind the intervention was to stop the ethnic cleansing ( and what the Clinton administration labeled genocide ) of Albanians by Yugoslav anti - guerilla military units . General Wesley Clark was Supreme Allied Commander of NATO and oversaw the mission . With United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244 , the bombing campaign ended on June 10 , 1999 . The resolution placed Kosovo under UN administration and authorized a peacekeeping force to be deployed to the region . NATO announced its soldiers all survived combat , though two died in an Apache helicopter crash . Journalists in the popular press criticized genocide statements by the Clinton administration as false and greatly exaggerated . Prior to the bombing campaign on March 24 , 1999 , estimates showed that the number of civilians killed in the over year long conflict in Kosovo had been approximately 1 , 800 , with critics asserting that little or no evidence existed of genocide . In a post - war inquiry , the Organization for Security and Co - operation in Europe noted " the patterns of the expulsions and the vast increase in lootings , killings , rape , kidnappings and pillage once the NATO air war began on March 24 . " In 2001 , the UN - supervised Supreme Court of Kosovo ruled that genocide ( the intent to destroy a people ) did not take place , but recognized " a systematic campaign of terror , including murders , rapes , arsons and severe maltreatments " with the intention being the forceful departure of the Albanian population . The term " ethnic cleansing " was used as an alternative to " genocide " to denote not just ethnically motivated murder but also displacement , though critics charge there is little difference . Slobodan Milo š evi ć , the president of Yugoslavia at the time of the atrocities , was eventually brought to trial before the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia in the Hague on charges including crimes against humanity and war crimes for his role in the war . He died in 2006 , before the completion of the trial .	What was the name of the NATO bombing campaign against Yugoslavia in 1999?	Operation Allied Force.
On October 11 , 1975 , in Fayetteville , Arkansas , he married Hillary Rodham , whom he met while studying at Yale University . They had Chelsea Clinton , their only child , on February 27 , 1980 . He is the maternal grandfather to Chelsea ' s three children .	How many grandchildren do you have?	I am the maternal grandfather to Chelsea's three children.
During the 2008 Democratic presidential primary campaign , Clinton vigorously advocated on behalf of his wife , Hillary . Through speaking engagements and fundraisers , he was able to raise $ 10   million toward her campaign . Some worried that as an ex - president , he was too active on the trail , too negative to Clinton rival Barack Obama , and alienating his supporters at home and abroad . Many were especially critical of him following his remarks in the South Carolina primary , which Obama won . Later in the 2008 primaries , there was some infighting between Bill and Hillary ' s staffs , especially in Pennsylvania . Considering Bill ' s remarks , many thought he could not rally Hillary supporters behind Obama after Obama won the primary . Such remarks led to apprehension that the party would be split to the detriment of Obama ' s election . Fears were allayed August 27 , 2008 , when Clinton enthusiastically endorsed Obama at the 2008 Democratic National Convention , saying all his experience as president assures him that Obama is " ready to lead " . After Hillary Clinton ' s presidential campaign was over , Bill Clinton continued to raise funds to help pay off her campaign debt .	Why were many critical of you after your remarks in the South Carolina primary?	Many were critical of me after my remarks in the South Carolina primary because Obama won and they thought I could not rally Hillary supporters behind Obama.
In 1978 , Clinton entered the Arkansas gubernatorial primary . At just 31 years old , he was one of the youngest gubernatorial candidates in the state ' s history . Clinton was elected governor of Arkansas in 1978 , having defeated the Republican candidate Lynn Lowe , a farmer from Texarkana . Clinton was only 32 years old when he took office , the youngest governor in the country at the time and the second youngest governor in the history of Arkansas . Due to his youthful appearance , Clinton was often called the " Boy Governor " . He worked on educational reform and directed the maintenance of Arkansas ' s roads , with wife Hillary leading a successful committee on urban health care reform . However , his term included an unpopular motor vehicle tax and citizens ' anger over the escape of Cuban refugees ( from the Mariel boatlift ) detained in Fort Chaffee in 1980 . Monroe Schwarzlose , of Kingsland in Cleveland County , polled 31   percent of the vote against Clinton in the Democratic gubernatorial primary of 1980 . Some suggested Schwarzlose ' s unexpected voter turnout foreshadowed Clinton ' s defeat by Republican challenger Frank D . White in the general election that year . As Clinton once joked , he was the youngest ex - governor in the nation ' s history .	How old were you when you became governor of Arkansas?	I was 32 years old.
Various colleges and universities have awarded Clinton honorary degrees , including Doctorate of Law degrees and Doctor of Humane Letters degrees . He received an honorary degree from Georgetown University , his alma mater , and was the commencement speaker in 1980 . He is an honorary fellow of University College , Oxford , which he attended as a Rhodes Scholar , although he did not complete his studies there . Schools have been named for Clinton , and statues have been built to pay him homage . U . S . states where he has been honored include Missouri , Arkansas , Kentucky , and New York . He was presented with the Medal for Distinguished Public Service by Secretary of Defense William Cohen in 2001 . The Clinton Presidential Center was opened in Little Rock , Arkansas , in his honor on December 5 , 2001 .	What degrees were awarded to you?	I have received Doctorate of Law degrees and Doctor of Humane Letters degrees.
Clinton issued 141 pardons and 36 commutations on his last day in office on January 20 , 2001 . Controversy surrounded Marc Rich and allegations that Hillary Clinton ' s brother , Hugh Rodham , accepted payments in return for influencing the president ' s decision - making regarding the pardons . Federal prosecutor Mary Jo White was appointed to investigate the pardon of Rich . She was later replaced by then - Republican James Comey . The investigation found no wrongdoing on Clinton ' s part . Clinton also pardoned 4 defendants in the Whitewater Scandal , Chris Wade , Susan McDougal , Stephen Smith , and Robert W . Palmer , all of whom had ties to Clinton when he was governor of Arkansas . Former Clinton HUD Secretary Henry Cisneros , who pleaded guilty to lying to the FBI , was also among Clinton ' s pardons .	Who replaced Mary Jo White in the investigation?	Then-Republican James Comey replaced Mary Jo White in the investigation.
Various colleges and universities have awarded Clinton honorary degrees , including Doctorate of Law degrees and Doctor of Humane Letters degrees . He received an honorary degree from Georgetown University , his alma mater , and was the commencement speaker in 1980 . He is an honorary fellow of University College , Oxford , which he attended as a Rhodes Scholar , although he did not complete his studies there . Schools have been named for Clinton , and statues have been built to pay him homage . U . S . states where he has been honored include Missouri , Arkansas , Kentucky , and New York . He was presented with the Medal for Distinguished Public Service by Secretary of Defense William Cohen in 2001 . The Clinton Presidential Center was opened in Little Rock , Arkansas , in his honor on December 5 , 2001 .	Who presented you with the Medal for Distinguished Public Service?	Secretary of Defense William Cohen presented me with the Medal for Distinguished Public Service in 2001.
