1969 brought another change to Jamaican popular music in which the beat slowed down even further . The new beat was a slow , steady , ticking rhythm that was first heard on The Maytals song " Do the Reggay " . Marley approached producer Leslie Kong , who was regarded as one of the major developers of the reggae sound . For the recordings , Kong combined the Wailers with his studio musicians called Beverley ' s All - Stars , which consisted of the bassists Lloyd Parks and Jackie Jackson , the drummer Paul Douglas , the keyboard players Gladstone Anderson and Winston Wright , and the guitarists Rad Bryan , Lynn Taitt , and Hux Brown . As David Moskowitz writes , " The tracks recorded in this session illustrated the Wailers ' earliest efforts in the new reggae style . Gone are the ska trumpets and saxophones of the earlier songs , with instrumental breaks now being played by the electric guitar . " The songs recorded would be released as the album The Best of The Wailers , including tracks " Soul Shakedown Party " , " Stop That Train " , " Caution " , " Go Tell It on the Mountain " , " Soon Come " , " Can ' t You See " , " Soul Captives " , " Cheer Up " , " Back Out " , and " Do It Twice " .	Who were the studio musicians that Leslie Kong combined with you?	They were Beverley's All-Stars, consisting of Lloyd Parks, Jackie Jackson, Paul Douglas, Gladstone Anderson, Winston Wright, Rad Bryan, Lynn Taitt, and Hux Brown.
Internationally , Marley ' s message also continues to reverberate among various indigenous communities . For instance , members of the Native American Hopi and Havasupai tribes revere his work . There are also many tributes to Bob Marley throughout India , including restaurants , hotels , and cultural festivals .	Where does your message continue to reverberate internationally?	My message continues to reverberate internationally among various indigenous communities.
Despite the break - up , Marley continued recording as " Bob Marley & The Wailers " . His new backing band included brothers Carlton and Aston " Family Man " Barrett on drums and bass respectively , Junior Marvin and Al Anderson on lead guitar , Tyrone Downie and Earl " Wya " Lindo on keyboards , and Alvin " Seeco " Patterson on percussion . The " I Threes " , consisting of Judy Mowatt , Marcia Griffiths , and Marley ' s wife , Rita , provided backing vocals . In 1975 , Marley had his international breakthrough with his first hit outside Jamaica , with a live version of " No Woman , No Cry " , from the Live ! album . This was followed by his breakthrough album in the United States , Rastaman Vibration ( 1976 ) , which reached the Top 50 of the Billboard Soul Charts .	Who were the "I Threes"?	The "I Threes" were a group consisting of Judy Mowatt, Marcia Griffiths, and my wife, Rita, who provided backing vocals.
As a Rastafarian Marley supported the legalisation of cannabis or " ganja " , which Rastafarians believe is an aid to meditation . Marley began to use cannabis when he converted to the Rastafari faith from Catholicism in 1966 . He was arrested in 1968 after being caught with cannabis but continued to use marijuana in accordance with his religious beliefs . Of his marijuana usage , he said , " When you smoke herb , herb reveal yourself to you . All the wickedness you do , the herb reveal itself to yourself , your conscience , show up yourself clear , because herb make you meditate . Is only a natural t ' ing and it grow like a tree . " Marley saw marijuana usage as a vital factor in religious growth and connection with Jah , and as a way to philosophise and become wiser .	Did you continue to use marijuana after being arrested?	Yes, I continued to use marijuana in accordance with my religious beliefs.
Shortly afterward , Marley ' s health deteriorated as his cancer had spread throughout his body . The rest of the tour was canceled , and Marley sought treatment at the clinic of Josef Issels in Rottach - Egern , Bavaria , Germany , where he underwent an alternative cancer treatment called Issels treatment , partly based on avoidance of certain foods , drinks , and other substances . After eight months of failing to effectively treat his advancing cancer , Marley boarded a plane for his home in Jamaica . During the flight , Marley ' s vital functions worsened . After landing in Miami , Florida , he was taken to Cedars of Lebanon Hospital ( later University of Miami Hospital ) for immediate medical attention , where he died on 11 May 1981 , aged 36 , due to the spread of melanoma to his lungs and brain . His final words to his son Ziggy were : " On your way up , take me up . On your way down , don ' t let me down . "	What was the cause of your death?	My death was caused by the spread of melanoma to my lungs and brain.
Whilst in England , he recorded the albums Exodus and Kaya . Exodus stayed on the British album charts for 56 consecutive weeks . It included four UK hit singles : " Exodus " , " Waiting in Vain " , " Jamming " , and " One Love " ( which interpolates Curtis Mayfield ' s hit , " People Get Ready " ) . During his time in London , he was arrested and received a conviction for possession of a small quantity of cannabis . In 1978 , Marley returned to Jamaica and performed at another political concert , the One Love Peace Concert , again in an effort to calm warring parties . Near the end of the performance , by Marley ' s request , Michael Manley ( leader of then - ruling People ' s National Party ) and his political rival Edward Seaga ( leader of the opposing Jamaica Labour Party ) joined each other on stage and shook hands .	When did you return to Jamaica and perform at the One Love Peace Concert?	I returned to Jamaica and performed at the One Love Peace Concert in 1978.
Whilst in England , he recorded the albums Exodus and Kaya . Exodus stayed on the British album charts for 56 consecutive weeks . It included four UK hit singles : " Exodus " , " Waiting in Vain " , " Jamming " , and " One Love " ( which interpolates Curtis Mayfield ' s hit , " People Get Ready " ) . During his time in London , he was arrested and received a conviction for possession of a small quantity of cannabis . In 1978 , Marley returned to Jamaica and performed at another political concert , the One Love Peace Concert , again in an effort to calm warring parties . Near the end of the performance , by Marley ' s request , Michael Manley ( leader of then - ruling People ' s National Party ) and his political rival Edward Seaga ( leader of the opposing Jamaica Labour Party ) joined each other on stage and shook hands .	What were you convicted for while in London?	I was convicted for possession of a small quantity of cannabis.
Between 1968 and 1972 , Bob and Rita Marley , Peter Tosh and Bunny Wailer re - cut some old tracks with JAD Records in Kingston and London in an attempt to commercialise the Wailers ' sound . Bunny later asserted that these songs " should never be released on an album ... they were just demos for record companies to listen to " . In 1968 , Bob and Rita visited songwriter Jimmy Norman at his apartment in the Bronx . Norman had written the extended lyrics for Kai Winding ' s " Time Is on My Side " ( covered by the Rolling Stones ) and had also written for Johnny Nash and Jimi Hendrix . A three - day jam session with Norman and others , including Norman ' s co - writer Al Pyfrom , resulted in a 24 - minute tape of Marley performing several of his own and Norman - Pyfrom ' s compositions . This tape is , according to Reggae archivist Roger Steffens , rare in that it was influenced by pop rather than reggae , as part of an effort to break Marley into the US charts . According to an article in The New York Times , Marley experimented on the tape with different sounds , adopting a doo - wop style on " Stay With Me " and " the slow love song style of 1960s artists " on " Splish for My Splash " . An artist yet to establish himself outside his native Jamaica , Marley lived in Ridgmount Gardens , Bloomsbury , during 1972 .	Who were the members of the group that tried to commercialize your sound?	I, Rita Marley, Peter Tosh, and Bunny Wailer.
1969 brought another change to Jamaican popular music in which the beat slowed down even further . The new beat was a slow , steady , ticking rhythm that was first heard on The Maytals song " Do the Reggay " . Marley approached producer Leslie Kong , who was regarded as one of the major developers of the reggae sound . For the recordings , Kong combined the Wailers with his studio musicians called Beverley ' s All - Stars , which consisted of the bassists Lloyd Parks and Jackie Jackson , the drummer Paul Douglas , the keyboard players Gladstone Anderson and Winston Wright , and the guitarists Rad Bryan , Lynn Taitt , and Hux Brown . As David Moskowitz writes , " The tracks recorded in this session illustrated the Wailers ' earliest efforts in the new reggae style . Gone are the ska trumpets and saxophones of the earlier songs , with instrumental breaks now being played by the electric guitar . " The songs recorded would be released as the album The Best of The Wailers , including tracks " Soul Shakedown Party " , " Stop That Train " , " Caution " , " Go Tell It on the Mountain " , " Soon Come " , " Can ' t You See " , " Soul Captives " , " Cheer Up " , " Back Out " , and " Do It Twice " .	What instruments were substituted for the ska trumpets and saxophones in your recordings?	Instrumental breaks were played by my electric guitar.
1969 brought another change to Jamaican popular music in which the beat slowed down even further . The new beat was a slow , steady , ticking rhythm that was first heard on The Maytals song " Do the Reggay " . Marley approached producer Leslie Kong , who was regarded as one of the major developers of the reggae sound . For the recordings , Kong combined the Wailers with his studio musicians called Beverley ' s All - Stars , which consisted of the bassists Lloyd Parks and Jackie Jackson , the drummer Paul Douglas , the keyboard players Gladstone Anderson and Winston Wright , and the guitarists Rad Bryan , Lynn Taitt , and Hux Brown . As David Moskowitz writes , " The tracks recorded in this session illustrated the Wailers ' earliest efforts in the new reggae style . Gone are the ska trumpets and saxophones of the earlier songs , with instrumental breaks now being played by the electric guitar . " The songs recorded would be released as the album The Best of The Wailers , including tracks " Soul Shakedown Party " , " Stop That Train " , " Caution " , " Go Tell It on the Mountain " , " Soon Come " , " Can ' t You See " , " Soul Captives " , " Cheer Up " , " Back Out " , and " Do It Twice " .	Whose song introduced the new beat in Jamaican popular music?	The Maytals' song "Do the Reggay".
On 3 December 1976 , two days before " Smile Jamaica " , a free concert organised by the Jamaican Prime Minister Michael Manley in an attempt to ease tension between two warring political groups , Marley , his wife , and manager Don Taylor were wounded in an assault by unknown gunmen inside Marley ' s home . Taylor and Marley ' s wife sustained serious injuries but later made full recoveries . Bob Marley received minor wounds in the chest and arm . The attempt on his life was thought to have been politically motivated , as many felt the concert was really a support rally for Manley . Nonetheless , the concert proceeded , and an injured Marley performed as scheduled , two days after the attempt . The members of the group Zap Pow played as Bob Marley ' s backup band before a festival crowd of 80 , 000 while members of The Wailers were still missing or in hiding .	Who were the people injured in the assault?	My wife and my manager, Don Taylor, sustained serious injuries.
1969 brought another change to Jamaican popular music in which the beat slowed down even further . The new beat was a slow , steady , ticking rhythm that was first heard on The Maytals song " Do the Reggay " . Marley approached producer Leslie Kong , who was regarded as one of the major developers of the reggae sound . For the recordings , Kong combined the Wailers with his studio musicians called Beverley ' s All - Stars , which consisted of the bassists Lloyd Parks and Jackie Jackson , the drummer Paul Douglas , the keyboard players Gladstone Anderson and Winston Wright , and the guitarists Rad Bryan , Lynn Taitt , and Hux Brown . As David Moskowitz writes , " The tracks recorded in this session illustrated the Wailers ' earliest efforts in the new reggae style . Gone are the ska trumpets and saxophones of the earlier songs , with instrumental breaks now being played by the electric guitar . " The songs recorded would be released as the album The Best of The Wailers , including tracks " Soul Shakedown Party " , " Stop That Train " , " Caution " , " Go Tell It on the Mountain " , " Soon Come " , " Can ' t You See " , " Soul Captives " , " Cheer Up " , " Back Out " , and " Do It Twice " .	Who did you approach to work on the recordings?	I approached producer Leslie Kong.
Shortly afterward , Marley ' s health deteriorated as his cancer had spread throughout his body . The rest of the tour was canceled , and Marley sought treatment at the clinic of Josef Issels in Rottach - Egern , Bavaria , Germany , where he underwent an alternative cancer treatment called Issels treatment , partly based on avoidance of certain foods , drinks , and other substances . After eight months of failing to effectively treat his advancing cancer , Marley boarded a plane for his home in Jamaica . During the flight , Marley ' s vital functions worsened . After landing in Miami , Florida , he was taken to Cedars of Lebanon Hospital ( later University of Miami Hospital ) for immediate medical attention , where he died on 11 May 1981 , aged 36 , due to the spread of melanoma to his lungs and brain . His final words to his son Ziggy were : " On your way up , take me up . On your way down , don ' t let me down . "	Where were you taken for immediate medical attention after landing in Miami?	I was taken to Cedars of Lebanon Hospital (later University of Miami Hospital) for immediate medical attention.
Shortly afterward , Marley ' s health deteriorated as his cancer had spread throughout his body . The rest of the tour was canceled , and Marley sought treatment at the clinic of Josef Issels in Rottach - Egern , Bavaria , Germany , where he underwent an alternative cancer treatment called Issels treatment , partly based on avoidance of certain foods , drinks , and other substances . After eight months of failing to effectively treat his advancing cancer , Marley boarded a plane for his home in Jamaica . During the flight , Marley ' s vital functions worsened . After landing in Miami , Florida , he was taken to Cedars of Lebanon Hospital ( later University of Miami Hospital ) for immediate medical attention , where he died on 11 May 1981 , aged 36 , due to the spread of melanoma to his lungs and brain . His final words to his son Ziggy were : " On your way up , take me up . On your way down , don ' t let me down . "	Where did you seek treatment for your cancer?	I sought treatment at the clinic of Josef Issels in Rottach-Egern, Bavaria, Germany.
Internationally , Marley ' s message also continues to reverberate among various indigenous communities . For instance , members of the Native American Hopi and Havasupai tribes revere his work . There are also many tributes to Bob Marley throughout India , including restaurants , hotels , and cultural festivals .	What can be found in India to pay tribute to you?	There are restaurants, hotels, and cultural festivals in India that pay tribute to me.
Despite the break - up , Marley continued recording as " Bob Marley & The Wailers " . His new backing band included brothers Carlton and Aston " Family Man " Barrett on drums and bass respectively , Junior Marvin and Al Anderson on lead guitar , Tyrone Downie and Earl " Wya " Lindo on keyboards , and Alvin " Seeco " Patterson on percussion . The " I Threes " , consisting of Judy Mowatt , Marcia Griffiths , and Marley ' s wife , Rita , provided backing vocals . In 1975 , Marley had his international breakthrough with his first hit outside Jamaica , with a live version of " No Woman , No Cry " , from the Live ! album . This was followed by his breakthrough album in the United States , Rastaman Vibration ( 1976 ) , which reached the Top 50 of the Billboard Soul Charts .	Who were the members of your new backing band?	The members of my new backing band were Carlton and Aston "Family Man" Barrett on drums and bass respectively, Junior Marvin and Al Anderson on lead guitar, Tyrone Downie and Earl "Wya" Lindo on keyboards, and Alvin "Seeco" Patterson on percussion.
Shortly afterward , Marley ' s health deteriorated as his cancer had spread throughout his body . The rest of the tour was canceled , and Marley sought treatment at the clinic of Josef Issels in Rottach - Egern , Bavaria , Germany , where he underwent an alternative cancer treatment called Issels treatment , partly based on avoidance of certain foods , drinks , and other substances . After eight months of failing to effectively treat his advancing cancer , Marley boarded a plane for his home in Jamaica . During the flight , Marley ' s vital functions worsened . After landing in Miami , Florida , he was taken to Cedars of Lebanon Hospital ( later University of Miami Hospital ) for immediate medical attention , where he died on 11 May 1981 , aged 36 , due to the spread of melanoma to his lungs and brain . His final words to his son Ziggy were : " On your way up , take me up . On your way down , don ' t let me down . "	What kind of alternative cancer treatment did you undergo?	I underwent an alternative cancer treatment called Issels treatment.
On 3 December 1976 , two days before " Smile Jamaica " , a free concert organised by the Jamaican Prime Minister Michael Manley in an attempt to ease tension between two warring political groups , Marley , his wife , and manager Don Taylor were wounded in an assault by unknown gunmen inside Marley ' s home . Taylor and Marley ' s wife sustained serious injuries but later made full recoveries . Bob Marley received minor wounds in the chest and arm . The attempt on his life was thought to have been politically motivated , as many felt the concert was really a support rally for Manley . Nonetheless , the concert proceeded , and an injured Marley performed as scheduled , two days after the attempt . The members of the group Zap Pow played as Bob Marley ' s backup band before a festival crowd of 80 , 000 while members of The Wailers were still missing or in hiding .	Why was the attempt on your life thought to be politically motivated?	The attempt on my life was thought to be politically motivated because many felt that the "Smile Jamaica" concert was really a support rally for the Jamaican Prime Minister Michael Manley.
On 3 December 1976 , two days before " Smile Jamaica " , a free concert organised by the Jamaican Prime Minister Michael Manley in an attempt to ease tension between two warring political groups , Marley , his wife , and manager Don Taylor were wounded in an assault by unknown gunmen inside Marley ' s home . Taylor and Marley ' s wife sustained serious injuries but later made full recoveries . Bob Marley received minor wounds in the chest and arm . The attempt on his life was thought to have been politically motivated , as many felt the concert was really a support rally for Manley . Nonetheless , the concert proceeded , and an injured Marley performed as scheduled , two days after the attempt . The members of the group Zap Pow played as Bob Marley ' s backup band before a festival crowd of 80 , 000 while members of The Wailers were still missing or in hiding .	What injuries did you yourself receive during the assault?	I received minor wounds in my chest and arm.
In 1972 , Bob Marley signed with CBS Records in London and embarked on a UK tour with soul singer Johnny Nash . While in London the Wailers asked their road manager Brent Clarke to introduce them to Chris Blackwell , who had licensed some of their Coxsone releases for his Island Records . The Wailers intended to discuss the royalties associated with these releases ; instead , the meeting resulted in the offer of an advance of £ 4 , 000 to record an album . Since Jimmy Cliff , Island ' s top reggae star , had recently left the label , Blackwell was primed for a replacement . In Marley , Blackwell recognised the elements needed to snare the rock audience : " I was dealing with rock music , which was really rebel music . I felt that would really be the way to break Jamaican music . But you needed someone who could be that image . When Bob walked in he really was that image . " The Wailers returned to Jamaica to record at Harry J ' s in Kingston , which resulted in the album Catch a Fire .	What offer did your meeting with Chris Blackwell result in?	My meeting resulted in the offer of an advance of £4,000 to record an album.
In 1972 , Bob Marley signed with CBS Records in London and embarked on a UK tour with soul singer Johnny Nash . While in London the Wailers asked their road manager Brent Clarke to introduce them to Chris Blackwell , who had licensed some of their Coxsone releases for his Island Records . The Wailers intended to discuss the royalties associated with these releases ; instead , the meeting resulted in the offer of an advance of £ 4 , 000 to record an album . Since Jimmy Cliff , Island ' s top reggae star , had recently left the label , Blackwell was primed for a replacement . In Marley , Blackwell recognised the elements needed to snare the rock audience : " I was dealing with rock music , which was really rebel music . I felt that would really be the way to break Jamaican music . But you needed someone who could be that image . When Bob walked in he really was that image . " The Wailers returned to Jamaica to record at Harry J ' s in Kingston , which resulted in the album Catch a Fire .	When did you sign with CBS Records in London?	In 1972.
Several film adaptations of his life have been made as well . For instance , a feature - length documentary about his life , Rebel Music , won various awards at the Grammys . With contributions from Rita , The Wailers , and Marley ' s lovers and children , it also tells much of the story in his own words . In February 2008 , director Martin Scorsese announced his intention to produce a documentary movie on Marley . The film was set to be released on 6 February 2010 , on what would have been Marley ' s 65th birthday . However , Scorsese dropped out due to scheduling problems . He was replaced by Jonathan Demme , who dropped out due to creative differences with producer Steve Bing during the beginning of editing . Kevin Macdonald replaced Demme and the film , Marley , was released on 20 April 2012 . In 2011 , ex - girlfriend and filmmaker Esther Anderson , along with Gian Godoy , made the documentary Bob Marley : The Making of a Legend , which premiered at the Edinburgh International Film Festival .	What is the title of the feature-length documentary about your life that won awards at the Grammys?	The feature-length documentary about my life that won awards at the Grammys is called Rebel Music.
As a Rastafarian Marley supported the legalisation of cannabis or " ganja " , which Rastafarians believe is an aid to meditation . Marley began to use cannabis when he converted to the Rastafari faith from Catholicism in 1966 . He was arrested in 1968 after being caught with cannabis but continued to use marijuana in accordance with his religious beliefs . Of his marijuana usage , he said , " When you smoke herb , herb reveal yourself to you . All the wickedness you do , the herb reveal itself to yourself , your conscience , show up yourself clear , because herb make you meditate . Is only a natural t ' ing and it grow like a tree . " Marley saw marijuana usage as a vital factor in religious growth and connection with Jah , and as a way to philosophise and become wiser .	What is the significance of cannabis for you as a Rastafarian?	I believe that cannabis, or "ganja," is an aid to meditation.
Internationally , Marley ' s message also continues to reverberate among various indigenous communities . For instance , members of the Native American Hopi and Havasupai tribes revere his work . There are also many tributes to Bob Marley throughout India , including restaurants , hotels , and cultural festivals .	What kind of tributes can be found for you in India?	Tributes for me in India can be found in the form of restaurants, hotels, and cultural festivals.
In 1972 , Bob Marley signed with CBS Records in London and embarked on a UK tour with soul singer Johnny Nash . While in London the Wailers asked their road manager Brent Clarke to introduce them to Chris Blackwell , who had licensed some of their Coxsone releases for his Island Records . The Wailers intended to discuss the royalties associated with these releases ; instead , the meeting resulted in the offer of an advance of £ 4 , 000 to record an album . Since Jimmy Cliff , Island ' s top reggae star , had recently left the label , Blackwell was primed for a replacement . In Marley , Blackwell recognised the elements needed to snare the rock audience : " I was dealing with rock music , which was really rebel music . I felt that would really be the way to break Jamaican music . But you needed someone who could be that image . When Bob walked in he really was that image . " The Wailers returned to Jamaica to record at Harry J ' s in Kingston , which resulted in the album Catch a Fire .	What did you intend to discuss with Chris Blackwell?	I intended to discuss the royalties associated with the releases Chris Blackwell had licensed.
