In 1994 , Pitt portrayed the vampire Louis de Pointe du Lac in the horror film Interview with the Vampire : The Vampire Chronicles , based on Anne Rice ' s 1976 novel of the same name . He was part of an ensemble cast that included Tom Cruise , Kirsten Dunst , Christian Slater , and Antonio Banderas . Despite his winning two MTV Movie Awards at the 1995 ceremony , his performance was poorly received . According to the Dallas Observer , " Brad Pitt   [ ... ] is a large part of the problem [ in the film ] . When directors play up his cocky , hunkish , folksy side   [ ... ] he ' s a joy to watch . But there ' s nothing about him that suggests inner torment or even self - awareness , which makes him a boring Louis . " Following the release of Interview with the Vampire , Pitt starred in Legends of the Fall ( 1994 ) , based on a novel by the same name by Jim Harrison , set in the American West during the first four decades of the twentieth century . Portraying Tristan Ludlow , son of Colonel William Ludlow ( Anthony Hopkins ) a Cornish immigrant , Pitt received his first Golden Globe Award nomination , in the Best Actor category . Aidan Quinn and Henry Thomas co - starred as Pitt ' s brothers . Although the film ' s reception was mixed , many film critics praised Pitt ' s performance . Janet Maslin of The New York Times said , " Pitt ' s diffident mix of acting and attitude works to such heartthrob perfection it ' s a shame the film ' s superficiality gets in his way . " The Deseret News predicted that Legends of the Fall would solidify Pitt ' s reputation as a lead actor .	Which novel was your film Legends of the Fall based on?	Legends of the Fall was based on a novel by Jim Harrison.
His next role was as mob hitman Jackie Cogan in Andrew Dominik ' s 2012 Killing Them Softly , based on the novel Cogan ' s Trade by George V . Higgins . In 2013 , Pitt starred in World War Z , a thriller about a zombie apocalypse , based on Max Brooks ' s novel of the same name . Pitt also produced the film . World War Z grossed $ 540   million at the box office worldwide , becoming Pitt ' s highest grossing picture . Next in 2013 , he produced , and played a small role in , 12 Years a Slave , a historical drama based on the autobiography of Solomon Northup . The film received critical acclaim and was nominated for nine Academy Awards , winning three , including Best Picture . Also in 2013 , Pitt had a supporting role in Ridley Scott ' s The Counselor . Plan B Entertainment landed its first television series on the 2013 – 2014 schedule , as their joint venture with ABC Studios , the sci - fi / fantasy drama Resurrection , was picked up by ABC .	How much did "World War Z" gross at the box office worldwide?	$540 million.
In 1999 , Pitt portrayed Tyler Durden in Fight Club , a film adaptation of Chuck Palahniuk ' s novel of the same name , directed by David Fincher . Pitt prepared for the part with lessons in boxing , taekwondo , and grappling . To look the part , Pitt consented to the removal of pieces of his front teeth which were restored when filming ended . While promoting Fight Club , Pitt said that the film explored not taking one ' s aggressions out on someone else but to " have an experience , take a punch more and see how you come out on the other end . " Fight Club premiered at the 1999 Venice International Film Festival . Despite divided critical opinion on the film as a whole , Pitt ' s performance was widely praised . Paul Clinton of CNN noted the risky yet successful nature of the film , while Variety remarked upon Pitt ' s ability to be " cool , charismatic and more dynamically physical , perhaps than [ ... ] his breakthrough role in Thelma and Louise " . In spite of a worse - than - expected box office performance , Fight Club became a cult classic after its DVD release in 2000 .	How did you prepare for your role in Fight Club?	I took lessons in boxing, taekwondo, and grappling.
Pitt had two major film roles in 2004 , starring as Achilles in Troy , and reprising his role , Rusty Ryan , in the sequel Ocean ' s Twelve . He spent six months sword training before the filming of Troy , based on the Iliad . An on - set injury to his Achilles tendon delayed production on the picture for several weeks . Stephen Hunter of The Washington Post stated that Pitt excelled at such a demanding role . Troy was the first film produced by Plan B Entertainment , a film production company he had founded two years earlier with Jennifer Aniston and Brad Grey , CEO of Paramount Pictures . Ocean ' s Twelve earned $ 362   million worldwide , and Pitt and Clooney ' s dynamic was described by CNN ' s Paul Clinton as " the best male chemistry since Paul Newman and Robert Redford . " In 2005 , Pitt starred as John Smith in the Doug Liman - directed action comedy Mr . & Mrs . Smith , in which a bored married couple discover that each is an assassin sent to kill the other . The feature received reasonable reviews but was generally lauded for the chemistry between Pitt and Angelina Jolie , who played his character ' s wife Jane Smith . The Star Tribune noted that " while the story feels haphazard , the movie gets by on gregarious charm , galloping energy and the stars ' thermonuclear screen chemistry " . Mr . & Mrs . Smith earned $ 478   million worldwide , making it one of the biggest hits of 2005 .	What was the name of the film you starred in as Rusty Ryan?	Ocean's Twelve
During Pitt ' s divorce proceedings , his involvement with his Mr . & Mrs . Smith co - star Angelina Jolie attracted media attention . Jolie and Pitt stated that they fell in love on the set and that there was no infidelity . In April 2005 , one month after Aniston filed for divorce , a set of paparazzi photographs emerged showing Pitt , Jolie , and her son Maddox at a beach in Kenya ; the press interpreted the pictures as evidence of a relationship between Pitt and Jolie . Throughout 2005 , the two were seen together with increasing frequency , and the entertainment media dubbed the couple " Brangelina " . On January 11 , 2006 , Jolie confirmed to People that she was pregnant with Pitt ' s child , thereby publicly acknowledging their relationship for the first time . Pitt and Jolie announced their engagement in April 2012 after seven years together . They were legally married on August 14 , 2014 , in Los Angeles . They had their wedding in a private ceremony in Ch â teau Miraval , France on August 23 , 2014 . On September 19 , 2016 , Jolie filed for divorce from Pitt , citing irreconcilable differences . On April 12 , 2019 , the court declared Jolie and Pitt legally single .	When did you and Angelina Jolie get legally married?	On August 14, 2014.
Pitt starred in Fury , a World War II film directed and written by David Ayer , and co - starring Shia LaBeouf , Logan Lerman , Jon Bernthal , Michael Pe ñ a , and Jason Issacs . The film was released on October 17 , 2014 . By the end of its run , Fury proved to be a commercial and critical success ; it grossed more than $ 211   million worldwide and received highly positive reviews from critics . In 2015 , Pitt starred opposite his wife , Jolie , in her third directorial effort , By the Sea , a romantic drama about a marriage in crisis , based on her screenplay . The film was their first collaboration since 2005 ' s Mr . & Mrs . Smith . Pitt ' s next role came with the biographical comedy - drama The Big Short , which he also produced and also co - starred alongside Christian Bale , Steve Carell , and Ryan Gosling . The film was a commercial and critical success . It went on to gross over $ 102 million worldwide and received positive reviews from critics . The film was nominated for five Academy Awards , including Best Picture , earning Pitt his third Academy Award nomination as producer . In 2016 , Pitt starred in Robert Zemeckis ' s romantic thriller Allied , in which he plays an assassin who falls in love with a French spy ( played by Marion Cotillard ) during a mission to kill a German official in World War II . In 2017 , he starred in the Netflix satirical war comedy War Machine , which he also produced . Pitt played a recurring role as a weatherman on the late - night talk show The Jim Jefferies Show throughout 2017 .	Who were some of your co-stars in the film Fury?	Shia LaBeouf, Logan Lerman, Jon Bernthal, Michael Peña, and Jason Issacs were some of my co-stars in the film Fury.
In a 2006 global industry survey by ACNielsen in 42 international markets , Pitt , together with Jolie , were found to be the favorite celebrity endorsers for brands and products worldwide . Pitt has appeared in several television commercials . For the U . S . market , he starred in a Heineken commercial aired during the 2005 Super Bowl ; it was directed by David Fincher , who had directed Pitt in Seven , Fight Club , and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button . Other commercial appearances came in television spots including Acura Integra , in which he was featured opposite Russian model Tatiana Sorokko , as well as SoftBank , and Edwin Jeans . In 2014 , Pitt ’ s stylish villain roles inspired Vijay in playing a similar character in Indian film Kaththi .	In which other commercials did you make appearances?	I appeared in commercials for Acura Integra, SoftBank, and Edwin Jeans.
His next role was as mob hitman Jackie Cogan in Andrew Dominik ' s 2012 Killing Them Softly , based on the novel Cogan ' s Trade by George V . Higgins . In 2013 , Pitt starred in World War Z , a thriller about a zombie apocalypse , based on Max Brooks ' s novel of the same name . Pitt also produced the film . World War Z grossed $ 540   million at the box office worldwide , becoming Pitt ' s highest grossing picture . Next in 2013 , he produced , and played a small role in , 12 Years a Slave , a historical drama based on the autobiography of Solomon Northup . The film received critical acclaim and was nominated for nine Academy Awards , winning three , including Best Picture . Also in 2013 , Pitt had a supporting role in Ridley Scott ' s The Counselor . Plan B Entertainment landed its first television series on the 2013 – 2014 schedule , as their joint venture with ABC Studios , the sci - fi / fantasy drama Resurrection , was picked up by ABC .	In what year was "12 Years a Slave" released?	2013.
In 1994 , Pitt portrayed the vampire Louis de Pointe du Lac in the horror film Interview with the Vampire : The Vampire Chronicles , based on Anne Rice ' s 1976 novel of the same name . He was part of an ensemble cast that included Tom Cruise , Kirsten Dunst , Christian Slater , and Antonio Banderas . Despite his winning two MTV Movie Awards at the 1995 ceremony , his performance was poorly received . According to the Dallas Observer , " Brad Pitt   [ ... ] is a large part of the problem [ in the film ] . When directors play up his cocky , hunkish , folksy side   [ ... ] he ' s a joy to watch . But there ' s nothing about him that suggests inner torment or even self - awareness , which makes him a boring Louis . " Following the release of Interview with the Vampire , Pitt starred in Legends of the Fall ( 1994 ) , based on a novel by the same name by Jim Harrison , set in the American West during the first four decades of the twentieth century . Portraying Tristan Ludlow , son of Colonel William Ludlow ( Anthony Hopkins ) a Cornish immigrant , Pitt received his first Golden Globe Award nomination , in the Best Actor category . Aidan Quinn and Henry Thomas co - starred as Pitt ' s brothers . Although the film ' s reception was mixed , many film critics praised Pitt ' s performance . Janet Maslin of The New York Times said , " Pitt ' s diffident mix of acting and attitude works to such heartthrob perfection it ' s a shame the film ' s superficiality gets in his way . " The Deseret News predicted that Legends of the Fall would solidify Pitt ' s reputation as a lead actor .	In what year did you portray the vampire Louis de Pointe du Lac?	In 1994.
On November 22 , 2001 , Pitt made a guest appearance in the eighth season of the television series Friends , playing a man with a grudge against Rachel Green , played by Jennifer Aniston , to whom Pitt was married at the time . For this performance he was nominated for an Emmy Award in the category of Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series . In December 2001 , Pitt played Rusty Ryan in the heist film Ocean ' s Eleven , a remake of the 1960 Rat Pack original . He joined an ensemble cast including George Clooney , Matt Damon , Andy Garc í a , and Julia Roberts . Well received by critics , Ocean ' s Eleven was highly successful at the box office , earning $ 450   million worldwide . Pitt appeared in two episodes of MTV ' s reality series Jackass in February 2002 , first running through the streets of Los Angeles with several cast members in gorilla suits , and in a subsequent episode participating in his own staged abduction . In the same year , Pitt had a cameo role in George Clooney ' s directorial debut Confessions of a Dangerous Mind . He took on his first voice - acting roles in 2003 , speaking as the titular character of the DreamWorks animated film Sinbad : Legend of the Seven Seas and playing Boomhauer ' s brother , Patch , in an episode of the animated television series King of the Hill .	What television series did you make a guest appearance in?	Friends.
In 1999 , Pitt portrayed Tyler Durden in Fight Club , a film adaptation of Chuck Palahniuk ' s novel of the same name , directed by David Fincher . Pitt prepared for the part with lessons in boxing , taekwondo , and grappling . To look the part , Pitt consented to the removal of pieces of his front teeth which were restored when filming ended . While promoting Fight Club , Pitt said that the film explored not taking one ' s aggressions out on someone else but to " have an experience , take a punch more and see how you come out on the other end . " Fight Club premiered at the 1999 Venice International Film Festival . Despite divided critical opinion on the film as a whole , Pitt ' s performance was widely praised . Paul Clinton of CNN noted the risky yet successful nature of the film , while Variety remarked upon Pitt ' s ability to be " cool , charismatic and more dynamically physical , perhaps than [ ... ] his breakthrough role in Thelma and Louise " . In spite of a worse - than - expected box office performance , Fight Club became a cult classic after its DVD release in 2000 .	When did Fight Club become a cult classic?	After its DVD release in 2000.
The following year , he appeared in the legal drama Sleepers ( 1996 ) , based on Lorenzo Carcaterra ' s novel of the same name . The film received mixed reviews . In the 1997 film The Devil ' s Own Pitt starred , opposite Harrison Ford , as Irish Republican Army terrorist Rory Devany , a role for which he was required to learn an Irish accent . Critical opinion was divided on his accent ; " Pitt finds the right tone of moral ambiguity , but at times his Irish brogue is too convincing   – it ' s hard to understand what he ' s saying " , wrote the San Francisco Chronicle . The Charleston Gazette opined that it had favored Pitt ' s accent over the movie . The Devil ' s Own grossed $ 140   million worldwide , but was a critical failure . Later that year , he led as Austrian mountaineer Heinrich Harrer in the Jean - Jacques Annaud film Seven Years in Tibet . Pitt trained for months for the role , which demanded significant mountain climbing and trekking practice , including rock climbing in California and the European Alps with his co - star David Thewlis . Pitt had the lead role in 1998 ' s fantasy romance film Meet Joe Black . He portrayed a personification of death inhabiting the body of a young man to learn what it is like to be human . The film received mixed reviews , and many were critical of Pitt ' s performance . According to Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle , Pitt was unable to " make an audience believe that he knows all the mysteries of death and eternity . " Roger Ebert remarked , " Pitt is a fine actor , but this performance is a miscalculation . "	What was your role in the 1998 fantasy romance film Meet Joe Black?	I portrayed a personification of death inhabiting the body of a young man to learn what it is like to be human.
On November 22 , 2001 , Pitt made a guest appearance in the eighth season of the television series Friends , playing a man with a grudge against Rachel Green , played by Jennifer Aniston , to whom Pitt was married at the time . For this performance he was nominated for an Emmy Award in the category of Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series . In December 2001 , Pitt played Rusty Ryan in the heist film Ocean ' s Eleven , a remake of the 1960 Rat Pack original . He joined an ensemble cast including George Clooney , Matt Damon , Andy Garc í a , and Julia Roberts . Well received by critics , Ocean ' s Eleven was highly successful at the box office , earning $ 450   million worldwide . Pitt appeared in two episodes of MTV ' s reality series Jackass in February 2002 , first running through the streets of Los Angeles with several cast members in gorilla suits , and in a subsequent episode participating in his own staged abduction . In the same year , Pitt had a cameo role in George Clooney ' s directorial debut Confessions of a Dangerous Mind . He took on his first voice - acting roles in 2003 , speaking as the titular character of the DreamWorks animated film Sinbad : Legend of the Seven Seas and playing Boomhauer ' s brother , Patch , in an episode of the animated television series King of the Hill .	In which year did you make a guest appearance in Friends?	2001.
The following year , he appeared in the legal drama Sleepers ( 1996 ) , based on Lorenzo Carcaterra ' s novel of the same name . The film received mixed reviews . In the 1997 film The Devil ' s Own Pitt starred , opposite Harrison Ford , as Irish Republican Army terrorist Rory Devany , a role for which he was required to learn an Irish accent . Critical opinion was divided on his accent ; " Pitt finds the right tone of moral ambiguity , but at times his Irish brogue is too convincing   – it ' s hard to understand what he ' s saying " , wrote the San Francisco Chronicle . The Charleston Gazette opined that it had favored Pitt ' s accent over the movie . The Devil ' s Own grossed $ 140   million worldwide , but was a critical failure . Later that year , he led as Austrian mountaineer Heinrich Harrer in the Jean - Jacques Annaud film Seven Years in Tibet . Pitt trained for months for the role , which demanded significant mountain climbing and trekking practice , including rock climbing in California and the European Alps with his co - star David Thewlis . Pitt had the lead role in 1998 ' s fantasy romance film Meet Joe Black . He portrayed a personification of death inhabiting the body of a young man to learn what it is like to be human . The film received mixed reviews , and many were critical of Pitt ' s performance . According to Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle , Pitt was unable to " make an audience believe that he knows all the mysteries of death and eternity . " Roger Ebert remarked , " Pitt is a fine actor , but this performance is a miscalculation . "	What was the name of the legal drama film that you appeared in?	Sleepers.
A 2017 sequel to World War Z was in announced in 2016 , before the film was briefly delayed , then confirmed to be directed by David Fincher , and then ultimately shelved due to budget issues . Pitt starred as Cliff Booth , a stunt double , opposite Leonardo DiCaprio , in Quentin Tarantino ' s 2019 film Once Upon a Time in Hollywood , reuniting with DiCaprio after The Departed , which Pitt produced and DiCaprio starred in . For his performance in the film , he received awards for Best Supporting Actor at the Academy Awards , Golden Globe Awards , BAFTA Awards , Screen Actors Guild Awards , and Critics ' Choice Movie Awards . This is the second Academy Award for Brad Pitt , his first that he received for acting . In 2019 , he also starred in James Gray ' s deep space epic Ad Astra , in which he played Roy McBride , a space engineer searching the galaxy for his father . Pitt ' s performance was praised as one of his career - best turn , delivering a performance " that weaponizes passivity into a lethal form of self - defense " . On April 25 , 2020 Pitt portrayed Dr . Anthony Fauci in the cold open on Saturday Night Live earning a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series nomination .	Why was the sequel ultimately shelved?	The sequel was shelved due to budget issues.
In a 2006 global industry survey by ACNielsen in 42 international markets , Pitt , together with Jolie , were found to be the favorite celebrity endorsers for brands and products worldwide . Pitt has appeared in several television commercials . For the U . S . market , he starred in a Heineken commercial aired during the 2005 Super Bowl ; it was directed by David Fincher , who had directed Pitt in Seven , Fight Club , and The Curious Case of Benjamin Button . Other commercial appearances came in television spots including Acura Integra , in which he was featured opposite Russian model Tatiana Sorokko , as well as SoftBank , and Edwin Jeans . In 2014 , Pitt ’ s stylish villain roles inspired Vijay in playing a similar character in Indian film Kaththi .	Who were found to be the favorite celebrity endorsers for brands and products worldwide in a 2006 global industry survey?	You and Jolie.
In 1999 , Pitt portrayed Tyler Durden in Fight Club , a film adaptation of Chuck Palahniuk ' s novel of the same name , directed by David Fincher . Pitt prepared for the part with lessons in boxing , taekwondo , and grappling . To look the part , Pitt consented to the removal of pieces of his front teeth which were restored when filming ended . While promoting Fight Club , Pitt said that the film explored not taking one ' s aggressions out on someone else but to " have an experience , take a punch more and see how you come out on the other end . " Fight Club premiered at the 1999 Venice International Film Festival . Despite divided critical opinion on the film as a whole , Pitt ' s performance was widely praised . Paul Clinton of CNN noted the risky yet successful nature of the film , while Variety remarked upon Pitt ' s ability to be " cool , charismatic and more dynamically physical , perhaps than [ ... ] his breakthrough role in Thelma and Louise " . In spite of a worse - than - expected box office performance , Fight Club became a cult classic after its DVD release in 2000 .	Who directed the film adaptation of Fight Club?	David Fincher.
Pitt starred in Fury , a World War II film directed and written by David Ayer , and co - starring Shia LaBeouf , Logan Lerman , Jon Bernthal , Michael Pe ñ a , and Jason Issacs . The film was released on October 17 , 2014 . By the end of its run , Fury proved to be a commercial and critical success ; it grossed more than $ 211   million worldwide and received highly positive reviews from critics . In 2015 , Pitt starred opposite his wife , Jolie , in her third directorial effort , By the Sea , a romantic drama about a marriage in crisis , based on her screenplay . The film was their first collaboration since 2005 ' s Mr . & Mrs . Smith . Pitt ' s next role came with the biographical comedy - drama The Big Short , which he also produced and also co - starred alongside Christian Bale , Steve Carell , and Ryan Gosling . The film was a commercial and critical success . It went on to gross over $ 102 million worldwide and received positive reviews from critics . The film was nominated for five Academy Awards , including Best Picture , earning Pitt his third Academy Award nomination as producer . In 2016 , Pitt starred in Robert Zemeckis ' s romantic thriller Allied , in which he plays an assassin who falls in love with a French spy ( played by Marion Cotillard ) during a mission to kill a German official in World War II . In 2017 , he starred in the Netflix satirical war comedy War Machine , which he also produced . Pitt played a recurring role as a weatherman on the late - night talk show The Jim Jefferies Show throughout 2017 .	How much worldwide gross did your film Fury make?	My film Fury grossed more than $211 million worldwide.
His next role was as mob hitman Jackie Cogan in Andrew Dominik ' s 2012 Killing Them Softly , based on the novel Cogan ' s Trade by George V . Higgins . In 2013 , Pitt starred in World War Z , a thriller about a zombie apocalypse , based on Max Brooks ' s novel of the same name . Pitt also produced the film . World War Z grossed $ 540   million at the box office worldwide , becoming Pitt ' s highest grossing picture . Next in 2013 , he produced , and played a small role in , 12 Years a Slave , a historical drama based on the autobiography of Solomon Northup . The film received critical acclaim and was nominated for nine Academy Awards , winning three , including Best Picture . Also in 2013 , Pitt had a supporting role in Ridley Scott ' s The Counselor . Plan B Entertainment landed its first television series on the 2013 – 2014 schedule , as their joint venture with ABC Studios , the sci - fi / fantasy drama Resurrection , was picked up by ABC .	Who is the author of the novel "Cogan's Trade"?	George V. Higgins.
Pitt starred in Fury , a World War II film directed and written by David Ayer , and co - starring Shia LaBeouf , Logan Lerman , Jon Bernthal , Michael Pe ñ a , and Jason Issacs . The film was released on October 17 , 2014 . By the end of its run , Fury proved to be a commercial and critical success ; it grossed more than $ 211   million worldwide and received highly positive reviews from critics . In 2015 , Pitt starred opposite his wife , Jolie , in her third directorial effort , By the Sea , a romantic drama about a marriage in crisis , based on her screenplay . The film was their first collaboration since 2005 ' s Mr . & Mrs . Smith . Pitt ' s next role came with the biographical comedy - drama The Big Short , which he also produced and also co - starred alongside Christian Bale , Steve Carell , and Ryan Gosling . The film was a commercial and critical success . It went on to gross over $ 102 million worldwide and received positive reviews from critics . The film was nominated for five Academy Awards , including Best Picture , earning Pitt his third Academy Award nomination as producer . In 2016 , Pitt starred in Robert Zemeckis ' s romantic thriller Allied , in which he plays an assassin who falls in love with a French spy ( played by Marion Cotillard ) during a mission to kill a German official in World War II . In 2017 , he starred in the Netflix satirical war comedy War Machine , which he also produced . Pitt played a recurring role as a weatherman on the late - night talk show The Jim Jefferies Show throughout 2017 .	Who directed and wrote the World War II film that you starred in?	David Ayer directed and wrote the World War II film that I starred in.
Pitt starred in Fury , a World War II film directed and written by David Ayer , and co - starring Shia LaBeouf , Logan Lerman , Jon Bernthal , Michael Pe ñ a , and Jason Issacs . The film was released on October 17 , 2014 . By the end of its run , Fury proved to be a commercial and critical success ; it grossed more than $ 211   million worldwide and received highly positive reviews from critics . In 2015 , Pitt starred opposite his wife , Jolie , in her third directorial effort , By the Sea , a romantic drama about a marriage in crisis , based on her screenplay . The film was their first collaboration since 2005 ' s Mr . & Mrs . Smith . Pitt ' s next role came with the biographical comedy - drama The Big Short , which he also produced and also co - starred alongside Christian Bale , Steve Carell , and Ryan Gosling . The film was a commercial and critical success . It went on to gross over $ 102 million worldwide and received positive reviews from critics . The film was nominated for five Academy Awards , including Best Picture , earning Pitt his third Academy Award nomination as producer . In 2016 , Pitt starred in Robert Zemeckis ' s romantic thriller Allied , in which he plays an assassin who falls in love with a French spy ( played by Marion Cotillard ) during a mission to kill a German official in World War II . In 2017 , he starred in the Netflix satirical war comedy War Machine , which he also produced . Pitt played a recurring role as a weatherman on the late - night talk show The Jim Jefferies Show throughout 2017 .	When was the film Fury released?	The film Fury was released on October 17, 2014.
The following year , he appeared in the legal drama Sleepers ( 1996 ) , based on Lorenzo Carcaterra ' s novel of the same name . The film received mixed reviews . In the 1997 film The Devil ' s Own Pitt starred , opposite Harrison Ford , as Irish Republican Army terrorist Rory Devany , a role for which he was required to learn an Irish accent . Critical opinion was divided on his accent ; " Pitt finds the right tone of moral ambiguity , but at times his Irish brogue is too convincing   – it ' s hard to understand what he ' s saying " , wrote the San Francisco Chronicle . The Charleston Gazette opined that it had favored Pitt ' s accent over the movie . The Devil ' s Own grossed $ 140   million worldwide , but was a critical failure . Later that year , he led as Austrian mountaineer Heinrich Harrer in the Jean - Jacques Annaud film Seven Years in Tibet . Pitt trained for months for the role , which demanded significant mountain climbing and trekking practice , including rock climbing in California and the European Alps with his co - star David Thewlis . Pitt had the lead role in 1998 ' s fantasy romance film Meet Joe Black . He portrayed a personification of death inhabiting the body of a young man to learn what it is like to be human . The film received mixed reviews , and many were critical of Pitt ' s performance . According to Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle , Pitt was unable to " make an audience believe that he knows all the mysteries of death and eternity . " Roger Ebert remarked , " Pitt is a fine actor , but this performance is a miscalculation . "	What did Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle say about your performance in Meet Joe Black?	According to Mick LaSalle, I was unable to "make an audience believe that I know all the mysteries of death and eternity."
In 1994 , Pitt portrayed the vampire Louis de Pointe du Lac in the horror film Interview with the Vampire : The Vampire Chronicles , based on Anne Rice ' s 1976 novel of the same name . He was part of an ensemble cast that included Tom Cruise , Kirsten Dunst , Christian Slater , and Antonio Banderas . Despite his winning two MTV Movie Awards at the 1995 ceremony , his performance was poorly received . According to the Dallas Observer , " Brad Pitt   [ ... ] is a large part of the problem [ in the film ] . When directors play up his cocky , hunkish , folksy side   [ ... ] he ' s a joy to watch . But there ' s nothing about him that suggests inner torment or even self - awareness , which makes him a boring Louis . " Following the release of Interview with the Vampire , Pitt starred in Legends of the Fall ( 1994 ) , based on a novel by the same name by Jim Harrison , set in the American West during the first four decades of the twentieth century . Portraying Tristan Ludlow , son of Colonel William Ludlow ( Anthony Hopkins ) a Cornish immigrant , Pitt received his first Golden Globe Award nomination , in the Best Actor category . Aidan Quinn and Henry Thomas co - starred as Pitt ' s brothers . Although the film ' s reception was mixed , many film critics praised Pitt ' s performance . Janet Maslin of The New York Times said , " Pitt ' s diffident mix of acting and attitude works to such heartthrob perfection it ' s a shame the film ' s superficiality gets in his way . " The Deseret News predicted that Legends of the Fall would solidify Pitt ' s reputation as a lead actor .	How was your performance in the film received by critics?	My performance was poorly received.
A 2017 sequel to World War Z was in announced in 2016 , before the film was briefly delayed , then confirmed to be directed by David Fincher , and then ultimately shelved due to budget issues . Pitt starred as Cliff Booth , a stunt double , opposite Leonardo DiCaprio , in Quentin Tarantino ' s 2019 film Once Upon a Time in Hollywood , reuniting with DiCaprio after The Departed , which Pitt produced and DiCaprio starred in . For his performance in the film , he received awards for Best Supporting Actor at the Academy Awards , Golden Globe Awards , BAFTA Awards , Screen Actors Guild Awards , and Critics ' Choice Movie Awards . This is the second Academy Award for Brad Pitt , his first that he received for acting . In 2019 , he also starred in James Gray ' s deep space epic Ad Astra , in which he played Roy McBride , a space engineer searching the galaxy for his father . Pitt ' s performance was praised as one of his career - best turn , delivering a performance " that weaponizes passivity into a lethal form of self - defense " . On April 25 , 2020 Pitt portrayed Dr . Anthony Fauci in the cold open on Saturday Night Live earning a Primetime Emmy Award for Outstanding Guest Actor in a Comedy Series nomination .	What awards did you receive for your performance in Once Upon a Time in Hollywood?	I received awards for Best Supporting Actor at the Academy Awards, Golden Globe Awards, BAFTA Awards, Screen Actors Guild Awards, and Critics' Choice Movie Awards.
Pitt had two major film roles in 2004 , starring as Achilles in Troy , and reprising his role , Rusty Ryan , in the sequel Ocean ' s Twelve . He spent six months sword training before the filming of Troy , based on the Iliad . An on - set injury to his Achilles tendon delayed production on the picture for several weeks . Stephen Hunter of The Washington Post stated that Pitt excelled at such a demanding role . Troy was the first film produced by Plan B Entertainment , a film production company he had founded two years earlier with Jennifer Aniston and Brad Grey , CEO of Paramount Pictures . Ocean ' s Twelve earned $ 362   million worldwide , and Pitt and Clooney ' s dynamic was described by CNN ' s Paul Clinton as " the best male chemistry since Paul Newman and Robert Redford . " In 2005 , Pitt starred as John Smith in the Doug Liman - directed action comedy Mr . & Mrs . Smith , in which a bored married couple discover that each is an assassin sent to kill the other . The feature received reasonable reviews but was generally lauded for the chemistry between Pitt and Angelina Jolie , who played his character ' s wife Jane Smith . The Star Tribune noted that " while the story feels haphazard , the movie gets by on gregarious charm , galloping energy and the stars ' thermonuclear screen chemistry " . Mr . & Mrs . Smith earned $ 478   million worldwide , making it one of the biggest hits of 2005 .	Who did you star as in the film Troy?	Achilles
