On May 22 , 2016 , Spears performed a medley of her past singles at the 2016 Billboard Music Awards . In addition to opening the show , Spears was honored with the Billboard Millennium Award . On July 15 , 2016 , Spears released the lead single , " Make Me " , from her ninth studio album , featuring guest vocals from American rapper G - Eazy . The album , Glory , was formally released on August 26 , 2016 . On August 16 , 2016 , MTV and Spears announced that she would perform at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards . The performance marked Spears ' s first time returning to the VMA stage after her widely panned performance of " Gimme More " at the 2007 show nine years earlier . Along with " Make Me " , Spears and G - Eazy also performed the latter ' s hit song " Me , Myself & I " .	When did you release your lead single "Make Me" from your ninth studio album?	I released my lead single "Make Me" from my ninth studio album on July 15, 2016.
In March 2009 , Spears was announced as the new face of clothing brand Candie ' s . Dari Marder , chief marketing officer for the brand , said : " Everybody loves a comeback and nobody ' s doing it better than Britney . She ' s just poised for even greater success . " In 2010 , Spears designed a limited edition line for the brand , which was released in stores in July 2010 . In 2011 , she teamed up with Sony , Make Up For Ever , and Plenty of Fish to release her music video for " Hold It Against Me " , earning her $ 500 , 000 for the product placement .	How much did you earn for the product placement in your music video for "Hold It Against Me"?	I earned $500,000 for the product placement in my music video for "Hold It Against Me".
In June 2002 , Spears opened her first restaurant , Nyla , in New York City , but terminated her relationship in November , citing mismanagement and " management ' s failure to keep her fully apprised " . In July 2002 , Spears announced she would take a six - month break from her career ; however , she went back into the studio in November to record her new album . Spears ' s relationship with Justin Timberlake ended after three years . In November 2002 , Timberlake released the song " Cry Me a River " as the second single from his solo debut album . The music video featured a Spears look - alike and fueled the rumors that she had been unfaithful to him . As a response , Spears wrote the ballad " Everytime " with her backing vocalist and friend Annet Artani . The same year , Limp Bizkit frontman Fred Durst said that he was in a relationship with Spears . However , Spears denied Durst ' s claims . In a 2009 interview , he explained that " I just guess at the time it was taboo for a guy like me to be associated with a gal like her . "	Did you actually take a break from your career as announced?	No, I went back into the studio in November to record my new album.
In March 2009 , Spears was announced as the new face of clothing brand Candie ' s . Dari Marder , chief marketing officer for the brand , said : " Everybody loves a comeback and nobody ' s doing it better than Britney . She ' s just poised for even greater success . " In 2010 , Spears designed a limited edition line for the brand , which was released in stores in July 2010 . In 2011 , she teamed up with Sony , Make Up For Ever , and Plenty of Fish to release her music video for " Hold It Against Me " , earning her $ 500 , 000 for the product placement .	When was I announced as the new face of clothing brand Candie's?	In March 2009.
Shortly after , she released her first perfume , Curious , with Elizabeth Arden , which broke the company ' s first - week gross for a perfume . In October 2004 , Spears took a career break to start a family . Greatest Hits : My Prerogative , her first greatest hits compilation album , was released in November 2004 . Spears ' s cover version of Bobby Brown ' s " My Prerogative " was released as the lead single from the album , reaching the top of the charts in Finland , Ireland , Italy , and Norway . The second single , " Do Somethin ' " , was a top ten hit in Australia , the United Kingdom , and other countries of mainland Europe . In August 2005 , Spears released " Someday ( I Will Understand ) " , which was dedicated to her first child , a son named Sean Preston , who was born the following month . In November 2005 , she released her first remix compilation , B in the Mix : The Remixes , which consists of 11 remixes .	When was your first greatest hits compilation album released?	My first greatest hits compilation album, "Greatest Hits: My Prerogative," was released in November 2004.
After meeting Spears face to face , Janet Jackson stated : " she said to me , ' I ' m such a big fan ; I really admire you . ' That ' s so flattering . Everyone gets inspiration from some place . And it ' s awesome to see someone else coming up who ' s dancing and singing , and seeing how all these kids relate to her . A lot of people put it down , but what she does is a positive thing . " Madonna said of Spears in the documentary Britney : For the Record : " I admire her talent as an artist   ... There are aspects about her that I recognize in myself when I first started out in my career " . Spears has also named Michael Jackson , Mariah Carey , Sheryl Crow , Otis Redding , Shania Twain , Brandy , Beyonc é , Natalie Imbruglia , Cher , and Prince as inspirations , and younger artists such as Selena Gomez and Ariana Grande .	What did you say to Janet Jackson?	I said to Janet Jackson, "I'm such a big fan; I really admire you."
Shortly after , she released her first perfume , Curious , with Elizabeth Arden , which broke the company ' s first - week gross for a perfume . In October 2004 , Spears took a career break to start a family . Greatest Hits : My Prerogative , her first greatest hits compilation album , was released in November 2004 . Spears ' s cover version of Bobby Brown ' s " My Prerogative " was released as the lead single from the album , reaching the top of the charts in Finland , Ireland , Italy , and Norway . The second single , " Do Somethin ' " , was a top ten hit in Australia , the United Kingdom , and other countries of mainland Europe . In August 2005 , Spears released " Someday ( I Will Understand ) " , which was dedicated to her first child , a son named Sean Preston , who was born the following month . In November 2005 , she released her first remix compilation , B in the Mix : The Remixes , which consists of 11 remixes .	Which song was dedicated to your first child and when was it released?	"Someday (I Will Understand)" was dedicated to my first child, Sean Preston, and it was released in August 2005.
In March 2015 , it was confirmed by People magazine that Spears would release a new single , " Pretty Girls " , with Iggy Azalea , on May 4 , 2015 . The song debuted and peaked at number 29 on the Billboard Hot 100 and charted moderately in international territories . Spears and Azalea performed the track live at the 2015 Billboard Music Awards from The AXIS , the home of Spears ' s residency , to positive critical response . Entertainment Weekly praised the performance , noting " Spears gave one of her most energetic televised performances in years . " On June 16 , 2015 , Giorgio Moroder released his album , D é j à Vu , that featured Spears on " Tom ' s Diner " .	What did Entertainment Weekly say about your performance at the 2015 Billboard Music Awards?	They praised the performance, noting that I gave one of my most energetic televised performances in years.
Spears is a soprano . Other sources state that she possesses a contralto vocal range . Prior to her breakthrough success , she is described as having sung " much deeper than her highly recognizable trademark voice of today " , with Eric Foster White , who worked with Spears on her debut album ... Baby One More Time , being cited as " [ shaping ] her voice over the course of a month " upon being signed to Jive Records " to where it is today — distinctively , unmistakably Britney " . Rami Yacoub who co - produced Spears ' s debut album with lyricist Max Martin , commented , " I know from Denniz Pop and Max ' s previous productions , when we do songs , there ' s kind of a nasal thing . With N ' Sync and the Backstreet Boys , we had to push for that mid - nasal voice . When Britney did that , she got this kind of raspy , sexy voice . "	How do Rami Yacoub describe my voice?	Rami Yacoub describes my voice as "kind of raspy, sexy voice" when you did a mid-nasal voice.
In March 2009 , Spears was announced as the new face of clothing brand Candie ' s . Dari Marder , chief marketing officer for the brand , said : " Everybody loves a comeback and nobody ' s doing it better than Britney . She ' s just poised for even greater success . " In 2010 , Spears designed a limited edition line for the brand , which was released in stores in July 2010 . In 2011 , she teamed up with Sony , Make Up For Ever , and Plenty of Fish to release her music video for " Hold It Against Me " , earning her $ 500 , 000 for the product placement .	What did Dari Marder say about you?	Dari Marder said, "Everybody loves a comeback and nobody's doing it better than me. I'm just poised for even greater success."
In June 2002 , Spears opened her first restaurant , Nyla , in New York City , but terminated her relationship in November , citing mismanagement and " management ' s failure to keep her fully apprised " . In July 2002 , Spears announced she would take a six - month break from her career ; however , she went back into the studio in November to record her new album . Spears ' s relationship with Justin Timberlake ended after three years . In November 2002 , Timberlake released the song " Cry Me a River " as the second single from his solo debut album . The music video featured a Spears look - alike and fueled the rumors that she had been unfaithful to him . As a response , Spears wrote the ballad " Everytime " with her backing vocalist and friend Annet Artani . The same year , Limp Bizkit frontman Fred Durst said that he was in a relationship with Spears . However , Spears denied Durst ' s claims . In a 2009 interview , he explained that " I just guess at the time it was taboo for a guy like me to be associated with a gal like her . "	When did you announce that you would take a break from your career?	In July 2002.
On February 21 , 2022 , it was reported that Spears signed a $ 15 million book deal for her upcoming memoir , one of the biggest book deals of all time . Two months later , she announced her pregnancy with Asghari ' s child , which ended in a miscarriage the following month . The couple married on June 9 at her home in Thousand Oaks , Los Angeles . None of Spears ' s immediate family ( including her parents , sister , and brother ) were invited ; her two sons did not attend . Spears ' s first husband , Jason Alexander , attempted to crash the wedding by breaking into her home , armed with a knife , but was arrested . Spears had a three - year restraining order against him . On August 26 , Spears and English musician Elton John released the duet " Hold Me Closer " , a remake of John ' s 1972 single " Tiny Dancer " . It was Spears ' s first musical release since the termination of her conservatorship . " Hold Me Closer " debuted at number six on the US Billboard Hot 100 , becoming her 14th top - ten single and her highest - charting song in the chart since " Scream & Shout " ( 2012 ) . It debuted at number three on the UK Singles Chart .	When did you sign a $15 million book deal?	I signed a $15 million book deal on February 21, 2022.
In March 2015 , it was confirmed by People magazine that Spears would release a new single , " Pretty Girls " , with Iggy Azalea , on May 4 , 2015 . The song debuted and peaked at number 29 on the Billboard Hot 100 and charted moderately in international territories . Spears and Azalea performed the track live at the 2015 Billboard Music Awards from The AXIS , the home of Spears ' s residency , to positive critical response . Entertainment Weekly praised the performance , noting " Spears gave one of her most energetic televised performances in years . " On June 16 , 2015 , Giorgio Moroder released his album , D é j à Vu , that featured Spears on " Tom ' s Diner " .	Who were you collaborating with on the new single?	Iggy Azalea.
In March 2015 , it was confirmed by People magazine that Spears would release a new single , " Pretty Girls " , with Iggy Azalea , on May 4 , 2015 . The song debuted and peaked at number 29 on the Billboard Hot 100 and charted moderately in international territories . Spears and Azalea performed the track live at the 2015 Billboard Music Awards from The AXIS , the home of Spears ' s residency , to positive critical response . Entertainment Weekly praised the performance , noting " Spears gave one of her most energetic televised performances in years . " On June 16 , 2015 , Giorgio Moroder released his album , D é j à Vu , that featured Spears on " Tom ' s Diner " .	How did your single perform on the Billboard Hot 100 chart?	It debuted and peaked at number 29.
In December 2008 , Spears ' s sixth studio album Circus was released . It received positive reviews from critics and debuted at number one in Canada , Czech Republic , and the United States , and within the top ten in many European nations . In the United States , Spears became the youngest female artist to have five albums debut at number one , earning a place in Guinness World Records . She also became the only act in the SoundScan era to have four albums debut with 500 , 000 or more copies sold . The album was one of the fastest - selling albums of the year , and has sold 4   million copies worldwide . Its lead single , " Womanizer " , became Spears ' s first chart - topper on the Billboard Hot 100 since " ... Baby One More Time " . The single also topped the charts in Belgium , Canada , Denmark , Finland , France , Norway , and Sweden . It was also nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Dance Recording .	How was your album Circus received by critics?	It received positive reviews from critics.
In June 2002 , Spears opened her first restaurant , Nyla , in New York City , but terminated her relationship in November , citing mismanagement and " management ' s failure to keep her fully apprised " . In July 2002 , Spears announced she would take a six - month break from her career ; however , she went back into the studio in November to record her new album . Spears ' s relationship with Justin Timberlake ended after three years . In November 2002 , Timberlake released the song " Cry Me a River " as the second single from his solo debut album . The music video featured a Spears look - alike and fueled the rumors that she had been unfaithful to him . As a response , Spears wrote the ballad " Everytime " with her backing vocalist and friend Annet Artani . The same year , Limp Bizkit frontman Fred Durst said that he was in a relationship with Spears . However , Spears denied Durst ' s claims . In a 2009 interview , he explained that " I just guess at the time it was taboo for a guy like me to be associated with a gal like her . "	When did you open your first restaurant in New York City?	In June 2002.
In March 2015 , it was confirmed by People magazine that Spears would release a new single , " Pretty Girls " , with Iggy Azalea , on May 4 , 2015 . The song debuted and peaked at number 29 on the Billboard Hot 100 and charted moderately in international territories . Spears and Azalea performed the track live at the 2015 Billboard Music Awards from The AXIS , the home of Spears ' s residency , to positive critical response . Entertainment Weekly praised the performance , noting " Spears gave one of her most energetic televised performances in years . " On June 16 , 2015 , Giorgio Moroder released his album , D é j à Vu , that featured Spears on " Tom ' s Diner " .	When was it confirmed that you would release a new single?	In March 2015.
In June 2002 , Spears opened her first restaurant , Nyla , in New York City , but terminated her relationship in November , citing mismanagement and " management ' s failure to keep her fully apprised " . In July 2002 , Spears announced she would take a six - month break from her career ; however , she went back into the studio in November to record her new album . Spears ' s relationship with Justin Timberlake ended after three years . In November 2002 , Timberlake released the song " Cry Me a River " as the second single from his solo debut album . The music video featured a Spears look - alike and fueled the rumors that she had been unfaithful to him . As a response , Spears wrote the ballad " Everytime " with her backing vocalist and friend Annet Artani . The same year , Limp Bizkit frontman Fred Durst said that he was in a relationship with Spears . However , Spears denied Durst ' s claims . In a 2009 interview , he explained that " I just guess at the time it was taboo for a guy like me to be associated with a gal like her . "	Why did you terminate your relationship with your first restaurant?	I cited mismanagement and "management's failure to keep me fully apprised".
On May 22 , 2016 , Spears performed a medley of her past singles at the 2016 Billboard Music Awards . In addition to opening the show , Spears was honored with the Billboard Millennium Award . On July 15 , 2016 , Spears released the lead single , " Make Me " , from her ninth studio album , featuring guest vocals from American rapper G - Eazy . The album , Glory , was formally released on August 26 , 2016 . On August 16 , 2016 , MTV and Spears announced that she would perform at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards . The performance marked Spears ' s first time returning to the VMA stage after her widely panned performance of " Gimme More " at the 2007 show nine years earlier . Along with " Make Me " , Spears and G - Eazy also performed the latter ' s hit song " Me , Myself & I " .	When did you perform a medley of your past singles at the 2016 Billboard Music Awards?	I performed a medley of my past singles at the 2016 Billboard Music Awards on May 22, 2016.
In December 2008 , Spears ' s sixth studio album Circus was released . It received positive reviews from critics and debuted at number one in Canada , Czech Republic , and the United States , and within the top ten in many European nations . In the United States , Spears became the youngest female artist to have five albums debut at number one , earning a place in Guinness World Records . She also became the only act in the SoundScan era to have four albums debut with 500 , 000 or more copies sold . The album was one of the fastest - selling albums of the year , and has sold 4   million copies worldwide . Its lead single , " Womanizer " , became Spears ' s first chart - topper on the Billboard Hot 100 since " ... Baby One More Time " . The single also topped the charts in Belgium , Canada , Denmark , Finland , France , Norway , and Sweden . It was also nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Dance Recording .	What record did you achieve in the United States with your album Circus?	I became the youngest female artist to have five albums debut at number one, earning a place in Guinness World Records.
In a May 2019 hearing , Judge Brenda Penny ordered a professional evaluation of the conservatorship . In September , Spears ' s ex - husband Federline obtained a restraining order against Britney ' s father , Jamie , following an alleged physical altercation between Jamie and one of her sons . Spears ' s longtime care manager , Jodi Montgomery , temporarily replaced Jamie as her conservator that same month , which also saw a hearing where no decisions about the arrangement were reached . An interactive pop - up museum dedicated to Spears , dubbed " The Zone " , opened in Los Angeles in February 2020 , though it was later suspended in the wake of the COVID - 19 pandemic . She released Glory ' s Japanese - exclusive bonus track , " Mood Ring " as a single , and debuted a new cover of the album to streaming and digital platforms worldwide in May 2020 . In August , Jamie called the # FreeBritney movement " a joke " and its organizers " conspiracy theorists " .	What happened at the hearing that took place in the same month when Jodi Montgomery replaced Jamie as your conservator?	The hearing that took place in the same month when Jodi Montgomery replaced Jamie as my conservator did not reach any decisions about the arrangement.
On February 21 , 2022 , it was reported that Spears signed a $ 15 million book deal for her upcoming memoir , one of the biggest book deals of all time . Two months later , she announced her pregnancy with Asghari ' s child , which ended in a miscarriage the following month . The couple married on June 9 at her home in Thousand Oaks , Los Angeles . None of Spears ' s immediate family ( including her parents , sister , and brother ) were invited ; her two sons did not attend . Spears ' s first husband , Jason Alexander , attempted to crash the wedding by breaking into her home , armed with a knife , but was arrested . Spears had a three - year restraining order against him . On August 26 , Spears and English musician Elton John released the duet " Hold Me Closer " , a remake of John ' s 1972 single " Tiny Dancer " . It was Spears ' s first musical release since the termination of her conservatorship . " Hold Me Closer " debuted at number six on the US Billboard Hot 100 , becoming her 14th top - ten single and her highest - charting song in the chart since " Scream & Shout " ( 2012 ) . It debuted at number three on the UK Singles Chart .	Who did you marry?	I married Asghari.
On May 22 , 2016 , Spears performed a medley of her past singles at the 2016 Billboard Music Awards . In addition to opening the show , Spears was honored with the Billboard Millennium Award . On July 15 , 2016 , Spears released the lead single , " Make Me " , from her ninth studio album , featuring guest vocals from American rapper G - Eazy . The album , Glory , was formally released on August 26 , 2016 . On August 16 , 2016 , MTV and Spears announced that she would perform at the 2016 MTV Video Music Awards . The performance marked Spears ' s first time returning to the VMA stage after her widely panned performance of " Gimme More " at the 2007 show nine years earlier . Along with " Make Me " , Spears and G - Eazy also performed the latter ' s hit song " Me , Myself & I " .	What is the title of your ninth studio album?	The title of my ninth studio album is "Glory".
In a May 2019 hearing , Judge Brenda Penny ordered a professional evaluation of the conservatorship . In September , Spears ' s ex - husband Federline obtained a restraining order against Britney ' s father , Jamie , following an alleged physical altercation between Jamie and one of her sons . Spears ' s longtime care manager , Jodi Montgomery , temporarily replaced Jamie as her conservator that same month , which also saw a hearing where no decisions about the arrangement were reached . An interactive pop - up museum dedicated to Spears , dubbed " The Zone " , opened in Los Angeles in February 2020 , though it was later suspended in the wake of the COVID - 19 pandemic . She released Glory ' s Japanese - exclusive bonus track , " Mood Ring " as a single , and debuted a new cover of the album to streaming and digital platforms worldwide in May 2020 . In August , Jamie called the # FreeBritney movement " a joke " and its organizers " conspiracy theorists " .	Why did you obtain a restraining order against my father in September?	I obtained a restraining order against your father, Jamie, in September following an alleged physical altercation between Jamie and one of my sons.
In December 2008 , Spears ' s sixth studio album Circus was released . It received positive reviews from critics and debuted at number one in Canada , Czech Republic , and the United States , and within the top ten in many European nations . In the United States , Spears became the youngest female artist to have five albums debut at number one , earning a place in Guinness World Records . She also became the only act in the SoundScan era to have four albums debut with 500 , 000 or more copies sold . The album was one of the fastest - selling albums of the year , and has sold 4   million copies worldwide . Its lead single , " Womanizer " , became Spears ' s first chart - topper on the Billboard Hot 100 since " ... Baby One More Time " . The single also topped the charts in Belgium , Canada , Denmark , Finland , France , Norway , and Sweden . It was also nominated for the Grammy Award for Best Dance Recording .	How many copies of your album Circus have been sold worldwide?	The album has sold 4 million copies worldwide.
