Lee played his first leading role in The Big Boss ( 1971 ) , which proved to be an enormous box office success across Asia and catapulted him to stardom . He followed up with Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) , which broke the box office records set previously by The Big Boss . Having finished his initial two - year contract , Lee negotiated a new deal with Golden Harvest . Lee later formed his own company , Concord Production Inc . , with Chow . For his third film , The Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ) , he was given complete control of the film ' s production as the writer , director , star , and choreographer of the fight scenes . In 1964 , at a demonstration in Long Beach , California , Lee met karate champion Chuck Norris . In The Way of the Dragon Lee introduced Norris to moviegoers as his opponent . Their showdown has been characterised as " one of the best fight scenes in martial arts and film history " . The role had originally been offered to American karate champion Joe Lewis . Fist of Fury and Way of the Dragon grossed an estimated US $ 100 million and US $ 130 million worldwide , respectively .	What did Fist of Fury do after it was released?	Fist of Fury broke the box office records set previously by The Big Boss.
On Friday , July 20 , 1973 , Lee was in Hong Kong to have dinner with actor George Lazenby , with whom he intended to make a film . According to Lee ' s wife Linda , Lee met producer Raymond Chow at 2   p . m . at home to discuss the making of the film Game of Death . They worked until 4   p . m . and then drove together to the home of Lee ' s colleague Betty Ting Pei , a Taiwanese actress . The three went over the script at Ting ' s home , and then Chow left to attend a dinner meeting .	Who did you go over the script with?	I went over the script with my colleague Betty Ting Pei.
In 1971 , Lee appeared in four episodes of the television series Longstreet , written by Silliphant . Lee played Li Tsung , the martial arts instructor of the title character Mike Longstreet , played by James Franciscus , and important aspects of his martial arts philosophy were written into the script . According to statements made by Lee , and also by Linda Lee Cadwell after Lee ' s death , in 1971 Lee pitched a television series of his own , tentatively titled The Warrior , discussions of which were confirmed by Warner Bros . During a December 9 , 1971 , television interview on The Pierre Berton Show , Lee stated that both Paramount and Warner Brothers wanted him " to be in a modernized type of a thing , and that they think the Western idea is out , whereas I want to do the Western " .	What was the tentative title of the television series you pitched?	The tentative title of the television series I pitched was "The Warrior".
Jeet Kune Do originated in 1967 . After filming one season of The Green Hornet , Lee found himself out of work and opened The Jun Fan Gung Fu Institute . The controversial match with Wong Jack - man influenced Lee ' s philosophy about martial arts . Lee concluded that the fight had lasted too long and that he had failed to live up to his potential using his Wing Chun techniques . He took the view that traditional martial arts techniques were too rigid and formalised to be practical in scenarios of chaotic street fighting . Lee decided to develop a system with an emphasis on " practicality , flexibility , speed , and efficiency " . He started to use different methods of training such as weight training for strength , running for endurance , stretching for flexibility , and many others which he constantly adapted , including fencing and basic boxing techniques . [ citation needed ]	What was the emphasis of the system you developed?	The emphasis of the system I developed was on "practicality, flexibility, speed, and efficiency".
On Friday , July 20 , 1973 , Lee was in Hong Kong to have dinner with actor George Lazenby , with whom he intended to make a film . According to Lee ' s wife Linda , Lee met producer Raymond Chow at 2   p . m . at home to discuss the making of the film Game of Death . They worked until 4   p . m . and then drove together to the home of Lee ' s colleague Betty Ting Pei , a Taiwanese actress . The three went over the script at Ting ' s home , and then Chow left to attend a dinner meeting .	Who did you meet at home to discuss the making of the film Game of Death?	I met producer Raymond Chow at home to discuss the making of the film Game of Death.
In Oakland ' s Chinatown in 1964 , Lee had a controversial private match with Wong Jack - man , a direct student of Ma Kin Fung , known for his mastery of Xingyiquan , Northern Shaolin , and T ' ai chi ch ' uan . According to Lee , the Chinese community issued an ultimatum to him to stop teaching non - Chinese people . When he refused to comply , he was challenged to a combat match with Wong . The arrangement was that if Lee lost , he would have to shut down his school , while if he won , he would be free to teach white people , or anyone else .	What martial arts styles was Ma Kin Fung known for mastering?	Ma Kin Fung was known for his mastery of Xingyiquan, Northern Shaolin, and T'ai chi ch'uan.
However , according to Bruce Lee , Linda Lee Cadwell , and James Yimm Lee , the fight lasted a mere three minutes with a decisive victory for Lee . In Cadwell ' s account , " The fight ensued , it was a no - holds - barred fight , it took three minutes . Bruce got this guy down to the ground and said ' Do you give up ? ' and the man said he gave up " . A couple of weeks after the bout , Lee gave an interview claiming that he had defeated an unnamed challenger , which Wong says was an obvious reference to him .	How long did the fight between you and the unnamed challenger last?	Three minutes.
Lee played his first leading role in The Big Boss ( 1971 ) , which proved to be an enormous box office success across Asia and catapulted him to stardom . He followed up with Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) , which broke the box office records set previously by The Big Boss . Having finished his initial two - year contract , Lee negotiated a new deal with Golden Harvest . Lee later formed his own company , Concord Production Inc . , with Chow . For his third film , The Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ) , he was given complete control of the film ' s production as the writer , director , star , and choreographer of the fight scenes . In 1964 , at a demonstration in Long Beach , California , Lee met karate champion Chuck Norris . In The Way of the Dragon Lee introduced Norris to moviegoers as his opponent . Their showdown has been characterised as " one of the best fight scenes in martial arts and film history " . The role had originally been offered to American karate champion Joe Lewis . Fist of Fury and Way of the Dragon grossed an estimated US $ 100 million and US $ 130 million worldwide , respectively .	How much money did Fist of Fury and Way of the Dragon gross worldwide?	Fist of Fury grossed an estimated US $ 100 million and Way of the Dragon grossed an estimated US $ 130 million worldwide.
On Friday , July 20 , 1973 , Lee was in Hong Kong to have dinner with actor George Lazenby , with whom he intended to make a film . According to Lee ' s wife Linda , Lee met producer Raymond Chow at 2   p . m . at home to discuss the making of the film Game of Death . They worked until 4   p . m . and then drove together to the home of Lee ' s colleague Betty Ting Pei , a Taiwanese actress . The three went over the script at Ting ' s home , and then Chow left to attend a dinner meeting .	Who were you going to have dinner with in Hong Kong?	I was going to have dinner with actor George Lazenby.
Lee ' s wife Linda returned to her hometown of Seattle , and had Lee ' s body buried in Lake View Cemetery in Seattle . Pallbearers at Lee ' s funeral on July 25 , 1973 , included Taky Kimura , Steve McQueen , James Coburn , Dan Inosanto , Peter Chin , and Lee ' s brother Robert . Around the time of Lee ' s death , numerous rumours appeared in the media . Lee ' s iconic status and untimely death fed many wild rumours and theories . These included murder involving the triads and a supposed curse on him and his family .	Who were the pallbearers at your funeral?	The pallbearers at my funeral included Taky Kimura, Steve McQueen, James Coburn, Dan Inosanto, Peter Chin, and my brother Robert.
Wong denied this , stating that he requested to fight Lee after Lee boasted during one of his demonstrations at a Chinatown theatre that he could beat anyone in San Francisco , and that Wong himself did not discriminate against Whites or other non - Chinese people . Lee commented , " That paper had all the names of the sifu from Chinatown , but they don ' t scare me " . Individuals known to have witnessed the match include Cadwell , James Lee ( Bruce Lee ' s associate , no relation ) , and William Chen , a teacher of T ' ai chi ch ' uan .	What did you say about discriminating against Whites or other non - Chinese people?	I myself did not discriminate against Whites or other non - Chinese people.
Later , Lee complained of a headache , and Ting gave him the painkiller Equagesic , which contained both aspirin and the tranquiliser meprobamate . Around 7 : 30   p . m . , he went to lie down for a nap . When Lee did not come for dinner , Chow came to the apartment , but he was unable to wake Lee up . A doctor was summoned , and spent ten minutes attempting to revive Lee before sending him by ambulance to Queen Elizabeth Hospital . Lee was declared dead on arrival at the age of 32 .	At what time did you go to lie down for a nap?	I went to lie down for a nap around 7:30 p.m.
Lee ' s wife Linda returned to her hometown of Seattle , and had Lee ' s body buried in Lake View Cemetery in Seattle . Pallbearers at Lee ' s funeral on July 25 , 1973 , included Taky Kimura , Steve McQueen , James Coburn , Dan Inosanto , Peter Chin , and Lee ' s brother Robert . Around the time of Lee ' s death , numerous rumours appeared in the media . Lee ' s iconic status and untimely death fed many wild rumours and theories . These included murder involving the triads and a supposed curse on him and his family .	What rumors appeared in the media around the time of your death?	Numerous rumors appeared in the media around the time of my death.
Jeet Kune Do originated in 1967 . After filming one season of The Green Hornet , Lee found himself out of work and opened The Jun Fan Gung Fu Institute . The controversial match with Wong Jack - man influenced Lee ' s philosophy about martial arts . Lee concluded that the fight had lasted too long and that he had failed to live up to his potential using his Wing Chun techniques . He took the view that traditional martial arts techniques were too rigid and formalised to be practical in scenarios of chaotic street fighting . Lee decided to develop a system with an emphasis on " practicality , flexibility , speed , and efficiency " . He started to use different methods of training such as weight training for strength , running for endurance , stretching for flexibility , and many others which he constantly adapted , including fencing and basic boxing techniques . [ citation needed ]	What influenced your philosophy about martial arts?	The controversial match with Wong Jack-man influenced my philosophy about martial arts.
Later , Lee complained of a headache , and Ting gave him the painkiller Equagesic , which contained both aspirin and the tranquiliser meprobamate . Around 7 : 30   p . m . , he went to lie down for a nap . When Lee did not come for dinner , Chow came to the apartment , but he was unable to wake Lee up . A doctor was summoned , and spent ten minutes attempting to revive Lee before sending him by ambulance to Queen Elizabeth Hospital . Lee was declared dead on arrival at the age of 32 .	Were you able to wake me up?	No, I was unable to wake you up.
In Oakland ' s Chinatown in 1964 , Lee had a controversial private match with Wong Jack - man , a direct student of Ma Kin Fung , known for his mastery of Xingyiquan , Northern Shaolin , and T ' ai chi ch ' uan . According to Lee , the Chinese community issued an ultimatum to him to stop teaching non - Chinese people . When he refused to comply , he was challenged to a combat match with Wong . The arrangement was that if Lee lost , he would have to shut down his school , while if he won , he would be free to teach white people , or anyone else .	In what year did you have a private match with Wong Jack-man?	I had a private match with Wong Jack-man in 1964.
However , according to Bruce Lee , Linda Lee Cadwell , and James Yimm Lee , the fight lasted a mere three minutes with a decisive victory for Lee . In Cadwell ' s account , " The fight ensued , it was a no - holds - barred fight , it took three minutes . Bruce got this guy down to the ground and said ' Do you give up ? ' and the man said he gave up " . A couple of weeks after the bout , Lee gave an interview claiming that he had defeated an unnamed challenger , which Wong says was an obvious reference to him .	According to Linda Lee Cadwell, how did the fight end?	The man gave up after I got him down to the ground.
On Friday , July 20 , 1973 , Lee was in Hong Kong to have dinner with actor George Lazenby , with whom he intended to make a film . According to Lee ' s wife Linda , Lee met producer Raymond Chow at 2   p . m . at home to discuss the making of the film Game of Death . They worked until 4   p . m . and then drove together to the home of Lee ' s colleague Betty Ting Pei , a Taiwanese actress . The three went over the script at Ting ' s home , and then Chow left to attend a dinner meeting .	When did you meet Raymond Chow at home?	I met Raymond Chow at home at 2 p.m.
Lee played his first leading role in The Big Boss ( 1971 ) , which proved to be an enormous box office success across Asia and catapulted him to stardom . He followed up with Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) , which broke the box office records set previously by The Big Boss . Having finished his initial two - year contract , Lee negotiated a new deal with Golden Harvest . Lee later formed his own company , Concord Production Inc . , with Chow . For his third film , The Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ) , he was given complete control of the film ' s production as the writer , director , star , and choreographer of the fight scenes . In 1964 , at a demonstration in Long Beach , California , Lee met karate champion Chuck Norris . In The Way of the Dragon Lee introduced Norris to moviegoers as his opponent . Their showdown has been characterised as " one of the best fight scenes in martial arts and film history " . The role had originally been offered to American karate champion Joe Lewis . Fist of Fury and Way of the Dragon grossed an estimated US $ 100 million and US $ 130 million worldwide , respectively .	What did you do after you finished your initial two-year contract?	After finishing my initial two-year contract, I negotiated a new deal with Golden Harvest.
In Oakland ' s Chinatown in 1964 , Lee had a controversial private match with Wong Jack - man , a direct student of Ma Kin Fung , known for his mastery of Xingyiquan , Northern Shaolin , and T ' ai chi ch ' uan . According to Lee , the Chinese community issued an ultimatum to him to stop teaching non - Chinese people . When he refused to comply , he was challenged to a combat match with Wong . The arrangement was that if Lee lost , he would have to shut down his school , while if he won , he would be free to teach white people , or anyone else .	Where did the match between you and Wong Jack-man take place?	The match between me and Wong Jack-man took place in Oakland's Chinatown.
Lee ' s wife Linda returned to her hometown of Seattle , and had Lee ' s body buried in Lake View Cemetery in Seattle . Pallbearers at Lee ' s funeral on July 25 , 1973 , included Taky Kimura , Steve McQueen , James Coburn , Dan Inosanto , Peter Chin , and Lee ' s brother Robert . Around the time of Lee ' s death , numerous rumours appeared in the media . Lee ' s iconic status and untimely death fed many wild rumours and theories . These included murder involving the triads and a supposed curse on him and his family .	When did your funeral take place?	My funeral took place on July 25, 1973.
According to Glover , Lee only found judo ineffective at the action of getting hold of the opponent . In their first training together , Glover showed Lee an osoto gari , which Lee considered not a bad technique , but he disliked that Glover had needed to hold onto Lee . While in Seattle , Lee developed anti - grappling techniques against opponents trying to tackle him or take him to the ground . Glover recalled Lee " definitely would not go to the ground if he had the opportunity to get you standing up . " Nonetheless , Lee expressed to LeBell a wish to integrate judo into his fighting style . He incorporated the osoto gari into Jeet Kune Do , among other throws , armlocks and chokeholds from judo .	What did you dislike about the osoto gari technique?	I disliked that Glover had needed to hold onto me.
On Friday , July 20 , 1973 , Lee was in Hong Kong to have dinner with actor George Lazenby , with whom he intended to make a film . According to Lee ' s wife Linda , Lee met producer Raymond Chow at 2   p . m . at home to discuss the making of the film Game of Death . They worked until 4   p . m . and then drove together to the home of Lee ' s colleague Betty Ting Pei , a Taiwanese actress . The three went over the script at Ting ' s home , and then Chow left to attend a dinner meeting .	Where did you, Raymond Chow, and Betty Ting Pei go over the script?	We went over the script at Betty Ting Pei's home.
However , according to Bruce Lee , Linda Lee Cadwell , and James Yimm Lee , the fight lasted a mere three minutes with a decisive victory for Lee . In Cadwell ' s account , " The fight ensued , it was a no - holds - barred fight , it took three minutes . Bruce got this guy down to the ground and said ' Do you give up ? ' and the man said he gave up " . A couple of weeks after the bout , Lee gave an interview claiming that he had defeated an unnamed challenger , which Wong says was an obvious reference to him .	Who did you claim to have defeated in the interview?	An unnamed challenger.
Lee played his first leading role in The Big Boss ( 1971 ) , which proved to be an enormous box office success across Asia and catapulted him to stardom . He followed up with Fist of Fury ( 1972 ) , which broke the box office records set previously by The Big Boss . Having finished his initial two - year contract , Lee negotiated a new deal with Golden Harvest . Lee later formed his own company , Concord Production Inc . , with Chow . For his third film , The Way of the Dragon ( 1972 ) , he was given complete control of the film ' s production as the writer , director , star , and choreographer of the fight scenes . In 1964 , at a demonstration in Long Beach , California , Lee met karate champion Chuck Norris . In The Way of the Dragon Lee introduced Norris to moviegoers as his opponent . Their showdown has been characterised as " one of the best fight scenes in martial arts and film history " . The role had originally been offered to American karate champion Joe Lewis . Fist of Fury and Way of the Dragon grossed an estimated US $ 100 million and US $ 130 million worldwide , respectively .	When did you play your first leading role?	I played my first leading role in The Big Boss ( 1971 ).
