In 2021 , Charles spoke to the BBC about the environment and revealed that , two days per week , he eats no meat nor fish and , one day per week , he eats no dairy products . In 2022 , it was reported that Charles eats a breakfast of fruit salad , seeds , and tea . He does not eat lunch , but takes a break for tea at 5 : 00 p . m . and eats dinner at 8 : 30 p . m . , returning to work until midnight or after . Ahead of Christmas dinner in 2022 , Charles confirmed to animal rights group PETA that foie gras would not be served at any royal residences . As Prince of Wales , he had stopped the use of foie gras at his own properties for more than a decade before taking the throne . The holy chrism oil used at his coronation was vegan , made from oils of olive , sesame , rose , jasmine , cinnamon , neroli , and benzoin , along with amber and orange blossom . His mother ' s chrism oil contained animal - based oils .	What was reported about your breakfast in 2022?	It was reported that I eat a breakfast of fruit salad, seeds, and tea.
In 2021 , Charles spoke to the BBC about the environment and revealed that , two days per week , he eats no meat nor fish and , one day per week , he eats no dairy products . In 2022 , it was reported that Charles eats a breakfast of fruit salad , seeds , and tea . He does not eat lunch , but takes a break for tea at 5 : 00 p . m . and eats dinner at 8 : 30 p . m . , returning to work until midnight or after . Ahead of Christmas dinner in 2022 , Charles confirmed to animal rights group PETA that foie gras would not be served at any royal residences . As Prince of Wales , he had stopped the use of foie gras at his own properties for more than a decade before taking the throne . The holy chrism oil used at his coronation was vegan , made from oils of olive , sesame , rose , jasmine , cinnamon , neroli , and benzoin , along with amber and orange blossom . His mother ' s chrism oil contained animal - based oils .	When do you take a break for tea during the day?	I take a break for tea at 5:00 p.m.
Charles ' s great - uncle Lord Mountbatten advised him to " sow his wild oats and have as many affairs as he can before settling down , " but , for a wife , he " should choose a suitable , attractive , and sweet - charactered girl before she has met anyone else she might fall for   ... It is disturbing for women to have experiences if they have to remain on a pedestal after marriage . " Early in 1974 , Mountbatten began corresponding with 25 - year - old Charles about a potential marriage to Amanda Knatchbull , Mountbatten ' s granddaughter . Charles wrote to Amanda ' s mother , Lady Brabourne , who was also his godmother , expressing interest in her daughter . Lady Brabourne replied approvingly ; though , she suggested that a courtship with a 16 - year - old was premature . Four years later , Mountbatten arranged for Amanda and himself to accompany Charles on his 1980 visit to India . Both fathers , however , objected ; Prince Philip feared that his famous uncle [ note 5 ] would eclipse Charles , while Lord Brabourne warned that a joint visit would concentrate media attention on the cousins before they could decide on becoming a couple .	Who did you express interest in marrying?	I expressed interest in marrying Amanda Knatchbull, Mountbatten's granddaughter.
Laurens van der Post became a friend of Charles in 1977 ; he was dubbed the Prince ' s " spiritual guru " and was godfather to Charles ' s son , Prince William . From van der Post , Charles developed a focus on philosophy and an interest in other religions . Charles expressed his philosophical views in his 2010 book , Harmony : A New Way of Looking at Our World , which won a Nautilus Book Award . He has also visited Eastern Orthodox monasteries on Mount Athos , in Romania , and in Serbia , and met with Eastern Church leaders in Jerusalem in 2020 , during a visit that culminated in an ecumenical service in the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem and a walk through the city accompanied by Christian and Muslim dignitaries . Charles also attended the consecration of Britain ' s first Syriac Orthodox cathedral , St Thomas Cathedral , Acton . Charles is patron of the Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies at the University of Oxford and attended the inauguration of the Markfield Institute of Higher Education , which is dedicated to Islamic studies in a multicultural context .	When did you become friends with Laurens van der Post?	I became friends with Laurens van der Post in 1977.
In his 1994 documentary with Dimbleby , Charles said that , when king , he wished to be seen as a " defender of faith " , rather than the British monarch ' s traditional title of Defender of the Faith , in order to respect other people ' s religious traditions . This attracted controversy at the time , as well as speculation that the coronation oath may be altered . He stated in 2015 that he would retain the title of Defender of the Faith , whilst " ensuring that other people ' s faiths can also be practised " , which he sees as a duty of the Church of England . Charles reaffirmed this theme shortly after his accession and declared that his duties as sovereign included " the duty to protect the diversity of our country , including by protecting the space for faith itself and its practice through the religions , cultures , traditions , and beliefs to which our hearts and minds direct us as individuals . " His inclusive , multi - faith approach and his own Christian beliefs were expressed in his first Christmas message as king , broadcast in 2022 .	What documentary did you make in 1994?	I made the documentary with Dimbleby in 1994.
Charles ' s great - uncle Lord Mountbatten advised him to " sow his wild oats and have as many affairs as he can before settling down , " but , for a wife , he " should choose a suitable , attractive , and sweet - charactered girl before she has met anyone else she might fall for   ... It is disturbing for women to have experiences if they have to remain on a pedestal after marriage . " Early in 1974 , Mountbatten began corresponding with 25 - year - old Charles about a potential marriage to Amanda Knatchbull , Mountbatten ' s granddaughter . Charles wrote to Amanda ' s mother , Lady Brabourne , who was also his godmother , expressing interest in her daughter . Lady Brabourne replied approvingly ; though , she suggested that a courtship with a 16 - year - old was premature . Four years later , Mountbatten arranged for Amanda and himself to accompany Charles on his 1980 visit to India . Both fathers , however , objected ; Prince Philip feared that his famous uncle [ note 5 ] would eclipse Charles , while Lord Brabourne warned that a joint visit would concentrate media attention on the cousins before they could decide on becoming a couple .	What did Lord Mountbatten suggest you should look for in a wife?	Lord Mountbatten suggested that I should choose a suitable, attractive, and sweet-charactered girl before she has met anyone else she might fall for.
In his 1994 documentary with Dimbleby , Charles said that , when king , he wished to be seen as a " defender of faith " , rather than the British monarch ' s traditional title of Defender of the Faith , in order to respect other people ' s religious traditions . This attracted controversy at the time , as well as speculation that the coronation oath may be altered . He stated in 2015 that he would retain the title of Defender of the Faith , whilst " ensuring that other people ' s faiths can also be practised " , which he sees as a duty of the Church of England . Charles reaffirmed this theme shortly after his accession and declared that his duties as sovereign included " the duty to protect the diversity of our country , including by protecting the space for faith itself and its practice through the religions , cultures , traditions , and beliefs to which our hearts and minds direct us as individuals . " His inclusive , multi - faith approach and his own Christian beliefs were expressed in his first Christmas message as king , broadcast in 2022 .	What was the controversy surrounding your wish to be seen as a "defender of faith"?	The controversy surrounding my wish was speculation that the coronation oath may be altered.
Charles ' s great - uncle Lord Mountbatten advised him to " sow his wild oats and have as many affairs as he can before settling down , " but , for a wife , he " should choose a suitable , attractive , and sweet - charactered girl before she has met anyone else she might fall for   ... It is disturbing for women to have experiences if they have to remain on a pedestal after marriage . " Early in 1974 , Mountbatten began corresponding with 25 - year - old Charles about a potential marriage to Amanda Knatchbull , Mountbatten ' s granddaughter . Charles wrote to Amanda ' s mother , Lady Brabourne , who was also his godmother , expressing interest in her daughter . Lady Brabourne replied approvingly ; though , she suggested that a courtship with a 16 - year - old was premature . Four years later , Mountbatten arranged for Amanda and himself to accompany Charles on his 1980 visit to India . Both fathers , however , objected ; Prince Philip feared that his famous uncle [ note 5 ] would eclipse Charles , while Lord Brabourne warned that a joint visit would concentrate media attention on the cousins before they could decide on becoming a couple .	How did I reply to your interest in my daughter?	I replied approvingly to your interest in my daughter Amanda, although I suggested that a courtship with a 16-year-old was premature.
Charles ' s coronation took place at Westminster Abbey on 6 May 2023 . Plans had been made for many years , under the code name Operation Golden Orb . Reports before his accession suggested that Charles ' s coronation would be simpler than his mother ' s in 1953 , with the ceremony expected to be " shorter , smaller , less expensive , and more representative of different faiths and community groups   – falling in line with the King ' s wish to reflect the ethnic diversity of modern Britain . " Nonetheless , the coronation was a Church of England rite , including the coronation oath , the anointment , delivery of the orb , and enthronement .	How is your coronation expected to be different from your mother's in 1953?	My coronation is expected to be shorter, smaller, less expensive, and more representative of different faiths and community groups compared to my mother's coronation in 1953.
Laurens van der Post became a friend of Charles in 1977 ; he was dubbed the Prince ' s " spiritual guru " and was godfather to Charles ' s son , Prince William . From van der Post , Charles developed a focus on philosophy and an interest in other religions . Charles expressed his philosophical views in his 2010 book , Harmony : A New Way of Looking at Our World , which won a Nautilus Book Award . He has also visited Eastern Orthodox monasteries on Mount Athos , in Romania , and in Serbia , and met with Eastern Church leaders in Jerusalem in 2020 , during a visit that culminated in an ecumenical service in the Church of the Nativity in Bethlehem and a walk through the city accompanied by Christian and Muslim dignitaries . Charles also attended the consecration of Britain ' s first Syriac Orthodox cathedral , St Thomas Cathedral , Acton . Charles is patron of the Oxford Centre for Islamic Studies at the University of Oxford and attended the inauguration of the Markfield Institute of Higher Education , which is dedicated to Islamic studies in a multicultural context .	What book did you write in 2010?	I wrote the book "Harmony: A New Way of Looking at Our World" in 2010.
In 1965 , Charles undertook his first public engagement by attending a student garden party at the Palace of Holyroodhouse . During his time as Prince of Wales , Charles undertook official duties on behalf of the Queen , completing 10 , 934 engagements between 2002 and 2022 . He officiated at investitures and attended the funerals of foreign dignitaries . Charles made regular tours of Wales , fulfilling a week of engagements each summer , and attending important national occasions , such as opening the Senedd . The six trustees of the Royal Collection Trust met three times a year under his chairmanship . Charles also represented his mother at the independence celebrations in Fiji in 1970 , the Bahamas in 1973 , Papua New Guinea in 1975 , Zimbabwe in 1980 , and Brunei in 1984 .	What kind of events did you officiate at?	I officiated at investitures and attended the funerals of foreign dignitaries.
Charles gave his first speech to the nation on 9 September , at 18 : 00 BST , in which he paid tribute to his mother and announced the appointment of his elder son , William , as Prince of Wales . The following day , the Accession Council publicly proclaimed Charles as king , the ceremony being televised for the first time . Attendees included the new queen consort , Camilla ; William , Prince of Wales ; and Prime Minister Liz Truss and her six living prime ministerial predecessors . The proclamation was also read out by local authorities around the United Kingdom . Other realms signed and read their own proclamations , as did Scotland , Wales , Northern Ireland , British Overseas Territories , Crown Dependencies , Canadian provinces , and Australian states .	At what time did you give your first speech to the nation?	I gave my first speech to the nation at 18:00 BST.
Described as the " world ' s most eligible bachelor " in the late 1970s , Charles was subsequently overshadowed by Diana . After her death , the media regularly breached Charles ' s privacy and printed expos é s . Known for expressing his opinions , when asked during an interview to mark his 70th birthday whether this would continue in the same way once he is king , he responded " No . It won ' t . I ' m not that stupid . I do realise that it is a separate exercise being sovereign . So , of course , you know , I understand entirely how that should operate " .	What did you say when asked about expressing your opinions once you become king?	I responded, "No. It won't. I'm not that stupid. I do realise that it is a separate exercise being sovereign. So, of course, you know, I understand entirely how that should operate."
Charles ' s great - uncle Lord Mountbatten advised him to " sow his wild oats and have as many affairs as he can before settling down , " but , for a wife , he " should choose a suitable , attractive , and sweet - charactered girl before she has met anyone else she might fall for   ... It is disturbing for women to have experiences if they have to remain on a pedestal after marriage . " Early in 1974 , Mountbatten began corresponding with 25 - year - old Charles about a potential marriage to Amanda Knatchbull , Mountbatten ' s granddaughter . Charles wrote to Amanda ' s mother , Lady Brabourne , who was also his godmother , expressing interest in her daughter . Lady Brabourne replied approvingly ; though , she suggested that a courtship with a 16 - year - old was premature . Four years later , Mountbatten arranged for Amanda and himself to accompany Charles on his 1980 visit to India . Both fathers , however , objected ; Prince Philip feared that his famous uncle [ note 5 ] would eclipse Charles , while Lord Brabourne warned that a joint visit would concentrate media attention on the cousins before they could decide on becoming a couple .	Why did you and Lord Brabourne object to me visiting India with Amanda and Lord Mountbatten?	You feared that my famous uncle would eclipse me, while Lord Brabourne warned that a joint visit would concentrate media attention on the cousins before they could decide on becoming a couple.
The Prince ' s Charities Canada was established in 2010 , in a similar fashion to its namesake in Britain . Charles uses his tours of Canada as a way to help draw attention to youth , the disabled , the environment , the arts , medicine , the elderly , heritage conservation , and education . Charles has also set up the Prince ' s Charities Australia , based in Melbourne , to provide a coordinating presence for his Australian and international charitable endeavours .	In what way is your Charities Canada similar to its namesake in Britain?	My Charities Canada is similar to its namesake in Britain in its establishment and purpose.
In December 1992 , John Major announced the couple ' s legal separation in the House of Commons . Early the following year , the British press published transcripts of a passionate , bugged telephone conversation between Charles and Camilla that had taken place in 1989 , which was dubbed " Camillagate " and " Tampongate " . Charles subsequently sought public understanding in a television film with Dimbleby , Charles : The Private Man , the Public Role , broadcast on 29 June 1994 . In an interview in the film , Charles confirmed his own extramarital affair with Camilla , saying that he had rekindled their association in 1986 , only after his marriage to Diana had " irretrievably broken down " . This was followed by Diana ' s own admission of marital troubles in an interview on the BBC current affairs show Panorama , broadcast on 20 November 1995 . Referring to Charles ' s relationship with Camilla , she said , " well , there were three of us in this marriage . So , it was a bit crowded . " She also expressed doubt about her husband ' s suitability for kingship . Charles and Diana divorced on 28 August 1996 , after being advised by the Queen in December 1995 to end the marriage . The couple shared custody of their children .	When did you admit to marital troubles in your interview on the BBC show Panorama?	I admitted to marital troubles in my interview on the BBC show Panorama, which was broadcast on 20 November 1995.
Described as the " world ' s most eligible bachelor " in the late 1970s , Charles was subsequently overshadowed by Diana . After her death , the media regularly breached Charles ' s privacy and printed expos é s . Known for expressing his opinions , when asked during an interview to mark his 70th birthday whether this would continue in the same way once he is king , he responded " No . It won ' t . I ' m not that stupid . I do realise that it is a separate exercise being sovereign . So , of course , you know , I understand entirely how that should operate " .	Who overshadowed you after the late 1970s?	Diana overshadowed me after the late 1970s.
In December 1992 , John Major announced the couple ' s legal separation in the House of Commons . Early the following year , the British press published transcripts of a passionate , bugged telephone conversation between Charles and Camilla that had taken place in 1989 , which was dubbed " Camillagate " and " Tampongate " . Charles subsequently sought public understanding in a television film with Dimbleby , Charles : The Private Man , the Public Role , broadcast on 29 June 1994 . In an interview in the film , Charles confirmed his own extramarital affair with Camilla , saying that he had rekindled their association in 1986 , only after his marriage to Diana had " irretrievably broken down " . This was followed by Diana ' s own admission of marital troubles in an interview on the BBC current affairs show Panorama , broadcast on 20 November 1995 . Referring to Charles ' s relationship with Camilla , she said , " well , there were three of us in this marriage . So , it was a bit crowded . " She also expressed doubt about her husband ' s suitability for kingship . Charles and Diana divorced on 28 August 1996 , after being advised by the Queen in December 1995 to end the marriage . The couple shared custody of their children .	What were the names given to the transcripts of the bugged telephone conversation between you and Camilla?	The transcripts were dubbed "Camillagate" and "Tampongate".
The Prince ' s Charities Canada was established in 2010 , in a similar fashion to its namesake in Britain . Charles uses his tours of Canada as a way to help draw attention to youth , the disabled , the environment , the arts , medicine , the elderly , heritage conservation , and education . Charles has also set up the Prince ' s Charities Australia , based in Melbourne , to provide a coordinating presence for his Australian and international charitable endeavours .	When was The Prince's Charities Canada established?	The Prince's Charities Canada was established in 2010.
Described as the " world ' s most eligible bachelor " in the late 1970s , Charles was subsequently overshadowed by Diana . After her death , the media regularly breached Charles ' s privacy and printed expos é s . Known for expressing his opinions , when asked during an interview to mark his 70th birthday whether this would continue in the same way once he is king , he responded " No . It won ' t . I ' m not that stupid . I do realise that it is a separate exercise being sovereign . So , of course , you know , I understand entirely how that should operate " .	How do you feel about expressing your opinions once you become king?	I mentioned that I understand the need for a different approach and do not intend to continue expressing my opinions in the same way once I become king.
Charles ' s coronation took place at Westminster Abbey on 6 May 2023 . Plans had been made for many years , under the code name Operation Golden Orb . Reports before his accession suggested that Charles ' s coronation would be simpler than his mother ' s in 1953 , with the ceremony expected to be " shorter , smaller , less expensive , and more representative of different faiths and community groups   – falling in line with the King ' s wish to reflect the ethnic diversity of modern Britain . " Nonetheless , the coronation was a Church of England rite , including the coronation oath , the anointment , delivery of the orb , and enthronement .	Which religious rite was included in your coronation?	My coronation was a Church of England rite.
In his 1994 documentary with Dimbleby , Charles said that , when king , he wished to be seen as a " defender of faith " , rather than the British monarch ' s traditional title of Defender of the Faith , in order to respect other people ' s religious traditions . This attracted controversy at the time , as well as speculation that the coronation oath may be altered . He stated in 2015 that he would retain the title of Defender of the Faith , whilst " ensuring that other people ' s faiths can also be practised " , which he sees as a duty of the Church of England . Charles reaffirmed this theme shortly after his accession and declared that his duties as sovereign included " the duty to protect the diversity of our country , including by protecting the space for faith itself and its practice through the religions , cultures , traditions , and beliefs to which our hearts and minds direct us as individuals . " His inclusive , multi - faith approach and his own Christian beliefs were expressed in his first Christmas message as king , broadcast in 2022 .	What do you see as a duty of the Church of England?	I see it as a duty of the Church of England to ensure that other people's faiths can also be practiced.
Charles ' s great - uncle Lord Mountbatten advised him to " sow his wild oats and have as many affairs as he can before settling down , " but , for a wife , he " should choose a suitable , attractive , and sweet - charactered girl before she has met anyone else she might fall for   ... It is disturbing for women to have experiences if they have to remain on a pedestal after marriage . " Early in 1974 , Mountbatten began corresponding with 25 - year - old Charles about a potential marriage to Amanda Knatchbull , Mountbatten ' s granddaughter . Charles wrote to Amanda ' s mother , Lady Brabourne , who was also his godmother , expressing interest in her daughter . Lady Brabourne replied approvingly ; though , she suggested that a courtship with a 16 - year - old was premature . Four years later , Mountbatten arranged for Amanda and himself to accompany Charles on his 1980 visit to India . Both fathers , however , objected ; Prince Philip feared that his famous uncle [ note 5 ] would eclipse Charles , while Lord Brabourne warned that a joint visit would concentrate media attention on the cousins before they could decide on becoming a couple .	Who advised you to have affairs before settling down?	My great-uncle Lord Mountbatten advised me to "sow my wild oats and have as many affairs as I can before settling down."
In 1965 , Charles undertook his first public engagement by attending a student garden party at the Palace of Holyroodhouse . During his time as Prince of Wales , Charles undertook official duties on behalf of the Queen , completing 10 , 934 engagements between 2002 and 2022 . He officiated at investitures and attended the funerals of foreign dignitaries . Charles made regular tours of Wales , fulfilling a week of engagements each summer , and attending important national occasions , such as opening the Senedd . The six trustees of the Royal Collection Trust met three times a year under his chairmanship . Charles also represented his mother at the independence celebrations in Fiji in 1970 , the Bahamas in 1973 , Papua New Guinea in 1975 , Zimbabwe in 1980 , and Brunei in 1984 .	When did you undertake your first public engagement?	In 1965.
In 1965 , Charles undertook his first public engagement by attending a student garden party at the Palace of Holyroodhouse . During his time as Prince of Wales , Charles undertook official duties on behalf of the Queen , completing 10 , 934 engagements between 2002 and 2022 . He officiated at investitures and attended the funerals of foreign dignitaries . Charles made regular tours of Wales , fulfilling a week of engagements each summer , and attending important national occasions , such as opening the Senedd . The six trustees of the Royal Collection Trust met three times a year under his chairmanship . Charles also represented his mother at the independence celebrations in Fiji in 1970 , the Bahamas in 1973 , Papua New Guinea in 1975 , Zimbabwe in 1980 , and Brunei in 1984 .	How many official duties did you complete between 2002 and 2022?	I completed 10,934 official duties.
