There have been several other releases of Manson recordings – both musical and spoken . One of these , The Family Jams , includes two compact discs of Manson ' s songs recorded by the Family in 1970 , after Manson and the others had been arrested . Guitar and lead vocals are supplied by Steve Grogan ; [ failed verification ] additional vocals are supplied by Lynette Fromme , Sandra Good , Catherine Share , and others . [ citation needed ] One Mind , an album of music , poetry , and spoken word , new at the time of its release , in April 2005 , was put out under a Creative Commons license .	Who supplied the guitar and lead vocals in The Family Jams?	Steve Grogan.
At the school , other students allegedly raped Manson with the encouragement of a staff member , and he was repeatedly beaten . He ran away from the school eighteen times . While at the school , Manson developed a self - defense technique he later called the " insane game " . When he was physically unable to defend himself , he would screech , grimace and wave his arms to convince aggressors that he was insane . After a number of failed attempts , he escaped with two other boys in February   1951 . The three escapees were robbing filling stations while attempting to drive to California in stolen cars when they were arrested in Utah . For the federal crime of driving a stolen car across state lines , Manson was sent to Washington , D . C . ' s National Training School for Boys . On arrival he was given aptitude tests which determined that he was illiterate , but had an above - average IQ of 109 . His case worker deemed him aggressively antisocial .	What happened to you at the school?	Other students allegedly raped me with the encouragement of a staff member, and I was repeatedly beaten.
On November 30 , 1970 , Leslie Van Houten ' s attorney , Ronald Hughes , failed to appear for the closing arguments in the trial . He was later found dead in a California state park . His body was badly decomposed , and it was impossible to tell the cause of death . Hughes had disagreed with Manson during the trial , taking the position that his client , Van Houten , should not testify to claim that Manson had no involvement with the murders . Some have alleged that Hughes was murdered by the Manson Family .	Why have some people alleged that you were murdered?	Some people have alleged that I was murdered by the Manson Family, possibly due to my disagreement with Manson during the trial.
There have been several other releases of Manson recordings – both musical and spoken . One of these , The Family Jams , includes two compact discs of Manson ' s songs recorded by the Family in 1970 , after Manson and the others had been arrested . Guitar and lead vocals are supplied by Steve Grogan ; [ failed verification ] additional vocals are supplied by Lynette Fromme , Sandra Good , Catherine Share , and others . [ citation needed ] One Mind , an album of music , poetry , and spoken word , new at the time of its release , in April 2005 , was put out under a Creative Commons license .	Who supplied the additional vocals in The Family Jams?	Lynette Fromme, Sandra Good, Catherine Share, and others.
On October 5 , 1970 , Manson attempted to attack Judge Older while the jury was present in the room . Manson first threatened Older , and then jumped over his lawyer ' s table with a sharpened pencil , in the direction of Older . Manson was restrained before reaching the judge . While being led out of the courtroom , Manson screamed at Older , " In the name of Christian justice , someone should cut your head off ! " Meanwhile , the female defendants began chanting something in Latin . Judge Older began wearing a . 38 caliber pistol to the trial afterwards .	How did you try to harm Judge Older?	I threatened Older first and then jumped over my lawyer's table with a sharpened pencil in the direction of Older.
Supervised by his parole officer Roger Smith , Manson grew his family through drug use and prostitution without interference from the authorities . Manson was arrested on July 31 , 1967 , for attempting to prevent the arrest of one of his followers , Ruth Ann Moorehouse . Instead of Manson being sent back to prison , the charge was reduced to a misdemeanor and Manson was given three additional years of probation . He avoided prosecution again in July 1968 , when he and the family were arrested while moving from San Francisco to Los Angeles with the permission of Roger Smith , when his bus crashed into a ditch , where Manson and members of his family , including Brunner and Manson ' s newborn baby , were found sleeping naked by police . Afterwards , he was again arrested and released only a few days later , this time on a drug charge .	When did you and your family avoid prosecution while moving from San Francisco to Los Angeles?	I and my family avoided prosecution in July 1968.
At the school , other students allegedly raped Manson with the encouragement of a staff member , and he was repeatedly beaten . He ran away from the school eighteen times . While at the school , Manson developed a self - defense technique he later called the " insane game " . When he was physically unable to defend himself , he would screech , grimace and wave his arms to convince aggressors that he was insane . After a number of failed attempts , he escaped with two other boys in February   1951 . The three escapees were robbing filling stations while attempting to drive to California in stolen cars when they were arrested in Utah . For the federal crime of driving a stolen car across state lines , Manson was sent to Washington , D . C . ' s National Training School for Boys . On arrival he was given aptitude tests which determined that he was illiterate , but had an above - average IQ of 109 . His case worker deemed him aggressively antisocial .	What self-defense technique did you develop?	I developed a self-defense technique I later called the "insane game" where I would screech, grimace, and wave my arms to convince aggressors that I was insane.
On November 30 , 1970 , Leslie Van Houten ' s attorney , Ronald Hughes , failed to appear for the closing arguments in the trial . He was later found dead in a California state park . His body was badly decomposed , and it was impossible to tell the cause of death . Hughes had disagreed with Manson during the trial , taking the position that his client , Van Houten , should not testify to claim that Manson had no involvement with the murders . Some have alleged that Hughes was murdered by the Manson Family .	When did you fail to appear for the closing arguments in Leslie Van Houten's trial?	I failed to appear for the closing arguments in Leslie Van Houten's trial on November 30, 1970.
Manson was a struggling musician , seeking to make it big in Hollywood between 1967 and 1969 . The Beach Boys did a cover of one of his songs . Other songs were publicly released only after the trial for the Tate murders started . On March 6 , 1970 , LIE , an album of Manson music , was released . This included " Cease to Exist " , a Manson composition the Beach Boys had recorded with modified lyrics and the title " Never Learn Not to Love " . Over the next couple of months only about 300 of the album ' s 2 , 000 copies sold .	When was your album "LIE" released?	My album "LIE" was released on March 6, 1970.
There have been several other releases of Manson recordings – both musical and spoken . One of these , The Family Jams , includes two compact discs of Manson ' s songs recorded by the Family in 1970 , after Manson and the others had been arrested . Guitar and lead vocals are supplied by Steve Grogan ; [ failed verification ] additional vocals are supplied by Lynette Fromme , Sandra Good , Catherine Share , and others . [ citation needed ] One Mind , an album of music , poetry , and spoken word , new at the time of its release , in April 2005 , was put out under a Creative Commons license .	What kind of license was your album One Mind put out under?	A Creative Commons license.
Supervised by his parole officer Roger Smith , Manson grew his family through drug use and prostitution without interference from the authorities . Manson was arrested on July 31 , 1967 , for attempting to prevent the arrest of one of his followers , Ruth Ann Moorehouse . Instead of Manson being sent back to prison , the charge was reduced to a misdemeanor and Manson was given three additional years of probation . He avoided prosecution again in July 1968 , when he and the family were arrested while moving from San Francisco to Los Angeles with the permission of Roger Smith , when his bus crashed into a ditch , where Manson and members of his family , including Brunner and Manson ' s newborn baby , were found sleeping naked by police . Afterwards , he was again arrested and released only a few days later , this time on a drug charge .	What happened to the charge against you for attempting to prevent the arrest?	The charge was reduced to a misdemeanor and I was given three additional years of probation.
On April 11 , 2012 , Manson was denied release at his 12th parole hearing , which he did not attend . After his March 27 , 1997 , parole hearing , Manson refused to attend any of his later hearings . The panel at that hearing noted that Manson had a " history of controlling behavior " and " mental health issues " including schizophrenia and paranoid delusional disorder , and was too great a danger to be released . The panel also noted that Manson had received 108 rules violation reports , had no indication of remorse , no insight into the causative factors of the crimes , lacked understanding of the magnitude of the crimes , had an exceptional , callous disregard for human suffering and had no parole plans . At the April 11 , 2012 , parole hearing , it was determined that Manson would not be reconsidered for parole for another 15 years , i . e . not before 2027 , at which time he would have been 92 years old . According to a recent re - analysis of Manson ' s psychological state , researchers suggest that he may have been misdiagnosed with schizophrenia . Instead , they propose that Manson had bipolar disorder and psychopathy .	According to the recent re-analysis of your psychological state, what disorders do researchers propose you may have had?	According to the recent re-analysis, researchers propose that I may have had bipolar disorder and psychopathy.
In the 1980s , Manson gave four interviews to the mainstream media . The first , recorded at California Medical Facility and aired on June 13 , 1981 , was by Tom Snyder for NBC ' s The Tomorrow Show . The second , recorded at San Quentin State Prison and aired on March 7 , 1986 , was by Charlie Rose for CBS News Nightwatch , and it won the national news Emmy Award for Best Interview in 1987 . The third , with Geraldo Rivera in 1988 , was part of the journalist ' s prime - time special on Satanism . At least as early as the Snyder interview , Manson ' s forehead bore a swastika in the spot where the X carved during his trial had been .	When and where was your first interview recorded?	It was recorded at California Medical Facility and aired on June 13, 1981.
On April 11 , 2012 , Manson was denied release at his 12th parole hearing , which he did not attend . After his March 27 , 1997 , parole hearing , Manson refused to attend any of his later hearings . The panel at that hearing noted that Manson had a " history of controlling behavior " and " mental health issues " including schizophrenia and paranoid delusional disorder , and was too great a danger to be released . The panel also noted that Manson had received 108 rules violation reports , had no indication of remorse , no insight into the causative factors of the crimes , lacked understanding of the magnitude of the crimes , had an exceptional , callous disregard for human suffering and had no parole plans . At the April 11 , 2012 , parole hearing , it was determined that Manson would not be reconsidered for parole for another 15 years , i . e . not before 2027 , at which time he would have been 92 years old . According to a recent re - analysis of Manson ' s psychological state , researchers suggest that he may have been misdiagnosed with schizophrenia . Instead , they propose that Manson had bipolar disorder and psychopathy .	When were you denied release at your 12th parole hearing?	I was denied release at my 12th parole hearing on April 11, 2012.
At the school , other students allegedly raped Manson with the encouragement of a staff member , and he was repeatedly beaten . He ran away from the school eighteen times . While at the school , Manson developed a self - defense technique he later called the " insane game " . When he was physically unable to defend himself , he would screech , grimace and wave his arms to convince aggressors that he was insane . After a number of failed attempts , he escaped with two other boys in February   1951 . The three escapees were robbing filling stations while attempting to drive to California in stolen cars when they were arrested in Utah . For the federal crime of driving a stolen car across state lines , Manson was sent to Washington , D . C . ' s National Training School for Boys . On arrival he was given aptitude tests which determined that he was illiterate , but had an above - average IQ of 109 . His case worker deemed him aggressively antisocial .	Where were you sent after you were arrested for driving a stolen car across state lines?	I was sent to Washington, D.C.'s National Training School for Boys.
On April 11 , 2012 , Manson was denied release at his 12th parole hearing , which he did not attend . After his March 27 , 1997 , parole hearing , Manson refused to attend any of his later hearings . The panel at that hearing noted that Manson had a " history of controlling behavior " and " mental health issues " including schizophrenia and paranoid delusional disorder , and was too great a danger to be released . The panel also noted that Manson had received 108 rules violation reports , had no indication of remorse , no insight into the causative factors of the crimes , lacked understanding of the magnitude of the crimes , had an exceptional , callous disregard for human suffering and had no parole plans . At the April 11 , 2012 , parole hearing , it was determined that Manson would not be reconsidered for parole for another 15 years , i . e . not before 2027 , at which time he would have been 92 years old . According to a recent re - analysis of Manson ' s psychological state , researchers suggest that he may have been misdiagnosed with schizophrenia . Instead , they propose that Manson had bipolar disorder and psychopathy .	What did the panel note about your understanding of the crimes you committed?	The panel noted that I lacked understanding of the magnitude of the crimes and had an exceptional, callous disregard for human suffering.
On April 11 , 2012 , Manson was denied release at his 12th parole hearing , which he did not attend . After his March 27 , 1997 , parole hearing , Manson refused to attend any of his later hearings . The panel at that hearing noted that Manson had a " history of controlling behavior " and " mental health issues " including schizophrenia and paranoid delusional disorder , and was too great a danger to be released . The panel also noted that Manson had received 108 rules violation reports , had no indication of remorse , no insight into the causative factors of the crimes , lacked understanding of the magnitude of the crimes , had an exceptional , callous disregard for human suffering and had no parole plans . At the April 11 , 2012 , parole hearing , it was determined that Manson would not be reconsidered for parole for another 15 years , i . e . not before 2027 , at which time he would have been 92 years old . According to a recent re - analysis of Manson ' s psychological state , researchers suggest that he may have been misdiagnosed with schizophrenia . Instead , they propose that Manson had bipolar disorder and psychopathy .	How many rules violation reports did you receive?	I received 108 rules violation reports.
In the 1980s , Manson gave four interviews to the mainstream media . The first , recorded at California Medical Facility and aired on June 13 , 1981 , was by Tom Snyder for NBC ' s The Tomorrow Show . The second , recorded at San Quentin State Prison and aired on March 7 , 1986 , was by Charlie Rose for CBS News Nightwatch , and it won the national news Emmy Award for Best Interview in 1987 . The third , with Geraldo Rivera in 1988 , was part of the journalist ' s prime - time special on Satanism . At least as early as the Snyder interview , Manson ' s forehead bore a swastika in the spot where the X carved during his trial had been .	What award did your second interview win?	It won the national news Emmy Award for Best Interview in 1987.
Manson was a struggling musician , seeking to make it big in Hollywood between 1967 and 1969 . The Beach Boys did a cover of one of his songs . Other songs were publicly released only after the trial for the Tate murders started . On March 6 , 1970 , LIE , an album of Manson music , was released . This included " Cease to Exist " , a Manson composition the Beach Boys had recorded with modified lyrics and the title " Never Learn Not to Love " . Over the next couple of months only about 300 of the album ' s 2 , 000 copies sold .	When were your songs publicly released?	My songs were publicly released only after the trial for the Tate murders started.
On October 5 , 1970 , Manson attempted to attack Judge Older while the jury was present in the room . Manson first threatened Older , and then jumped over his lawyer ' s table with a sharpened pencil , in the direction of Older . Manson was restrained before reaching the judge . While being led out of the courtroom , Manson screamed at Older , " In the name of Christian justice , someone should cut your head off ! " Meanwhile , the female defendants began chanting something in Latin . Judge Older began wearing a . 38 caliber pistol to the trial afterwards .	Were you able to reach the judge?	No, I was restrained before reaching the judge.
On April 11 , 2012 , Manson was denied release at his 12th parole hearing , which he did not attend . After his March 27 , 1997 , parole hearing , Manson refused to attend any of his later hearings . The panel at that hearing noted that Manson had a " history of controlling behavior " and " mental health issues " including schizophrenia and paranoid delusional disorder , and was too great a danger to be released . The panel also noted that Manson had received 108 rules violation reports , had no indication of remorse , no insight into the causative factors of the crimes , lacked understanding of the magnitude of the crimes , had an exceptional , callous disregard for human suffering and had no parole plans . At the April 11 , 2012 , parole hearing , it was determined that Manson would not be reconsidered for parole for another 15 years , i . e . not before 2027 , at which time he would have been 92 years old . According to a recent re - analysis of Manson ' s psychological state , researchers suggest that he may have been misdiagnosed with schizophrenia . Instead , they propose that Manson had bipolar disorder and psychopathy .	Why did you refuse to attend any of your later parole hearings after March 27, 1997?	I refused to attend any of my later parole hearings because I was noted to have a "history of controlling behavior" and "mental health issues" including schizophrenia and paranoid delusional disorder.
Supervised by his parole officer Roger Smith , Manson grew his family through drug use and prostitution without interference from the authorities . Manson was arrested on July 31 , 1967 , for attempting to prevent the arrest of one of his followers , Ruth Ann Moorehouse . Instead of Manson being sent back to prison , the charge was reduced to a misdemeanor and Manson was given three additional years of probation . He avoided prosecution again in July 1968 , when he and the family were arrested while moving from San Francisco to Los Angeles with the permission of Roger Smith , when his bus crashed into a ditch , where Manson and members of his family , including Brunner and Manson ' s newborn baby , were found sleeping naked by police . Afterwards , he was again arrested and released only a few days later , this time on a drug charge .	Who were you supervised by?	I was supervised by my parole officer Roger Smith.
On a psychiatrist ' s recommendation , Manson was transferred in October 1951 to Natural Bridge Honor Camp , a minimum security institution . His aunt visited him and told administrators she would let him stay at her house and would help him find work . Manson had a parole hearing scheduled for February 1952 . However , in January , he was caught raping a boy at knifepoint . Manson was transferred to the Federal Reformatory in Petersburg , Virginia . There he committed a further " eight serious disciplinary offenses , three involving homosexual acts " . He was then moved to a maximum security reformatory at Chillicothe , Ohio , where he was expected to remain until his release on his 21st birthday in November 1955 . Good behavior led to an early release in May 1954 , to live with his aunt and uncle in McMechen .	Who visited you at Natural Bridge Honor Camp?	My aunt visited me at Natural Bridge Honor Camp and offered me accommodation and assistance in finding work.
At the school , other students allegedly raped Manson with the encouragement of a staff member , and he was repeatedly beaten . He ran away from the school eighteen times . While at the school , Manson developed a self - defense technique he later called the " insane game " . When he was physically unable to defend himself , he would screech , grimace and wave his arms to convince aggressors that he was insane . After a number of failed attempts , he escaped with two other boys in February   1951 . The three escapees were robbing filling stations while attempting to drive to California in stolen cars when they were arrested in Utah . For the federal crime of driving a stolen car across state lines , Manson was sent to Washington , D . C . ' s National Training School for Boys . On arrival he was given aptitude tests which determined that he was illiterate , but had an above - average IQ of 109 . His case worker deemed him aggressively antisocial .	What happened when you escaped with two other boys in February 1951?	The three of us were robbing filling stations while attempting to drive to California in stolen cars when we were arrested in Utah.
On a psychiatrist ' s recommendation , Manson was transferred in October 1951 to Natural Bridge Honor Camp , a minimum security institution . His aunt visited him and told administrators she would let him stay at her house and would help him find work . Manson had a parole hearing scheduled for February 1952 . However , in January , he was caught raping a boy at knifepoint . Manson was transferred to the Federal Reformatory in Petersburg , Virginia . There he committed a further " eight serious disciplinary offenses , three involving homosexual acts " . He was then moved to a maximum security reformatory at Chillicothe , Ohio , where he was expected to remain until his release on his 21st birthday in November 1955 . Good behavior led to an early release in May 1954 , to live with his aunt and uncle in McMechen .	What happened in January that caused your transfer to the Federal Reformatory in Petersburg, Virginia?	In January, I was caught raping a boy at knifepoint, which led to my transfer to the Federal Reformatory in Petersburg, Virginia.
