In 1973 , Eastwood told the film critic Gene Siskel , " No , I don ' t believe in God " . Eastwood has said that he finds spirituality in nature ( as suggested by his Western , Pale Rider , 1985 ) , stating that " I was born during the Depression and I was brought up with no specific church . We moved every four or five months during the first 14 years of my life , so I was sent to a different church depending on wherever we lived . Most of them were Protestant , but I went to other churches because my parents wanted me to try to figure out things for myself . They always said , ' I just want to expose you to some religious order and see if that ' s something you like ' . So although my religious training was not really specific , I do feel spiritual things . If I stand on the side of the Grand Canyon and look down , it moves me in some way . " He has also said : " It would be wonderful to talk with my parents again , who are , of course , deceased . It makes the idea of death much less scary . But then again , if you think that nothing happens after you die , maybe it makes you live life better . Maybe you ' re supposed to do the best you can by the gift you ' re given of life and that alone . "	Where do you find spirituality?	I find spirituality in nature.
Eastwood next directed Jersey Boys ( 2014 ) , a musical biography based on the Tony Award - winning musical . The film told the story of the musical group The Four Seasons . Eastwood directed American Sniper ( also 2014 ) , a film adaptation of Chris Kyle ' s eponymous memoir , following Steven Spielberg ' s departure from the project . The film was released on December 25 , 2014 . American Sniper grossed more than $ 350   million domestically and over $ 547   million globally , making it one of Eastwood ' s biggest movies commercially . His next film , Sully , starred Tom Hanks as Chesley Sullenberger , who successfully landed the US Airways Flight 1549 on the Hudson River in an emergency landing , keeping all passengers on board alive . Released in the United States in September 2016 , it became another commercial success for Eastwood , grossing over $ 238   million worldwide . He directed the biographical thriller The 15 : 17 to Paris ( 2018 ) , which saw previously non - professional actors Spencer Stone , Anthony Sadler and Alek Skarlatos playing themselves as they stop the 2015 Thalys train attack . The film received a generally negative reception from critics , who were largely critical of the acting by the three leads . Eastwood next starred in and directed The Mule , which was released in December 2018 . He played Earl Stone , an elderly drug smuggler based on Leo Sharp , Eastwood ' s first acting role since Trouble with the Curve in 2012 .	When was American Sniper released?	December 25, 2014
Eastwood ' s first western as director was High Plains Drifter ( 1973 ) , in which he also starred . The film had a moral and supernatural theme , later emulated in Pale Rider . The plot follows a mysterious stranger ( Eastwood ) who arrives in a brooding Western town where the people hire him to protect them against three soon - to - be - released felons . There remains confusion during the film as to whether the stranger is the brother of the deputy , whom the felons lynched and murdered , or his ghost . Holes in the plot were filled with black humor and allegory , influenced by Leone . The revisionist film received a mixed reception , but was a major box - office success . A number of critics thought Eastwood ' s directing was " as derivative as it was expressive , " with Arthur Knight of the Saturday Review remarking that Eastwood had " absorbed the approaches of Siegel and Leone and fused them with his own paranoid vision of society . " John Wayne , who had declined a role in the film , sent a letter to Eastwood soon after the film ' s release in which he complained that , " The townspeople did not represent the true spirit of the American pioneer , the spirit that made America great . "	Who did you play in the film?	I played the role of the mysterious stranger.
Eastwood directed J . Edgar ( 2011 ) , a biopic of FBI director J . Edgar Hoover , with Leonardo DiCaprio in the title role . The film received mixed reviews , although DiCaprio ' s performance as Hoover was widely praised . Roger Ebert wrote that the film is " fascinating " , " masterful " , and praised DiCaprio ' s performance . David Edelstein of New York Magazine , while also praising DiCaprio , wrote , " It ' s too bad J . Edgar is so shapeless and turgid and ham - handed , so rich in bad lines and worse readings " . Eastwood starred in the baseball drama Trouble with the Curve ( 2012 ) , as a veteran baseball scout who travels with his daughter for a final scouting trip . Robert Lorenz , who worked with Eastwood as an assistant director on several films , directed the film .	What did Roger Ebert think of the film J. Edgar?	Roger Ebert wrote that the film J. Edgar is "fascinating" and "masterful".
Eastwood directed and starred in Honkytonk Man ( 1982 ) , based on the eponymous Clancy Carlile ' s depression - era novel . Eastwood portrays a struggling western singer Red Stovall who suffers from tuberculosis , but has finally been given an opportunity to make it big at the Grand Ole Opry . He is accompanied by his young nephew ( played by real - life son Kyle ) to Nashville , Tennessee , where he is supposed to record a song . Only Time gave the film a good review in the United States , with most reviewers criticizing its blend of muted humor and tragedy . Nevertheless , the film received a more positive reception in France , where it was compared to John Ford ' s The Grapes of Wrath , and it has since acquired the very high rating of 93   percent on Rotten Tomatoes . Around the same time , Eastwood directed , produced , and starred in the Cold War - themed Firefox ( also 1982 ) . Based on a 1977 novel with the same name written by Craig Thomas , the film was shot before but released after Honkytonk Man . Russian filming locations were not possible due to the Cold War , and the film had to be shot in Vienna and other locations in Austria to simulate many of the Eurasian story locations . With a production cost of $ 20   million , it was Eastwood ' s highest budget film to that time . People magazine likened Eastwood ' s performance to " Luke Skywalker trapped in Dirty Harry ' s Soul " .	Who do you portray in Honkytonk Man?	I portray a struggling western singer Red Stovall.
Eastwood ' s career reached a turning point in 1971 . Before Irving Leonard died , he and Eastwood had discussed the idea of Malpaso producing Play Misty for Me , a film that was to give Eastwood the artistic control he desired , and his debut as a director . The script was about a jazz disc jockey named Dave ( Eastwood ) , who has a casual affair with Evelyn ( Jessica Walter ) , a listener who had been calling the radio station repeatedly at night , asking him to play her favorite song – Erroll Garner ' s " Misty " . When Dave ends their relationship , the unhinged Evelyn becomes a murderous stalker . Filming commenced in Monterey in September 1970 and included footage of that year ' s Monterey Jazz Festival . The film was highly acclaimed with critics , such as Jay Cocks in Time magazine , Andrew Sarris in the Village Voice , and Archer Winsten in the New York Post all praising the film , as well as Eastwood ' s directorial skills and performance . Walter was nominated for a Golden Globe Best Actress Award ( Drama ) , for her performance in the film .	What was the film "Play Misty for Me" about?	The film "Play Misty for Me" was about a jazz disc jockey named Dave who has a casual affair with a listener named Evelyn.
Eastwood directed and starred in Honkytonk Man ( 1982 ) , based on the eponymous Clancy Carlile ' s depression - era novel . Eastwood portrays a struggling western singer Red Stovall who suffers from tuberculosis , but has finally been given an opportunity to make it big at the Grand Ole Opry . He is accompanied by his young nephew ( played by real - life son Kyle ) to Nashville , Tennessee , where he is supposed to record a song . Only Time gave the film a good review in the United States , with most reviewers criticizing its blend of muted humor and tragedy . Nevertheless , the film received a more positive reception in France , where it was compared to John Ford ' s The Grapes of Wrath , and it has since acquired the very high rating of 93   percent on Rotten Tomatoes . Around the same time , Eastwood directed , produced , and starred in the Cold War - themed Firefox ( also 1982 ) . Based on a 1977 novel with the same name written by Craig Thomas , the film was shot before but released after Honkytonk Man . Russian filming locations were not possible due to the Cold War , and the film had to be shot in Vienna and other locations in Austria to simulate many of the Eurasian story locations . With a production cost of $ 20   million , it was Eastwood ' s highest budget film to that time . People magazine likened Eastwood ' s performance to " Luke Skywalker trapped in Dirty Harry ' s Soul " .	Who do I accompany to Nashville in the film?	I am accompanied by my young nephew, played by my real-life son Kyle.
Eastwood ' s first western as director was High Plains Drifter ( 1973 ) , in which he also starred . The film had a moral and supernatural theme , later emulated in Pale Rider . The plot follows a mysterious stranger ( Eastwood ) who arrives in a brooding Western town where the people hire him to protect them against three soon - to - be - released felons . There remains confusion during the film as to whether the stranger is the brother of the deputy , whom the felons lynched and murdered , or his ghost . Holes in the plot were filled with black humor and allegory , influenced by Leone . The revisionist film received a mixed reception , but was a major box - office success . A number of critics thought Eastwood ' s directing was " as derivative as it was expressive , " with Arthur Knight of the Saturday Review remarking that Eastwood had " absorbed the approaches of Siegel and Leone and fused them with his own paranoid vision of society . " John Wayne , who had declined a role in the film , sent a letter to Eastwood soon after the film ' s release in which he complained that , " The townspeople did not represent the true spirit of the American pioneer , the spirit that made America great . "	In which year was High Plains Drifter released?	1973.
Eastwood ' s first western as director was High Plains Drifter ( 1973 ) , in which he also starred . The film had a moral and supernatural theme , later emulated in Pale Rider . The plot follows a mysterious stranger ( Eastwood ) who arrives in a brooding Western town where the people hire him to protect them against three soon - to - be - released felons . There remains confusion during the film as to whether the stranger is the brother of the deputy , whom the felons lynched and murdered , or his ghost . Holes in the plot were filled with black humor and allegory , influenced by Leone . The revisionist film received a mixed reception , but was a major box - office success . A number of critics thought Eastwood ' s directing was " as derivative as it was expressive , " with Arthur Knight of the Saturday Review remarking that Eastwood had " absorbed the approaches of Siegel and Leone and fused them with his own paranoid vision of society . " John Wayne , who had declined a role in the film , sent a letter to Eastwood soon after the film ' s release in which he complained that , " The townspeople did not represent the true spirit of the American pioneer , the spirit that made America great . "	How did the film incorporate black humor and allegory?	Holes in the plot were filled with black humor and allegory, influenced by Leone.
Eastwood ' s first western as director was High Plains Drifter ( 1973 ) , in which he also starred . The film had a moral and supernatural theme , later emulated in Pale Rider . The plot follows a mysterious stranger ( Eastwood ) who arrives in a brooding Western town where the people hire him to protect them against three soon - to - be - released felons . There remains confusion during the film as to whether the stranger is the brother of the deputy , whom the felons lynched and murdered , or his ghost . Holes in the plot were filled with black humor and allegory , influenced by Leone . The revisionist film received a mixed reception , but was a major box - office success . A number of critics thought Eastwood ' s directing was " as derivative as it was expressive , " with Arthur Knight of the Saturday Review remarking that Eastwood had " absorbed the approaches of Siegel and Leone and fused them with his own paranoid vision of society . " John Wayne , who had declined a role in the film , sent a letter to Eastwood soon after the film ' s release in which he complained that , " The townspeople did not represent the true spirit of the American pioneer , the spirit that made America great . "	What was your first western as director?	High Plains Drifter.
Eastwood directed and starred in The Gauntlet ( 1977 ) opposite Locke , Pat Hingle , William Prince , Bill McKinney , and Mara Corday . In this film , he portrays a down - and - out cop assigned to escort a prostitute from Las Vegas to Phoenix to testify against the mob . Although a moderate hit with the viewing public , critics had mixed feelings about the film , with many believing it was overly violent . Ebert , in contrast , gave the film three stars and called it " classic Clint Eastwood : fast , furious , and funny . " In Every Which Way but Loose ( 1978 ) he has an uncharacteristic offbeat comedy role . His character , Philo Beddoe , is a trucker and brawler who roams the American West searching for a lost love ( Locke ) accompanied by his best friend , Orville Boggs ( played by Geoffrey Lewis ) and an orangutan called Clyde . The film proved surprisingly successful upon its release and became Eastwood ' s most commercially successful film up to that time . Panned by critics , it ranked high among the box - office successes of his career and was the second - highest - grossing film of 1978 .	Who were some of the actors in The Gauntlet?	The actors in The Gauntlet include Locke, Pat Hingle, William Prince, Bill McKinney, and Mara Corday.
Eastwood next directed Jersey Boys ( 2014 ) , a musical biography based on the Tony Award - winning musical . The film told the story of the musical group The Four Seasons . Eastwood directed American Sniper ( also 2014 ) , a film adaptation of Chris Kyle ' s eponymous memoir , following Steven Spielberg ' s departure from the project . The film was released on December 25 , 2014 . American Sniper grossed more than $ 350   million domestically and over $ 547   million globally , making it one of Eastwood ' s biggest movies commercially . His next film , Sully , starred Tom Hanks as Chesley Sullenberger , who successfully landed the US Airways Flight 1549 on the Hudson River in an emergency landing , keeping all passengers on board alive . Released in the United States in September 2016 , it became another commercial success for Eastwood , grossing over $ 238   million worldwide . He directed the biographical thriller The 15 : 17 to Paris ( 2018 ) , which saw previously non - professional actors Spencer Stone , Anthony Sadler and Alek Skarlatos playing themselves as they stop the 2015 Thalys train attack . The film received a generally negative reception from critics , who were largely critical of the acting by the three leads . Eastwood next starred in and directed The Mule , which was released in December 2018 . He played Earl Stone , an elderly drug smuggler based on Leo Sharp , Eastwood ' s first acting role since Trouble with the Curve in 2012 .	How much did your film American Sniper gross domestically?	Over $350 million
Eastwood directed J . Edgar ( 2011 ) , a biopic of FBI director J . Edgar Hoover , with Leonardo DiCaprio in the title role . The film received mixed reviews , although DiCaprio ' s performance as Hoover was widely praised . Roger Ebert wrote that the film is " fascinating " , " masterful " , and praised DiCaprio ' s performance . David Edelstein of New York Magazine , while also praising DiCaprio , wrote , " It ' s too bad J . Edgar is so shapeless and turgid and ham - handed , so rich in bad lines and worse readings " . Eastwood starred in the baseball drama Trouble with the Curve ( 2012 ) , as a veteran baseball scout who travels with his daughter for a final scouting trip . Robert Lorenz , who worked with Eastwood as an assistant director on several films , directed the film .	How was your performance in J. Edgar?	My performance as Hoover in J. Edgar was widely praised.
Eastwood directed and starred in The Gauntlet ( 1977 ) opposite Locke , Pat Hingle , William Prince , Bill McKinney , and Mara Corday . In this film , he portrays a down - and - out cop assigned to escort a prostitute from Las Vegas to Phoenix to testify against the mob . Although a moderate hit with the viewing public , critics had mixed feelings about the film , with many believing it was overly violent . Ebert , in contrast , gave the film three stars and called it " classic Clint Eastwood : fast , furious , and funny . " In Every Which Way but Loose ( 1978 ) he has an uncharacteristic offbeat comedy role . His character , Philo Beddoe , is a trucker and brawler who roams the American West searching for a lost love ( Locke ) accompanied by his best friend , Orville Boggs ( played by Geoffrey Lewis ) and an orangutan called Clyde . The film proved surprisingly successful upon its release and became Eastwood ' s most commercially successful film up to that time . Panned by critics , it ranked high among the box - office successes of his career and was the second - highest - grossing film of 1978 .	What did you think of The Gauntlet?	I gave The Gauntlet three stars and called it "classic Clint Eastwood: fast, furious, and funny."
Eastwood directed and starred in the fourth Dirty Harry film , Sudden Impact ( 1983 ) , which is considered the darkest and most violent of the series . By this time , Eastwood received 60   percent of all profits from films he starred in and directed , with the rest going to the studio . Sudden Impact was his final on - screen collaboration with Locke . She plays a middle - aged painter who , along with her sister , was gang - raped years before the story takes place and seeks revenge for her sister ' s now - vegetative state by systematically murdering the rapists . The line " Go ahead , make my day " ( uttered by Eastwood during an early scene in a coffee shop ) has been cited as one of cinema ' s immortal lines . It was quoted by President Ronald Reagan in a speech to Congress , and used during the 1984 presidential elections . The film was the second most commercially successful of the Dirty Harry films , after The Enforcer , earning $ 70   million . It received very positive reviews , with many critics praising the feminist aspects of the film through its explorations of the physical and psychological consequences of rape .	Who directed and starred in the fourth Dirty Harry film, Sudden Impact?	I directed and starred in the fourth Dirty Harry film, Sudden Impact.
Eastwood next directed Jersey Boys ( 2014 ) , a musical biography based on the Tony Award - winning musical . The film told the story of the musical group The Four Seasons . Eastwood directed American Sniper ( also 2014 ) , a film adaptation of Chris Kyle ' s eponymous memoir , following Steven Spielberg ' s departure from the project . The film was released on December 25 , 2014 . American Sniper grossed more than $ 350   million domestically and over $ 547   million globally , making it one of Eastwood ' s biggest movies commercially . His next film , Sully , starred Tom Hanks as Chesley Sullenberger , who successfully landed the US Airways Flight 1549 on the Hudson River in an emergency landing , keeping all passengers on board alive . Released in the United States in September 2016 , it became another commercial success for Eastwood , grossing over $ 238   million worldwide . He directed the biographical thriller The 15 : 17 to Paris ( 2018 ) , which saw previously non - professional actors Spencer Stone , Anthony Sadler and Alek Skarlatos playing themselves as they stop the 2015 Thalys train attack . The film received a generally negative reception from critics , who were largely critical of the acting by the three leads . Eastwood next starred in and directed The Mule , which was released in December 2018 . He played Earl Stone , an elderly drug smuggler based on Leo Sharp , Eastwood ' s first acting role since Trouble with the Curve in 2012 .	Who did Tom Hanks portray in your film Sully?	Chesley Sullenberger
Eastwood ' s career reached a turning point in 1971 . Before Irving Leonard died , he and Eastwood had discussed the idea of Malpaso producing Play Misty for Me , a film that was to give Eastwood the artistic control he desired , and his debut as a director . The script was about a jazz disc jockey named Dave ( Eastwood ) , who has a casual affair with Evelyn ( Jessica Walter ) , a listener who had been calling the radio station repeatedly at night , asking him to play her favorite song – Erroll Garner ' s " Misty " . When Dave ends their relationship , the unhinged Evelyn becomes a murderous stalker . Filming commenced in Monterey in September 1970 and included footage of that year ' s Monterey Jazz Festival . The film was highly acclaimed with critics , such as Jay Cocks in Time magazine , Andrew Sarris in the Village Voice , and Archer Winsten in the New York Post all praising the film , as well as Eastwood ' s directorial skills and performance . Walter was nominated for a Golden Globe Best Actress Award ( Drama ) , for her performance in the film .	What awards nomination did you receive for your performance in "Play Misty for Me"?	I was nominated for a Golden Globe Best Actress Award (Drama) for my performance in "Play Misty for Me".
Eastwood directed and starred in Honkytonk Man ( 1982 ) , based on the eponymous Clancy Carlile ' s depression - era novel . Eastwood portrays a struggling western singer Red Stovall who suffers from tuberculosis , but has finally been given an opportunity to make it big at the Grand Ole Opry . He is accompanied by his young nephew ( played by real - life son Kyle ) to Nashville , Tennessee , where he is supposed to record a song . Only Time gave the film a good review in the United States , with most reviewers criticizing its blend of muted humor and tragedy . Nevertheless , the film received a more positive reception in France , where it was compared to John Ford ' s The Grapes of Wrath , and it has since acquired the very high rating of 93   percent on Rotten Tomatoes . Around the same time , Eastwood directed , produced , and starred in the Cold War - themed Firefox ( also 1982 ) . Based on a 1977 novel with the same name written by Craig Thomas , the film was shot before but released after Honkytonk Man . Russian filming locations were not possible due to the Cold War , and the film had to be shot in Vienna and other locations in Austria to simulate many of the Eurasian story locations . With a production cost of $ 20   million , it was Eastwood ' s highest budget film to that time . People magazine likened Eastwood ' s performance to " Luke Skywalker trapped in Dirty Harry ' s Soul " .	What is the name of the film directed and starred by you?	Honkytonk Man
Eastwood starred with Shirley MacLaine in the western Two Mules for Sister Sara ( 1970 ) , directed by Don Siegel . The film follows an American mercenary , who becomes mixed up with a prostitute disguised as a nun , and ends up helping a group of Juarista rebels during the reign of Emperor Maximilian I of Mexico . Eastwood again played a mysterious stranger   – unshaven , wearing a serape - like vest , and smoking a cigar . Although it received moderate reviews , the film is listed in The New York Times Guide to the Best 1 , 000   Movies Ever Made . Around the same time , Eastwood starred as one of a group of Americans who steals a fortune in gold from the Nazis , in the World War II film Kelly ' s Heroes ( also 1970 ) , with Donald Sutherland and Telly Savalas . Kelly ' s Heroes was the last film Eastwood appeared in that was not produced by his own Malpaso Productions . Filming commenced in July 1969 on location in Yugoslavia and in London . The film received mostly a positive reception and its anti - war sentiments were recognized . In the winter of 1969 – 70 , Eastwood and Siegel began planning his next film , The Beguiled ( 1971 ) , a tale of a wounded Union soldier , held captive by the sexually repressed matron ( played by Geraldine Page ) of a Southern girls ' school . Upon release the film received major recognition in France and is considered one of Eastwood ' s finest works by French critics . However , it grossed less than $ 1   million and , according to Eastwood and Lang , flopped due to poor publicity and the " emasculated " role of Eastwood .	Which publication lists Two Mules for Sister Sara as one of the best 1,000 movies ever made?	The New York Times Guide to the Best 1,000 Movies Ever Made.
Eastwood directed and starred in the fourth Dirty Harry film , Sudden Impact ( 1983 ) , which is considered the darkest and most violent of the series . By this time , Eastwood received 60   percent of all profits from films he starred in and directed , with the rest going to the studio . Sudden Impact was his final on - screen collaboration with Locke . She plays a middle - aged painter who , along with her sister , was gang - raped years before the story takes place and seeks revenge for her sister ' s now - vegetative state by systematically murdering the rapists . The line " Go ahead , make my day " ( uttered by Eastwood during an early scene in a coffee shop ) has been cited as one of cinema ' s immortal lines . It was quoted by President Ronald Reagan in a speech to Congress , and used during the 1984 presidential elections . The film was the second most commercially successful of the Dirty Harry films , after The Enforcer , earning $ 70   million . It received very positive reviews , with many critics praising the feminist aspects of the film through its explorations of the physical and psychological consequences of rape .	How much money did Sudden Impact earn at the box office?	Sudden Impact earned $70 million at the box office.
Eastwood is an aficionado of jazz — particularly bebop , blues , country and western and classical music . He dabbled in music early on by developing as a boogie - woogie pianist and had originally intended to pursue a career in music by studying for a music theory degree after graduating from high school . In late 1959 , Eastwood produced the album Cowboy Favorites , released on the Cameo label , which included some classics such as Bob Wills ' s " San Antonio Rose " and Cole Porter ' s " Don ' t Fence Me In " . Despite his attempts to plug the album by going on a tour , it never reached the Billboard Hot 100 . In 1963 , Cameo producer Kal Mann told him that " he would never make it big as a singer " . Nevertheless , during the off season of filming Rawhide , Eastwood and Paul Brinegar   – sometimes joined by Sheb Wooley   – toured rodeos , state fairs , and festivals . In 1962 , their act , entitled Amusement Business Cavalcade of Fairs , earned them as much as $ 15 , 000 a performance . Although he never made it as a major performing artist , he has passed on the influence to his son , Kyle , who is a professional jazz bassist and composer . An audiophile , Eastwood owns an extensive collection of LPs which he plays on a Rockport turntable . His favorite musicians include saxophonists Charlie Parker and Lester Young , pianists Thelonious Monk , Oscar Peterson , Dave Brubeck , and Fats Waller , and Delta bluesman Robert Johnson .	Who told you that you would never make it big as a singer?	Cameo producer Kal Mann told me that I would never make it big as a singer.
Eastwood directed and starred in Honkytonk Man ( 1982 ) , based on the eponymous Clancy Carlile ' s depression - era novel . Eastwood portrays a struggling western singer Red Stovall who suffers from tuberculosis , but has finally been given an opportunity to make it big at the Grand Ole Opry . He is accompanied by his young nephew ( played by real - life son Kyle ) to Nashville , Tennessee , where he is supposed to record a song . Only Time gave the film a good review in the United States , with most reviewers criticizing its blend of muted humor and tragedy . Nevertheless , the film received a more positive reception in France , where it was compared to John Ford ' s The Grapes of Wrath , and it has since acquired the very high rating of 93   percent on Rotten Tomatoes . Around the same time , Eastwood directed , produced , and starred in the Cold War - themed Firefox ( also 1982 ) . Based on a 1977 novel with the same name written by Craig Thomas , the film was shot before but released after Honkytonk Man . Russian filming locations were not possible due to the Cold War , and the film had to be shot in Vienna and other locations in Austria to simulate many of the Eurasian story locations . With a production cost of $ 20   million , it was Eastwood ' s highest budget film to that time . People magazine likened Eastwood ' s performance to " Luke Skywalker trapped in Dirty Harry ' s Soul " .	How was your film Honkytonk Man received in France?	My film received a positive reception in France and was compared to John Ford's The Grapes of Wrath.
Eastwood directed and starred in the fourth Dirty Harry film , Sudden Impact ( 1983 ) , which is considered the darkest and most violent of the series . By this time , Eastwood received 60   percent of all profits from films he starred in and directed , with the rest going to the studio . Sudden Impact was his final on - screen collaboration with Locke . She plays a middle - aged painter who , along with her sister , was gang - raped years before the story takes place and seeks revenge for her sister ' s now - vegetative state by systematically murdering the rapists . The line " Go ahead , make my day " ( uttered by Eastwood during an early scene in a coffee shop ) has been cited as one of cinema ' s immortal lines . It was quoted by President Ronald Reagan in a speech to Congress , and used during the 1984 presidential elections . The film was the second most commercially successful of the Dirty Harry films , after The Enforcer , earning $ 70   million . It received very positive reviews , with many critics praising the feminist aspects of the film through its explorations of the physical and psychological consequences of rape .	When was Sudden Impact released?	Sudden Impact was released in 1983.
Eastwood ' s first western as director was High Plains Drifter ( 1973 ) , in which he also starred . The film had a moral and supernatural theme , later emulated in Pale Rider . The plot follows a mysterious stranger ( Eastwood ) who arrives in a brooding Western town where the people hire him to protect them against three soon - to - be - released felons . There remains confusion during the film as to whether the stranger is the brother of the deputy , whom the felons lynched and murdered , or his ghost . Holes in the plot were filled with black humor and allegory , influenced by Leone . The revisionist film received a mixed reception , but was a major box - office success . A number of critics thought Eastwood ' s directing was " as derivative as it was expressive , " with Arthur Knight of the Saturday Review remarking that Eastwood had " absorbed the approaches of Siegel and Leone and fused them with his own paranoid vision of society . " John Wayne , who had declined a role in the film , sent a letter to Eastwood soon after the film ' s release in which he complained that , " The townspeople did not represent the true spirit of the American pioneer , the spirit that made America great . "	What was the plot of the film?	The plot follows a mysterious stranger (me) who arrives in a brooding Western town where the people hire me to protect them against three soon-to-be-released felons.
In 1973 , Eastwood told the film critic Gene Siskel , " No , I don ' t believe in God " . Eastwood has said that he finds spirituality in nature ( as suggested by his Western , Pale Rider , 1985 ) , stating that " I was born during the Depression and I was brought up with no specific church . We moved every four or five months during the first 14 years of my life , so I was sent to a different church depending on wherever we lived . Most of them were Protestant , but I went to other churches because my parents wanted me to try to figure out things for myself . They always said , ' I just want to expose you to some religious order and see if that ' s something you like ' . So although my religious training was not really specific , I do feel spiritual things . If I stand on the side of the Grand Canyon and look down , it moves me in some way . " He has also said : " It would be wonderful to talk with my parents again , who are , of course , deceased . It makes the idea of death much less scary . But then again , if you think that nothing happens after you die , maybe it makes you live life better . Maybe you ' re supposed to do the best you can by the gift you ' re given of life and that alone . "	How does standing on the side of the Grand Canyon make you feel?	It moves me in some way.
