Ronaldo scored his first goal of the 2019 – 20 season in a 4 – 3 home league win over Napoli on 31 August 2019 . On 23 September , he came in 3rd place for the Best FIFA Men ' s Player Award . On 1 October , he reached several milestones in Juventus ' s 3 – 0 Champions League group stage win over Bayer Leverkusen : he scored in a 14th consecutive season , equalling Ra ú l and Messi ' s record ; he broke Iker Casillas ' record for most Champions League wins of all time , and equalled Ra ú l ' s record of scoring against 33 different opponents . On 6 November in a 2 – 1 away win against Lokomotiv Moscow , he equalled Paolo Maldini as the second - most capped player in UEFA club competitions with 174 appearances . On 18 December , Ronaldo leapt to a height of 8   ft 5   in ( 2.57   m ) , higher than the crossbar , to head the winning goal in a 2 – 1 away win against Sampdoria . He scored his first Serie A hat - trick on 6 January 2020 , in a 4 – 0 home win against Cagliari . His 56th career hat - trick , he became only the second player after Alexis S á nchez to score hat - tricks in the Premier League , La Liga and Serie A . On 2 February , he scored twice from the penalty spot in a 3 – 0 home win over Fiorentina , equalling David Trezeguet ' s club record of scoring in nine consecutive league games , and broke the record six days later by scoring in his tenth consecutive league game , a 2 – 1 away defeat to Hellas Verona . On 22 February , Ronaldo scored for a record - equalling 11th consecutive league game , alongside Gabriel Batistuta and Fabio Quagliarella , in what was his 1 , 000th senior professional game , a 2 – 1 away win against SPAL .	Who did you equal as the second-most capped player in UEFA club competitions on 6 November?	I equalled Paolo Maldini as the second-most capped player in UEFA club competitions on 6 November.
Ronaldo missed Madrid ' s first three matches of the 2016 – 17 season , including the 2016 UEFA Super Cup against Sevilla , as he continued to rehabilitate the knee injury he suffered against France in the Euro 2016 final . On 15 September , he did not celebrate his late free kick equaliser against Sporting CP in the Champions League , with Ronaldo stating post match that " they made me who I am " . On 7 November , his contract was updated for the second time and extended by three years to 2021 . On 19 November , he scored a hat - trick in a 3 – 0 away win against Atl é tico , making him the all - time top scorer in the Madrid derby with 18 goals . On 15 December , Ronaldo scored his 500th club career goal in the 2 – 0 win over Club Am é rica in the semi - finals of the 2016 FIFA Club World Cup . He then scored a hat - trick in the 4 – 2 win over Japanese club Kashima Antlers in the final . Ronaldo finished the tournament as top scorer with four goals and was also named player of the tournament . He won the 2016 Ballon d ' Or , his fourth , and the inaugural 2016 The Best FIFA Men ' s Player , a revival of the former FIFA World Player of the Year , largely owing to his success with Portugal in winning Euro 2016 .	What matches did you miss at the start of the 2016-17 season?	I missed Madrid's first three matches of the 2016-17 season, including the 2016 UEFA Super Cup against Sevilla.
During the 2014 – 15 season , Ronaldo set a new personal best of 61 goals , starting with both goals in Madrid ' s 2 – 0 win over Sevilla in the UEFA Super Cup . He subsequently achieved his best - ever goalscoring start to a league campaign , with 15 goals in the first eight rounds . His record 23rd La Liga hat - trick , scored against Celta Vigo on 6 December , made him the fastest player to reach 200 goals in La Liga , reaching the milestone in 178th matches . After winning the 2014 FIFA Club World Cup , Ronaldo received the 2014 Ballon d ' Or , joining Johan Cruyff , Michel Platini and Marco van Basten as a three - time recipient . Madrid finished in second place in La Liga and exited at the semi - final stage in the Champions League . In the latter competition , Ronaldo extended his run of scoring away to a record 12 matches with his strike in a 2 – 0 win against Schalke 04 . He scored both of his side ' s goals in the semi - finals against Juventus , where Madrid were eliminated 3 – 2 on aggregate . With 10 goals , he finished as top scorer for a third consecutive season , alongside Messi and Neymar . On 5 April , he scored five goals in a game for the first time in his career , including an eight - minute hat - trick , in a 9 – 1 rout of Granada . His 300th goal for his club followed three days later in a 2 – 0 win against Rayo Vallecano . Subsequent hat - tricks against Sevilla , Espanyol and Getafe took his number of hat - tricks for Madrid to 31 , surpassing Di St é fano ' s club record of 28 . He finished the season with 48 goals , winning a second consecutive Pichichi and the European Golden Shoe for a record fourth time .	Who did you score your record 23rd La Liga hat-trick against?	I scored my record 23rd La Liga hat-trick against Celta Vigo.
Ronaldo scored his first goal of the 2019 – 20 season in a 4 – 3 home league win over Napoli on 31 August 2019 . On 23 September , he came in 3rd place for the Best FIFA Men ' s Player Award . On 1 October , he reached several milestones in Juventus ' s 3 – 0 Champions League group stage win over Bayer Leverkusen : he scored in a 14th consecutive season , equalling Ra ú l and Messi ' s record ; he broke Iker Casillas ' record for most Champions League wins of all time , and equalled Ra ú l ' s record of scoring against 33 different opponents . On 6 November in a 2 – 1 away win against Lokomotiv Moscow , he equalled Paolo Maldini as the second - most capped player in UEFA club competitions with 174 appearances . On 18 December , Ronaldo leapt to a height of 8   ft 5   in ( 2.57   m ) , higher than the crossbar , to head the winning goal in a 2 – 1 away win against Sampdoria . He scored his first Serie A hat - trick on 6 January 2020 , in a 4 – 0 home win against Cagliari . His 56th career hat - trick , he became only the second player after Alexis S á nchez to score hat - tricks in the Premier League , La Liga and Serie A . On 2 February , he scored twice from the penalty spot in a 3 – 0 home win over Fiorentina , equalling David Trezeguet ' s club record of scoring in nine consecutive league games , and broke the record six days later by scoring in his tenth consecutive league game , a 2 – 1 away defeat to Hellas Verona . On 22 February , Ronaldo scored for a record - equalling 11th consecutive league game , alongside Gabriel Batistuta and Fabio Quagliarella , in what was his 1 , 000th senior professional game , a 2 – 1 away win against SPAL .	What award did you come in 3rd place for on 23 September?	I came in 3rd place for the Best FIFA Men's Player Award on 23 September.
At the start of the 2013 – 14 season , Ronaldo signed a new contract that extended his stay by three years to 2018 , with a salary of € 17   million net , making him briefly the highest - paid player in football . He was joined at the club by winger Gareth Bale , whose world record transfer fee of € 100   million surpassed the fee Madrid had paid for Ronaldo four years prior . Together with striker Karim Benzema , they formed an attacking trio popularly dubbed " BBC " , an acronym of Bale , Benzema and Cristiano , and a play on the name of the British public service broadcaster , the British Broadcasting Corporation ( BBC ) . By late November , Ronaldo had scored 32 goals from 22 matches for both club and country , including hat - tricks against Galatasaray , Sevilla , Real Sociedad , Northern Ireland , and Sweden . He ended 2013 with 69 goals in 59 appearances , his highest year - end goal tally . He received the 2013 FIFA Ballon d ' Or , an amalgamation of the Ballon d ' Or and the FIFA World Player of the Year award , for the first time in his career .	What was your salary after signing the new contract?	My salary was €17 million net after signing the new contract.
On 3 April , Ronaldo scored the first two goals in a 3 – 0 away win against Juventus in the quarter - finals of the 2017 – 18 UEFA Champions League , with his second goal being an acrobatic bicycle kick . Described as a " PlayStation goal " by Juventus defender Andrea Barzagli , with Ronaldo ' s foot approximately 7   ft 7   in ( 2.31   m ) off the ground , it garnered him a standing ovation from the opposing fans in the stadium as well as a plethora of plaudits from peers , pundits and coaches . On 11 April , he scored in the second leg at home to Juventus , a 98th - minute injury time penalty in a 3 – 1 defeat , meaning Madrid advanced 4 – 3 on aggregate . It was his tenth goal against Juventus , a Champions League record against a single club . In the final on 26 May , Madrid defeated Liverpool 3 – 1 , winning Ronaldo his fifth Champions League title , the first player to do so . He finished as the top scorer of the tournament for the sixth consecutive season with 15 goals . After the final , Ronaldo referred to his time with Madrid in the past tense , sparking speculation that he could leave the club .	When did you score the first two goals against Juventus in the 2017-18 UEFA Champions League?	On 3 April.
Ronaldo missed Madrid ' s first three matches of the 2016 – 17 season , including the 2016 UEFA Super Cup against Sevilla , as he continued to rehabilitate the knee injury he suffered against France in the Euro 2016 final . On 15 September , he did not celebrate his late free kick equaliser against Sporting CP in the Champions League , with Ronaldo stating post match that " they made me who I am " . On 7 November , his contract was updated for the second time and extended by three years to 2021 . On 19 November , he scored a hat - trick in a 3 – 0 away win against Atl é tico , making him the all - time top scorer in the Madrid derby with 18 goals . On 15 December , Ronaldo scored his 500th club career goal in the 2 – 0 win over Club Am é rica in the semi - finals of the 2016 FIFA Club World Cup . He then scored a hat - trick in the 4 – 2 win over Japanese club Kashima Antlers in the final . Ronaldo finished the tournament as top scorer with four goals and was also named player of the tournament . He won the 2016 Ballon d ' Or , his fourth , and the inaugural 2016 The Best FIFA Men ' s Player , a revival of the former FIFA World Player of the Year , largely owing to his success with Portugal in winning Euro 2016 .	How many goals did you score in the away win against Atlético?	I scored a hat-trick in the 3-0 away win against Atlético, making me the all-time top scorer in the Madrid derby with 18 goals.
On 18 August , Ronaldo made his debut in a 3 – 2 away win against Chievo Verona . On 16 September , Ronaldo scored his first two goals for Juventus in his fourth appearance in a 2 – 1 home win over Sassuolo in Serie A ; his second was the 400th league goal of his career . On 19 September , in his first Champions League match for Juventus , against Valencia , he was sent off in the 29th minute for " violent conduct " , his first red card in 154 tournament appearances . Ronaldo became the first player in history to win 100 Champions League matches , setting up Mario Mand ž uki ć ' s winner in a 1 – 0 home win over Valencia , which sealed Juventus ' s passage to the knock - out stages of the competition . In December , he scored his tenth league goal of the season , from the penalty spot , netting the final goal in a 3 – 0 away win over Fiorentina . After placing second in both the UEFA Men ' s Player of the Year and The Best FIFA Men ' s Player for the first time in three years , behind Luka Modri ć , Ronaldo performances in 2018 also saw him voted runner - up for the 2018 Ballon d ' Or , finishing once again behind his former teammate . Ronaldo won his first trophy with the club on 16 January 2019 , the 2018 Supercoppa Italiana , after he scored the only goal from a header against AC Milan .	When did you win your first trophy with Juventus?	I won my first trophy on 16 January 2019.
On 3 April , Ronaldo scored the first two goals in a 3 – 0 away win against Juventus in the quarter - finals of the 2017 – 18 UEFA Champions League , with his second goal being an acrobatic bicycle kick . Described as a " PlayStation goal " by Juventus defender Andrea Barzagli , with Ronaldo ' s foot approximately 7   ft 7   in ( 2.31   m ) off the ground , it garnered him a standing ovation from the opposing fans in the stadium as well as a plethora of plaudits from peers , pundits and coaches . On 11 April , he scored in the second leg at home to Juventus , a 98th - minute injury time penalty in a 3 – 1 defeat , meaning Madrid advanced 4 – 3 on aggregate . It was his tenth goal against Juventus , a Champions League record against a single club . In the final on 26 May , Madrid defeated Liverpool 3 – 1 , winning Ronaldo his fifth Champions League title , the first player to do so . He finished as the top scorer of the tournament for the sixth consecutive season with 15 goals . After the final , Ronaldo referred to his time with Madrid in the past tense , sparking speculation that he could leave the club .	How many Champions League titles have you won?	I have won five Champions League titles.
On 10 February , Ronaldo scored in a 3 – 0 win over Sassuolo , the ninth consecutive away game in which he had scored in the league , equalling Giuseppe Signori ' s single season Serie A record of most consecutive away games with at least one goal . On 12 March , Ronaldo scored a hat - trick in a 3 – 0 home win against Atl é tico in the second leg of the Champions League round of 16 , helping Juventus overcome a two - goal deficit to reach the quarter - finals . The following month , he scored his 125th goal in the competition , opening the scoring in a 1 – 1 away draw in the quarter - final first leg against Ajax on 10 April . In the second leg in Turin on 16 April , he scored the opening goal , but Juventus eventually lost the match 2 – 1 and were eliminated from the competition . On 20 April , Ronaldo played in the scudetto clinching game against Fiorentina , as Juventus won their eighth successive title after a 2 – 1 home win , thereby becoming the first player to win league titles in England , Spain and Italy . On 27 April , he scored his 600th club goal , the equaliser in a 1 – 1 away draw against Derby d ' Italia rivals Inter Milan . Ending his first Serie A campaign with 21 goals and 8 assists , Ronaldo won the inaugural Serie A award for Most Valuable Player .	Which team did you face in the scudetto clinching game?	Fiorentina.
On 10 February , Ronaldo scored in a 3 – 0 win over Sassuolo , the ninth consecutive away game in which he had scored in the league , equalling Giuseppe Signori ' s single season Serie A record of most consecutive away games with at least one goal . On 12 March , Ronaldo scored a hat - trick in a 3 – 0 home win against Atl é tico in the second leg of the Champions League round of 16 , helping Juventus overcome a two - goal deficit to reach the quarter - finals . The following month , he scored his 125th goal in the competition , opening the scoring in a 1 – 1 away draw in the quarter - final first leg against Ajax on 10 April . In the second leg in Turin on 16 April , he scored the opening goal , but Juventus eventually lost the match 2 – 1 and were eliminated from the competition . On 20 April , Ronaldo played in the scudetto clinching game against Fiorentina , as Juventus won their eighth successive title after a 2 – 1 home win , thereby becoming the first player to win league titles in England , Spain and Italy . On 27 April , he scored his 600th club goal , the equaliser in a 1 – 1 away draw against Derby d ' Italia rivals Inter Milan . Ending his first Serie A campaign with 21 goals and 8 assists , Ronaldo won the inaugural Serie A award for Most Valuable Player .	Who held the single season Serie A record for most consecutive away games with at least one goal before you?	Giuseppe Signori.
Ronaldo missed Madrid ' s first three matches of the 2016 – 17 season , including the 2016 UEFA Super Cup against Sevilla , as he continued to rehabilitate the knee injury he suffered against France in the Euro 2016 final . On 15 September , he did not celebrate his late free kick equaliser against Sporting CP in the Champions League , with Ronaldo stating post match that " they made me who I am " . On 7 November , his contract was updated for the second time and extended by three years to 2021 . On 19 November , he scored a hat - trick in a 3 – 0 away win against Atl é tico , making him the all - time top scorer in the Madrid derby with 18 goals . On 15 December , Ronaldo scored his 500th club career goal in the 2 – 0 win over Club Am é rica in the semi - finals of the 2016 FIFA Club World Cup . He then scored a hat - trick in the 4 – 2 win over Japanese club Kashima Antlers in the final . Ronaldo finished the tournament as top scorer with four goals and was also named player of the tournament . He won the 2016 Ballon d ' Or , his fourth , and the inaugural 2016 The Best FIFA Men ' s Player , a revival of the former FIFA World Player of the Year , largely owing to his success with Portugal in winning Euro 2016 .	When did you score your 500th club career goal?	I scored my 500th club career goal on December 15th in the 2-0 win over Club América in the semi-finals of the 2016 FIFA Club World Cup.
On 10 February , Ronaldo scored in a 3 – 0 win over Sassuolo , the ninth consecutive away game in which he had scored in the league , equalling Giuseppe Signori ' s single season Serie A record of most consecutive away games with at least one goal . On 12 March , Ronaldo scored a hat - trick in a 3 – 0 home win against Atl é tico in the second leg of the Champions League round of 16 , helping Juventus overcome a two - goal deficit to reach the quarter - finals . The following month , he scored his 125th goal in the competition , opening the scoring in a 1 – 1 away draw in the quarter - final first leg against Ajax on 10 April . In the second leg in Turin on 16 April , he scored the opening goal , but Juventus eventually lost the match 2 – 1 and were eliminated from the competition . On 20 April , Ronaldo played in the scudetto clinching game against Fiorentina , as Juventus won their eighth successive title after a 2 – 1 home win , thereby becoming the first player to win league titles in England , Spain and Italy . On 27 April , he scored his 600th club goal , the equaliser in a 1 – 1 away draw against Derby d ' Italia rivals Inter Milan . Ending his first Serie A campaign with 21 goals and 8 assists , Ronaldo won the inaugural Serie A award for Most Valuable Player .	In which leg of the Champions League round of 16 did you score a hat-trick?	In the second leg.
Ronaldo scored five goals , including a hat - trick against Armenia , in the qualification for Euro 2016 . With the only goal in another win over Armenia on 14 November 2014 , he reached 23 goals in the UEFA European Championship , including qualifying matches , to become the competition ' s all - time leading goalscorer . At the start of the tournament , Ronaldo failed to convert his chances in Portugal ' s draws against Iceland and Austria , despite taking 20 shots on goal . In the latter match , he overtook Figo as Portugal ' s most capped player with his 128th international appearance , which ended scoreless after he missed a penalty in the second half . With two goals in the last match of the group stage , a 3 – 3 draw against Hungary , Ronaldo became the first player to score in four European Championships , having made a record 17 appearances in the tournament . Although placed third in their group behind Hungary and Iceland , his team qualified for the knockout round as a result of the competition ' s newly expanded format , despite not winning any of their games .	How many appearances have you made in the European Championships?	I have made a record 17 appearances in the European Championships.
During the 2014 – 15 season , Ronaldo set a new personal best of 61 goals , starting with both goals in Madrid ' s 2 – 0 win over Sevilla in the UEFA Super Cup . He subsequently achieved his best - ever goalscoring start to a league campaign , with 15 goals in the first eight rounds . His record 23rd La Liga hat - trick , scored against Celta Vigo on 6 December , made him the fastest player to reach 200 goals in La Liga , reaching the milestone in 178th matches . After winning the 2014 FIFA Club World Cup , Ronaldo received the 2014 Ballon d ' Or , joining Johan Cruyff , Michel Platini and Marco van Basten as a three - time recipient . Madrid finished in second place in La Liga and exited at the semi - final stage in the Champions League . In the latter competition , Ronaldo extended his run of scoring away to a record 12 matches with his strike in a 2 – 0 win against Schalke 04 . He scored both of his side ' s goals in the semi - finals against Juventus , where Madrid were eliminated 3 – 2 on aggregate . With 10 goals , he finished as top scorer for a third consecutive season , alongside Messi and Neymar . On 5 April , he scored five goals in a game for the first time in his career , including an eight - minute hat - trick , in a 9 – 1 rout of Granada . His 300th goal for his club followed three days later in a 2 – 0 win against Rayo Vallecano . Subsequent hat - tricks against Sevilla , Espanyol and Getafe took his number of hat - tricks for Madrid to 31 , surpassing Di St é fano ' s club record of 28 . He finished the season with 48 goals , winning a second consecutive Pichichi and the European Golden Shoe for a record fourth time .	How many hat-tricks did you score for Madrid, surpassing Di Stéfano's club record?	I scored 31 hat-tricks for Madrid, surpassing Di Stéfano's club record of 28.
At the quarter - final stage of the 2006 – 07 UEFA Champions League , Ronaldo scored his first goals in his 30th match in the competition , scoring twice in a 7 – 1 win over Roma . He subsequently scored four minutes into the first semi - final leg against Milan , which ended in a 3 – 2 win , but was marked out of the second leg as United lost 3 – 0 at the San Siro . He also helped United reach the 2007 FA Cup Final , but the final against Chelsea ended in a 1 – 0 defeat . Ronaldo scored the only goal in the Manchester derby on 5 May ( his 50th goal for the club ) , as United won their first league title in four years . As a result of his performances , he amassed a host of personal awards for the season . He won the Professional Footballers ' Association ' s Player ' s Player , Fans ' Player and Young Player of the Year awards , as well as the Football Writers ' Association ' s Footballer of the Year award , becoming the first player to win all four main PFA and FWA honours . His wages were raised to £ 120 , 000 a week as part of a five - year contract extension . Ronaldo was named runner - up to Kak á for the 2007 Ballon d ' Or , and came third , behind Kak á and Lionel Messi , in the running for the 2007 FIFA World Player of the Year award .	What happened in the second leg of the semi-finals and what was the final result for your team?	I was marked out of the second leg as my team lost 3-0 at the San Siro.
Ronaldo scored his first goal of the 2019 – 20 season in a 4 – 3 home league win over Napoli on 31 August 2019 . On 23 September , he came in 3rd place for the Best FIFA Men ' s Player Award . On 1 October , he reached several milestones in Juventus ' s 3 – 0 Champions League group stage win over Bayer Leverkusen : he scored in a 14th consecutive season , equalling Ra ú l and Messi ' s record ; he broke Iker Casillas ' record for most Champions League wins of all time , and equalled Ra ú l ' s record of scoring against 33 different opponents . On 6 November in a 2 – 1 away win against Lokomotiv Moscow , he equalled Paolo Maldini as the second - most capped player in UEFA club competitions with 174 appearances . On 18 December , Ronaldo leapt to a height of 8   ft 5   in ( 2.57   m ) , higher than the crossbar , to head the winning goal in a 2 – 1 away win against Sampdoria . He scored his first Serie A hat - trick on 6 January 2020 , in a 4 – 0 home win against Cagliari . His 56th career hat - trick , he became only the second player after Alexis S á nchez to score hat - tricks in the Premier League , La Liga and Serie A . On 2 February , he scored twice from the penalty spot in a 3 – 0 home win over Fiorentina , equalling David Trezeguet ' s club record of scoring in nine consecutive league games , and broke the record six days later by scoring in his tenth consecutive league game , a 2 – 1 away defeat to Hellas Verona . On 22 February , Ronaldo scored for a record - equalling 11th consecutive league game , alongside Gabriel Batistuta and Fabio Quagliarella , in what was his 1 , 000th senior professional game , a 2 – 1 away win against SPAL .	How many career hat-tricks do you have and who is the only other player to achieve this feat in the Premier League, La Liga, and Serie A?	I have 56 career hat-tricks and I am the second player after Alexis Sánchez to score hat-tricks in the Premier League, La Liga, and Serie A.
Ronaldo scored five goals , including a hat - trick against Armenia , in the qualification for Euro 2016 . With the only goal in another win over Armenia on 14 November 2014 , he reached 23 goals in the UEFA European Championship , including qualifying matches , to become the competition ' s all - time leading goalscorer . At the start of the tournament , Ronaldo failed to convert his chances in Portugal ' s draws against Iceland and Austria , despite taking 20 shots on goal . In the latter match , he overtook Figo as Portugal ' s most capped player with his 128th international appearance , which ended scoreless after he missed a penalty in the second half . With two goals in the last match of the group stage , a 3 – 3 draw against Hungary , Ronaldo became the first player to score in four European Championships , having made a record 17 appearances in the tournament . Although placed third in their group behind Hungary and Iceland , his team qualified for the knockout round as a result of the competition ' s newly expanded format , despite not winning any of their games .	How many shots on goal did you take in Portugal's draws against Iceland and Austria?	I took 20 shots on goal in Portugal's draws against Iceland and Austria.
During the 2014 – 15 season , Ronaldo set a new personal best of 61 goals , starting with both goals in Madrid ' s 2 – 0 win over Sevilla in the UEFA Super Cup . He subsequently achieved his best - ever goalscoring start to a league campaign , with 15 goals in the first eight rounds . His record 23rd La Liga hat - trick , scored against Celta Vigo on 6 December , made him the fastest player to reach 200 goals in La Liga , reaching the milestone in 178th matches . After winning the 2014 FIFA Club World Cup , Ronaldo received the 2014 Ballon d ' Or , joining Johan Cruyff , Michel Platini and Marco van Basten as a three - time recipient . Madrid finished in second place in La Liga and exited at the semi - final stage in the Champions League . In the latter competition , Ronaldo extended his run of scoring away to a record 12 matches with his strike in a 2 – 0 win against Schalke 04 . He scored both of his side ' s goals in the semi - finals against Juventus , where Madrid were eliminated 3 – 2 on aggregate . With 10 goals , he finished as top scorer for a third consecutive season , alongside Messi and Neymar . On 5 April , he scored five goals in a game for the first time in his career , including an eight - minute hat - trick , in a 9 – 1 rout of Granada . His 300th goal for his club followed three days later in a 2 – 0 win against Rayo Vallecano . Subsequent hat - tricks against Sevilla , Espanyol and Getafe took his number of hat - tricks for Madrid to 31 , surpassing Di St é fano ' s club record of 28 . He finished the season with 48 goals , winning a second consecutive Pichichi and the European Golden Shoe for a record fourth time .	How many matches did it take you to reach 200 goals in La Liga?	It took me 178 matches to reach 200 goals in La Liga.
Following Ra ú l ' s departure , Ronaldo was given the number 7 shirt for Madrid before the 2010 – 11 season . His subsequent return to his Ballon d ' Or - winning form was epitomised when , for the first time in his career , he scored four goals in a single match during a 6 – 1 rout against Racing Santander on 23 October . Ronaldo subsequently scored further hat - tricks against Athletic Bilbao , Levante , Villarreal and M á laga . Despite his performances , he did not make the top three in the inaugural 2010 FIFA Ballon d ' Or . During a historic series of four Cl á sicos against rivals Barcelona in April 2011 , Ronaldo scored twice to equal his personal record of 42 goals in all competitions . Though he failed to score in either leg of the Champions League semi - finals as Madrid were eliminated , he equalised from the penalty spot in the return league game and scored the match - winning goal in the 103rd minute of the 2011 Copa del Rey Final , winning his first trophy in Spain . His two goals in the last match of the season against Almer í a made him the first player in La Liga to score 40 goals . In addition to the Pichichi Trophy , Ronaldo won the European Golden Shoe for a second time , becoming the first player to win the award in different leagues .	How many hat-tricks did you score?	I scored hat-tricks against Athletic Bilbao, Levante, Villarreal, and Málaga.
On 18 August , Ronaldo made his debut in a 3 – 2 away win against Chievo Verona . On 16 September , Ronaldo scored his first two goals for Juventus in his fourth appearance in a 2 – 1 home win over Sassuolo in Serie A ; his second was the 400th league goal of his career . On 19 September , in his first Champions League match for Juventus , against Valencia , he was sent off in the 29th minute for " violent conduct " , his first red card in 154 tournament appearances . Ronaldo became the first player in history to win 100 Champions League matches , setting up Mario Mand ž uki ć ' s winner in a 1 – 0 home win over Valencia , which sealed Juventus ' s passage to the knock - out stages of the competition . In December , he scored his tenth league goal of the season , from the penalty spot , netting the final goal in a 3 – 0 away win over Fiorentina . After placing second in both the UEFA Men ' s Player of the Year and The Best FIFA Men ' s Player for the first time in three years , behind Luka Modri ć , Ronaldo performances in 2018 also saw him voted runner - up for the 2018 Ballon d ' Or , finishing once again behind his former teammate . Ronaldo won his first trophy with the club on 16 January 2019 , the 2018 Supercoppa Italiana , after he scored the only goal from a header against AC Milan .	What was the score of your match against Sassuolo?	I won the match with a score of 2-1.
Ronaldo missed Madrid ' s first three matches of the 2016 – 17 season , including the 2016 UEFA Super Cup against Sevilla , as he continued to rehabilitate the knee injury he suffered against France in the Euro 2016 final . On 15 September , he did not celebrate his late free kick equaliser against Sporting CP in the Champions League , with Ronaldo stating post match that " they made me who I am " . On 7 November , his contract was updated for the second time and extended by three years to 2021 . On 19 November , he scored a hat - trick in a 3 – 0 away win against Atl é tico , making him the all - time top scorer in the Madrid derby with 18 goals . On 15 December , Ronaldo scored his 500th club career goal in the 2 – 0 win over Club Am é rica in the semi - finals of the 2016 FIFA Club World Cup . He then scored a hat - trick in the 4 – 2 win over Japanese club Kashima Antlers in the final . Ronaldo finished the tournament as top scorer with four goals and was also named player of the tournament . He won the 2016 Ballon d ' Or , his fourth , and the inaugural 2016 The Best FIFA Men ' s Player , a revival of the former FIFA World Player of the Year , largely owing to his success with Portugal in winning Euro 2016 .	Why did you not celebrate your late free kick equalizer against Sporting CP?	I did not celebrate my late free kick equalizer against Sporting CP because I stated post-match that "they made me who I am."
At the quarter - final stage of the 2006 – 07 UEFA Champions League , Ronaldo scored his first goals in his 30th match in the competition , scoring twice in a 7 – 1 win over Roma . He subsequently scored four minutes into the first semi - final leg against Milan , which ended in a 3 – 2 win , but was marked out of the second leg as United lost 3 – 0 at the San Siro . He also helped United reach the 2007 FA Cup Final , but the final against Chelsea ended in a 1 – 0 defeat . Ronaldo scored the only goal in the Manchester derby on 5 May ( his 50th goal for the club ) , as United won their first league title in four years . As a result of his performances , he amassed a host of personal awards for the season . He won the Professional Footballers ' Association ' s Player ' s Player , Fans ' Player and Young Player of the Year awards , as well as the Football Writers ' Association ' s Footballer of the Year award , becoming the first player to win all four main PFA and FWA honours . His wages were raised to £ 120 , 000 a week as part of a five - year contract extension . Ronaldo was named runner - up to Kak á for the 2007 Ballon d ' Or , and came third , behind Kak á and Lionel Messi , in the running for the 2007 FIFA World Player of the Year award .	Who did you score against in the first semi-final leg and what was the result?	I scored four minutes into the first semi-final leg against Milan, which ended in a 3-2 win.
At the start of the 2013 – 14 season , Ronaldo signed a new contract that extended his stay by three years to 2018 , with a salary of € 17   million net , making him briefly the highest - paid player in football . He was joined at the club by winger Gareth Bale , whose world record transfer fee of € 100   million surpassed the fee Madrid had paid for Ronaldo four years prior . Together with striker Karim Benzema , they formed an attacking trio popularly dubbed " BBC " , an acronym of Bale , Benzema and Cristiano , and a play on the name of the British public service broadcaster , the British Broadcasting Corporation ( BBC ) . By late November , Ronaldo had scored 32 goals from 22 matches for both club and country , including hat - tricks against Galatasaray , Sevilla , Real Sociedad , Northern Ireland , and Sweden . He ended 2013 with 69 goals in 59 appearances , his highest year - end goal tally . He received the 2013 FIFA Ballon d ' Or , an amalgamation of the Ballon d ' Or and the FIFA World Player of the Year award , for the first time in his career .	What was the transfer fee paid for you four years prior to Bale's transfer?	The transfer fee paid for me four years prior was surpassed by Gareth Bale's world record transfer fee of €100 million.
On 18 August , Ronaldo made his debut in a 3 – 2 away win against Chievo Verona . On 16 September , Ronaldo scored his first two goals for Juventus in his fourth appearance in a 2 – 1 home win over Sassuolo in Serie A ; his second was the 400th league goal of his career . On 19 September , in his first Champions League match for Juventus , against Valencia , he was sent off in the 29th minute for " violent conduct " , his first red card in 154 tournament appearances . Ronaldo became the first player in history to win 100 Champions League matches , setting up Mario Mand ž uki ć ' s winner in a 1 – 0 home win over Valencia , which sealed Juventus ' s passage to the knock - out stages of the competition . In December , he scored his tenth league goal of the season , from the penalty spot , netting the final goal in a 3 – 0 away win over Fiorentina . After placing second in both the UEFA Men ' s Player of the Year and The Best FIFA Men ' s Player for the first time in three years , behind Luka Modri ć , Ronaldo performances in 2018 also saw him voted runner - up for the 2018 Ballon d ' Or , finishing once again behind his former teammate . Ronaldo won his first trophy with the club on 16 January 2019 , the 2018 Supercoppa Italiana , after he scored the only goal from a header against AC Milan .	How many Champions League matches have you won?	I have won 100 Champions League matches.
