Conn quickly began to promote Bowie . His debut single , " Liza Jane " , credited to Davie Jones with the King Bees , was not commercially successful . Dissatisfied with the King Bees and their repertoire of Howlin ' Wolf and Willie Dixon covers , Bowie quit the band less than a month later to join the Manish Boys , another blues outfit , who incorporated folk and soul — " I used to dream of being their Mick Jagger " , he recalled . Their cover of Bobby Bland ' s " I Pity the Fool " was no more successful than " Liza Jane " , and Bowie soon moved on again to join the Lower Third , a blues trio strongly influenced by the Who . " You ' ve Got a Habit of Leaving " fared no better , signalling the end of Conn ' s contract . Declaring that he would exit the pop music world " to study mime at Sadler ' s Wells " , Bowie nevertheless remained with the Lower Third . His new manager , Ralph Horton , later instrumental in his transition to solo artist , helped secure him a contract with Pye Records . Publicist Tony Hatch signed Bowie on the basis that he wrote his own songs . Dissatisfied with Davy ( and Davie ) Jones , which in the mid - 1960s invited confusion with Davy Jones of the Monkees , he took on the stage name David Bowie after the 19th - century American pioneer James Bowie and the knife he had popularised . His first release under the name was the January 1966 single " Can ' t Help Thinking About Me " , recorded with the Lower Third . It flopped like its predecessors .	What was the name of your manager who later helped you transition to a solo artist?	My manager was Ralph Horton.
Bowie moved to the US in 1974 , initially staying in New York City before settling in Los Angeles . Diamond Dogs ( 1974 ) , parts of which found him heading towards soul and funk , was the product of two distinct ideas : a musical based on a wild future in a post - apocalyptic city , and setting George Orwell ' s Nineteen Eighty - Four to music . The album went to number one in the UK , spawning the hits " Rebel Rebel " and " Diamond Dogs " , and number five in the US . The supporting Diamond Dogs Tour visited cities in North America between June and December 1974 . Choreographed by Toni Basil , and lavishly produced with theatrical special effects , the high - budget stage production was filmed by Alan Yentob . The resulting documentary , Cracked Actor , featured a pasty and emaciated Bowie : the tour coincided with his slide from heavy cocaine use into addiction , producing severe physical debilitation , paranoia and emotional problems . He later commented that the accompanying live album , David Live , ought to have been titled " David Bowie Is Alive and Well and Living Only in Theory " . David Live nevertheless solidified Bowie ' s status as a superstar , charting at number two in the UK and number eight in the US . It also spawned a UK number ten hit in a cover of Eddie Floyd ' s " Knock on Wood " . After a break in Philadelphia , where Bowie recorded new material , the tour resumed with a new emphasis on soul .	What is the name of your album released in 1974?	The name of my album released in 1974 is Diamond Dogs.
Bowie moved to the US in 1974 , initially staying in New York City before settling in Los Angeles . Diamond Dogs ( 1974 ) , parts of which found him heading towards soul and funk , was the product of two distinct ideas : a musical based on a wild future in a post - apocalyptic city , and setting George Orwell ' s Nineteen Eighty - Four to music . The album went to number one in the UK , spawning the hits " Rebel Rebel " and " Diamond Dogs " , and number five in the US . The supporting Diamond Dogs Tour visited cities in North America between June and December 1974 . Choreographed by Toni Basil , and lavishly produced with theatrical special effects , the high - budget stage production was filmed by Alan Yentob . The resulting documentary , Cracked Actor , featured a pasty and emaciated Bowie : the tour coincided with his slide from heavy cocaine use into addiction , producing severe physical debilitation , paranoia and emotional problems . He later commented that the accompanying live album , David Live , ought to have been titled " David Bowie Is Alive and Well and Living Only in Theory " . David Live nevertheless solidified Bowie ' s status as a superstar , charting at number two in the UK and number eight in the US . It also spawned a UK number ten hit in a cover of Eddie Floyd ' s " Knock on Wood " . After a break in Philadelphia , where Bowie recorded new material , the tour resumed with a new emphasis on soul .	Where did you settle in the US?	I settled in Los Angeles.
The final piece in what Bowie called his " triptych " , Lodger ( 1979 ) , eschewed the minimalist , ambient nature of its two predecessors , making a partial return to the drum - and guitar - based rock and pop of his pre - Berlin era . The result was a complex mixture of new wave and world music , in places incorporating Hijaz non - Western scales . Some tracks were composed using Eno ' s Oblique Strategies cards : " Boys Keep Swinging " entailed band members swapping instruments , " Move On " used the chords from Bowie ' s early composition " All the Young Dudes " played backwards , and " Red Money " took backing tracks from The Idiot ' s " Sister Midnight " . The album was recorded in Switzerland and New York City . Ahead of its release , RCA ' s Mel Ilberman described it as " a concept album that portrays the Lodger as a homeless wanderer , shunned and victimized by life ' s pressures and technology . " Lodger reached number four in the UK and number 20 in the US , and yielded the UK hit singles " Boys Keep Swinging " and " DJ " . Towards the end of the year , Bowie and Angie initiated divorce proceedings , and after months of court battles the marriage was ended in early 1980 . The three albums were later adapted into classical music symphonies by American composer Philip Glass for his first , fourth and twelfth symphonies in 1992 , 1997 and 2019 , respectively . Glass praised Bowie ' s gift for creating " fairly complex pieces of music , masquerading as simple pieces " .	How did your album Lodger perform in the UK and the US?	My album Lodger reached number four in the UK and number 20 in the US. It also yielded the UK hit singles "Boys Keep Swinging" and "DJ".
The final piece in what Bowie called his " triptych " , Lodger ( 1979 ) , eschewed the minimalist , ambient nature of its two predecessors , making a partial return to the drum - and guitar - based rock and pop of his pre - Berlin era . The result was a complex mixture of new wave and world music , in places incorporating Hijaz non - Western scales . Some tracks were composed using Eno ' s Oblique Strategies cards : " Boys Keep Swinging " entailed band members swapping instruments , " Move On " used the chords from Bowie ' s early composition " All the Young Dudes " played backwards , and " Red Money " took backing tracks from The Idiot ' s " Sister Midnight " . The album was recorded in Switzerland and New York City . Ahead of its release , RCA ' s Mel Ilberman described it as " a concept album that portrays the Lodger as a homeless wanderer , shunned and victimized by life ' s pressures and technology . " Lodger reached number four in the UK and number 20 in the US , and yielded the UK hit singles " Boys Keep Swinging " and " DJ " . Towards the end of the year , Bowie and Angie initiated divorce proceedings , and after months of court battles the marriage was ended in early 1980 . The three albums were later adapted into classical music symphonies by American composer Philip Glass for his first , fourth and twelfth symphonies in 1992 , 1997 and 2019 , respectively . Glass praised Bowie ' s gift for creating " fairly complex pieces of music , masquerading as simple pieces " .	How did you describe the concept of the album Lodger?	I described the concept of the album Lodger as portraying the Lodger as a homeless wanderer, shunned and victimized by life's pressures and technology.
After Bowie married Iman in a private ceremony in 1992 , he said they knew that their " real marriage , sanctified by God , had to happen in a church in Florence " . Earlier that year , he knelt on stage at The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert and recited the Lord ' s Prayer before a television audience . [ c ] In 1993 , Bowie said he had an " undying " belief in the " unquestionable " existence of God . In a separate 1993 interview , while describing the genesis of the music for his album Black Tie White Noise , he said " … it was important for me to find something [ musically ] that also had no sort of representation of institutionalized and organized religion , of which I ' m not a believer , I must make that clear . " Interviewed in 2005 , Bowie said whether God exists " is not a question that can be answered .   ... I ' m not quite an atheist and it worries me . There ' s that little bit that holds on : ' Well , I ' m almost an atheist . Give me a couple of months .   ... I ' ve nearly got it right . ' " He had a tattoo of the Serenity Prayer in Japanese on his left calf .	Where did you say your "real marriage" had to happen?	I said my "real marriage" had to happen in a church in Florence.
Conn quickly began to promote Bowie . His debut single , " Liza Jane " , credited to Davie Jones with the King Bees , was not commercially successful . Dissatisfied with the King Bees and their repertoire of Howlin ' Wolf and Willie Dixon covers , Bowie quit the band less than a month later to join the Manish Boys , another blues outfit , who incorporated folk and soul — " I used to dream of being their Mick Jagger " , he recalled . Their cover of Bobby Bland ' s " I Pity the Fool " was no more successful than " Liza Jane " , and Bowie soon moved on again to join the Lower Third , a blues trio strongly influenced by the Who . " You ' ve Got a Habit of Leaving " fared no better , signalling the end of Conn ' s contract . Declaring that he would exit the pop music world " to study mime at Sadler ' s Wells " , Bowie nevertheless remained with the Lower Third . His new manager , Ralph Horton , later instrumental in his transition to solo artist , helped secure him a contract with Pye Records . Publicist Tony Hatch signed Bowie on the basis that he wrote his own songs . Dissatisfied with Davy ( and Davie ) Jones , which in the mid - 1960s invited confusion with Davy Jones of the Monkees , he took on the stage name David Bowie after the 19th - century American pioneer James Bowie and the knife he had popularised . His first release under the name was the January 1966 single " Can ' t Help Thinking About Me " , recorded with the Lower Third . It flopped like its predecessors .	What type of music did the Manish Boys play?	The Manish Boys incorporated folk and soul.
After Bowie married Iman in a private ceremony in 1992 , he said they knew that their " real marriage , sanctified by God , had to happen in a church in Florence " . Earlier that year , he knelt on stage at The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert and recited the Lord ' s Prayer before a television audience . [ c ] In 1993 , Bowie said he had an " undying " belief in the " unquestionable " existence of God . In a separate 1993 interview , while describing the genesis of the music for his album Black Tie White Noise , he said " … it was important for me to find something [ musically ] that also had no sort of representation of institutionalized and organized religion , of which I ' m not a believer , I must make that clear . " Interviewed in 2005 , Bowie said whether God exists " is not a question that can be answered .   ... I ' m not quite an atheist and it worries me . There ' s that little bit that holds on : ' Well , I ' m almost an atheist . Give me a couple of months .   ... I ' ve nearly got it right . ' " He had a tattoo of the Serenity Prayer in Japanese on his left calf .	What did you recite at The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert?	I recited the Lord's Prayer at The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert.
Bowie moved to the US in 1974 , initially staying in New York City before settling in Los Angeles . Diamond Dogs ( 1974 ) , parts of which found him heading towards soul and funk , was the product of two distinct ideas : a musical based on a wild future in a post - apocalyptic city , and setting George Orwell ' s Nineteen Eighty - Four to music . The album went to number one in the UK , spawning the hits " Rebel Rebel " and " Diamond Dogs " , and number five in the US . The supporting Diamond Dogs Tour visited cities in North America between June and December 1974 . Choreographed by Toni Basil , and lavishly produced with theatrical special effects , the high - budget stage production was filmed by Alan Yentob . The resulting documentary , Cracked Actor , featured a pasty and emaciated Bowie : the tour coincided with his slide from heavy cocaine use into addiction , producing severe physical debilitation , paranoia and emotional problems . He later commented that the accompanying live album , David Live , ought to have been titled " David Bowie Is Alive and Well and Living Only in Theory " . David Live nevertheless solidified Bowie ' s status as a superstar , charting at number two in the UK and number eight in the US . It also spawned a UK number ten hit in a cover of Eddie Floyd ' s " Knock on Wood " . After a break in Philadelphia , where Bowie recorded new material , the tour resumed with a new emphasis on soul .	Where did you initially stay in the US?	I initially stayed in New York City.
Bowie met dancer Lindsay Kemp in 1967 and enrolled in his dance class at the London Dance Centre . He commented in 1972 that meeting Kemp was when his interest in image " really blossomed " . " He lived on his emotions , he was a wonderful influence . His day - to - day life was the most theatrical thing I had ever seen , ever . It was everything I thought Bohemia probably was . I joined the circus . " In January 1968 , Kemp choreographed a dance scene for a BBC play , The Pistol Shot , in the Theatre 625 series , and used Bowie with a dancer , Hermione Farthingale ; the pair began dating and moved into a London flat together . Bowie and Farthingale broke up in early 1969 when she went to Norway to take part in a film , Song of Norway ; this affected him , and several songs , such as " Letter to Hermione " and " An Occasional Dream " , reference her ; and , for the video accompanying " Where Are We Now ? " , he wore a T - shirt with the words " m / s Song of Norway " . Bowie blamed himself for their breakup , saying in 2002 that he " was totally unfaithful and couldn ' t for the life of me keep it zipped . " Farthingale , who spoke of deep affection for him in an interview with Pegg , said they last saw each other in 1970 .	Who did you meet in 1967 and what was the impact of that meeting?	I met dancer Lindsay Kemp in 1967 and I commented that meeting Kemp was when my interest in image "really blossomed."
Bowie departed the Lower Third after the single ' s release , partly due to Horton ' s influence , and released two more singles for Pye , " Do Anything You Say " and " I Dig Everything " , both of which featured a new band called the Buzz , before signing with Deram Records . Around this time Bowie also joined the Riot Squad ; their recordings , which included one of Bowie ' s original songs and material by the Velvet Underground , went unreleased . Kenneth Pitt , introduced by Horton , took over as Bowie ' s manager . His April 1967 solo single , " The Laughing Gnome " , on which speeded - up and high - pitched vocals were used to portray the gnome , failed to chart . Released six weeks later , his album debut , David Bowie , an amalgam of pop , psychedelia and music hall , met the same fate . It was his last release for two years . In September , Bowie recorded " Let Me Sleep Beside You " and " Karma Man " , both rejected by Deram and left unreleased until 1970 . The tracks marked the beginning of Bowie ' s working relationship with producer Tony Visconti which , with large gaps , lasted for the rest of Bowie ' s career .	Who took over as your manager after Horton?	Kenneth Pitt took over as my manager after Horton.
Bowie moved to the US in 1974 , initially staying in New York City before settling in Los Angeles . Diamond Dogs ( 1974 ) , parts of which found him heading towards soul and funk , was the product of two distinct ideas : a musical based on a wild future in a post - apocalyptic city , and setting George Orwell ' s Nineteen Eighty - Four to music . The album went to number one in the UK , spawning the hits " Rebel Rebel " and " Diamond Dogs " , and number five in the US . The supporting Diamond Dogs Tour visited cities in North America between June and December 1974 . Choreographed by Toni Basil , and lavishly produced with theatrical special effects , the high - budget stage production was filmed by Alan Yentob . The resulting documentary , Cracked Actor , featured a pasty and emaciated Bowie : the tour coincided with his slide from heavy cocaine use into addiction , producing severe physical debilitation , paranoia and emotional problems . He later commented that the accompanying live album , David Live , ought to have been titled " David Bowie Is Alive and Well and Living Only in Theory " . David Live nevertheless solidified Bowie ' s status as a superstar , charting at number two in the UK and number eight in the US . It also spawned a UK number ten hit in a cover of Eddie Floyd ' s " Knock on Wood " . After a break in Philadelphia , where Bowie recorded new material , the tour resumed with a new emphasis on soul .	When did you move to the US?	I moved to the US in 1974.
Bowie departed the Lower Third after the single ' s release , partly due to Horton ' s influence , and released two more singles for Pye , " Do Anything You Say " and " I Dig Everything " , both of which featured a new band called the Buzz , before signing with Deram Records . Around this time Bowie also joined the Riot Squad ; their recordings , which included one of Bowie ' s original songs and material by the Velvet Underground , went unreleased . Kenneth Pitt , introduced by Horton , took over as Bowie ' s manager . His April 1967 solo single , " The Laughing Gnome " , on which speeded - up and high - pitched vocals were used to portray the gnome , failed to chart . Released six weeks later , his album debut , David Bowie , an amalgam of pop , psychedelia and music hall , met the same fate . It was his last release for two years . In September , Bowie recorded " Let Me Sleep Beside You " and " Karma Man " , both rejected by Deram and left unreleased until 1970 . The tracks marked the beginning of Bowie ' s working relationship with producer Tony Visconti which , with large gaps , lasted for the rest of Bowie ' s career .	What were the titles of the two singles you released for Pye?	The titles of the two singles I released for Pye were "Do Anything You Say" and "I Dig Everything".
Bowie departed the Lower Third after the single ' s release , partly due to Horton ' s influence , and released two more singles for Pye , " Do Anything You Say " and " I Dig Everything " , both of which featured a new band called the Buzz , before signing with Deram Records . Around this time Bowie also joined the Riot Squad ; their recordings , which included one of Bowie ' s original songs and material by the Velvet Underground , went unreleased . Kenneth Pitt , introduced by Horton , took over as Bowie ' s manager . His April 1967 solo single , " The Laughing Gnome " , on which speeded - up and high - pitched vocals were used to portray the gnome , failed to chart . Released six weeks later , his album debut , David Bowie , an amalgam of pop , psychedelia and music hall , met the same fate . It was his last release for two years . In September , Bowie recorded " Let Me Sleep Beside You " and " Karma Man " , both rejected by Deram and left unreleased until 1970 . The tracks marked the beginning of Bowie ' s working relationship with producer Tony Visconti which , with large gaps , lasted for the rest of Bowie ' s career .	Who produced your album debut, "David Bowie"?	Tony Visconti produced my album debut, "David Bowie".
Bowie met dancer Lindsay Kemp in 1967 and enrolled in his dance class at the London Dance Centre . He commented in 1972 that meeting Kemp was when his interest in image " really blossomed " . " He lived on his emotions , he was a wonderful influence . His day - to - day life was the most theatrical thing I had ever seen , ever . It was everything I thought Bohemia probably was . I joined the circus . " In January 1968 , Kemp choreographed a dance scene for a BBC play , The Pistol Shot , in the Theatre 625 series , and used Bowie with a dancer , Hermione Farthingale ; the pair began dating and moved into a London flat together . Bowie and Farthingale broke up in early 1969 when she went to Norway to take part in a film , Song of Norway ; this affected him , and several songs , such as " Letter to Hermione " and " An Occasional Dream " , reference her ; and , for the video accompanying " Where Are We Now ? " , he wore a T - shirt with the words " m / s Song of Norway " . Bowie blamed himself for their breakup , saying in 2002 that he " was totally unfaithful and couldn ' t for the life of me keep it zipped . " Farthingale , who spoke of deep affection for him in an interview with Pegg , said they last saw each other in 1970 .	Who did you date after meeting Kemp and what happened in our relationship?	After meeting Kemp, I began dating a dancer named Hermione Farthingale. We broke up in early 1969 when she went to Norway to take part in a film.
The final piece in what Bowie called his " triptych " , Lodger ( 1979 ) , eschewed the minimalist , ambient nature of its two predecessors , making a partial return to the drum - and guitar - based rock and pop of his pre - Berlin era . The result was a complex mixture of new wave and world music , in places incorporating Hijaz non - Western scales . Some tracks were composed using Eno ' s Oblique Strategies cards : " Boys Keep Swinging " entailed band members swapping instruments , " Move On " used the chords from Bowie ' s early composition " All the Young Dudes " played backwards , and " Red Money " took backing tracks from The Idiot ' s " Sister Midnight " . The album was recorded in Switzerland and New York City . Ahead of its release , RCA ' s Mel Ilberman described it as " a concept album that portrays the Lodger as a homeless wanderer , shunned and victimized by life ' s pressures and technology . " Lodger reached number four in the UK and number 20 in the US , and yielded the UK hit singles " Boys Keep Swinging " and " DJ " . Towards the end of the year , Bowie and Angie initiated divorce proceedings , and after months of court battles the marriage was ended in early 1980 . The three albums were later adapted into classical music symphonies by American composer Philip Glass for his first , fourth and twelfth symphonies in 1992 , 1997 and 2019 , respectively . Glass praised Bowie ' s gift for creating " fairly complex pieces of music , masquerading as simple pieces " .	Where was your album Lodger recorded?	My album Lodger was recorded in Switzerland and New York City.
Over the years , Bowie made numerous references to religions and to his evolving spirituality . Beginning in 1967 from the influence of his half - brother , he became interested in Buddhism and , with commercial success eluding him , he considered becoming a Buddhist monk . Biographer Marc Spitz states that the religion reminded the young artist that other goals in life existed outside fame and material gain and one can learn about themselves through meditation and chanting . After a few months ' study at Tibet House in London , he was told by his Lama , Chime Rinpoche , " You don ' t want to be Buddhist .   ... You should follow music . " By 1975 , Bowie admitted , " I felt totally , absolutely alone . And I probably was alone because I pretty much had abandoned God . " In his will , Bowie stipulated that he be cremated and his ashes scattered in Bali " in accordance with the Buddhist rituals " .	When did you become interested in Buddhism?	I became interested in Buddhism in 1967.
Over the years , Bowie made numerous references to religions and to his evolving spirituality . Beginning in 1967 from the influence of his half - brother , he became interested in Buddhism and , with commercial success eluding him , he considered becoming a Buddhist monk . Biographer Marc Spitz states that the religion reminded the young artist that other goals in life existed outside fame and material gain and one can learn about themselves through meditation and chanting . After a few months ' study at Tibet House in London , he was told by his Lama , Chime Rinpoche , " You don ' t want to be Buddhist .   ... You should follow music . " By 1975 , Bowie admitted , " I felt totally , absolutely alone . And I probably was alone because I pretty much had abandoned God . " In his will , Bowie stipulated that he be cremated and his ashes scattered in Bali " in accordance with the Buddhist rituals " .	Where did you study Buddhism?	I studied Buddhism at Tibet House in London.
The fruit of the Philadelphia recording sessions was Young Americans ( 1975 ) . Sandford writes , " Over the years , most British rockers had tried , one way or another , to become black - by - extension . Few had succeeded as Bowie did now . " The album ' s sound , which Bowie identified as " plastic soul " , constituted a radical shift in style that initially alienated many of his UK devotees . Young Americans was a commercial success in both the US and the UK and yielded Bowie ' s first US number one , " Fame " , a collaboration with John Lennon . A re - issue of the 1969 single " Space Oddity " became Bowie ' s first number - one hit in the UK a few months after " Fame " achieved the same in the US . He mimed " Fame " and his November single " Golden Years " on the US variety show Soul Train , earning him the distinction of being one of the first white artists to appear on the programme . The same year , Bowie fired Defries as his manager . At the culmination of the ensuing months - long legal dispute , he watched , as described by Sandford , " millions of dollars of his future earnings being surrendered " in what were " uniquely generous terms for Defries " , then " shut himself up in West 20th Street , where for a week his howls could be heard through the locked attic door . " Michael Lippman , Bowie ' s lawyer during the negotiations , became his new manager ; Lippman , in turn , was awarded substantial compensation when he was fired the following year .	What was the name of the album that came out of your Philadelphia recording sessions?	Young Americans (1975).
Over the years , Bowie made numerous references to religions and to his evolving spirituality . Beginning in 1967 from the influence of his half - brother , he became interested in Buddhism and , with commercial success eluding him , he considered becoming a Buddhist monk . Biographer Marc Spitz states that the religion reminded the young artist that other goals in life existed outside fame and material gain and one can learn about themselves through meditation and chanting . After a few months ' study at Tibet House in London , he was told by his Lama , Chime Rinpoche , " You don ' t want to be Buddhist .   ... You should follow music . " By 1975 , Bowie admitted , " I felt totally , absolutely alone . And I probably was alone because I pretty much had abandoned God . " In his will , Bowie stipulated that he be cremated and his ashes scattered in Bali " in accordance with the Buddhist rituals " .	What did your Lama tell you after your study?	My Lama told me that I should follow music instead of becoming a Buddhist.
From July 1980 to January 1981 , Bowie played Joseph Merrick in the Broadway theatre production The Elephant Man , which he undertook wearing no stage make - up , earning critical praise for his performance . Christiane F . , a 1981 biographical film focusing on a young girl ' s drug addiction in West Berlin , featured Bowie in a cameo appearance as himself at a concert in Germany . Its soundtrack album , Christiane F . ( 1981 ) , featured much material from his Berlin albums . The following year , he starred in the titular role in a BBC adaptation of the Bertolt Brecht play Baal . Bowie made three on - screen appearances in 1983 , the first as a vampire in Tony Scott ' s erotic horror film The Hunger , with Catherine Deneuve and Susan Sarandon . Bowie later said that he felt " very uncomfortable " with the role , but was happy to work with Scott . The second was in Nagisa Ō shima ' s Merry Christmas , Mr . Lawrence , based on Laurens van der Post ' s novel The Seed and the Sower , in which he played Major Jack Celliers , a prisoner of war in a Japanese internment camp . While the film itself received mixed reviews , Bowie ' s performance was praised . Pegg places it amongst his finest acting performances . Bowie ' s third role in 1983 was a small cameo in Mel Damski ' s pirate comedy Yellowbeard , heralded by several members of the Monty Python group . Bowie also filmed a 30 - second introduction to the animated film The Snowman , based on Raymond Briggs ' s book of the same name .	Who directed the erotic horror film The Hunger in which you played a vampire?	Tony Scott
After Bowie married Iman in a private ceremony in 1992 , he said they knew that their " real marriage , sanctified by God , had to happen in a church in Florence " . Earlier that year , he knelt on stage at The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert and recited the Lord ' s Prayer before a television audience . [ c ] In 1993 , Bowie said he had an " undying " belief in the " unquestionable " existence of God . In a separate 1993 interview , while describing the genesis of the music for his album Black Tie White Noise , he said " … it was important for me to find something [ musically ] that also had no sort of representation of institutionalized and organized religion , of which I ' m not a believer , I must make that clear . " Interviewed in 2005 , Bowie said whether God exists " is not a question that can be answered .   ... I ' m not quite an atheist and it worries me . There ' s that little bit that holds on : ' Well , I ' m almost an atheist . Give me a couple of months .   ... I ' ve nearly got it right . ' " He had a tattoo of the Serenity Prayer in Japanese on his left calf .	When were you married to Iman?	I married Iman in a private ceremony in 1992.
Bowie departed the Lower Third after the single ' s release , partly due to Horton ' s influence , and released two more singles for Pye , " Do Anything You Say " and " I Dig Everything " , both of which featured a new band called the Buzz , before signing with Deram Records . Around this time Bowie also joined the Riot Squad ; their recordings , which included one of Bowie ' s original songs and material by the Velvet Underground , went unreleased . Kenneth Pitt , introduced by Horton , took over as Bowie ' s manager . His April 1967 solo single , " The Laughing Gnome " , on which speeded - up and high - pitched vocals were used to portray the gnome , failed to chart . Released six weeks later , his album debut , David Bowie , an amalgam of pop , psychedelia and music hall , met the same fate . It was his last release for two years . In September , Bowie recorded " Let Me Sleep Beside You " and " Karma Man " , both rejected by Deram and left unreleased until 1970 . The tracks marked the beginning of Bowie ' s working relationship with producer Tony Visconti which , with large gaps , lasted for the rest of Bowie ' s career .	What was the title of your April 1967 solo single?	The title of my April 1967 solo single was "The Laughing Gnome".
After Bowie married Iman in a private ceremony in 1992 , he said they knew that their " real marriage , sanctified by God , had to happen in a church in Florence " . Earlier that year , he knelt on stage at The Freddie Mercury Tribute Concert and recited the Lord ' s Prayer before a television audience . [ c ] In 1993 , Bowie said he had an " undying " belief in the " unquestionable " existence of God . In a separate 1993 interview , while describing the genesis of the music for his album Black Tie White Noise , he said " … it was important for me to find something [ musically ] that also had no sort of representation of institutionalized and organized religion , of which I ' m not a believer , I must make that clear . " Interviewed in 2005 , Bowie said whether God exists " is not a question that can be answered .   ... I ' m not quite an atheist and it worries me . There ' s that little bit that holds on : ' Well , I ' m almost an atheist . Give me a couple of months .   ... I ' ve nearly got it right . ' " He had a tattoo of the Serenity Prayer in Japanese on his left calf .	What did you say about institutionalized and organized religion in relation to your album Black Tie White Noise?	I said it was important for me to find something musically that had no representation of institutionalized and organized religion, as I am not a believer.
Conn quickly began to promote Bowie . His debut single , " Liza Jane " , credited to Davie Jones with the King Bees , was not commercially successful . Dissatisfied with the King Bees and their repertoire of Howlin ' Wolf and Willie Dixon covers , Bowie quit the band less than a month later to join the Manish Boys , another blues outfit , who incorporated folk and soul — " I used to dream of being their Mick Jagger " , he recalled . Their cover of Bobby Bland ' s " I Pity the Fool " was no more successful than " Liza Jane " , and Bowie soon moved on again to join the Lower Third , a blues trio strongly influenced by the Who . " You ' ve Got a Habit of Leaving " fared no better , signalling the end of Conn ' s contract . Declaring that he would exit the pop music world " to study mime at Sadler ' s Wells " , Bowie nevertheless remained with the Lower Third . His new manager , Ralph Horton , later instrumental in his transition to solo artist , helped secure him a contract with Pye Records . Publicist Tony Hatch signed Bowie on the basis that he wrote his own songs . Dissatisfied with Davy ( and Davie ) Jones , which in the mid - 1960s invited confusion with Davy Jones of the Monkees , he took on the stage name David Bowie after the 19th - century American pioneer James Bowie and the knife he had popularised . His first release under the name was the January 1966 single " Can ' t Help Thinking About Me " , recorded with the Lower Third . It flopped like its predecessors .	What was your debut single called?	"Liza Jane"
