Lovato announced her Neon Lights Tour ( including a Canadian leg ) on September 29 , 2013 ; it began on February 9 , 2014 , and ended on May 17 . On October 21 , she released her cover of " Let It Go " for the Disney film Frozen , which was released in theaters on November 27 . Lovato ' s cover was described as more " radio friendly " and " pop " as compared to the original by Idina Menzel . Lovato ' s cover appears in the film ' s credits , and the song was promoted as the single for the film ' s soundtrack . The song peaked at number 38 on the Billboard Hot 100 , spending 20 weeks on the chart . It was certified double Platinum by the RIAA . On May 18 , 2014 , " Somebody to You " featuring Lovato was released as the fourth single from the Vamps ' debut album , Meet the Vamps .	How was your cover of "Let It Go" described compared to the original by Idina Menzel?	My cover was described as more "radio friendly" and "pop" compared to the original by Idina Menzel.
In November 2017 , Lovato released the single " É chame la Culpa " with Puerto Rican singer Luis Fonsi . Lovato performed at the March for Our Lives anti - gun violence rally in Washington , D . C . on March 24 , 2018 . In May , Lovato was featured on Christina Aguilera ' s " Fall in Line " and Clean Bandit ' s " Solo " . The latter became Lovato ' s first number - one song in the United Kingdom . On June 21 , Lovato released a new single , titled " Sober " , which she referred to as " my truth " ; it discusses struggles with addiction and sobriety . The Tell Me You Love Me World Tour concluded the following month , having originally been scheduled to end in November 2018 .	What achievement did your song "Solo" have in the United Kingdom?	"Solo" became my first number-one song in the United Kingdom.
Throughout her career , Lovato has donated to and partnered with various charities . In 2009 , she recorded the theme song " Send It On " with the Jonas Brothers , Miley Cyrus , and Selena Gomez for the Disney ' s Friends for Change program . The song debuted on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 20 , and its proceeds were directed to environmental charities through the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund . Lovato and Joe Jonas recorded the song " Make a Wave " for the charity in March 2010 . In August 2013 , she traveled to Kenya for her 21st birthday to participate in a program of the international charity organization Free the Children . She returned to Kenya in January 2017 with We Movement to work with women and children . In March 2017 , as a celebration of her five - year anniversary of sobriety , Lovato donated money to Los Angeles - based charities specializing in animal , LGBT and adoption rights . In August 2017 , Lovato donated $ 50000 to Hurricane Harvey relief and started fund with Nick Jonas , DNCE and her then - manager Phil McIntyre . Lovato ' s second limited edition activewear collection with Fabletics , released in June 2020 , pledged up to $ 125 , 000 in proceeds to COVID - 19 pandemic relief efforts . As spokesperson for the Join the Surge Campaign , DoSomething . Org and Joining the Surge by Clean & Clear , she has encouraged fans to take action in their own communities .	Who did you record the theme song "Send It On" with?	I recorded the theme song "Send It On" with the Jonas Brothers, Miley Cyrus, and Selena Gomez.
Lovato became a brand ambassador for the JBL audio company in 2017 and for the mug company Ember in 2018 . That year , she starred in CORE Hydration ' s " Finding Balance " campaign ; she had become an initial investor of CORE Hydration after first discovering the brand in 2015 . Jaguar , JBL , Lyft , Ferrari , TikTok and Samsung products have been featured in Lovato ' s music videos . She also appeared in commercials for Skechers , Acuvue , Apple , and Fabletics . In 2019 , Dior used Lovato ' s song " Only Forever " from the album Tell Me You Love Me in a series of commercials and social media posts to promote the brand ' s " Dior Forever " makeup collection ; the brand later used Lovato ' s song " Confident " in March 2021 to promote a new " Dior Forever " foundation in a series of social media campaigns . Since September 2020 , Lovato has served as a Mental Health Spokesperson for the online and mobile therapy company Talkspace . In November 2021 , Lovato announced the launch of her own vibrator , named Demi Wand , in partnership with Bellesa . The same month , she became Gaia , Inc . ' s first celebrity ambassador ; this endorsement attracted criticism from fans and the media due to the contents of the platform , which are widely described as promoting conspiracy theories .	In which year did you star in CORE Hydration's "Finding Balance" campaign?	I starred in CORE Hydration's "Finding Balance" campaign in that year.
Lovato announced her Neon Lights Tour ( including a Canadian leg ) on September 29 , 2013 ; it began on February 9 , 2014 , and ended on May 17 . On October 21 , she released her cover of " Let It Go " for the Disney film Frozen , which was released in theaters on November 27 . Lovato ' s cover was described as more " radio friendly " and " pop " as compared to the original by Idina Menzel . Lovato ' s cover appears in the film ' s credits , and the song was promoted as the single for the film ' s soundtrack . The song peaked at number 38 on the Billboard Hot 100 , spending 20 weeks on the chart . It was certified double Platinum by the RIAA . On May 18 , 2014 , " Somebody to You " featuring Lovato was released as the fourth single from the Vamps ' debut album , Meet the Vamps .	When did you announce your Neon Lights Tour?	I announced my Neon Lights Tour on September 29, 2013.
Lovato became a brand ambassador for the JBL audio company in 2017 and for the mug company Ember in 2018 . That year , she starred in CORE Hydration ' s " Finding Balance " campaign ; she had become an initial investor of CORE Hydration after first discovering the brand in 2015 . Jaguar , JBL , Lyft , Ferrari , TikTok and Samsung products have been featured in Lovato ' s music videos . She also appeared in commercials for Skechers , Acuvue , Apple , and Fabletics . In 2019 , Dior used Lovato ' s song " Only Forever " from the album Tell Me You Love Me in a series of commercials and social media posts to promote the brand ' s " Dior Forever " makeup collection ; the brand later used Lovato ' s song " Confident " in March 2021 to promote a new " Dior Forever " foundation in a series of social media campaigns . Since September 2020 , Lovato has served as a Mental Health Spokesperson for the online and mobile therapy company Talkspace . In November 2021 , Lovato announced the launch of her own vibrator , named Demi Wand , in partnership with Bellesa . The same month , she became Gaia , Inc . ' s first celebrity ambassador ; this endorsement attracted criticism from fans and the media due to the contents of the platform , which are widely described as promoting conspiracy theories .	Which mug company did you become a brand ambassador for in 2018?	I became a brand ambassador for the mug company Ember in 2018.
Lovato announced her Neon Lights Tour ( including a Canadian leg ) on September 29 , 2013 ; it began on February 9 , 2014 , and ended on May 17 . On October 21 , she released her cover of " Let It Go " for the Disney film Frozen , which was released in theaters on November 27 . Lovato ' s cover was described as more " radio friendly " and " pop " as compared to the original by Idina Menzel . Lovato ' s cover appears in the film ' s credits , and the song was promoted as the single for the film ' s soundtrack . The song peaked at number 38 on the Billboard Hot 100 , spending 20 weeks on the chart . It was certified double Platinum by the RIAA . On May 18 , 2014 , " Somebody to You " featuring Lovato was released as the fourth single from the Vamps ' debut album , Meet the Vamps .	When did you release your cover of "Let It Go" for the Disney film Frozen?	I released my cover of "Let It Go" on October 21.
Lovato became a brand ambassador for the JBL audio company in 2017 and for the mug company Ember in 2018 . That year , she starred in CORE Hydration ' s " Finding Balance " campaign ; she had become an initial investor of CORE Hydration after first discovering the brand in 2015 . Jaguar , JBL , Lyft , Ferrari , TikTok and Samsung products have been featured in Lovato ' s music videos . She also appeared in commercials for Skechers , Acuvue , Apple , and Fabletics . In 2019 , Dior used Lovato ' s song " Only Forever " from the album Tell Me You Love Me in a series of commercials and social media posts to promote the brand ' s " Dior Forever " makeup collection ; the brand later used Lovato ' s song " Confident " in March 2021 to promote a new " Dior Forever " foundation in a series of social media campaigns . Since September 2020 , Lovato has served as a Mental Health Spokesperson for the online and mobile therapy company Talkspace . In November 2021 , Lovato announced the launch of her own vibrator , named Demi Wand , in partnership with Bellesa . The same month , she became Gaia , Inc . ' s first celebrity ambassador ; this endorsement attracted criticism from fans and the media due to the contents of the platform , which are widely described as promoting conspiracy theories .	When did you become a brand ambassador for JBL audio company?	I became a brand ambassador for the JBL audio company in 2017.
Lovato ' s second studio album , Here We Go Again , was released on July 21 , 2009 ; she described its acoustic style as similar to that of John Mayer . The album received favorable reviews from critics who appreciated its enjoyable pop - rock elements , echoing reviews of Don ' t Forget . Lovato ' s first number - one album , it debuted atop the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 108 , 000 copies , and was later certified Gold . The album ' s lead single and title track , " Here We Go Again " , debuted at number 59 on the Billboard Hot 100 , and managed to peak at number 15 , becoming Lovato ' s highest - charting solo single to that point . The song also peaked at number 68 on the Canadian Hot 100 and number 38 in New Zealand . " Here We Go Again " was additionally certified Platinum in the US . The album ' s second and final single , " Remember December " failed to match the success of its predecessor , but peaked at number 80 on the UK Singles Chart . Lovato made her first 40 - city national concert tour , Live in Concert , in support of Here We Go Again . The tour , from June 21 to August 21 , 2009 , had David Archuleta , KSM , and Jordan Pruitt as opening acts . Lovato and Archuleta received the Choice Music Tour award at the 2009 Teen Choice Awards . Lovato was featured alongside the Jonas Brothers , Miley Cyrus , and Selena Gomez on the song " Send It On " , a charity single and the theme song for Disney ' s Friends for Change . All proceeds from the song were donated to environmental charities supported by the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund . Lovato recorded " Gift of a Friend " as a soundtrack for the Disney movie Tinker Bell and the Lost Treasure . The movie was released in October 2009 .	What was the chart performance of your album?	It debuted atop the Billboard 200 with first-week sales of 108,000 copies and was later certified Gold.
In January 2020 , Lovato made her first musical appearance since her hiatus with a performance of single " Anyone " at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards . The song , which was recorded four days prior to her 2018 drug overdose , was released on iTunes immediately after . On February 2 , 2020 , Lovato performed " The Star - Spangled Banner " at Super Bowl LIV . On March 6 , Lovato released a new single titled " I Love Me " . The release was supplemented by both a guest appearance and guest - host role on The Ellen DeGeneres Show . On April 16 , she released a collaboration with Sam Smith titled " I ' m Ready " . A remix of " Lonely Hearts " by JoJo featuring Lovato was released on August 28 , 2020 . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , Lovato received two nominations for her song " I Love Me " , becoming the first artist in VMA history to receive a nomination every year for eight consecutive years . On September 10 , Lovato released a collaboration with American DJ Marshmello , titled " OK Not to Be OK " , in partnership with the Hope For The Day suicide prevention movement . On September 30 , 2020 , Lovato released " Still Have Me " via Twitter ; the song was later released on digital platforms . On October 14 , she released a political ballad titled " Commander in Chief " , ahead of the 2020 presidential election . She hosted the 46th People ' s Choice Awards on November 15 , 2020 . On November 20 , she featured on American rapper Jeezy ' s song " My Reputation " from his album The Recession 2 . On December 4 , Lovato featured on a remix of the song " Monsters " by rock band All Time Low , alongside Blackbear .	When was your single "I Love Me" released?	On March 6, 2020.
A four - part documentary series following Lovato ' s life premiered on YouTube in March 2021 . The series , titled Demi Lovato : Dancing with the Devil , was directed by Michael D . Ratner and showcased her personal and musical journey over the past three years . It was later announced that Lovato ' s seventh studio album , titled Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over , would be released on April 2 , 2021 . Lovato defined it " the non - official soundtrack to the documentary " . The album features collaborations with Ariana Grande , Noah Cyrus and Saweetie , as well as the previously released " What Other People Say " , a collaboration between Lovato and Australian singer - songwriter Sam Fischer , initially released on February 4 , 2021 . Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over debuted at number two on the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 74 , 000 album - equivalent units in the US . Prior to the release of the album , Lovato released one of the two title tracks " Dancing with the Devil " on March 26 , and " Met Him Last Night " on April 1 , 2021 . The Dave Aud é remix of the song was nominated for Best Remixed Recording at the 64th Annual Grammy Awards . On August 20 , 2021 , Lovato released the " Melon Cake " music video .	When was your seventh studio album released?	My seventh studio album was released on April 2, 2021.
In November 2017 , Lovato released the single " É chame la Culpa " with Puerto Rican singer Luis Fonsi . Lovato performed at the March for Our Lives anti - gun violence rally in Washington , D . C . on March 24 , 2018 . In May , Lovato was featured on Christina Aguilera ' s " Fall in Line " and Clean Bandit ' s " Solo " . The latter became Lovato ' s first number - one song in the United Kingdom . On June 21 , Lovato released a new single , titled " Sober " , which she referred to as " my truth " ; it discusses struggles with addiction and sobriety . The Tell Me You Love Me World Tour concluded the following month , having originally been scheduled to end in November 2018 .	Who did you perform with at the March for Our Lives rally?	I performed with Puerto Rican singer Luis Fonsi.
In early 2022 , Lovato began teasing her eighth studio album , and described this as " more rock than anything " . She stated that the record is reminiscent of her debut studio album , Don ' t Forget ( 2008 ) , and would explore " heaviness " in its sound . Lovato further called the album her " absolute best yet " and " so representative of me " . The singer appeared on " FIIMY ( Fuck It , I Miss You ) " , a collaboration with Winnetka Bowling League , which was released on February 4 , 2022 . On May 23 , 2022 , she confirmed that " Skin of My Teeth " would serve as the lead single from her forthcoming album , which was ultimately released on June 10 . Lovato premiered " Skin of My Teeth " on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon on June 9 . On June 6 , the title of the album was officially announced as Holy Fvck , which was released on August 19 , 2022 , preceded by two other singles : " Substance " and " 29 " . In support of this album , she embarked on the Holy Fvck Tour , which commenced on August 13 , 2022 .	How do you describe your eighth studio album?	I described it as "more rock than anything" and said it is reminiscent of my debut studio album, "Don't Forget".
In January 2020 , Lovato made her first musical appearance since her hiatus with a performance of single " Anyone " at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards . The song , which was recorded four days prior to her 2018 drug overdose , was released on iTunes immediately after . On February 2 , 2020 , Lovato performed " The Star - Spangled Banner " at Super Bowl LIV . On March 6 , Lovato released a new single titled " I Love Me " . The release was supplemented by both a guest appearance and guest - host role on The Ellen DeGeneres Show . On April 16 , she released a collaboration with Sam Smith titled " I ' m Ready " . A remix of " Lonely Hearts " by JoJo featuring Lovato was released on August 28 , 2020 . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , Lovato received two nominations for her song " I Love Me " , becoming the first artist in VMA history to receive a nomination every year for eight consecutive years . On September 10 , Lovato released a collaboration with American DJ Marshmello , titled " OK Not to Be OK " , in partnership with the Hope For The Day suicide prevention movement . On September 30 , 2020 , Lovato released " Still Have Me " via Twitter ; the song was later released on digital platforms . On October 14 , she released a political ballad titled " Commander in Chief " , ahead of the 2020 presidential election . She hosted the 46th People ' s Choice Awards on November 15 , 2020 . On November 20 , she featured on American rapper Jeezy ' s song " My Reputation " from his album The Recession 2 . On December 4 , Lovato featured on a remix of the song " Monsters " by rock band All Time Low , alongside Blackbear .	When did you perform "The Star-Spangled Banner" at Super Bowl LIV?	On February 2, 2020.
Throughout her career , Lovato has donated to and partnered with various charities . In 2009 , she recorded the theme song " Send It On " with the Jonas Brothers , Miley Cyrus , and Selena Gomez for the Disney ' s Friends for Change program . The song debuted on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 20 , and its proceeds were directed to environmental charities through the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund . Lovato and Joe Jonas recorded the song " Make a Wave " for the charity in March 2010 . In August 2013 , she traveled to Kenya for her 21st birthday to participate in a program of the international charity organization Free the Children . She returned to Kenya in January 2017 with We Movement to work with women and children . In March 2017 , as a celebration of her five - year anniversary of sobriety , Lovato donated money to Los Angeles - based charities specializing in animal , LGBT and adoption rights . In August 2017 , Lovato donated $ 50000 to Hurricane Harvey relief and started fund with Nick Jonas , DNCE and her then - manager Phil McIntyre . Lovato ' s second limited edition activewear collection with Fabletics , released in June 2020 , pledged up to $ 125 , 000 in proceeds to COVID - 19 pandemic relief efforts . As spokesperson for the Join the Surge Campaign , DoSomething . Org and Joining the Surge by Clean & Clear , she has encouraged fans to take action in their own communities .	What types of charities did you donate money to in celebration of your five-year anniversary of sobriety?	In celebration of my five-year anniversary of sobriety, I donated money to Los Angeles-based charities specializing in animal, LGBT, and adoption rights.
In November 2017 , Lovato released the single " É chame la Culpa " with Puerto Rican singer Luis Fonsi . Lovato performed at the March for Our Lives anti - gun violence rally in Washington , D . C . on March 24 , 2018 . In May , Lovato was featured on Christina Aguilera ' s " Fall in Line " and Clean Bandit ' s " Solo " . The latter became Lovato ' s first number - one song in the United Kingdom . On June 21 , Lovato released a new single , titled " Sober " , which she referred to as " my truth " ; it discusses struggles with addiction and sobriety . The Tell Me You Love Me World Tour concluded the following month , having originally been scheduled to end in November 2018 .	Which two songs were you featured on in May?	I was featured on Christina Aguilera's "Fall in Line" and Clean Bandit's "Solo".
" Skyscraper " , the lead single from Unbroken , was released on July 12 , and was noted for its messages of self - worth and confidence . It debuted at number ten in the US , selling 176 , 000 downloads during the first week of release , becoming Lovato ' s highest first week sales at the time . The song also became Lovato ' s highest - charting single since " This Is Me " peaking at number nine in July 2008 , and it also debuted at number two on the Hot Digital Songs chart . " Skyscraper " received the Best Video With a Message award at the September 2012 MTV Video Music Awards , and the track was also certified Platinum by the RIAA and Silver by the BPI . The album ' s second and final single , " Give Your Heart a Break " , was released on January 23 , 2012 , and later peaked on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 16 , making Lovato ' s fourth highest - charting song to that point . It peaked at number 12 on the US Adult Top 40 chart and number one on the US Pop Songs chart . It also became the longest climb by a female artist [ b ] to reach No . 1 in the Pop Songs chart history until 2019 , when Halsey ' s feature on " Eastside " broke the record . The song was certified triple Platinum in the US ; as of October   2014 [ update ] , " Give Your Heart a Break " has sold 2.1 million digital copies . Billboard has ranked the song as Lovato ' s best , calling it " timeless " .	How has "Give Your Heart a Break" been certified in the US?	"Give Your Heart a Break" has been certified triple Platinum in the US.
Lovato ' s second studio album , Here We Go Again , was released on July 21 , 2009 ; she described its acoustic style as similar to that of John Mayer . The album received favorable reviews from critics who appreciated its enjoyable pop - rock elements , echoing reviews of Don ' t Forget . Lovato ' s first number - one album , it debuted atop the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 108 , 000 copies , and was later certified Gold . The album ' s lead single and title track , " Here We Go Again " , debuted at number 59 on the Billboard Hot 100 , and managed to peak at number 15 , becoming Lovato ' s highest - charting solo single to that point . The song also peaked at number 68 on the Canadian Hot 100 and number 38 in New Zealand . " Here We Go Again " was additionally certified Platinum in the US . The album ' s second and final single , " Remember December " failed to match the success of its predecessor , but peaked at number 80 on the UK Singles Chart . Lovato made her first 40 - city national concert tour , Live in Concert , in support of Here We Go Again . The tour , from June 21 to August 21 , 2009 , had David Archuleta , KSM , and Jordan Pruitt as opening acts . Lovato and Archuleta received the Choice Music Tour award at the 2009 Teen Choice Awards . Lovato was featured alongside the Jonas Brothers , Miley Cyrus , and Selena Gomez on the song " Send It On " , a charity single and the theme song for Disney ' s Friends for Change . All proceeds from the song were donated to environmental charities supported by the Disney Worldwide Conservation Fund . Lovato recorded " Gift of a Friend " as a soundtrack for the Disney movie Tinker Bell and the Lost Treasure . The movie was released in October 2009 .	What is your highest-charting solo single from the album?	My highest-charting solo single from the album is "Here We Go Again" which peaked at number 15 on the Billboard Hot 100.
Lovato ' s fifth album , Confident , was released on October 16 , 2015 , and was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards . The album debuted at number two on the U . S . Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 98 , 000 album units , and was certified Platinum by the RIAA . The album received mixed to positive reviews from critics . Annie Zaleski from The A . V . Club stated that " Confident is an impressive album by a pop star who knows what she wants — and also knows exactly how to get there . " During the album ' s production , Lovato commented : " I ' ve already started recording for my new album , and I have plans to record during the tour . The sound just evolves into everything that I ' ve been and everything that I want to become . " She further stated , " I ' ve never been so sure of myself as an artist when it comes down to confidence , but not only personal things , but exactly what I want my sound to be and what I know I ' m capable of and this album will give me the opportunity to show people what I can really do . " On October , she signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . Lovato released the music video for her R & B - infused song " Waitin for You " featuring rapper Sirah on October 22 , 2015 . On October 26 , 2015 , Lovato and Nick Jonas announced that they would be touring together on the Future Now Tour , to further promote Confident , with shows in North America and Europe . Lovato was honored with the first - ever Rulebreaker Award at the 2015 Billboard Women in Music event . On March 21 , 2016 , " Stone Cold " was released as the third and final single from Confident . On July 1 , 2016 , Lovato released a new single titled " Body Say " to promote her tour .	How did your album Confident debut on the U.S. Billboard 200?	Confident debuted at number two on the U.S. Billboard 200.
" Skyscraper " , the lead single from Unbroken , was released on July 12 , and was noted for its messages of self - worth and confidence . It debuted at number ten in the US , selling 176 , 000 downloads during the first week of release , becoming Lovato ' s highest first week sales at the time . The song also became Lovato ' s highest - charting single since " This Is Me " peaking at number nine in July 2008 , and it also debuted at number two on the Hot Digital Songs chart . " Skyscraper " received the Best Video With a Message award at the September 2012 MTV Video Music Awards , and the track was also certified Platinum by the RIAA and Silver by the BPI . The album ' s second and final single , " Give Your Heart a Break " , was released on January 23 , 2012 , and later peaked on the Billboard Hot 100 at number 16 , making Lovato ' s fourth highest - charting song to that point . It peaked at number 12 on the US Adult Top 40 chart and number one on the US Pop Songs chart . It also became the longest climb by a female artist [ b ] to reach No . 1 in the Pop Songs chart history until 2019 , when Halsey ' s feature on " Eastside " broke the record . The song was certified triple Platinum in the US ; as of October   2014 [ update ] , " Give Your Heart a Break " has sold 2.1 million digital copies . Billboard has ranked the song as Lovato ' s best , calling it " timeless " .	What award did "Skyscraper" win at the 2012 MTV Video Music Awards?	"Skyscraper" won the Best Video With a Message award at the 2012 MTV Video Music Awards.
A four - part documentary series following Lovato ' s life premiered on YouTube in March 2021 . The series , titled Demi Lovato : Dancing with the Devil , was directed by Michael D . Ratner and showcased her personal and musical journey over the past three years . It was later announced that Lovato ' s seventh studio album , titled Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over , would be released on April 2 , 2021 . Lovato defined it " the non - official soundtrack to the documentary " . The album features collaborations with Ariana Grande , Noah Cyrus and Saweetie , as well as the previously released " What Other People Say " , a collaboration between Lovato and Australian singer - songwriter Sam Fischer , initially released on February 4 , 2021 . Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over debuted at number two on the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 74 , 000 album - equivalent units in the US . Prior to the release of the album , Lovato released one of the two title tracks " Dancing with the Devil " on March 26 , and " Met Him Last Night " on April 1 , 2021 . The Dave Aud é remix of the song was nominated for Best Remixed Recording at the 64th Annual Grammy Awards . On August 20 , 2021 , Lovato released the " Melon Cake " music video .	What is the name of the collaboration between you and Australian singer-songwriter Sam Fischer?	The collaboration between me and Australian singer-songwriter Sam Fischer is called "What Other People Say".
A four - part documentary series following Lovato ' s life premiered on YouTube in March 2021 . The series , titled Demi Lovato : Dancing with the Devil , was directed by Michael D . Ratner and showcased her personal and musical journey over the past three years . It was later announced that Lovato ' s seventh studio album , titled Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over , would be released on April 2 , 2021 . Lovato defined it " the non - official soundtrack to the documentary " . The album features collaborations with Ariana Grande , Noah Cyrus and Saweetie , as well as the previously released " What Other People Say " , a collaboration between Lovato and Australian singer - songwriter Sam Fischer , initially released on February 4 , 2021 . Dancing with the Devil ... the Art of Starting Over debuted at number two on the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 74 , 000 album - equivalent units in the US . Prior to the release of the album , Lovato released one of the two title tracks " Dancing with the Devil " on March 26 , and " Met Him Last Night " on April 1 , 2021 . The Dave Aud é remix of the song was nominated for Best Remixed Recording at the 64th Annual Grammy Awards . On August 20 , 2021 , Lovato released the " Melon Cake " music video .	When did your documentary series "Dancing with the Devil" premiere on YouTube?	My documentary series "Dancing with the Devil" premiered on YouTube in March 2021.
Lovato announced her Neon Lights Tour ( including a Canadian leg ) on September 29 , 2013 ; it began on February 9 , 2014 , and ended on May 17 . On October 21 , she released her cover of " Let It Go " for the Disney film Frozen , which was released in theaters on November 27 . Lovato ' s cover was described as more " radio friendly " and " pop " as compared to the original by Idina Menzel . Lovato ' s cover appears in the film ' s credits , and the song was promoted as the single for the film ' s soundtrack . The song peaked at number 38 on the Billboard Hot 100 , spending 20 weeks on the chart . It was certified double Platinum by the RIAA . On May 18 , 2014 , " Somebody to You " featuring Lovato was released as the fourth single from the Vamps ' debut album , Meet the Vamps .	When was "Somebody to You" featuring you released?	"Somebody to You" featuring me was released on May 18, 2014.
In early 2022 , Lovato began teasing her eighth studio album , and described this as " more rock than anything " . She stated that the record is reminiscent of her debut studio album , Don ' t Forget ( 2008 ) , and would explore " heaviness " in its sound . Lovato further called the album her " absolute best yet " and " so representative of me " . The singer appeared on " FIIMY ( Fuck It , I Miss You ) " , a collaboration with Winnetka Bowling League , which was released on February 4 , 2022 . On May 23 , 2022 , she confirmed that " Skin of My Teeth " would serve as the lead single from her forthcoming album , which was ultimately released on June 10 . Lovato premiered " Skin of My Teeth " on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon on June 9 . On June 6 , the title of the album was officially announced as Holy Fvck , which was released on August 19 , 2022 , preceded by two other singles : " Substance " and " 29 " . In support of this album , she embarked on the Holy Fvck Tour , which commenced on August 13 , 2022 .	What did you say about the sound of the album?	I said the album would explore "heaviness" in its sound.
Lovato ' s fifth album , Confident , was released on October 16 , 2015 , and was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 59th Annual Grammy Awards . The album debuted at number two on the U . S . Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 98 , 000 album units , and was certified Platinum by the RIAA . The album received mixed to positive reviews from critics . Annie Zaleski from The A . V . Club stated that " Confident is an impressive album by a pop star who knows what she wants — and also knows exactly how to get there . " During the album ' s production , Lovato commented : " I ' ve already started recording for my new album , and I have plans to record during the tour . The sound just evolves into everything that I ' ve been and everything that I want to become . " She further stated , " I ' ve never been so sure of myself as an artist when it comes down to confidence , but not only personal things , but exactly what I want my sound to be and what I know I ' m capable of and this album will give me the opportunity to show people what I can really do . " On October , she signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . Lovato released the music video for her R & B - infused song " Waitin for You " featuring rapper Sirah on October 22 , 2015 . On October 26 , 2015 , Lovato and Nick Jonas announced that they would be touring together on the Future Now Tour , to further promote Confident , with shows in North America and Europe . Lovato was honored with the first - ever Rulebreaker Award at the 2015 Billboard Women in Music event . On March 21 , 2016 , " Stone Cold " was released as the third and final single from Confident . On July 1 , 2016 , Lovato released a new single titled " Body Say " to promote her tour .	When was your fifth album, Confident, released?	Confident was released on October 16, 2015.
