In March 1993 , she went on her first solo trip after her separation from Charles , visiting a leprosy hospital in Nepal where she met and came into contact with some patients , marking the first time they had ever been touched by a dignitary who had come to visit . In December 1993 , she announced that she would withdraw from public life , but in November 1994 she said she wished to " make a partial return " . In her capacity as the vice - president of British Red Cross , she was interested in playing an important role for its 125th anniversary celebrations . Later , the Queen formally invited her to attend the anniversary celebrations of D - Day . In February 1995 , Diana visited Japan . She paid a formal visit to Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko , and visited the National Children ' s Hospital in Tokyo . In June 1995 , Diana went to the Venice Biennale art festival , and also visited Moscow where she received the International Leonardo Prize . In November 1995 , Diana undertook a four - day trip to Argentina to attend a charity event . She visited many other countries , including Belgium , Switzerland , and Zimbabwe , alongside numerous others . During her separation from Charles , which lasted for almost four years , Diana participated in major national occasions as a senior member of the royal family , notably including " the commemorations of the 50th anniversaries of Victory in Europe Day and Victory over Japan Day " in 1995 .	When did you express your desire to make a partial return to public life?	In November 1994, I expressed my desire to make a partial return to public life.
In 1983 , she confided to the Premier of Newfoundland , Brian Peckford , " I am finding it very difficult to cope with the pressures of being Princess of Wales , but I am learning to cope with it . " She was expected to make regular public appearances at hospitals , schools , and other facilities , in the 20th - century model of royal patronage . From the mid - 1980s , she became increasingly associated with numerous charities . She carried out 191 official engagements in 1988 and 397 in 1991 . Diana developed an intense interest in serious illnesses and health - related matters outside the purview of traditional royal involvement , including AIDS and leprosy . In recognition of her effect as a philanthropist , Stephen Lee , director of the UK Institute of Charity Fundraising Managers , said " Her overall effect on charity is probably more significant than any other person ' s in the 20th century . "	How many official engagements did you carry out in 1988?	I carried out 191 official engagements in 1988.
In 1983 , she confided to the Premier of Newfoundland , Brian Peckford , " I am finding it very difficult to cope with the pressures of being Princess of Wales , but I am learning to cope with it . " She was expected to make regular public appearances at hospitals , schools , and other facilities , in the 20th - century model of royal patronage . From the mid - 1980s , she became increasingly associated with numerous charities . She carried out 191 official engagements in 1988 and 397 in 1991 . Diana developed an intense interest in serious illnesses and health - related matters outside the purview of traditional royal involvement , including AIDS and leprosy . In recognition of her effect as a philanthropist , Stephen Lee , director of the UK Institute of Charity Fundraising Managers , said " Her overall effect on charity is probably more significant than any other person ' s in the 20th century . "	What did you find difficult to cope with as the Princess of Wales?	I found it difficult to cope with the pressures of being Princess of Wales.
The couple had residences at Kensington Palace and Highgrove House , near Tetbury . On 5 November 1981 , Diana ' s pregnancy was announced . In January 1982 – 12 weeks into the pregnancy — Diana fell down a staircase at Sandringham , suffering some bruising , and the royal gynaecologist Sir George Pinker was summoned from London ; the foetus was uninjured . Diana later confessed that she had intentionally thrown herself down the stairs because she was feeling " so inadequate " . On 21 June 1982 , Diana gave birth to the couple ' s first son , Prince William . She subsequently suffered from postpartum depression after her first pregnancy . Amidst some media criticism , she decided to take William — who was still a baby — on her first major tours of Australia and New Zealand , and the decision was popularly applauded . By her own admission , Diana had not initially intended to take William until Malcolm Fraser , the Australian prime minister , made the suggestion .	Who was summoned from London to attend to you after your fall?	The royal gynaecologist, Sir George Pinker, was summoned from London.
In February 1984 , Diana was the patron of London City Ballet when she travelled to Norway on her own to attend a performance organised by the company . In April 1985 , Charles and Diana visited Italy , and were later joined by Princes William and Harry . They met with President Alessandro Pertini . Their visit to the Holy See included a private audience with Pope John Paul II . In autumn 1985 , they returned to Australia , and their tour was well - received by the public and the media , who referred to Diana as " Di - amond Princess " and the " Jewel in the Crown " . In November 1985 , the couple visited the United States , meeting President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan at the White House . Diana had a busy year in 1986 as she and Charles toured Japan , Spain , and Canada . In Canada , they visited Expo 86 , where Diana fainted in the California Pavilion . In November 1986 , she went on a six - day tour to Oman , Qatar , Bahrain and Saudi Arabia , where she met King Fahd and Sultan Qaboos bin Said al Said .	Where did you travel to on your own in February 1984?	Norway.
The couple had residences at Kensington Palace and Highgrove House , near Tetbury . On 5 November 1981 , Diana ' s pregnancy was announced . In January 1982 – 12 weeks into the pregnancy — Diana fell down a staircase at Sandringham , suffering some bruising , and the royal gynaecologist Sir George Pinker was summoned from London ; the foetus was uninjured . Diana later confessed that she had intentionally thrown herself down the stairs because she was feeling " so inadequate " . On 21 June 1982 , Diana gave birth to the couple ' s first son , Prince William . She subsequently suffered from postpartum depression after her first pregnancy . Amidst some media criticism , she decided to take William — who was still a baby — on her first major tours of Australia and New Zealand , and the decision was popularly applauded . By her own admission , Diana had not initially intended to take William until Malcolm Fraser , the Australian prime minister , made the suggestion .	When was your pregnancy announced?	My pregnancy was announced on 5 November 1981.
Diana was widely known for her encounters with sick and dying patients , and the poor and unwanted whom she used to comfort , an action that earned her more popularity . She was mindful of people ' s thoughts and feelings , and later revealed her wish to become a beloved figure among the people , saying in her 1995 interview , that " [ She would ] like to be a queen of people ' s hearts , in people ' s hearts . " Known for her easygoing attitude , she reportedly hated formality in her inner circle , asking " people not to jump up every time she enters the room " . Diana is often credited with widening the range of charity works carried out by the royal family in a more modern style . Eugene Robinson of The Washington Post wrote in an article that " Diana imbued her role as royal princess with vitality , activism and , above all , glamour . " Alicia Carroll of The New York Times described Diana as " a breath of fresh air " who was the main reason the royal family was known in the United States . In Anthony Holden ' s opinion , Diana was " visibly reborn " after her separation from Charles , a point in her life that was described by Holden as her " moment of triumph " , which put her on an independent path to success .	What did you reveal about your wish?	I revealed my wish to become a beloved figure among the people and to be a queen of people's hearts.
Diana ' s relationship with the press and the paparazzi has been described as " ambivalent " . On different occasions she would complain about the way she was being treated by the media , mentioning that their constant presence in her proximity had made life impossible for her , whereas at other times she would seek their attention and hand information to reporters herself . Writing for The Guardian , Peter Conrad suggested that it was Diana who let the journalists and paparazzi into her life as she knew they were the source of her power ; thus , she " overburdened herself with public duties " and destroyed the border between private and public life . This view was supported by Christopher Hitchens , who believed that " in pursuit of a personal solution to an unhappy private life , she became an assiduous leaker to the press " . Tina Brown argued that Diana was in no way " a vulnerable victim of media manipulation " , and she found it " offensive to present the canny , resourceful Diana as a woman of no agency , as either a foolish , duped child or the hapless casualty of malevolent muckrakers " . Former News of the World royal editor Clive Goodman , who later hacked the phones of Diana ' s sons on several occasions , stated in a court in 2014 that in 1992 Diana sent a confidential directory which contained numbers of senior members of the royal household to their office to get back at her then husband . Nevertheless , Diana also used the media ' s interest in her to shine light on her charitable efforts and patronages .	How has your relationship with the press and paparazzi been described?	It has been described as "ambivalent".
The decree nisi was granted on 15 July 1996 and the divorce was finalised on 28 August 1996 . Diana was represented by Anthony Julius in the case . The couple shared custody of their children . She received a lump sum settlement of £ 17   million ( equivalent to £ 34   million in 2021 ) as well as £ 400 , 000 per year . The couple signed a confidentiality agreement that prohibited them from discussing the details of the divorce or of their married life . Days before , letters patent were issued with general rules to regulate royal titles after divorce . Diana lost the style " Her Royal Highness " and instead was styled Diana , Princess of Wales . As the mother of the prince expected to one day ascend to the throne , she continued to be regarded as a member of the royal family and was accorded the same precedence she enjoyed during her marriage . The Queen reportedly wanted to let Diana continue to use the style of Royal Highness after her divorce , but Charles had insisted on removing it . Prince William was reported to have reassured his mother : " Don ' t worry , Mummy , I will give it back to you one day when I am King . " Almost a year before , according to Tina Brown , Prince Philip had warned Diana : " If you don ' t behave , my girl , we ' ll take your title away . " She is said to have replied : " My title is a lot older than yours , Philip . "	When was your divorce finalized?	My divorce was finalized on 28 August 1996.
Diana was widely known for her encounters with sick and dying patients , and the poor and unwanted whom she used to comfort , an action that earned her more popularity . She was mindful of people ' s thoughts and feelings , and later revealed her wish to become a beloved figure among the people , saying in her 1995 interview , that " [ She would ] like to be a queen of people ' s hearts , in people ' s hearts . " Known for her easygoing attitude , she reportedly hated formality in her inner circle , asking " people not to jump up every time she enters the room " . Diana is often credited with widening the range of charity works carried out by the royal family in a more modern style . Eugene Robinson of The Washington Post wrote in an article that " Diana imbued her role as royal princess with vitality , activism and , above all , glamour . " Alicia Carroll of The New York Times described Diana as " a breath of fresh air " who was the main reason the royal family was known in the United States . In Anthony Holden ' s opinion , Diana was " visibly reborn " after her separation from Charles , a point in her life that was described by Holden as her " moment of triumph " , which put her on an independent path to success .	What did you reportedly hate in your inner circle?	I reportedly hated formality in my inner circle and asked people not to jump up every time I enter the room.
Catherine Walker was among Diana ' s favourite designers with whom she worked to create her " royal uniform " . Among her favoured designers were Versace , Armani , Chanel , Dior , Gucci and Clarks . Her iconic outfits include the " Black Sheep Sweater " , a bright red jumper covered in knitted rows of sheep ( all white but for one black sheep ) by Warm & Wonderful , which she wore to several polo matches during her courtship and as Princess of Wales ; a cocktail dress by Christina Stambolian , known as the " Revenge dress " , which she wore after Charles ' s admission of adultery ; and an evening gown by Victor Edelstein , known as the " Travolta dress " , which she wore to a White House reception . Copies of Diana ' s British Vogue - featured pink chiffon blouse by David and Elizabeth Emanuel , which appeared in the magazine on her engagement announcement day , sold in the millions . She appeared on three British Vogue covers during her lifetime and was featured on its October 1997 issue posthumously . She was also featured in the cover story for the July 1997 issue of Vanity Fair . Diana did her own makeup for events , and was accompanied by a hairstylist for public appearances . In the 1990s , Diana was frequently photographed clutching distinctive handbags manufactured by Gucci and Dior , which became known as the Gucci Diana and Lady Dior .	Can you name some of your iconic outfits?	Some of my iconic outfits include the "Black Sheep Sweater" by Warm & Wonderful, the "Revenge dress" by Christina Stambolian, and the "Travolta dress" by Victor Edelstein.
Diana ' s relationship with the press and the paparazzi has been described as " ambivalent " . On different occasions she would complain about the way she was being treated by the media , mentioning that their constant presence in her proximity had made life impossible for her , whereas at other times she would seek their attention and hand information to reporters herself . Writing for The Guardian , Peter Conrad suggested that it was Diana who let the journalists and paparazzi into her life as she knew they were the source of her power ; thus , she " overburdened herself with public duties " and destroyed the border between private and public life . This view was supported by Christopher Hitchens , who believed that " in pursuit of a personal solution to an unhappy private life , she became an assiduous leaker to the press " . Tina Brown argued that Diana was in no way " a vulnerable victim of media manipulation " , and she found it " offensive to present the canny , resourceful Diana as a woman of no agency , as either a foolish , duped child or the hapless casualty of malevolent muckrakers " . Former News of the World royal editor Clive Goodman , who later hacked the phones of Diana ' s sons on several occasions , stated in a court in 2014 that in 1992 Diana sent a confidential directory which contained numbers of senior members of the royal household to their office to get back at her then husband . Nevertheless , Diana also used the media ' s interest in her to shine light on her charitable efforts and patronages .	Did you seek the attention of reporters at times?	Yes, I would seek their attention and hand information to reporters myself.
The decree nisi was granted on 15 July 1996 and the divorce was finalised on 28 August 1996 . Diana was represented by Anthony Julius in the case . The couple shared custody of their children . She received a lump sum settlement of £ 17   million ( equivalent to £ 34   million in 2021 ) as well as £ 400 , 000 per year . The couple signed a confidentiality agreement that prohibited them from discussing the details of the divorce or of their married life . Days before , letters patent were issued with general rules to regulate royal titles after divorce . Diana lost the style " Her Royal Highness " and instead was styled Diana , Princess of Wales . As the mother of the prince expected to one day ascend to the throne , she continued to be regarded as a member of the royal family and was accorded the same precedence she enjoyed during her marriage . The Queen reportedly wanted to let Diana continue to use the style of Royal Highness after her divorce , but Charles had insisted on removing it . Prince William was reported to have reassured his mother : " Don ' t worry , Mummy , I will give it back to you one day when I am King . " Almost a year before , according to Tina Brown , Prince Philip had warned Diana : " If you don ' t behave , my girl , we ' ll take your title away . " She is said to have replied : " My title is a lot older than yours , Philip . "	When was your decree nisi granted?	My decree nisi was granted on 15 July 1996.
Catherine Walker was among Diana ' s favourite designers with whom she worked to create her " royal uniform " . Among her favoured designers were Versace , Armani , Chanel , Dior , Gucci and Clarks . Her iconic outfits include the " Black Sheep Sweater " , a bright red jumper covered in knitted rows of sheep ( all white but for one black sheep ) by Warm & Wonderful , which she wore to several polo matches during her courtship and as Princess of Wales ; a cocktail dress by Christina Stambolian , known as the " Revenge dress " , which she wore after Charles ' s admission of adultery ; and an evening gown by Victor Edelstein , known as the " Travolta dress " , which she wore to a White House reception . Copies of Diana ' s British Vogue - featured pink chiffon blouse by David and Elizabeth Emanuel , which appeared in the magazine on her engagement announcement day , sold in the millions . She appeared on three British Vogue covers during her lifetime and was featured on its October 1997 issue posthumously . She was also featured in the cover story for the July 1997 issue of Vanity Fair . Diana did her own makeup for events , and was accompanied by a hairstylist for public appearances . In the 1990s , Diana was frequently photographed clutching distinctive handbags manufactured by Gucci and Dior , which became known as the Gucci Diana and Lady Dior .	Which magazine featured you wearing a pink chiffon blouse by David and Elizabeth Emanuel?	I was featured wearing a pink chiffon blouse by David and Elizabeth Emanuel on the cover of British Vogue.
In 1983 , she confided to the Premier of Newfoundland , Brian Peckford , " I am finding it very difficult to cope with the pressures of being Princess of Wales , but I am learning to cope with it . " She was expected to make regular public appearances at hospitals , schools , and other facilities , in the 20th - century model of royal patronage . From the mid - 1980s , she became increasingly associated with numerous charities . She carried out 191 official engagements in 1988 and 397 in 1991 . Diana developed an intense interest in serious illnesses and health - related matters outside the purview of traditional royal involvement , including AIDS and leprosy . In recognition of her effect as a philanthropist , Stephen Lee , director of the UK Institute of Charity Fundraising Managers , said " Her overall effect on charity is probably more significant than any other person ' s in the 20th century . "	What type of public appearances are you expected to make?	I am expected to make regular public appearances at hospitals, schools, and other facilities.
In February 1984 , Diana was the patron of London City Ballet when she travelled to Norway on her own to attend a performance organised by the company . In April 1985 , Charles and Diana visited Italy , and were later joined by Princes William and Harry . They met with President Alessandro Pertini . Their visit to the Holy See included a private audience with Pope John Paul II . In autumn 1985 , they returned to Australia , and their tour was well - received by the public and the media , who referred to Diana as " Di - amond Princess " and the " Jewel in the Crown " . In November 1985 , the couple visited the United States , meeting President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan at the White House . Diana had a busy year in 1986 as she and Charles toured Japan , Spain , and Canada . In Canada , they visited Expo 86 , where Diana fainted in the California Pavilion . In November 1986 , she went on a six - day tour to Oman , Qatar , Bahrain and Saudi Arabia , where she met King Fahd and Sultan Qaboos bin Said al Said .	Where did you faint in the California Pavilion?	Expo 86 in Canada.
The couple had residences at Kensington Palace and Highgrove House , near Tetbury . On 5 November 1981 , Diana ' s pregnancy was announced . In January 1982 – 12 weeks into the pregnancy — Diana fell down a staircase at Sandringham , suffering some bruising , and the royal gynaecologist Sir George Pinker was summoned from London ; the foetus was uninjured . Diana later confessed that she had intentionally thrown herself down the stairs because she was feeling " so inadequate " . On 21 June 1982 , Diana gave birth to the couple ' s first son , Prince William . She subsequently suffered from postpartum depression after her first pregnancy . Amidst some media criticism , she decided to take William — who was still a baby — on her first major tours of Australia and New Zealand , and the decision was popularly applauded . By her own admission , Diana had not initially intended to take William until Malcolm Fraser , the Australian prime minister , made the suggestion .	When did you give birth to your first son?	I gave birth to my first son, Prince William, on 21 June 1982.
Diana was widely known for her encounters with sick and dying patients , and the poor and unwanted whom she used to comfort , an action that earned her more popularity . She was mindful of people ' s thoughts and feelings , and later revealed her wish to become a beloved figure among the people , saying in her 1995 interview , that " [ She would ] like to be a queen of people ' s hearts , in people ' s hearts . " Known for her easygoing attitude , she reportedly hated formality in her inner circle , asking " people not to jump up every time she enters the room " . Diana is often credited with widening the range of charity works carried out by the royal family in a more modern style . Eugene Robinson of The Washington Post wrote in an article that " Diana imbued her role as royal princess with vitality , activism and , above all , glamour . " Alicia Carroll of The New York Times described Diana as " a breath of fresh air " who was the main reason the royal family was known in the United States . In Anthony Holden ' s opinion , Diana was " visibly reborn " after her separation from Charles , a point in her life that was described by Holden as her " moment of triumph " , which put her on an independent path to success .	What was your attitude known for?	My attitude was known for being easygoing.
Diana ' s relationship with the press and the paparazzi has been described as " ambivalent " . On different occasions she would complain about the way she was being treated by the media , mentioning that their constant presence in her proximity had made life impossible for her , whereas at other times she would seek their attention and hand information to reporters herself . Writing for The Guardian , Peter Conrad suggested that it was Diana who let the journalists and paparazzi into her life as she knew they were the source of her power ; thus , she " overburdened herself with public duties " and destroyed the border between private and public life . This view was supported by Christopher Hitchens , who believed that " in pursuit of a personal solution to an unhappy private life , she became an assiduous leaker to the press " . Tina Brown argued that Diana was in no way " a vulnerable victim of media manipulation " , and she found it " offensive to present the canny , resourceful Diana as a woman of no agency , as either a foolish , duped child or the hapless casualty of malevolent muckrakers " . Former News of the World royal editor Clive Goodman , who later hacked the phones of Diana ' s sons on several occasions , stated in a court in 2014 that in 1992 Diana sent a confidential directory which contained numbers of senior members of the royal household to their office to get back at her then husband . Nevertheless , Diana also used the media ' s interest in her to shine light on her charitable efforts and patronages .	According to Peter Conrad, why did you let journalists and paparazzi into your life?	Conrad suggested that I let them into my life because I knew they were the source of my power.
In 1983 , she confided to the Premier of Newfoundland , Brian Peckford , " I am finding it very difficult to cope with the pressures of being Princess of Wales , but I am learning to cope with it . " She was expected to make regular public appearances at hospitals , schools , and other facilities , in the 20th - century model of royal patronage . From the mid - 1980s , she became increasingly associated with numerous charities . She carried out 191 official engagements in 1988 and 397 in 1991 . Diana developed an intense interest in serious illnesses and health - related matters outside the purview of traditional royal involvement , including AIDS and leprosy . In recognition of her effect as a philanthropist , Stephen Lee , director of the UK Institute of Charity Fundraising Managers , said " Her overall effect on charity is probably more significant than any other person ' s in the 20th century . "	In what year did you confide in the Premier of Newfoundland, Brian Peckford?	In 1983.
Diana retained close friendships with several celebrities , including Elton John , Freddie Mercury , Liza Minnelli , George Michael , Michael Jackson , and Gianni Versace , whose funeral she attended in 1997 . She dated the British - Pakistani heart surgeon Hasnat Khan , who was called " the love of her life " by many of her closest friends after her death , and she is said to have described him as " Mr . Wonderful " . In May 1996 , Diana visited Lahore upon invitation of Imran Khan , a relative of Hasnat Khan , and visited the latter ' s family in secret . Khan was intensely private and the relationship was conducted in secrecy , with Diana lying to members of the press who questioned her about it . Their relationship lasted almost two years with differing accounts of who ended it . She is said to have spoken of her distress when he ended their relationship . However , according to Khan ' s testimony at the inquest into her death , it was Diana who ended their relationship in the summer of 1997 . Burrell also said the relationship was ended by Diana in July 1997 . Burrell also claimed that Diana ' s mother , Frances Shand Kydd , disapproved of her daughter ' s relationship with a Muslim man . By the time of Diana ' s death in 1997 , she had not spoken to her mother in four months . By contrast , her relationship with her estranged stepmother had reportedly improved .	Who ended our relationship?	According to differing accounts, it is said that either I or Hasnat Khan ended our relationship.
The couple had residences at Kensington Palace and Highgrove House , near Tetbury . On 5 November 1981 , Diana ' s pregnancy was announced . In January 1982 – 12 weeks into the pregnancy — Diana fell down a staircase at Sandringham , suffering some bruising , and the royal gynaecologist Sir George Pinker was summoned from London ; the foetus was uninjured . Diana later confessed that she had intentionally thrown herself down the stairs because she was feeling " so inadequate " . On 21 June 1982 , Diana gave birth to the couple ' s first son , Prince William . She subsequently suffered from postpartum depression after her first pregnancy . Amidst some media criticism , she decided to take William — who was still a baby — on her first major tours of Australia and New Zealand , and the decision was popularly applauded . By her own admission , Diana had not initially intended to take William until Malcolm Fraser , the Australian prime minister , made the suggestion .	Where did you and your spouse have residences?	We had residences at Kensington Palace and Highgrove House.
Diana began her work with AIDS patients in the 1980s . She was not averse to making physical contact with AIDS patients , and was the first British royal figure to do so . In 1987 , she held hands with an AIDS patient in one of her early efforts to de - stigmatise the condition . Diana noted : " HIV does not make people dangerous to know . You can shake their hands and give them a hug . Heaven knows they need it . What ' s more , you can share their homes , their workplaces , and their playgrounds and toys . " To Diana ' s disappointment , the Queen did not support this type of charity work , suggesting she get involved in " something more pleasant " . In 1989 , she opened Landmark Aids Centre in South London . In October 1990 , Diana opened Grandma ' s House , a home for young AIDS patients in Washington , D . C . She was also a patron of the National AIDS Trust and regularly visited London Lighthouse , which provided residential care for HIV patients ( it has since merged with the Terrence Higgins Trust ) . In 1991 , she hugged one patient during a visit to the AIDS ward of the Middlesex Hospital , which she had opened in 1987 as the first hospital unit dedicated to this cause in the UK . As the patron of Turning Point , a health and social care organisation , Diana visited its project in London for people with HIV / AIDS in 1992 . She later established and led fundraising campaigns for AIDS research .	Where did you open Grandma's House, a home for young AIDS patients?	I opened Grandma's House, a home for young AIDS patients in Washington, D.C.
In March 1993 , she went on her first solo trip after her separation from Charles , visiting a leprosy hospital in Nepal where she met and came into contact with some patients , marking the first time they had ever been touched by a dignitary who had come to visit . In December 1993 , she announced that she would withdraw from public life , but in November 1994 she said she wished to " make a partial return " . In her capacity as the vice - president of British Red Cross , she was interested in playing an important role for its 125th anniversary celebrations . Later , the Queen formally invited her to attend the anniversary celebrations of D - Day . In February 1995 , Diana visited Japan . She paid a formal visit to Emperor Akihito and Empress Michiko , and visited the National Children ' s Hospital in Tokyo . In June 1995 , Diana went to the Venice Biennale art festival , and also visited Moscow where she received the International Leonardo Prize . In November 1995 , Diana undertook a four - day trip to Argentina to attend a charity event . She visited many other countries , including Belgium , Switzerland , and Zimbabwe , alongside numerous others . During her separation from Charles , which lasted for almost four years , Diana participated in major national occasions as a senior member of the royal family , notably including " the commemorations of the 50th anniversaries of Victory in Europe Day and Victory over Japan Day " in 1995 .	Where did you visit on your first solo trip?	I visited a leprosy hospital in Nepal on my first solo trip.
In February 1984 , Diana was the patron of London City Ballet when she travelled to Norway on her own to attend a performance organised by the company . In April 1985 , Charles and Diana visited Italy , and were later joined by Princes William and Harry . They met with President Alessandro Pertini . Their visit to the Holy See included a private audience with Pope John Paul II . In autumn 1985 , they returned to Australia , and their tour was well - received by the public and the media , who referred to Diana as " Di - amond Princess " and the " Jewel in the Crown " . In November 1985 , the couple visited the United States , meeting President Ronald Reagan and First Lady Nancy Reagan at the White House . Diana had a busy year in 1986 as she and Charles toured Japan , Spain , and Canada . In Canada , they visited Expo 86 , where Diana fainted in the California Pavilion . In November 1986 , she went on a six - day tour to Oman , Qatar , Bahrain and Saudi Arabia , where she met King Fahd and Sultan Qaboos bin Said al Said .	Who was the patron of London City Ballet in February 1984?	I was.
