U . S . troop numbers in Afghanistan increased from 8 , 500 in January 2017 to 14 , 000 a year later , reversing Trump ' s pre - election position critical of further involvement in Afghanistan . In February 2020 , the Trump administration signed a conditional peace agreement with the Taliban , which called for the withdrawal of foreign troops in 14 months " contingent on a guarantee from the Taliban that Afghan soil will not be used by terrorists with aims to attack the United States or its allies " and for the U . S . to seek the release of 5 , 000 Taliban imprisoned by the Afghan government . By the end of Trump ' s term , 5 , 000 Taliban had been released , and , despite the Taliban continuing attacks on Afghan forces and integrating Al - Qaeda members into its leadership , U . S . troops had been reduced to 2 , 500 .	What was your pre-election position regarding further involvement in Afghanistan?	My pre-election position was critical of further involvement in Afghanistan.
At 2 a . m . the morning after the election , with the results still unclear , Trump declared victory . After Biden was projected the winner days later , Trump said , " this election is far from over " and baselessly alleged election fraud . Trump and his allies filed many legal challenges to the results , which were rejected by at least 86 judges in both the state and federal courts , including by federal judges appointed by Trump himself , finding no factual or legal basis . Trump ' s unsubstantiated allegations of widespread voting fraud were also refuted by state election officials . After Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency ( CISA ) director Chris Krebs contradicted Trump ' s fraud allegations , Trump dismissed him on November 17 . On December 11 , the U . S . Supreme Court declined to hear a case from the Texas attorney general that asked the court to overturn the election results in four states won by Biden .	Who declared victory at 2 a.m. the morning after the election?	I declared victory.
U . S . troop numbers in Afghanistan increased from 8 , 500 in January 2017 to 14 , 000 a year later , reversing Trump ' s pre - election position critical of further involvement in Afghanistan . In February 2020 , the Trump administration signed a conditional peace agreement with the Taliban , which called for the withdrawal of foreign troops in 14 months " contingent on a guarantee from the Taliban that Afghan soil will not be used by terrorists with aims to attack the United States or its allies " and for the U . S . to seek the release of 5 , 000 Taliban imprisoned by the Afghan government . By the end of Trump ' s term , 5 , 000 Taliban had been released , and , despite the Taliban continuing attacks on Afghan forces and integrating Al - Qaeda members into its leadership , U . S . troops had been reduced to 2 , 500 .	How many U.S. troops were in Afghanistan in January 2017?	U.S. troop numbers in Afghanistan increased from 8,500 in January 2017.
Trump ' s election victory sparked protests in major U . S . cities in the days following the election . On the day after Trump ' s inauguration , an estimated 2.6   million people worldwide , including an estimated half million in Washington , D . C . , protested against Trump in the Women ' s Marches .	When did the Women's Marches protesting against you occur?	The Women's Marches protesting against me occurred on the day after my inauguration.
From 2018 onward , Trump deployed nearly 6 , 000 troops to the U . S . – Mexico border to stop most Central American migrants from seeking U . S . asylum . In 2020 , his administration widened the public charge rule to further restrict immigrants who might use government benefits from getting permanent residency via green cards . Trump reduced the number of refugees admitted into the U . S . to record lows . When Trump took office , the annual limit was 110 , 000 ; Trump set a limit of 18 , 000 in the 2020 fiscal year and 15 , 000 in the 2021 fiscal year . Additional restrictions implemented by the Trump administration caused significant bottlenecks in processing refugee applications , resulting in fewer refugees accepted compared to the allowed limits .	How did you widen the public charge rule to further restrict immigrants?	I widened the public charge rule to further restrict immigrants who might use government benefits from getting permanent residency via green cards.
The Trump administration had a high turnover of personnel , particularly among White House staff . By the end of Trump ' s first year in office , 34 percent of his original staff had resigned , been fired , or been reassigned . As of early July   2018 [ update ] , 61 percent of Trump ' s senior aides had left and 141 staffers had left in the previous year . Both figures set a record for recent presidents — more change in the first 13 months than his four immediate predecessors saw in their first two years . Notable early departures included National Security Advisor Flynn ( after just 25 days in office ) , and Press Secretary Sean Spicer . Close personal aides to Trump including Bannon , Hope Hicks , John McEntee , and Keith Schiller quit or were forced out . Some , including Hicks and McEntee , later returned to the White House in different posts . Trump publicly disparaged several of his former top officials , calling them incompetent , stupid , or crazy .	What percentage of your senior aides had left as of early July 2018?	As of early July 2018, 61 percent of my senior aides had left.
Using ghostwriters , Trump has produced up to 19 books on business , financial , or political topics under his name . His first book , The Art of the Deal ( 1987 ) , was a New York Times Best Seller . While Trump was credited as co - author , the entire book was written by Tony Schwartz . According to The New Yorker , " The book expanded Trump ' s renown far beyond New York City , making him an emblem of the successful tycoon . " Trump has called the volume his second favorite book , after the Bible .	How many books have you produced using ghostwriters?	I have produced up to 19 books using ghostwriters.
Trump went to Sunday school and was confirmed in 1959 at the First Presbyterian Church in Jamaica , Queens . In the 1970s , his parents joined the Marble Collegiate Church in Manhattan , which belongs to the Reformed Church in America . The pastor at Marble , Norman Vincent Peale , ministered to the family until his death in 1993 . Trump has described him as a mentor . In 2015 , the church stated that Trump was not an active member . In 2019 , he appointed his personal pastor , televangelist Paula White , to the White House Office of Public Liaison . In 2020 , he said he identified as a non - denominational Christian .	Who did you appoint to the White House Office of Public Liaison in 2019?	I appointed televangelist Paula White to the White House Office of Public Liaison in 2019.
Trump went to Sunday school and was confirmed in 1959 at the First Presbyterian Church in Jamaica , Queens . In the 1970s , his parents joined the Marble Collegiate Church in Manhattan , which belongs to the Reformed Church in America . The pastor at Marble , Norman Vincent Peale , ministered to the family until his death in 1993 . Trump has described him as a mentor . In 2015 , the church stated that Trump was not an active member . In 2019 , he appointed his personal pastor , televangelist Paula White , to the White House Office of Public Liaison . In 2020 , he said he identified as a non - denominational Christian .	Which church did your parents join in the 1970s?	My parents joined the Marble Collegiate Church in Manhattan.
On January 6 , 2021 , while congressional certification of the presidential election results was taking place in the United States Capitol , Trump held a rally at the Ellipse , Washington , D . C . , where he called for the election result to be overturned and urged his supporters to " take back our country " by marching to the Capitol to " show strength " and " fight like hell " . Trump ' s speech started at noon . By 12 : 30   p . m . , rally attendees had gathered outside the Capitol , and at 1   p . m . , his supporters pushed past police barriers onto Capitol grounds . Trump ' s speech ended at 1 : 10   p . m . , and many supporters marched to the Capitol as he had urged , joining the crowd there . Around 2 : 15   p . m . the mob broke into the building , disrupting certification and causing the evacuation of Congress . During the violence , Trump posted mixed messages on Twitter and Facebook , eventually tweeting to the rioters at 6   p . m . , " go home with love & in peace " , but describing them as " great patriots " and " very special " , while still complaining that the election was stolen . After the mob was removed from the Capitol , Congress reconvened and confirmed the Biden election win in the early hours of the following morning . There were many injuries , and five people , including a Capitol Police officer , died .	Where did you hold your rally calling for the election result to be overturned?	I held my rally at the Ellipse, Washington, D.C.
In the 1980s , Trump publicly announced his skepticism of trade liberalization , saying , " I believe very strongly in tariffs . " In 2015 , he sharply criticized NAFTA during the Republican primary campaign . During his presidency , Trump withdrew the U . S . from the Trans - Pacific Partnership ( TPP ) negotiations , imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum imports , and launched a trade war with China by sharply increasing tariffs on 818 categories ( worth $ 50   billion ) of Chinese goods imported into the U . S . While Trump said that import tariffs are paid by China into the U . S . Treasury , they are paid by American companies that import goods from China . Although he pledged during the campaign to significantly reduce the U . S . ' s large trade deficits , the trade deficit in July 2020 , during the COVID - 19 pandemic , " was the largest monthly deficit since July 2008 " . Following a 2017 – 2018 renegotiation , the United States - Mexico - Canada Agreement ( USMCA ) became effective in July 2020 as the successor to NAFTA .	How did you address steel and aluminum imports?	I imposed tariffs on steel and aluminum imports.
Using ghostwriters , Trump has produced up to 19 books on business , financial , or political topics under his name . His first book , The Art of the Deal ( 1987 ) , was a New York Times Best Seller . While Trump was credited as co - author , the entire book was written by Tony Schwartz . According to The New Yorker , " The book expanded Trump ' s renown far beyond New York City , making him an emblem of the successful tycoon . " Trump has called the volume his second favorite book , after the Bible .	Which of your books was a New York Times Best Seller?	My first book, "The Art of the Deal" (1987), was a New York Times Best Seller.
From 2018 onward , Trump deployed nearly 6 , 000 troops to the U . S . – Mexico border to stop most Central American migrants from seeking U . S . asylum . In 2020 , his administration widened the public charge rule to further restrict immigrants who might use government benefits from getting permanent residency via green cards . Trump reduced the number of refugees admitted into the U . S . to record lows . When Trump took office , the annual limit was 110 , 000 ; Trump set a limit of 18 , 000 in the 2020 fiscal year and 15 , 000 in the 2021 fiscal year . Additional restrictions implemented by the Trump administration caused significant bottlenecks in processing refugee applications , resulting in fewer refugees accepted compared to the allowed limits .	What was the purpose of deploying these troops?	The purpose of deploying these troops was to stop most Central American migrants from seeking U.S. asylum.
Trump ' s election victory sparked protests in major U . S . cities in the days following the election . On the day after Trump ' s inauguration , an estimated 2.6   million people worldwide , including an estimated half million in Washington , D . C . , protested against Trump in the Women ' s Marches .	How many people worldwide protested against you in the Women's Marches?	An estimated 2.6 million people worldwide protested against me in the Women's Marches.
The Trump administration had a high turnover of personnel , particularly among White House staff . By the end of Trump ' s first year in office , 34 percent of his original staff had resigned , been fired , or been reassigned . As of early July   2018 [ update ] , 61 percent of Trump ' s senior aides had left and 141 staffers had left in the previous year . Both figures set a record for recent presidents — more change in the first 13 months than his four immediate predecessors saw in their first two years . Notable early departures included National Security Advisor Flynn ( after just 25 days in office ) , and Press Secretary Sean Spicer . Close personal aides to Trump including Bannon , Hope Hicks , John McEntee , and Keith Schiller quit or were forced out . Some , including Hicks and McEntee , later returned to the White House in different posts . Trump publicly disparaged several of his former top officials , calling them incompetent , stupid , or crazy .	Can I provide examples of notable early departures from your administration?	Notable early departures from my administration included National Security Advisor Flynn (after just 25 days in office) and Press Secretary Sean Spicer.
From 2018 onward , Trump deployed nearly 6 , 000 troops to the U . S . – Mexico border to stop most Central American migrants from seeking U . S . asylum . In 2020 , his administration widened the public charge rule to further restrict immigrants who might use government benefits from getting permanent residency via green cards . Trump reduced the number of refugees admitted into the U . S . to record lows . When Trump took office , the annual limit was 110 , 000 ; Trump set a limit of 18 , 000 in the 2020 fiscal year and 15 , 000 in the 2021 fiscal year . Additional restrictions implemented by the Trump administration caused significant bottlenecks in processing refugee applications , resulting in fewer refugees accepted compared to the allowed limits .	In what year did you widen the public charge rule?	I widened the public charge rule in 2020.
U . S . troop numbers in Afghanistan increased from 8 , 500 in January 2017 to 14 , 000 a year later , reversing Trump ' s pre - election position critical of further involvement in Afghanistan . In February 2020 , the Trump administration signed a conditional peace agreement with the Taliban , which called for the withdrawal of foreign troops in 14 months " contingent on a guarantee from the Taliban that Afghan soil will not be used by terrorists with aims to attack the United States or its allies " and for the U . S . to seek the release of 5 , 000 Taliban imprisoned by the Afghan government . By the end of Trump ' s term , 5 , 000 Taliban had been released , and , despite the Taliban continuing attacks on Afghan forces and integrating Al - Qaeda members into its leadership , U . S . troops had been reduced to 2 , 500 .	How many U.S. troops were in Afghanistan a year later?	U.S. troop numbers in Afghanistan increased to 14,000 a year later.
The Trump administration had a high turnover of personnel , particularly among White House staff . By the end of Trump ' s first year in office , 34 percent of his original staff had resigned , been fired , or been reassigned . As of early July   2018 [ update ] , 61 percent of Trump ' s senior aides had left and 141 staffers had left in the previous year . Both figures set a record for recent presidents — more change in the first 13 months than his four immediate predecessors saw in their first two years . Notable early departures included National Security Advisor Flynn ( after just 25 days in office ) , and Press Secretary Sean Spicer . Close personal aides to Trump including Bannon , Hope Hicks , John McEntee , and Keith Schiller quit or were forced out . Some , including Hicks and McEntee , later returned to the White House in different posts . Trump publicly disparaged several of his former top officials , calling them incompetent , stupid , or crazy .	What was the turnover rate for White House staff during your first year in office?	By the end of my first year in office, 34 percent of my original staff had resigned, been fired, or been reassigned.
At 2 a . m . the morning after the election , with the results still unclear , Trump declared victory . After Biden was projected the winner days later , Trump said , " this election is far from over " and baselessly alleged election fraud . Trump and his allies filed many legal challenges to the results , which were rejected by at least 86 judges in both the state and federal courts , including by federal judges appointed by Trump himself , finding no factual or legal basis . Trump ' s unsubstantiated allegations of widespread voting fraud were also refuted by state election officials . After Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency ( CISA ) director Chris Krebs contradicted Trump ' s fraud allegations , Trump dismissed him on November 17 . On December 11 , the U . S . Supreme Court declined to hear a case from the Texas attorney general that asked the court to overturn the election results in four states won by Biden .	How many judges rejected the legal challenges?	At least 86 judges in both the state and federal courts rejected the legal challenges.
Trump ' s election victory sparked protests in major U . S . cities in the days following the election . On the day after Trump ' s inauguration , an estimated 2.6   million people worldwide , including an estimated half million in Washington , D . C . , protested against Trump in the Women ' s Marches .	How many people protested in Washington, D.C. during the Women's Marches?	An estimated half million people protested in Washington, D.C. during the Women's Marches.
From 2018 onward , Trump deployed nearly 6 , 000 troops to the U . S . – Mexico border to stop most Central American migrants from seeking U . S . asylum . In 2020 , his administration widened the public charge rule to further restrict immigrants who might use government benefits from getting permanent residency via green cards . Trump reduced the number of refugees admitted into the U . S . to record lows . When Trump took office , the annual limit was 110 , 000 ; Trump set a limit of 18 , 000 in the 2020 fiscal year and 15 , 000 in the 2021 fiscal year . Additional restrictions implemented by the Trump administration caused significant bottlenecks in processing refugee applications , resulting in fewer refugees accepted compared to the allowed limits .	How many refugees were admitted into the U.S. when you took office?	When I took office, the annual limit for refugees admitted into the U.S. was 110,000.
Trump ' s election victory sparked protests in major U . S . cities in the days following the election . On the day after Trump ' s inauguration , an estimated 2.6   million people worldwide , including an estimated half million in Washington , D . C . , protested against Trump in the Women ' s Marches .	What sparked protests in major U.S. cities following your election victory?	My election victory sparked protests in major U.S. cities.
The Trump administration had a high turnover of personnel , particularly among White House staff . By the end of Trump ' s first year in office , 34 percent of his original staff had resigned , been fired , or been reassigned . As of early July   2018 [ update ] , 61 percent of Trump ' s senior aides had left and 141 staffers had left in the previous year . Both figures set a record for recent presidents — more change in the first 13 months than his four immediate predecessors saw in their first two years . Notable early departures included National Security Advisor Flynn ( after just 25 days in office ) , and Press Secretary Sean Spicer . Close personal aides to Trump including Bannon , Hope Hicks , John McEntee , and Keith Schiller quit or were forced out . Some , including Hicks and McEntee , later returned to the White House in different posts . Trump publicly disparaged several of his former top officials , calling them incompetent , stupid , or crazy .	How many staffers had left during your previous year?	141 staffers had left in my previous year.
From 2018 onward , Trump deployed nearly 6 , 000 troops to the U . S . – Mexico border to stop most Central American migrants from seeking U . S . asylum . In 2020 , his administration widened the public charge rule to further restrict immigrants who might use government benefits from getting permanent residency via green cards . Trump reduced the number of refugees admitted into the U . S . to record lows . When Trump took office , the annual limit was 110 , 000 ; Trump set a limit of 18 , 000 in the 2020 fiscal year and 15 , 000 in the 2021 fiscal year . Additional restrictions implemented by the Trump administration caused significant bottlenecks in processing refugee applications , resulting in fewer refugees accepted compared to the allowed limits .	How many troops did you deploy to the U.S.-Mexico border from 2018 onward?	Nearly 6,000 troops were deployed by me to the U.S.-Mexico border from 2018 onward.
The Trump administration had a high turnover of personnel , particularly among White House staff . By the end of Trump ' s first year in office , 34 percent of his original staff had resigned , been fired , or been reassigned . As of early July   2018 [ update ] , 61 percent of Trump ' s senior aides had left and 141 staffers had left in the previous year . Both figures set a record for recent presidents — more change in the first 13 months than his four immediate predecessors saw in their first two years . Notable early departures included National Security Advisor Flynn ( after just 25 days in office ) , and Press Secretary Sean Spicer . Close personal aides to Trump including Bannon , Hope Hicks , John McEntee , and Keith Schiller quit or were forced out . Some , including Hicks and McEntee , later returned to the White House in different posts . Trump publicly disparaged several of his former top officials , calling them incompetent , stupid , or crazy .	How does your administration's turnover rate compare to previous presidents?	The turnover rate in the first 13 months of my administration set a record for recent presidents, with more change than my four immediate predecessors saw in their first two years.
