On July 23 , at Raw 1000 , the Rock announced he would wrestle for the WWE Championship at the Royal Rumble pay - per - view . During the show , he encountered then - reigning WWE Champion CM Punk , Daniel Bryan , and John Cena , all of whom expressed a desire to face him . The Rock later saved Cena from an assault by Big Show , only to be laid out by CM Punk . On the January 7 , 2013 , episode of Raw , the Rock returned to confront his Royal Rumble opponent CM Punk . On January 11 , he made his first SmackDown appearance in ten years , getting into an altercation with Team Rhodes Scholars , resulting in him delivering a Rock Bottom to Damien Sandow and a People ' s Elbow to Cody Rhodes . The Rock closed out the 20th - anniversary episode of Raw , on January 14 , with one of his " Rock Concerts " , leading to a brawl with CM Punk . The following week on Raw , the Rock was attacked by The Shield . Vince McMahon then asserted that if The Shield attacked the Rock in his title match with CM Punk , Punk would be stripped of the WWE Championship .	When did you return to confront your Royal Rumble opponent CM Punk?	I returned to confront my Royal Rumble opponent CM Punk on January 7, 2013, on the episode of Raw.
The Rock made a surprise return on a June episode of Raw before going to his assigned brand of SmackDown ! . There , he was named the number one contender for the WWE Undisputed Championship , which he won for a record - setting seventh time at Vengeance , on July 21 , by defeating Kurt Angle and then - champion The Undertaker in a Triple Threat match . The Rock successfully defended the title at the Global Warning event against Triple H and Brock Lesnar after pinning Triple H . On August 25 , at SummerSlam , after interference from Lesnar ' s manager Paul Heyman , the Rock lost the WWE Undisputed Championship to Lesnar along with the record for the youngest WWE Champion , which he had set in 1998 . In 2018 , writing for ESPN . com , Sean Coyle noted in a retrospective review of the event , that following his victory over Hulk Hogan at WrestleMania X8 , the Rock " started to see a dip in fan support " and " that dip turned into a plunge " by the time Rock had his match with Lesnar at SummerSlam because fans knew he was leaving WWE to pursue an acting career . This was evident by the fact that he was met with a negative crowd response during his match against Lesnar . After SummerSlam ended , the Rock was visibly angry at the crowd reaction . When he tried to do a post - show speech for the crowd , the fans at Nassau Coliseum still booed him . The Rock then took time off to kickstart his acting career .	Who caused you to lose the WWE Undisputed Championship at SummerSlam?	Brock Lesnar's manager Paul Heyman interfered, causing me to lose the WWE Undisputed Championship to Lesnar at SummerSlam.
In 2006 , Johnson founded the Dwayne Johnson Rock Foundation , a charity working with at - risk and terminally ill children . On October 2 , 2007 , he and his then wife , Dany Garcia , donated $ 1   million to the University of Miami to support the renovation of its football facilities . The University of Miami renamed the Hurricanes ' locker room in Johnson ' s honor . In 2015 , Johnson donated $ 1 , 500 to a GoFundMe to pay for an abandoned dog ' s surgery . In 2017 , he donated $ 25 , 000 to Hurricane Harvey relief efforts . In 2018 , Johnson donated a gym to a military base in Oahu , Hawaii . After the 2018 Hawaii floods , he worked with Malama Kauai , a nonprofit organization , to help repair damages caused by the floods . Johnson has also worked with Make - A - Wish Foundation on a number of occasions .	How much did you and your then wife donate to the University of Miami?	$1 million.
Throughout the rest of the year , The Rock made occasional appearances , returning to a face character . In 2004 , The Rock aided Mick Foley in his feud against Evolution , leading to a reunion of the Rock ' n ' Sock Connection . They lost against Ric Flair , Randy Orton , and Batista in a handicap match at WrestleMania XX on March 14 , 2004 , when Orton pinned Foley after an RKO . This would be Johnson ' s final wrestling match until November 2011 . The Rock appeared in WWE sporadically following WrestleMania XX . He made returns to provide support for Eugene against Jonathan Coachman , and made a cameo in his hometown of Miami and helped Mick Foley against La R é sistance . Later in 2004 , he hosted a pie - eating contest , as part of the WWE Diva Search , and ended the segment by giving Coachman a People ' s Elbow . The Rock ' s contract with WWE then ended and he started his full - time acting career .	Who did you provide support for against Jonathan Coachman?	I provided support for Eugene against Jonathan Coachman.
On the January 25 , 2016 , episode of Raw , the Rock was in a segment that saw him converse with The Miz , Big Show , Lana and Rusev before he and his relatives , The Usos , got into an altercation with then - WWE Tag Team Champions , The New Day . The Rock appeared at WrestleMania 32 on April 3 , 2016 , where he announced that WWE had broken the all - time WrestleMania attendance record before being interrupted by The Wyatt Family . The Rock got into a verbal back - and - forth with Bray Wyatt before having an impromptu match with Wyatt Family member Erick Rowan . The Rock won after giving Rowan a Rock Bottom and pinning him in six seconds , which set the record for the fastest win in WrestleMania history . The Rock was then aided by a returning John Cena to fend off Wyatt , Rowan and Braun Strowman . On the February 20 , 2017 , episode of Raw , the Rock made an untelevised appearance after the broadcast had gone off the air , where he promoted and filmed a scene for his then - upcoming film Fighting with My Family .	Who did you have a segment with on the January 25, 2016 episode of Raw?	I had a segment with The Miz, Big Show, Lana, and Rusev on the January 25, 2016 episode of Raw.
The Rock ' s popularity continued to grow and audiences still cheered for him even though he was a heel . He then lost the title rematch against Stone Cold Steve Austin at Backlash : In Your House on April 25 , 1999 . The next night on Raw is War he was fired from the Corporation after he was betrayed by Shane McMahon , turning him face again and starting a feud with Triple H , The Undertaker and The Corporate Ministry . On April 29 , 1999 , WWF aired the pilot episode of SmackDown ! , a term derived from one of the Rock ' s catchphrases . In the episode , the Rock continued his feud with The Corporate Ministry . This led to a match with Triple H , at Over the Edge on May 23 , 1999 , which the Rock won , and a match for the WWF Championship against The Undertaker , at King of the Ring , which the Rock lost . The Rock then lost a number one contender ' s match to Triple H , at Fully Loaded , after interference from " Mr . Ass " Billy Gunn . The Rock then defeated Gunn in a Kiss My Ass match at SummerSlam on August 22 , 1999 . The Rock was also given the privilege of having his own signature match , like The Undertaker with the Buried Alive match , Kane with the Inferno Match and Mankind with the Boiler Room Brawl : the Brahma Bullrope match , a variant of a strap match was a normal singles match where the components are tied together with a rope used for cattle farming , and the rope and its attached cowbell could both be used as weapons . The Rock contested this match twice , both times in Texas ( vs Triple H in Dallas , and vs Al Snow in Houston ) .	What is the name of the signature match that you were given?	I was given the privilege of having my own signature match called the Brahma Bullrope match.
On the January 25 , 2016 , episode of Raw , the Rock was in a segment that saw him converse with The Miz , Big Show , Lana and Rusev before he and his relatives , The Usos , got into an altercation with then - WWE Tag Team Champions , The New Day . The Rock appeared at WrestleMania 32 on April 3 , 2016 , where he announced that WWE had broken the all - time WrestleMania attendance record before being interrupted by The Wyatt Family . The Rock got into a verbal back - and - forth with Bray Wyatt before having an impromptu match with Wyatt Family member Erick Rowan . The Rock won after giving Rowan a Rock Bottom and pinning him in six seconds , which set the record for the fastest win in WrestleMania history . The Rock was then aided by a returning John Cena to fend off Wyatt , Rowan and Braun Strowman . On the February 20 , 2017 , episode of Raw , the Rock made an untelevised appearance after the broadcast had gone off the air , where he promoted and filmed a scene for his then - upcoming film Fighting with My Family .	What record did you announce WWE had broken at WrestleMania 32?	I announced that WWE had broken the all-time WrestleMania attendance record at WrestleMania 32.
The Rock then lost the WWF Championship to Kurt Angle , at No Mercy , on October 22 , 2000 . The next month , the Rock feuded with Rikishi and defeated him at Survivor Series . The Rock wrestled a six - man Hell in a Cell match for the WWF Championship , at Armageddon , which Angle won to retain the title . On the December 18 episode of Raw , the Rock won the WWF Tag Team Championship with The Undertaker , defeating Edge and Christian , before losing it back to them the next night at a SmackDown ! taping . In 2001 , the Rock continued to feud with Angle over the WWF Championship , culminating at No Way Out on February 25 , 2001 , where he pinned Angle to win the WWF Championship for a sixth time . The Rock then feuded with the Royal Rumble winner , Stone Cold Steve Austin , whom he lost the title to at WrestleMania X - Seven after Austin allied with Vince McMahon , who interfered on his behalf . On the next night ' s Raw Is War , during a steel cage title rematch , Triple H attacked the Rock , allying with McMahon and Austin and helping Austin retain the championship . Austin and Triple H then formed a tag team called The Power Trip , while the Rock was indefinitely suspended in storyline . Johnson used this time off to act in The Scorpion King .	When did you defeat Rikishi?	At Survivor Series
On July 23 , at Raw 1000 , the Rock announced he would wrestle for the WWE Championship at the Royal Rumble pay - per - view . During the show , he encountered then - reigning WWE Champion CM Punk , Daniel Bryan , and John Cena , all of whom expressed a desire to face him . The Rock later saved Cena from an assault by Big Show , only to be laid out by CM Punk . On the January 7 , 2013 , episode of Raw , the Rock returned to confront his Royal Rumble opponent CM Punk . On January 11 , he made his first SmackDown appearance in ten years , getting into an altercation with Team Rhodes Scholars , resulting in him delivering a Rock Bottom to Damien Sandow and a People ' s Elbow to Cody Rhodes . The Rock closed out the 20th - anniversary episode of Raw , on January 14 , with one of his " Rock Concerts " , leading to a brawl with CM Punk . The following week on Raw , the Rock was attacked by The Shield . Vince McMahon then asserted that if The Shield attacked the Rock in his title match with CM Punk , Punk would be stripped of the WWE Championship .	Who did you encounter during the show at Raw 1000?	I encountered then-reigning WWE Champion CM Punk, Daniel Bryan, and John Cena.
In the main event of the January 4 , 1999 , episode of Raw Is War , Mankind defeated the Rock for the championship after interference from Stone Cold Steve Austin . Then at the Royal Rumble on January 24 , 1999 , the Rock regained the title in an " I Quit " match , a type of submission match that only ends if one of the combatants says " I quit " on a microphone . Intended to show a vicious streak in the Rock ' s character , the Rock hit Mankind in the head with a steel chair 11 times instead of the scripted five , five shots already being a risky amount ( most wrestling matches in the Attitude Era involving steel chairs had at most 2 or 3 shots to the head ) . After the fifth shot , Mankind was still at ringside instead of being two - thirds up the entrance ramp where he was supposed to be , and after the eleventh shot which knocked a bloodied Mankind out , a recording of Mankind saying " I Quit " from an earlier interview was played over the public address system . On January 31 , during an episode of Sunday Night Heat , the Rock and Mankind participated in an Empty Arena match , a match that took place in an arena with 22 , 000 empty seats where any part of the facility could be used to contest the match . After 20 minutes of chaotic brawling in the ring , the stands , a kitchen , the catering area , an office , the arena corridors and finally a basement loading area , Mankind pinned the Rock using a forklift truck to win the WWF title . This match was referred to as " Halftime Heat " as it was televised during halftime of that year ' s Super Bowl . The two faced off again , at St . Valentine ' s Day Massacre : In Your House on February 14 , 1999 , in a Last Man Standing match which ended in a draw , meaning Mankind retained the title . Their feud ended on the February 15 Raw Is War , when the Rock won his third WWF Championship in a Ladder Match after a debuting Big Show interfered on his behalf . The Rock then lost the WWF Championship to Stone Cold Steve Austin at WrestleMania XV on March 28 , 1999 .	Who won the championship in the main event of the January 4, 1999, episode of Raw Is War?	Mankind defeated me for the championship.
After failing to win a number one contendership for the World Heavyweight Championship , The Rock went into another program with Stone Cold Steve Austin . This led to a match at WrestleMania XIX on March 30 , 2003 , which called back to their previous two WrestleMania encounters , both of which Austin had won . The Rock won after delivering three consecutive Rock Bottoms , ending their long - running rivalry in what turned out to be Austin ' s final match . The next night , Raw was billed as " The Rock Appreciation Night " , in honor of his victory over Austin . That night , he was attacked by a debuting Goldberg . At Backlash on April 27 , 2003 , Goldberg defeated The Rock , who then briefly left WWE to film Walking Tall .	What happened to you at Backlash on April 27, 2003?	At Backlash on April 27, 2003, I was defeated by Goldberg. After the match, I briefly left WWE to film Walking Tall.
The Rock then lost the WWF Championship to Kurt Angle , at No Mercy , on October 22 , 2000 . The next month , the Rock feuded with Rikishi and defeated him at Survivor Series . The Rock wrestled a six - man Hell in a Cell match for the WWF Championship , at Armageddon , which Angle won to retain the title . On the December 18 episode of Raw , the Rock won the WWF Tag Team Championship with The Undertaker , defeating Edge and Christian , before losing it back to them the next night at a SmackDown ! taping . In 2001 , the Rock continued to feud with Angle over the WWF Championship , culminating at No Way Out on February 25 , 2001 , where he pinned Angle to win the WWF Championship for a sixth time . The Rock then feuded with the Royal Rumble winner , Stone Cold Steve Austin , whom he lost the title to at WrestleMania X - Seven after Austin allied with Vince McMahon , who interfered on his behalf . On the next night ' s Raw Is War , during a steel cage title rematch , Triple H attacked the Rock , allying with McMahon and Austin and helping Austin retain the championship . Austin and Triple H then formed a tag team called The Power Trip , while the Rock was indefinitely suspended in storyline . Johnson used this time off to act in The Scorpion King .	Who did you win the WWF Tag Team Championship with?	The Undertaker
As part of the WWF ' s battle against The Alliance , the Rock wrestled in a " winner takes all " five - on - five elimination tag team match at Survivor Series where the losing team ' s company would be dissolved in storyline . He was a member of Team WWF along with Chris Jericho , The Undertaker , Kane , and Big Show . The Alliance ' s team consisted of Stone Cold Steve Austin , Kurt Angle , Booker T , Rob Van Dam , and Shane McMahon . In the end , it came down to a one - on - one between the Rock and Stone Cold Steve Austin . The Rock seemed to have the upper hand , until his teammate Jericho entered the ring and attacked the Rock . Austin tried to capitalize on this by pinning the Rock , but Kurt Angle revealed his true allegiance by attacking Austin . The Rock then pinned Austin , giving Team WWF the victory and forcing The Alliance to disband . The Rock ' s WCW Championship was renamed the unbranded " World Championship " following the Alliance ' s loss . At the next pay - per - view , Vengeance on December 9 , 2001 , the Rock lost the World Championship to Jericho , who would then unify the WWF and World titles later that night . The Rock then unsuccessfully challenged Jericho for the now Undisputed WWF Championship at Royal Rumble on January 20 , 2002 .	Who were the members of The Alliance's team in the Survivor Series match?	The members of The Alliance's team were Stone Cold Steve Austin, Kurt Angle, Booker T, Rob Van Dam, and Shane McMahon.
As part of the WWF ' s battle against The Alliance , the Rock wrestled in a " winner takes all " five - on - five elimination tag team match at Survivor Series where the losing team ' s company would be dissolved in storyline . He was a member of Team WWF along with Chris Jericho , The Undertaker , Kane , and Big Show . The Alliance ' s team consisted of Stone Cold Steve Austin , Kurt Angle , Booker T , Rob Van Dam , and Shane McMahon . In the end , it came down to a one - on - one between the Rock and Stone Cold Steve Austin . The Rock seemed to have the upper hand , until his teammate Jericho entered the ring and attacked the Rock . Austin tried to capitalize on this by pinning the Rock , but Kurt Angle revealed his true allegiance by attacking Austin . The Rock then pinned Austin , giving Team WWF the victory and forcing The Alliance to disband . The Rock ' s WCW Championship was renamed the unbranded " World Championship " following the Alliance ' s loss . At the next pay - per - view , Vengeance on December 9 , 2001 , the Rock lost the World Championship to Jericho , who would then unify the WWF and World titles later that night . The Rock then unsuccessfully challenged Jericho for the now Undisputed WWF Championship at Royal Rumble on January 20 , 2002 .	How did your match at Survivor Series end?	My match at Survivor Series ended with a one-on-one against Stone Cold Steve Austin, and I pinned Austin for the victory.
On the January 25 , 2016 , episode of Raw , the Rock was in a segment that saw him converse with The Miz , Big Show , Lana and Rusev before he and his relatives , The Usos , got into an altercation with then - WWE Tag Team Champions , The New Day . The Rock appeared at WrestleMania 32 on April 3 , 2016 , where he announced that WWE had broken the all - time WrestleMania attendance record before being interrupted by The Wyatt Family . The Rock got into a verbal back - and - forth with Bray Wyatt before having an impromptu match with Wyatt Family member Erick Rowan . The Rock won after giving Rowan a Rock Bottom and pinning him in six seconds , which set the record for the fastest win in WrestleMania history . The Rock was then aided by a returning John Cena to fend off Wyatt , Rowan and Braun Strowman . On the February 20 , 2017 , episode of Raw , the Rock made an untelevised appearance after the broadcast had gone off the air , where he promoted and filmed a scene for his then - upcoming film Fighting with My Family .	When did you appear at WrestleMania 32?	I appeared at WrestleMania 32 on April 3, 2016.
The Rock then lost the WWF Championship to Kurt Angle , at No Mercy , on October 22 , 2000 . The next month , the Rock feuded with Rikishi and defeated him at Survivor Series . The Rock wrestled a six - man Hell in a Cell match for the WWF Championship , at Armageddon , which Angle won to retain the title . On the December 18 episode of Raw , the Rock won the WWF Tag Team Championship with The Undertaker , defeating Edge and Christian , before losing it back to them the next night at a SmackDown ! taping . In 2001 , the Rock continued to feud with Angle over the WWF Championship , culminating at No Way Out on February 25 , 2001 , where he pinned Angle to win the WWF Championship for a sixth time . The Rock then feuded with the Royal Rumble winner , Stone Cold Steve Austin , whom he lost the title to at WrestleMania X - Seven after Austin allied with Vince McMahon , who interfered on his behalf . On the next night ' s Raw Is War , during a steel cage title rematch , Triple H attacked the Rock , allying with McMahon and Austin and helping Austin retain the championship . Austin and Triple H then formed a tag team called The Power Trip , while the Rock was indefinitely suspended in storyline . Johnson used this time off to act in The Scorpion King .	When did you win the WWF Championship for the sixth time?	No Way Out on February 25, 2001
On July 23 , at Raw 1000 , the Rock announced he would wrestle for the WWE Championship at the Royal Rumble pay - per - view . During the show , he encountered then - reigning WWE Champion CM Punk , Daniel Bryan , and John Cena , all of whom expressed a desire to face him . The Rock later saved Cena from an assault by Big Show , only to be laid out by CM Punk . On the January 7 , 2013 , episode of Raw , the Rock returned to confront his Royal Rumble opponent CM Punk . On January 11 , he made his first SmackDown appearance in ten years , getting into an altercation with Team Rhodes Scholars , resulting in him delivering a Rock Bottom to Damien Sandow and a People ' s Elbow to Cody Rhodes . The Rock closed out the 20th - anniversary episode of Raw , on January 14 , with one of his " Rock Concerts " , leading to a brawl with CM Punk . The following week on Raw , the Rock was attacked by The Shield . Vince McMahon then asserted that if The Shield attacked the Rock in his title match with CM Punk , Punk would be stripped of the WWE Championship .	Who did you deliver a Rock Bottom to and a People's Elbow to during your first SmackDown appearance in ten years?	I delivered a Rock Bottom to Damien Sandow and a People's Elbow to Cody Rhodes during my first SmackDown appearance in ten years.
In the main event of the January 4 , 1999 , episode of Raw Is War , Mankind defeated the Rock for the championship after interference from Stone Cold Steve Austin . Then at the Royal Rumble on January 24 , 1999 , the Rock regained the title in an " I Quit " match , a type of submission match that only ends if one of the combatants says " I quit " on a microphone . Intended to show a vicious streak in the Rock ' s character , the Rock hit Mankind in the head with a steel chair 11 times instead of the scripted five , five shots already being a risky amount ( most wrestling matches in the Attitude Era involving steel chairs had at most 2 or 3 shots to the head ) . After the fifth shot , Mankind was still at ringside instead of being two - thirds up the entrance ramp where he was supposed to be , and after the eleventh shot which knocked a bloodied Mankind out , a recording of Mankind saying " I Quit " from an earlier interview was played over the public address system . On January 31 , during an episode of Sunday Night Heat , the Rock and Mankind participated in an Empty Arena match , a match that took place in an arena with 22 , 000 empty seats where any part of the facility could be used to contest the match . After 20 minutes of chaotic brawling in the ring , the stands , a kitchen , the catering area , an office , the arena corridors and finally a basement loading area , Mankind pinned the Rock using a forklift truck to win the WWF title . This match was referred to as " Halftime Heat " as it was televised during halftime of that year ' s Super Bowl . The two faced off again , at St . Valentine ' s Day Massacre : In Your House on February 14 , 1999 , in a Last Man Standing match which ended in a draw , meaning Mankind retained the title . Their feud ended on the February 15 Raw Is War , when the Rock won his third WWF Championship in a Ladder Match after a debuting Big Show interfered on his behalf . The Rock then lost the WWF Championship to Stone Cold Steve Austin at WrestleMania XV on March 28 , 1999 .	How did you lose the WWF title in the Empty Arena match?	I was pinned by Mankind using a forklift truck, causing me to lose the WWF title in the Empty Arena match.
Throughout the rest of the year , The Rock made occasional appearances , returning to a face character . In 2004 , The Rock aided Mick Foley in his feud against Evolution , leading to a reunion of the Rock ' n ' Sock Connection . They lost against Ric Flair , Randy Orton , and Batista in a handicap match at WrestleMania XX on March 14 , 2004 , when Orton pinned Foley after an RKO . This would be Johnson ' s final wrestling match until November 2011 . The Rock appeared in WWE sporadically following WrestleMania XX . He made returns to provide support for Eugene against Jonathan Coachman , and made a cameo in his hometown of Miami and helped Mick Foley against La R é sistance . Later in 2004 , he hosted a pie - eating contest , as part of the WWE Diva Search , and ended the segment by giving Coachman a People ' s Elbow . The Rock ' s contract with WWE then ended and he started his full - time acting career .	When did you have your final wrestling match before November 2011?	I had my final wrestling match before November 2011 at WrestleMania XX on March 14, 2004.
Throughout the rest of the year , The Rock made occasional appearances , returning to a face character . In 2004 , The Rock aided Mick Foley in his feud against Evolution , leading to a reunion of the Rock ' n ' Sock Connection . They lost against Ric Flair , Randy Orton , and Batista in a handicap match at WrestleMania XX on March 14 , 2004 , when Orton pinned Foley after an RKO . This would be Johnson ' s final wrestling match until November 2011 . The Rock appeared in WWE sporadically following WrestleMania XX . He made returns to provide support for Eugene against Jonathan Coachman , and made a cameo in his hometown of Miami and helped Mick Foley against La R é sistance . Later in 2004 , he hosted a pie - eating contest , as part of the WWE Diva Search , and ended the segment by giving Coachman a People ' s Elbow . The Rock ' s contract with WWE then ended and he started his full - time acting career .	Who did you and Mick Foley lose to in a handicap match at WrestleMania XX?	I and Mick Foley lost to Ric Flair, Randy Orton, and Batista in a handicap match at WrestleMania XX.
The Rock ' s popularity continued to grow and audiences still cheered for him even though he was a heel . He then lost the title rematch against Stone Cold Steve Austin at Backlash : In Your House on April 25 , 1999 . The next night on Raw is War he was fired from the Corporation after he was betrayed by Shane McMahon , turning him face again and starting a feud with Triple H , The Undertaker and The Corporate Ministry . On April 29 , 1999 , WWF aired the pilot episode of SmackDown ! , a term derived from one of the Rock ' s catchphrases . In the episode , the Rock continued his feud with The Corporate Ministry . This led to a match with Triple H , at Over the Edge on May 23 , 1999 , which the Rock won , and a match for the WWF Championship against The Undertaker , at King of the Ring , which the Rock lost . The Rock then lost a number one contender ' s match to Triple H , at Fully Loaded , after interference from " Mr . Ass " Billy Gunn . The Rock then defeated Gunn in a Kiss My Ass match at SummerSlam on August 22 , 1999 . The Rock was also given the privilege of having his own signature match , like The Undertaker with the Buried Alive match , Kane with the Inferno Match and Mankind with the Boiler Room Brawl : the Brahma Bullrope match , a variant of a strap match was a normal singles match where the components are tied together with a rope used for cattle farming , and the rope and its attached cowbell could both be used as weapons . The Rock contested this match twice , both times in Texas ( vs Triple H in Dallas , and vs Al Snow in Houston ) .	Who did you have a feud with after being fired from the Corporation?	I started a feud with Triple H, The Undertaker, and The Corporate Ministry.
On July 23 , at Raw 1000 , the Rock announced he would wrestle for the WWE Championship at the Royal Rumble pay - per - view . During the show , he encountered then - reigning WWE Champion CM Punk , Daniel Bryan , and John Cena , all of whom expressed a desire to face him . The Rock later saved Cena from an assault by Big Show , only to be laid out by CM Punk . On the January 7 , 2013 , episode of Raw , the Rock returned to confront his Royal Rumble opponent CM Punk . On January 11 , he made his first SmackDown appearance in ten years , getting into an altercation with Team Rhodes Scholars , resulting in him delivering a Rock Bottom to Damien Sandow and a People ' s Elbow to Cody Rhodes . The Rock closed out the 20th - anniversary episode of Raw , on January 14 , with one of his " Rock Concerts " , leading to a brawl with CM Punk . The following week on Raw , the Rock was attacked by The Shield . Vince McMahon then asserted that if The Shield attacked the Rock in his title match with CM Punk , Punk would be stripped of the WWE Championship .	When did you announce you would wrestle for the WWE Championship at the Royal Rumble pay-per-view?	I announced I would wrestle for the WWE Championship at the Royal Rumble pay-per-view on July 23.
The Rock then lost the WWF Championship to Kurt Angle , at No Mercy , on October 22 , 2000 . The next month , the Rock feuded with Rikishi and defeated him at Survivor Series . The Rock wrestled a six - man Hell in a Cell match for the WWF Championship , at Armageddon , which Angle won to retain the title . On the December 18 episode of Raw , the Rock won the WWF Tag Team Championship with The Undertaker , defeating Edge and Christian , before losing it back to them the next night at a SmackDown ! taping . In 2001 , the Rock continued to feud with Angle over the WWF Championship , culminating at No Way Out on February 25 , 2001 , where he pinned Angle to win the WWF Championship for a sixth time . The Rock then feuded with the Royal Rumble winner , Stone Cold Steve Austin , whom he lost the title to at WrestleMania X - Seven after Austin allied with Vince McMahon , who interfered on his behalf . On the next night ' s Raw Is War , during a steel cage title rematch , Triple H attacked the Rock , allying with McMahon and Austin and helping Austin retain the championship . Austin and Triple H then formed a tag team called The Power Trip , while the Rock was indefinitely suspended in storyline . Johnson used this time off to act in The Scorpion King .	Which event did you compete in a six-man Hell in a Cell match for the WWF Championship?	Armageddon
On the January 25 , 2016 , episode of Raw , the Rock was in a segment that saw him converse with The Miz , Big Show , Lana and Rusev before he and his relatives , The Usos , got into an altercation with then - WWE Tag Team Champions , The New Day . The Rock appeared at WrestleMania 32 on April 3 , 2016 , where he announced that WWE had broken the all - time WrestleMania attendance record before being interrupted by The Wyatt Family . The Rock got into a verbal back - and - forth with Bray Wyatt before having an impromptu match with Wyatt Family member Erick Rowan . The Rock won after giving Rowan a Rock Bottom and pinning him in six seconds , which set the record for the fastest win in WrestleMania history . The Rock was then aided by a returning John Cena to fend off Wyatt , Rowan and Braun Strowman . On the February 20 , 2017 , episode of Raw , the Rock made an untelevised appearance after the broadcast had gone off the air , where he promoted and filmed a scene for his then - upcoming film Fighting with My Family .	Who did you have an altercation with on the January 25, 2016 episode of Raw?	I had an altercation with The New Day, who were the WWE Tag Team Champions at the time, on the January 25, 2016 episode of Raw.
In 2006 , Johnson founded the Dwayne Johnson Rock Foundation , a charity working with at - risk and terminally ill children . On October 2 , 2007 , he and his then wife , Dany Garcia , donated $ 1   million to the University of Miami to support the renovation of its football facilities . The University of Miami renamed the Hurricanes ' locker room in Johnson ' s honor . In 2015 , Johnson donated $ 1 , 500 to a GoFundMe to pay for an abandoned dog ' s surgery . In 2017 , he donated $ 25 , 000 to Hurricane Harvey relief efforts . In 2018 , Johnson donated a gym to a military base in Oahu , Hawaii . After the 2018 Hawaii floods , he worked with Malama Kauai , a nonprofit organization , to help repair damages caused by the floods . Johnson has also worked with Make - A - Wish Foundation on a number of occasions .	What did the University of Miami rename in your honor?	They renamed the Hurricanes' locker room in my honor.
