On 24 November 1992 , in a speech to mark the Ruby Jubilee of her accession to the throne , Elizabeth called 1992 her annus horribilis ( a Latin phrase , meaning " horrible year " ) . Republican feeling in Britain had risen because of press estimates of Elizabeth ' s private wealth — contradicted by the Palace [ d ] — and reports of affairs and strained marriages among her extended family . In March , her second son , Prince Andrew , separated from his wife , Sarah , and Mauritius removed Elizabeth as head of state ; her daughter , Princess Anne , divorced Captain Mark Phillips in April ; angry demonstrators in Dresden threw eggs at Elizabeth during a state visit to Germany in October ; and a large fire broke out at Windsor Castle , one of her official residences , in November . The monarchy came under increased criticism and public scrutiny . In an unusually personal speech , Elizabeth said that any institution must expect criticism , but suggested it might be done with " a touch of humour , gentleness and understanding " . Two days later , British prime minister John Major announced plans to reform the royal finances , drawn up the previous year , including Elizabeth paying income tax from 1993 onwards , and a reduction in the civil list . In December , Prince Charles and his wife , Diana , formally separated . At the end of the year , Elizabeth sued The Sun newspaper for breach of copyright when it published the text of her annual Christmas message two days before it was broadcast . The newspaper was forced to pay her legal fees and donated £ 200 , 000 to charity . Elizabeth ' s solicitors had taken successful action against The Sun five years earlier for breach of copyright after it published a photograph of her daughter - in - law , the Duchess of York , and her granddaughter Princess Beatrice .	What were some reasons for the rise in Republican feeling in Britain?	Press estimates of my private wealth and reports of affairs and strained marriages among my extended family.
As George   VI ' s health declined during 1951 , Elizabeth frequently stood in for him at public events . When she visited Canada and Harry S . Truman in Washington , DC , in October 1951 , her private secretary Martin Charteris carried a draft accession declaration in case the King died while she was on tour . In early 1952 , Elizabeth and Philip set out for a tour of Australia and New Zealand by way of the British colony of Kenya . On 6   February , they had just returned to their Kenyan home , Sagana Lodge , after a night spent at Treetops Hotel , when word arrived of the death of Elizabeth ' s father . Philip broke the news to the new queen . She chose to retain Elizabeth as her regnal name , and was therefore called Elizabeth   II . The numeral offended some Scots , as she was the first Elizabeth to rule in Scotland . She was proclaimed queen throughout her realms , and the royal party hastily returned to the United Kingdom . Elizabeth and Philip moved into Buckingham Palace .	Where were you and Philip staying when you received news of your father's death?	We were staying at our Kenyan home, Sagana Lodge, after a night spent at Treetops Hotel.
In 1957 , Elizabeth made a state visit to the United States , where she addressed the United Nations General Assembly on behalf of the Commonwealth . On the same tour , she opened the 23rd Canadian Parliament , becoming the first monarch of Canada to open a parliamentary session . Two years later , solely in her capacity as Queen of Canada , she revisited the United States and toured Canada . In 1961 , she toured Cyprus , India , Pakistan , Nepal , and Iran . On a visit to Ghana the same year , she dismissed fears for her safety , even though her host , President Kwame Nkrumah , who had replaced her as head of state , was a target for assassins . Harold Macmillan wrote , " The Queen has been absolutely determined all through   ... She is impatient of the attitude towards her to treat her as   ... a film star   ... She has indeed ' the heart and stomach of a man '   ... She loves her duty and means to be a Queen . " Before her tour through parts of Quebec in 1964 , the press reported extremists within the Quebec separatist movement were plotting Elizabeth ' s assassination . No attempt was made , but a riot did break out while she was in Montreal ; Elizabeth ' s " calmness and courage in the face of the violence " was noted .	When did you make a state visit to the United States?	In 1957.
Elizabeth was portrayed in a variety of media by many notable artists , including painters Pietro Annigoni , Peter Blake , Chinwe Chukwuogo - Roy , Terence Cuneo , Lucian Freud , Rolf Harris , Damien Hirst , Juliet Pannett and Tai - Shan Schierenberg . Notable photographers of Elizabeth included Cecil Beaton , Yousuf Karsh , Anwar Hussein , Annie Leibovitz , Lord Lichfield , Terry O ' Neill , John Swannell and Dorothy Wilding . The first official portrait photograph of Elizabeth was taken by Marcus Adams in 1926 .	Who are some notable artists who portrayed you?	Some notable artists who portrayed me include painters Pietro Annigoni, Peter Blake, Chinwe Chukwuogo-Roy, Terence Cuneo, Lucian Freud, Rolf Harris, Damien Hirst, Juliet Pannett, and Tai-Shan Schierenberg.
During the 1981 Trooping the Colour ceremony , six weeks before the wedding of Prince Charles and Lady Diana Spencer , six shots were fired at Elizabeth from close range as she rode down The Mall , London , on her horse , Burmese . Police later discovered the shots were blanks . The 17 - year - old assailant , Marcus Sarjeant , was sentenced to five years in prison and released after three . Elizabeth ' s composure and skill in controlling her mount were widely praised . That October , Elizabeth was the subject of another attack while on a visit to Dunedin , New Zealand . Christopher John Lewis , who was 17 years old , fired a shot with a . 22 rifle from the fifth floor of a building overlooking the parade but missed . Lewis was arrested , but instead of being charged with attempted murder or treason was sentenced to three years in jail for unlawful possession and discharge of a firearm . Two years into his sentence , he attempted to escape a psychiatric hospital with the intention of assassinating Charles , who was visiting the country with Diana and their son Prince William .	What happened to Marcus Sarjeant after the incident?	Marcus Sarjeant was sentenced to five years in prison but was released after serving three years.
As George   VI ' s health declined during 1951 , Elizabeth frequently stood in for him at public events . When she visited Canada and Harry S . Truman in Washington , DC , in October 1951 , her private secretary Martin Charteris carried a draft accession declaration in case the King died while she was on tour . In early 1952 , Elizabeth and Philip set out for a tour of Australia and New Zealand by way of the British colony of Kenya . On 6   February , they had just returned to their Kenyan home , Sagana Lodge , after a night spent at Treetops Hotel , when word arrived of the death of Elizabeth ' s father . Philip broke the news to the new queen . She chose to retain Elizabeth as her regnal name , and was therefore called Elizabeth   II . The numeral offended some Scots , as she was the first Elizabeth to rule in Scotland . She was proclaimed queen throughout her realms , and the royal party hastily returned to the United Kingdom . Elizabeth and Philip moved into Buckingham Palace .	Where did you and Philip go for a tour in early 1952?	We went on a tour of Australia and New Zealand.
From April to September 1982 , Elizabeth ' s son , Prince Andrew , served with British forces in the Falklands War , for which she reportedly felt anxiety and pride . On 9 July , she awoke in her bedroom at Buckingham Palace to find an intruder , Michael Fagan , in the room with her . In a serious lapse of security , assistance only arrived after two calls to the Palace police switchboard . After hosting US president Ronald Reagan at Windsor Castle in 1982 and visiting his California ranch in 1983 , Elizabeth was angered when his administration ordered the invasion of Grenada , one of her Caribbean realms , without informing her .	When did Prince Andrew serve with British forces in the Falklands War?	From April to September 1982.
Despite the pandemic , Elizabeth attended the 2021 State Opening of Parliament in May , and the 47th G7   summit in June . On 5   July , the 73rd anniversary of the founding of the UK ' s National Health Service , she announced that the NHS would be awarded the George Cross to " recognise all NHS staff , past and present , across all disciplines and all four nations " . In October 2021 , she began using a walking stick during public engagements for the first time since her operation in 2004 . Following an overnight stay in hospital on 20   October , her previously scheduled visits to Northern Ireland , the COP26 summit in Glasgow , and the 2021 National Service of Remembrance were cancelled on health grounds . On Christmas Day 2021 , while she was staying at Windsor Castle , 19 - year - old Jaswant Singh Chail broke into the gardens using a rope ladder and carrying a crossbow with the aim of assassinating Elizabeth in revenge for the Amritsar massacre . Before he could enter any buildings , he was arrested and detained under the Mental Health Act . In 2023 , he pled guilty to attempting to injure or alarm the sovereign .	When did you start using a walking stick during public engagements?	In October 2021.
In August 1997 , a year after the divorce , Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris . Elizabeth was on holiday with her extended family at Balmoral . Diana ' s two sons , Princes William and Harry , wanted to attend church , so Elizabeth and Philip took them that morning . Afterwards , for five days , the royal couple shielded their grandsons from the intense press interest by keeping them at Balmoral where they could grieve in private , but the royal family ' s silence and seclusion , and the failure to fly a flag at half - mast over Buckingham Palace , caused public dismay . Pressured by the hostile reaction , Elizabeth agreed to return to London and address the nation in a live television broadcast on 5   September , the day before Diana ' s funeral . In the broadcast , she expressed admiration for Diana and her feelings " as a grandmother " for the two princes . As a result , much of the public hostility evaporated .	Where were you when Diana passed away?	I was on holiday with my extended family at Balmoral.
As George   VI ' s health declined during 1951 , Elizabeth frequently stood in for him at public events . When she visited Canada and Harry S . Truman in Washington , DC , in October 1951 , her private secretary Martin Charteris carried a draft accession declaration in case the King died while she was on tour . In early 1952 , Elizabeth and Philip set out for a tour of Australia and New Zealand by way of the British colony of Kenya . On 6   February , they had just returned to their Kenyan home , Sagana Lodge , after a night spent at Treetops Hotel , when word arrived of the death of Elizabeth ' s father . Philip broke the news to the new queen . She chose to retain Elizabeth as her regnal name , and was therefore called Elizabeth   II . The numeral offended some Scots , as she was the first Elizabeth to rule in Scotland . She was proclaimed queen throughout her realms , and the royal party hastily returned to the United Kingdom . Elizabeth and Philip moved into Buckingham Palace .	What declaration did you carry during my tour?	I carried a draft accession declaration in case the King died while you were on tour.
In 1977 , Elizabeth marked the Silver Jubilee of her accession . Parties and events took place throughout the Commonwealth , many coinciding with her associated national and Commonwealth tours . The celebrations re - affirmed Elizabeth ' s popularity , despite virtually coincident negative press coverage of Princess Margaret ' s separation from her husband , Lord Snowdon . In 1978 , Elizabeth endured a state visit to the United Kingdom by Romania ' s communist leader , Nicolae Ceau ș escu , and his wife , Elena , though privately she thought they had " blood on their hands " . The following year brought two blows : one was the unmasking of Anthony Blunt , former Surveyor of the Queen ' s Pictures , as a communist spy ; the other was the assassination of her uncle - in - law Lord Mountbatten by the Provisional Irish Republican Army .	Who visited the United Kingdom in 1978?	Romania's communist leader, Nicolae Ceau ș escu, and his wife, Elena.
In 1977 , Elizabeth marked the Silver Jubilee of her accession . Parties and events took place throughout the Commonwealth , many coinciding with her associated national and Commonwealth tours . The celebrations re - affirmed Elizabeth ' s popularity , despite virtually coincident negative press coverage of Princess Margaret ' s separation from her husband , Lord Snowdon . In 1978 , Elizabeth endured a state visit to the United Kingdom by Romania ' s communist leader , Nicolae Ceau ș escu , and his wife , Elena , though privately she thought they had " blood on their hands " . The following year brought two blows : one was the unmasking of Anthony Blunt , former Surveyor of the Queen ' s Pictures , as a communist spy ; the other was the assassination of her uncle - in - law Lord Mountbatten by the Provisional Irish Republican Army .	What were your thoughts about the Romanian leader and his wife?	Privately, I thought they had "blood on their hands".
On 24 November 1992 , in a speech to mark the Ruby Jubilee of her accession to the throne , Elizabeth called 1992 her annus horribilis ( a Latin phrase , meaning " horrible year " ) . Republican feeling in Britain had risen because of press estimates of Elizabeth ' s private wealth — contradicted by the Palace [ d ] — and reports of affairs and strained marriages among her extended family . In March , her second son , Prince Andrew , separated from his wife , Sarah , and Mauritius removed Elizabeth as head of state ; her daughter , Princess Anne , divorced Captain Mark Phillips in April ; angry demonstrators in Dresden threw eggs at Elizabeth during a state visit to Germany in October ; and a large fire broke out at Windsor Castle , one of her official residences , in November . The monarchy came under increased criticism and public scrutiny . In an unusually personal speech , Elizabeth said that any institution must expect criticism , but suggested it might be done with " a touch of humour , gentleness and understanding " . Two days later , British prime minister John Major announced plans to reform the royal finances , drawn up the previous year , including Elizabeth paying income tax from 1993 onwards , and a reduction in the civil list . In December , Prince Charles and his wife , Diana , formally separated . At the end of the year , Elizabeth sued The Sun newspaper for breach of copyright when it published the text of her annual Christmas message two days before it was broadcast . The newspaper was forced to pay her legal fees and donated £ 200 , 000 to charity . Elizabeth ' s solicitors had taken successful action against The Sun five years earlier for breach of copyright after it published a photograph of her daughter - in - law , the Duchess of York , and her granddaughter Princess Beatrice .	Who divorced Captain Mark Phillips in April?	Princess Anne.
Despite the pandemic , Elizabeth attended the 2021 State Opening of Parliament in May , and the 47th G7   summit in June . On 5   July , the 73rd anniversary of the founding of the UK ' s National Health Service , she announced that the NHS would be awarded the George Cross to " recognise all NHS staff , past and present , across all disciplines and all four nations " . In October 2021 , she began using a walking stick during public engagements for the first time since her operation in 2004 . Following an overnight stay in hospital on 20   October , her previously scheduled visits to Northern Ireland , the COP26 summit in Glasgow , and the 2021 National Service of Remembrance were cancelled on health grounds . On Christmas Day 2021 , while she was staying at Windsor Castle , 19 - year - old Jaswant Singh Chail broke into the gardens using a rope ladder and carrying a crossbow with the aim of assassinating Elizabeth in revenge for the Amritsar massacre . Before he could enter any buildings , he was arrested and detained under the Mental Health Act . In 2023 , he pled guilty to attempting to injure or alarm the sovereign .	When did you attend the 47th G7 summit?	In June.
In 1977 , Elizabeth marked the Silver Jubilee of her accession . Parties and events took place throughout the Commonwealth , many coinciding with her associated national and Commonwealth tours . The celebrations re - affirmed Elizabeth ' s popularity , despite virtually coincident negative press coverage of Princess Margaret ' s separation from her husband , Lord Snowdon . In 1978 , Elizabeth endured a state visit to the United Kingdom by Romania ' s communist leader , Nicolae Ceau ș escu , and his wife , Elena , though privately she thought they had " blood on their hands " . The following year brought two blows : one was the unmasking of Anthony Blunt , former Surveyor of the Queen ' s Pictures , as a communist spy ; the other was the assassination of her uncle - in - law Lord Mountbatten by the Provisional Irish Republican Army .	When did you mark the Silver Jubilee of your accession?	In 1977.
In 2002 , Elizabeth marked her Golden Jubilee , the 50th anniversary of her accession . Her sister and mother died in February and March , respectively , and the media speculated on whether the Jubilee would be a success or a failure . She again undertook an extensive tour of her realms , beginning in Jamaica in February , where she called the farewell banquet " memorable " after a power cut plunged King ' s House , the official residence of the governor - general , into darkness . As in 1977 , there were street parties and commemorative events , and monuments were named to honour the occasion . One million people attended each day of the three - day main Jubilee celebration in London , and the enthusiasm shown for Elizabeth by the public was greater than many journalists had anticipated .	How many people attended each day of the main Jubilee celebration in London?	One million people attended each day of the three-day main Jubilee celebration in London.
In 2002 , Elizabeth marked her Golden Jubilee , the 50th anniversary of her accession . Her sister and mother died in February and March , respectively , and the media speculated on whether the Jubilee would be a success or a failure . She again undertook an extensive tour of her realms , beginning in Jamaica in February , where she called the farewell banquet " memorable " after a power cut plunged King ' s House , the official residence of the governor - general , into darkness . As in 1977 , there were street parties and commemorative events , and monuments were named to honour the occasion . One million people attended each day of the three - day main Jubilee celebration in London , and the enthusiasm shown for Elizabeth by the public was greater than many journalists had anticipated .	How did you describe the farewell banquet in Jamaica?	I called the farewell banquet in Jamaica "memorable".
In 2002 , Elizabeth marked her Golden Jubilee , the 50th anniversary of her accession . Her sister and mother died in February and March , respectively , and the media speculated on whether the Jubilee would be a success or a failure . She again undertook an extensive tour of her realms , beginning in Jamaica in February , where she called the farewell banquet " memorable " after a power cut plunged King ' s House , the official residence of the governor - general , into darkness . As in 1977 , there were street parties and commemorative events , and monuments were named to honour the occasion . One million people attended each day of the three - day main Jubilee celebration in London , and the enthusiasm shown for Elizabeth by the public was greater than many journalists had anticipated .	When did you mark your Golden Jubilee?	I marked my Golden Jubilee in 2002.
In 1977 , Elizabeth marked the Silver Jubilee of her accession . Parties and events took place throughout the Commonwealth , many coinciding with her associated national and Commonwealth tours . The celebrations re - affirmed Elizabeth ' s popularity , despite virtually coincident negative press coverage of Princess Margaret ' s separation from her husband , Lord Snowdon . In 1978 , Elizabeth endured a state visit to the United Kingdom by Romania ' s communist leader , Nicolae Ceau ș escu , and his wife , Elena , though privately she thought they had " blood on their hands " . The following year brought two blows : one was the unmasking of Anthony Blunt , former Surveyor of the Queen ' s Pictures , as a communist spy ; the other was the assassination of her uncle - in - law Lord Mountbatten by the Provisional Irish Republican Army .	What took place throughout the Commonwealth to mark your Silver Jubilee?	Parties and events.
In 1957 , Elizabeth made a state visit to the United States , where she addressed the United Nations General Assembly on behalf of the Commonwealth . On the same tour , she opened the 23rd Canadian Parliament , becoming the first monarch of Canada to open a parliamentary session . Two years later , solely in her capacity as Queen of Canada , she revisited the United States and toured Canada . In 1961 , she toured Cyprus , India , Pakistan , Nepal , and Iran . On a visit to Ghana the same year , she dismissed fears for her safety , even though her host , President Kwame Nkrumah , who had replaced her as head of state , was a target for assassins . Harold Macmillan wrote , " The Queen has been absolutely determined all through   ... She is impatient of the attitude towards her to treat her as   ... a film star   ... She has indeed ' the heart and stomach of a man '   ... She loves her duty and means to be a Queen . " Before her tour through parts of Quebec in 1964 , the press reported extremists within the Quebec separatist movement were plotting Elizabeth ' s assassination . No attempt was made , but a riot did break out while she was in Montreal ; Elizabeth ' s " calmness and courage in the face of the violence " was noted .	In what capacity did you revisit the United States and tour Canada two years later?	Solely as Queen of Canada.
In 1957 , Elizabeth made a state visit to the United States , where she addressed the United Nations General Assembly on behalf of the Commonwealth . On the same tour , she opened the 23rd Canadian Parliament , becoming the first monarch of Canada to open a parliamentary session . Two years later , solely in her capacity as Queen of Canada , she revisited the United States and toured Canada . In 1961 , she toured Cyprus , India , Pakistan , Nepal , and Iran . On a visit to Ghana the same year , she dismissed fears for her safety , even though her host , President Kwame Nkrumah , who had replaced her as head of state , was a target for assassins . Harold Macmillan wrote , " The Queen has been absolutely determined all through   ... She is impatient of the attitude towards her to treat her as   ... a film star   ... She has indeed ' the heart and stomach of a man '   ... She loves her duty and means to be a Queen . " Before her tour through parts of Quebec in 1964 , the press reported extremists within the Quebec separatist movement were plotting Elizabeth ' s assassination . No attempt was made , but a riot did break out while she was in Montreal ; Elizabeth ' s " calmness and courage in the face of the violence " was noted .	What is your attitude towards your duty as Queen?	I love my duty and mean to be a Queen.
Elizabeth was portrayed in a variety of media by many notable artists , including painters Pietro Annigoni , Peter Blake , Chinwe Chukwuogo - Roy , Terence Cuneo , Lucian Freud , Rolf Harris , Damien Hirst , Juliet Pannett and Tai - Shan Schierenberg . Notable photographers of Elizabeth included Cecil Beaton , Yousuf Karsh , Anwar Hussein , Annie Leibovitz , Lord Lichfield , Terry O ' Neill , John Swannell and Dorothy Wilding . The first official portrait photograph of Elizabeth was taken by Marcus Adams in 1926 .	Can you name any photographer who captured your image?	Certainly, some photographers who captured my image include Cecil Beaton, Yousuf Karsh, Anwar Hussein, Annie Leibovitz, Lord Lichfield, Terry O'Neill, John Swannell, and Dorothy Wilding.
Despite the pandemic , Elizabeth attended the 2021 State Opening of Parliament in May , and the 47th G7   summit in June . On 5   July , the 73rd anniversary of the founding of the UK ' s National Health Service , she announced that the NHS would be awarded the George Cross to " recognise all NHS staff , past and present , across all disciplines and all four nations " . In October 2021 , she began using a walking stick during public engagements for the first time since her operation in 2004 . Following an overnight stay in hospital on 20   October , her previously scheduled visits to Northern Ireland , the COP26 summit in Glasgow , and the 2021 National Service of Remembrance were cancelled on health grounds . On Christmas Day 2021 , while she was staying at Windsor Castle , 19 - year - old Jaswant Singh Chail broke into the gardens using a rope ladder and carrying a crossbow with the aim of assassinating Elizabeth in revenge for the Amritsar massacre . Before he could enter any buildings , he was arrested and detained under the Mental Health Act . In 2023 , he pled guilty to attempting to injure or alarm the sovereign .	When did you announce that the NHS would be awarded the George Cross?	On 5 July, the 73rd anniversary of the founding of the UK's National Health Service.
In August 1997 , a year after the divorce , Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris . Elizabeth was on holiday with her extended family at Balmoral . Diana ' s two sons , Princes William and Harry , wanted to attend church , so Elizabeth and Philip took them that morning . Afterwards , for five days , the royal couple shielded their grandsons from the intense press interest by keeping them at Balmoral where they could grieve in private , but the royal family ' s silence and seclusion , and the failure to fly a flag at half - mast over Buckingham Palace , caused public dismay . Pressured by the hostile reaction , Elizabeth agreed to return to London and address the nation in a live television broadcast on 5   September , the day before Diana ' s funeral . In the broadcast , she expressed admiration for Diana and her feelings " as a grandmother " for the two princes . As a result , much of the public hostility evaporated .	Who did you take to church after Diana's passing?	I took Diana's two sons, Princes William and Harry, to church.
From April to September 1982 , Elizabeth ' s son , Prince Andrew , served with British forces in the Falklands War , for which she reportedly felt anxiety and pride . On 9 July , she awoke in her bedroom at Buckingham Palace to find an intruder , Michael Fagan , in the room with her . In a serious lapse of security , assistance only arrived after two calls to the Palace police switchboard . After hosting US president Ronald Reagan at Windsor Castle in 1982 and visiting his California ranch in 1983 , Elizabeth was angered when his administration ordered the invasion of Grenada , one of her Caribbean realms , without informing her .	Where did you host US president Ronald Reagan in 1982?	Windsor Castle.
