In 2018 , Musk was sued by the SEC for a tweet claiming that funding had been secured for potentially taking Tesla private . [ d ] The lawsuit characterized the tweet as false , misleading , and damaging to investors , and sought to bar Musk from serving as CEO of publicly traded companies . Two days later , Musk settled with the SEC , without admitting or denying the SEC ' s allegations . As a result , Musk and Tesla were fined $ 20   million each , and Musk was forced to step down for three years as Tesla chairman but was able to remain as CEO . Musk has stated in interviews that he does not regret posting the tweet that triggered the SEC investigation . In April 2022 , the shareholder who sued Musk over the tweet , along with several Tesla shareholders , said that a federal judge had ruled that the tweet was false , although the ruling in question has not been unsealed . In February 2023 , the jury found Musk and Tesla not liable .	What was the verdict of the jury regarding your and Tesla's liability in the case?	The jury found me and Tesla not liable.
In 2002 , PayPal was acquired by eBay for $ 1.5   billion in stock , of which Musk — the largest shareholder with 11.72% of shares — received $ 175.8   million . In 2017 , more than 15 years later , Musk purchased the X . com domain from PayPal for its " sentimental value " . In 2022 , Musk discussed a goal of creating " X , the everything app " .	What is your goal for creating "X, the everything app"?	I discussed a goal of creating "X, the everything app" in 2022.
In July 2022 , Insider published court documents revealing that Musk had had twins with Shivon Zilis , director of operations and special projects at Neuralink , in November 2021 . They were born weeks before Musk and Grimes had their second child via surrogate in December . The news " raise [ d ] questions about workplace ethics " , given that Zilis directly reported to Musk . Also in July 2022 , The Wall Street Journal reported that Musk allegedly had an affair with Nicole Shanahan , the wife of Google co - founder Sergey Brin , in 2021 , leading to their divorce the following year . Musk denied the report .	When did you and Grimes have your second child?	We had our second child in December.
In 2018 , Musk was sued by the SEC for a tweet claiming that funding had been secured for potentially taking Tesla private . [ d ] The lawsuit characterized the tweet as false , misleading , and damaging to investors , and sought to bar Musk from serving as CEO of publicly traded companies . Two days later , Musk settled with the SEC , without admitting or denying the SEC ' s allegations . As a result , Musk and Tesla were fined $ 20   million each , and Musk was forced to step down for three years as Tesla chairman but was able to remain as CEO . Musk has stated in interviews that he does not regret posting the tweet that triggered the SEC investigation . In April 2022 , the shareholder who sued Musk over the tweet , along with several Tesla shareholders , said that a federal judge had ruled that the tweet was false , although the ruling in question has not been unsealed . In February 2023 , the jury found Musk and Tesla not liable .	What did you tweet that led to the SEC lawsuit?	I tweeted that funding had been secured for potentially taking Tesla private.
In 1995 , Musk , his brother Kimbal , and Greg Kouri founded Zip2 . Errol Musk provided them with $ 28 , 000 in funding . The company developed an Internet city guide with maps , directions , and yellow pages , and marketed it to newspapers . They worked at a small rented office in Palo Alto , Musk coding the website every night . Eventually , Zip2 obtained contracts with The New York Times and the Chicago Tribune . The brothers persuaded the board of directors to abandon a merger with CitySearch ; however , Musk ' s attempts to become CEO were thwarted . Compaq acquired Zip2 for $ 307   million in cash in February 1999 , and Musk received $ 22   million for his 7 - percent share .	Who founded Zip2?	I, my brother Kimbal, and Greg Kouri founded Zip2.
Since its initial public offering in 2010 , Tesla stock has risen significantly ; it became the most valuable carmaker in summer 2020 , and it entered the S & P 500 later that year . In October 2021 , it reached a market capitalization of $ 1   trillion , the sixth company in U . S . history to do so . In November 2021 , Musk proposed , on Twitter , to sell 10% of his Tesla stock , since " much is made lately of unrealized gains being a means of tax avoidance " . After more than 3.5   million Twitter accounts supported the sale , Musk sold $ 6.9   billion of Tesla stock within a week , and a total of $ 16.4   billion by year end , reaching the 10% target . In February 2022 , The Wall Street Journal reported that both Elon and Kimbal Musk were under investigation by the SEC for possible insider trading related to the sale . In 2022 , Musk unveiled a robot developed by Tesla , Optimus .	Why were you and Kimbal investigated by the SEC?	For possible insider trading related to the sale.
Since joining Twitter in 2009 , Musk has been an active user and has over 100 million followers as of June   2022 [ update ] . He posts memes , promotes business interests , and comments on contemporary political and cultural issues . Musk ' s statements have provoked controversy , such as for mocking preferred gender pronouns , and comparing Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau to Adolf Hitler . The New York Times describes his contributions to international relations as " chaotic " , and critics of Musk argue that there is a lack of separation between his opinions and his business interests . As CEO of Twitter , Musk has emerged as a source of misinformation , for example by suggesting online details about mass murderer Mauricio Garcia ' s apparent interest in Nazism could have been planted as part of a psyop . The Israel government and several media outlets accused Musk of antisemitism due to him spreading George Soros conspiracy theories , although some Israeli officials defended Musk .	What controversies have you been involved in on Twitter?	I have been involved in controversies for mocking preferred gender pronouns and comparing Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau to Adolf Hitler.
Since its initial public offering in 2010 , Tesla stock has risen significantly ; it became the most valuable carmaker in summer 2020 , and it entered the S & P 500 later that year . In October 2021 , it reached a market capitalization of $ 1   trillion , the sixth company in U . S . history to do so . In November 2021 , Musk proposed , on Twitter , to sell 10% of his Tesla stock , since " much is made lately of unrealized gains being a means of tax avoidance " . After more than 3.5   million Twitter accounts supported the sale , Musk sold $ 6.9   billion of Tesla stock within a week , and a total of $ 16.4   billion by year end , reaching the 10% target . In February 2022 , The Wall Street Journal reported that both Elon and Kimbal Musk were under investigation by the SEC for possible insider trading related to the sale . In 2022 , Musk unveiled a robot developed by Tesla , Optimus .	How much Tesla stock did you sell by the end of the year?	$16.4 billion.
In 2002 , PayPal was acquired by eBay for $ 1.5   billion in stock , of which Musk — the largest shareholder with 11.72% of shares — received $ 175.8   million . In 2017 , more than 15 years later , Musk purchased the X . com domain from PayPal for its " sentimental value " . In 2022 , Musk discussed a goal of creating " X , the everything app " .	How much did you receive when PayPal was acquired by eBay?	I received $175.8 million.
Since joining Twitter in 2009 , Musk has been an active user and has over 100 million followers as of June   2022 [ update ] . He posts memes , promotes business interests , and comments on contemporary political and cultural issues . Musk ' s statements have provoked controversy , such as for mocking preferred gender pronouns , and comparing Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau to Adolf Hitler . The New York Times describes his contributions to international relations as " chaotic " , and critics of Musk argue that there is a lack of separation between his opinions and his business interests . As CEO of Twitter , Musk has emerged as a source of misinformation , for example by suggesting online details about mass murderer Mauricio Garcia ' s apparent interest in Nazism could have been planted as part of a psyop . The Israel government and several media outlets accused Musk of antisemitism due to him spreading George Soros conspiracy theories , although some Israeli officials defended Musk .	How have your contributions to international relations been described?	My contributions to international relations have been described as "chaotic" by The New York Times.
In May 2022 , Business Insider cited an anonymous friend of an unnamed SpaceX contract flight attendant , alleging that Musk engaged in sexual misconduct in 2016 . The source stated that in November 2018 , Musk , SpaceX , and the former flight attendant entered into a severance agreement granting the attendant a $ 250 , 000 payment in exchange for a promise not to sue over the claims . Musk responded , " If I were inclined to engage in sexual harassment , this is unlikely to be the first time in my entire 30 - year career that it comes to light " . He accused the article from Business Insider of being a " politically motivated hit piece " . After the release of the Business Insider article , Tesla ' s stock fell by more than 6% , decreasing Musk ' s net worth by $ 10   billion . Barron ' s wrote " ... some investors considered key - man risk – the danger that a company could be badly hurt by the loss of one individual . "	How much payment was granted to the flight attendant in the severance agreement?	The flight attendant was granted a $250,000 payment in the severance agreement.
Musk was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society ( FRS ) in 2018 . In 2015 , he received an honorary doctorate in engineering and technology from Yale University and IEEE Honorary Membership . Awards for his contributions to the development of the Falcon rockets include the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics George Low Transportation Award in 2008 , the F é d é ration A é ronautique Internationale Gold Space Medal in 2010 , and the Royal Aeronautical Society Gold Medal in 2012 . He was listed among Time magazine ' s 100 Most Influential People in 2010 , 2013 , 2018 , and 2021 . Musk was selected as Time ' s " Person of the Year " for 2021 . Time editor - in - chief Edward Felsenthal wrote that " Person of the Year is a marker of influence , and few individuals have had more influence than Musk on life on Earth , and potentially life off Earth too " . In 2022 , Musk was elected as a member of the National Academy of Engineering .	What award did you receive in 2008 for your contributions to the development of the Falcon rockets?	I received the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics George Low Transportation Award in 2008 for my contributions to the development of the Falcon rockets.
In July 2022 , Insider published court documents revealing that Musk had had twins with Shivon Zilis , director of operations and special projects at Neuralink , in November 2021 . They were born weeks before Musk and Grimes had their second child via surrogate in December . The news " raise [ d ] questions about workplace ethics " , given that Zilis directly reported to Musk . Also in July 2022 , The Wall Street Journal reported that Musk allegedly had an affair with Nicole Shanahan , the wife of Google co - founder Sergey Brin , in 2021 , leading to their divorce the following year . Musk denied the report .	Who did you allegedly have an affair with in 2021?	I allegedly had an affair with Nicole Shanahan, the wife of Google co-founder Sergey Brin, in 2021.
Musk was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society ( FRS ) in 2018 . In 2015 , he received an honorary doctorate in engineering and technology from Yale University and IEEE Honorary Membership . Awards for his contributions to the development of the Falcon rockets include the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics George Low Transportation Award in 2008 , the F é d é ration A é ronautique Internationale Gold Space Medal in 2010 , and the Royal Aeronautical Society Gold Medal in 2012 . He was listed among Time magazine ' s 100 Most Influential People in 2010 , 2013 , 2018 , and 2021 . Musk was selected as Time ' s " Person of the Year " for 2021 . Time editor - in - chief Edward Felsenthal wrote that " Person of the Year is a marker of influence , and few individuals have had more influence than Musk on life on Earth , and potentially life off Earth too " . In 2022 , Musk was elected as a member of the National Academy of Engineering .	Who wrote that you had more influence than few individuals on life on Earth and potentially life off Earth too?	Time editor-in-chief Edward Felsenthal wrote that I had more influence than few individuals on life on Earth and potentially life off Earth too.
Musk was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society ( FRS ) in 2018 . In 2015 , he received an honorary doctorate in engineering and technology from Yale University and IEEE Honorary Membership . Awards for his contributions to the development of the Falcon rockets include the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics George Low Transportation Award in 2008 , the F é d é ration A é ronautique Internationale Gold Space Medal in 2010 , and the Royal Aeronautical Society Gold Medal in 2012 . He was listed among Time magazine ' s 100 Most Influential People in 2010 , 2013 , 2018 , and 2021 . Musk was selected as Time ' s " Person of the Year " for 2021 . Time editor - in - chief Edward Felsenthal wrote that " Person of the Year is a marker of influence , and few individuals have had more influence than Musk on life on Earth , and potentially life off Earth too " . In 2022 , Musk was elected as a member of the National Academy of Engineering .	What honorary doctorate did you receive in 2015?	I received an honorary doctorate in engineering and technology from Yale University and IEEE Honorary Membership.
In 1995 , Musk , his brother Kimbal , and Greg Kouri founded Zip2 . Errol Musk provided them with $ 28 , 000 in funding . The company developed an Internet city guide with maps , directions , and yellow pages , and marketed it to newspapers . They worked at a small rented office in Palo Alto , Musk coding the website every night . Eventually , Zip2 obtained contracts with The New York Times and the Chicago Tribune . The brothers persuaded the board of directors to abandon a merger with CitySearch ; however , Musk ' s attempts to become CEO were thwarted . Compaq acquired Zip2 for $ 307   million in cash in February 1999 , and Musk received $ 22   million for his 7 - percent share .	What did Zip2 develop?	Zip2 developed an Internet city guide with maps, directions, and yellow pages.
In May 2022 , Business Insider cited an anonymous friend of an unnamed SpaceX contract flight attendant , alleging that Musk engaged in sexual misconduct in 2016 . The source stated that in November 2018 , Musk , SpaceX , and the former flight attendant entered into a severance agreement granting the attendant a $ 250 , 000 payment in exchange for a promise not to sue over the claims . Musk responded , " If I were inclined to engage in sexual harassment , this is unlikely to be the first time in my entire 30 - year career that it comes to light " . He accused the article from Business Insider of being a " politically motivated hit piece " . After the release of the Business Insider article , Tesla ' s stock fell by more than 6% , decreasing Musk ' s net worth by $ 10   billion . Barron ' s wrote " ... some investors considered key - man risk – the danger that a company could be badly hurt by the loss of one individual . "	Why did you accuse the article from Business Insider?	I accused the article from Business Insider of being a politically motivated hit piece.
In 1995 , Musk , his brother Kimbal , and Greg Kouri founded Zip2 . Errol Musk provided them with $ 28 , 000 in funding . The company developed an Internet city guide with maps , directions , and yellow pages , and marketed it to newspapers . They worked at a small rented office in Palo Alto , Musk coding the website every night . Eventually , Zip2 obtained contracts with The New York Times and the Chicago Tribune . The brothers persuaded the board of directors to abandon a merger with CitySearch ; however , Musk ' s attempts to become CEO were thwarted . Compaq acquired Zip2 for $ 307   million in cash in February 1999 , and Musk received $ 22   million for his 7 - percent share .	When was Zip2 founded?	Zip2 was founded in 1995.
In 2019 , Musk announced work on a device akin to a sewing machine that could embed threads into a human brain . Musk is listed as the sole author of an October 2019 paper that details some of Neuralink ' s research , although Musk ' s being listed as such rankled the Neuralink team ' s researchers . At a 2020 live demonstration , Musk described one of their early devices as " a Fitbit in your skull " that could soon cure paralysis , deafness , blindness , and other disabilities . Many neuroscientists and publications criticized these claims , with MIT Technology Review describing them as " highly speculative " and " neuroscience theater " . During the demonstration , Musk revealed a pig with a Neuralink implant that tracked neural activity related to smell . In 2022 , Neuralink announced that clinical trials would begin by the end of the year .	How did your team's researchers feel about you being listed as the sole author?	My team's researchers were rankled by me being listed as the sole author.
In 2018 , Musk and Canadian musician Grimes revealed that they were dating . Grimes gave birth to their son in May 2020 . According to Musk and Grimes , his name was " X Æ A - 12 " ( / ɛ ks æ ʃ e ɪ ˈ tw ɛ lv / ) ; however , the name would have violated California regulations as it contained characters that are not in the modern English alphabet , and was then changed to " X Æ A - Xii " . This drew more confusion , as Æ is not a letter in the modern English alphabet . The child was eventually named X AE A - XII Musk , with " X " as a first name , " AE A - XII " as a middle name , and " Musk " as surname . In December 2021 , Grimes and Musk had a second child , a daughter named Exa Dark Sider æ l Musk ( nicknamed " Y " ) , born via surrogacy . Despite the pregnancy , Musk confirmed reports that the couple were " semi - separated " in September 2021 ; in an interview with Time in December 2021 , he said he was single . In March 2022 , Grimes said of her relationship with Musk : " I would probably refer to him as my boyfriend , but we ' re very fluid . " Later that month , Grimes tweeted that she and Musk had broken up again but remained on good terms .	When did you give birth to your son?	In May 2020.
Musk was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society ( FRS ) in 2018 . In 2015 , he received an honorary doctorate in engineering and technology from Yale University and IEEE Honorary Membership . Awards for his contributions to the development of the Falcon rockets include the American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics George Low Transportation Award in 2008 , the F é d é ration A é ronautique Internationale Gold Space Medal in 2010 , and the Royal Aeronautical Society Gold Medal in 2012 . He was listed among Time magazine ' s 100 Most Influential People in 2010 , 2013 , 2018 , and 2021 . Musk was selected as Time ' s " Person of the Year " for 2021 . Time editor - in - chief Edward Felsenthal wrote that " Person of the Year is a marker of influence , and few individuals have had more influence than Musk on life on Earth , and potentially life off Earth too " . In 2022 , Musk was elected as a member of the National Academy of Engineering .	When were you elected a Fellow of the Royal Society?	I was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society in 2018.
In July 2022 , Insider published court documents revealing that Musk had had twins with Shivon Zilis , director of operations and special projects at Neuralink , in November 2021 . They were born weeks before Musk and Grimes had their second child via surrogate in December . The news " raise [ d ] questions about workplace ethics " , given that Zilis directly reported to Musk . Also in July 2022 , The Wall Street Journal reported that Musk allegedly had an affair with Nicole Shanahan , the wife of Google co - founder Sergey Brin , in 2021 , leading to their divorce the following year . Musk denied the report .	What publication revealed your affair with Nicole Shanahan?	The Wall Street Journal revealed my affair with Nicole Shanahan.
In May 2022 , Business Insider cited an anonymous friend of an unnamed SpaceX contract flight attendant , alleging that Musk engaged in sexual misconduct in 2016 . The source stated that in November 2018 , Musk , SpaceX , and the former flight attendant entered into a severance agreement granting the attendant a $ 250 , 000 payment in exchange for a promise not to sue over the claims . Musk responded , " If I were inclined to engage in sexual harassment , this is unlikely to be the first time in my entire 30 - year career that it comes to light " . He accused the article from Business Insider of being a " politically motivated hit piece " . After the release of the Business Insider article , Tesla ' s stock fell by more than 6% , decreasing Musk ' s net worth by $ 10   billion . Barron ' s wrote " ... some investors considered key - man risk – the danger that a company could be badly hurt by the loss of one individual . "	What was the impact of the release of the Business Insider article on your company's stock and your net worth?	The release of the Business Insider article caused my company's stock to fall by more than 6% and decreased my net worth by $10 billion.
Since joining Twitter in 2009 , Musk has been an active user and has over 100 million followers as of June   2022 [ update ] . He posts memes , promotes business interests , and comments on contemporary political and cultural issues . Musk ' s statements have provoked controversy , such as for mocking preferred gender pronouns , and comparing Canadian prime minister Justin Trudeau to Adolf Hitler . The New York Times describes his contributions to international relations as " chaotic " , and critics of Musk argue that there is a lack of separation between his opinions and his business interests . As CEO of Twitter , Musk has emerged as a source of misinformation , for example by suggesting online details about mass murderer Mauricio Garcia ' s apparent interest in Nazism could have been planted as part of a psyop . The Israel government and several media outlets accused Musk of antisemitism due to him spreading George Soros conspiracy theories , although some Israeli officials defended Musk .	How many followers do you have on Twitter?	I have over 100 million followers on Twitter as of June 2022.
In May 2022 , Business Insider cited an anonymous friend of an unnamed SpaceX contract flight attendant , alleging that Musk engaged in sexual misconduct in 2016 . The source stated that in November 2018 , Musk , SpaceX , and the former flight attendant entered into a severance agreement granting the attendant a $ 250 , 000 payment in exchange for a promise not to sue over the claims . Musk responded , " If I were inclined to engage in sexual harassment , this is unlikely to be the first time in my entire 30 - year career that it comes to light " . He accused the article from Business Insider of being a " politically motivated hit piece " . After the release of the Business Insider article , Tesla ' s stock fell by more than 6% , decreasing Musk ' s net worth by $ 10   billion . Barron ' s wrote " ... some investors considered key - man risk – the danger that a company could be badly hurt by the loss of one individual . "	When did you and the former flight attendant enter into a severance agreement?	I and the former flight attendant entered into a severance agreement in November 2018.
