Each of the three Presley singles released in the first half of 1957 went to number one : " Too Much " , " All Shook Up " , and " ( Let Me Be Your ) Teddy Bear " . Already an international star , he was attracting fans even where his music was not officially released . Under the headline " Presley Records a Craze in Soviet " , The New York Times reported that pressings of his music on discarded X - ray plates were commanding high prices in Leningrad . Between film shoots and recording sessions , Presley purchased an 18 - room mansion , Graceland , on March 19 , 1957 , for the amount of $ 102 , 500 . The mansion , which was about 9 miles ( 14   km ) south of downtown Memphis , was for himself and his parents . Before the purchase , Elvis recorded Loving You — the soundtrack to his second film , which was released in July . It was his third straight number - one album . The title track was written by Leiber and Stoller , who were then retained to write four of the six songs recorded at the sessions for Jailhouse Rock , Presley ' s next film . The songwriting team effectively produced the Jailhouse sessions and developed a close working relationship with Presley , who came to regard them as his " good - luck charm " . " He was fast , " said Leiber . " Any demo you gave him he knew by heart in ten minutes . " The title track became another number - one hit , as was the Jailhouse Rock EP .	What were the three singles I released in the first half of 1957?	"Too Much", "All Shook Up", and "(Let Me Be Your) Teddy Bear".
Presley was a central figure in the development of rockabilly , according to music historians . " Rockabilly crystallized into a recognizable style in 1954 with Elvis Presley ' s first release , on the Sun label , " writes Craig Morrison . Paul Friedlander described rockabilly as " essentially   ... an Elvis Presley construction " , with the defining elements as " the raw , emotive , and slurred vocal style and emphasis on rhythmic feeling [ of ] the blues with the string band and strummed rhythm guitar [ of ] country " . In " That ' s All Right " , the Presley trio ' s first record , Scotty Moore ' s guitar solo , " a combination of Merle Travis – style country finger - picking , double - stop slides from acoustic boogie , and blues - based bent - note , single - string work , is a microcosm of this fusion " . While Katherine Charlton calls Presley " rockabilly ' s originator " , Carl Perkins , another pioneer of rock ' n ' roll , said that " [ Sam ] Phillips , Elvis , and I didn ' t create rockabilly " . According to Michael Campbell , the first major rockabilly song was recorded by Bill Haley . In Moore ' s view , " It had been there for quite a while , really . Carl Perkins was doing basically the same sort of thing up around Jackson , and I know for a fact Jerry Lee Lewis had been playing that kind of music ever since he was ten years old . "	When did rockabilly crystallize into a recognizable style?	In 1954 with my first release on the Sun label
Presley ' s second Milton Berle Show appearance came on June 5 at NBC ' s Hollywood studio , amid another hectic tour . Milton Berle persuaded Presley to leave his guitar backstage , advising , " Let ' em see you , son . " During the performance , Presley abruptly halted an uptempo rendition of " Hound Dog " with a wave of his arm and launched into a slow , grinding version accentuated with energetic , exaggerated body movements . His gyrations created a storm of controversy . Television critics were outraged : Jack Gould of The New York Times wrote , " Mr . Presley has no discernible singing ability .   ... His phrasing , if it can be called that , consists of the stereotyped variations that go with a beginner ' s aria in a bathtub .   ... His one specialty is an accented movement of the body   ... primarily identified with the repertoire of the blond bombshells of the burlesque runway . " Ben Gross of the New York Daily News opined that popular music " has reached its lowest depths in the ' grunt and groin ' antics of one Elvis Presley .   ... Elvis , who rotates his pelvis   ... gave an exhibition that was suggestive and vulgar , tinged with the kind of animalism that should be confined to dives and bordellos " . Ed Sullivan , whose own variety show was the nation ' s most popular , declared Presley " unfit for family viewing " . To Presley ' s displeasure , he soon found himself being referred to as " Elvis the Pelvis " , which he called " one of the most childish expressions I ever heard , comin ' from an adult " .	Where did your second appearance on the Milton Berle Show take place?	My second appearance on the Milton Berle Show took place at NBC's Hollywood studio.
Allen ' s show with Presley had , for the first time , beaten CBS ' s The Ed Sullivan Show in the ratings . Sullivan , despite his June pronouncement , booked Presley for three appearances for an unprecedented $ 50 , 000 . The first , on September 9 , 1956 , was seen by approximately 60 million viewers — a record 82.6 percent of the television audience . Actor Charles Laughton hosted the show , filling in while Sullivan was recovering from a car accident . Presley appeared in two segments that night from CBS Television City in Los Angeles . According to legend , Presley was shot only from the waist up . Watching clips of the Allen and Berle shows with his producer , Sullivan had opined that Presley " got some kind of device hanging down below the crotch of his pants — so when he moves his legs back and forth you can see the outline of his cock .   ... I think it ' s a Coke bottle .   ... We just can ' t have this on a Sunday night . This is a family show ! " Sullivan publicly told TV Guide , " As for his gyrations , the whole thing can be controlled with camera shots . " In fact , Presley was shown head - to - toe in the first and second shows . Though the camerawork was relatively discreet during his debut , with leg - concealing closeups when he danced , the studio audience reacted in customary style : screaming . Presley ' s performance of his forthcoming single , the ballad " Love Me Tender " , prompted a record - shattering million advance orders . More than any other single event , it was this first appearance on The Ed Sullivan Show that made Presley a national celebrity of barely precedented proportions .	How many appearances did you book me for and how much did you pay?	I booked you for three appearances and paid you $50,000.
Presley and his wife , meanwhile , had become increasingly distant , barely cohabiting . In 1971 , an affair he had with Joyce Bova resulted — unbeknownst to him — in her pregnancy and an abortion . He often raised the possibility of Joyce moving into Graceland , saying that he was likely to leave Priscilla . The Presleys separated on February 23 , 1972 , after Priscilla disclosed her relationship with Mike Stone , a karate instructor Presley had recommended to her . Priscilla related that when she told him , Presley " grabbed   ... and forcefully made love to " her , declaring , " This is how a real man makes love to his woman " . She later stated in an interview that she regretted her choice of words in describing the incident , and said it had been an overstatement . Five months later , Presley ' s new girlfriend , Linda Thompson , a songwriter and one - time Memphis beauty queen , moved in with him . Presley and his wife filed for divorce on August 18 . According to Joe Moscheo of the Imperials , the failure of Presley ' s marriage " was a blow from which he never recovered " . At a rare press conference that June , a reporter had asked Presley whether he was satisfied with his image . Presley replied , " Well , the image is one thing and the human being another   ... it ' s very hard to live up to an image . "	When did you and your wife file for divorce?	I and my wife filed for divorce on August 18.
Presley made his third and final Ed Sullivan Show appearance on January 6 , 1957 — on this occasion indeed shot only down to the waist . Some commentators have claimed that Parker orchestrated an appearance of censorship to generate publicity . In any event , as critic Greil Marcus describes , Presley " did not tie himself down . Leaving behind the bland clothes he had worn on the first two shows , he stepped out in the outlandish costume of a pasha , if not a harem girl . From the make - up over his eyes , the hair falling in his face , the overwhelmingly sexual cast of his mouth , he was playing Rudolph Valentino in The Sheik , with all stops out . " To close , displaying his range and defying Sullivan ' s wishes , Presley sang a gentle black spiritual , " Peace in the Valley " . At the end of the show , Sullivan declared Presley " a real decent , fine boy " . Two days later , the Memphis draft board announced that Presley would be classified 1 - A and would probably be drafted sometime that year .	How did you dress on the third show compared to the first two shows?	On the third show, I left behind the bland clothes I had worn on the first two shows and stepped out in an outlandish costume resembling a pasha or a harem girl.
Presley undertook three brief tours during the year , continuing to generate a crazed audience response . A Detroit newspaper suggested that " the trouble with going to see Elvis Presley is that you ' re liable to get killed " . Villanova students pelted the singer with eggs in Philadelphia , and in Vancouver the crowd rioted after the end of the show , destroying the stage . Frank Sinatra , who had inspired both the swooning and screaming of teenage girls in the 1940s , condemned the new musical phenomenon . In a magazine article , he decried rock and roll as " brutal , ugly , degenerate , vicious .   ... It fosters almost totally negative and destructive reactions in young people . It smells phoney and false . It is sung , played and written , for the most part , by cretinous goons .   ... This rancid - smelling aphrodisiac I deplore . " Asked for a response , Presley said , " I admire the man . He has a right to say what he wants to say . He is a great success and a fine actor , but I think he shouldn ' t have said it .   ... This is a trend , just the same as he faced when he started years ago . "	How did you respond to Frank Sinatra's criticism?	When asked for a response, I said, "I admire the man. He has a right to say what he wants to say. He is a great success and a fine actor, but I think he shouldn't have said it. This is a trend, just the same as he faced when he started years ago".
Allen ' s show with Presley had , for the first time , beaten CBS ' s The Ed Sullivan Show in the ratings . Sullivan , despite his June pronouncement , booked Presley for three appearances for an unprecedented $ 50 , 000 . The first , on September 9 , 1956 , was seen by approximately 60 million viewers — a record 82.6 percent of the television audience . Actor Charles Laughton hosted the show , filling in while Sullivan was recovering from a car accident . Presley appeared in two segments that night from CBS Television City in Los Angeles . According to legend , Presley was shot only from the waist up . Watching clips of the Allen and Berle shows with his producer , Sullivan had opined that Presley " got some kind of device hanging down below the crotch of his pants — so when he moves his legs back and forth you can see the outline of his cock .   ... I think it ' s a Coke bottle .   ... We just can ' t have this on a Sunday night . This is a family show ! " Sullivan publicly told TV Guide , " As for his gyrations , the whole thing can be controlled with camera shots . " In fact , Presley was shown head - to - toe in the first and second shows . Though the camerawork was relatively discreet during his debut , with leg - concealing closeups when he danced , the studio audience reacted in customary style : screaming . Presley ' s performance of his forthcoming single , the ballad " Love Me Tender " , prompted a record - shattering million advance orders . More than any other single event , it was this first appearance on The Ed Sullivan Show that made Presley a national celebrity of barely precedented proportions .	Who hosted the show when you made your first appearance and why?	Actor Charles Laughton hosted the show while Sullivan was recovering from a car accident.
Presley took to the stage without introduction . The audience of 2 , 200 , including many celebrities , gave him a standing ovation before he sang a note and another after his performance . A third followed his encore , " Can ' t Help Falling in Love " ( a song that would be his closing number for much of his remaining life ) . At a press conference after the show , when a journalist referred to him as " The King " , Presley gestured toward Fats Domino , who was taking in the scene . " No , " Presley said , " that ' s the real king of rock and roll . " The next day , Parker ' s negotiations with the hotel resulted in a five - year contract for Presley to play each February and August , at an annual salary of $ 1   million . Newsweek commented , " There are several unbelievable things about Elvis , but the most incredible is his staying power in a world where meteoric careers fade like shooting stars . " Rolling Stone called Presley " supernatural , his own resurrection . " In November , Presley ' s final non - concert film , Change of Habit , opened . The double album From Memphis to Vegas / From Vegas to Memphis came out the same month ; the first LP consisted of live performances from the International , the second of more cuts from the American Sound sessions . " Suspicious Minds " reached the top of the charts — Presley ' s first U . S . pop number - one in over seven years , and his last .	How many standing ovations did you receive?	I received two standing ovations - one before my performance and another after my performance.
Presley was a central figure in the development of rockabilly , according to music historians . " Rockabilly crystallized into a recognizable style in 1954 with Elvis Presley ' s first release , on the Sun label , " writes Craig Morrison . Paul Friedlander described rockabilly as " essentially   ... an Elvis Presley construction " , with the defining elements as " the raw , emotive , and slurred vocal style and emphasis on rhythmic feeling [ of ] the blues with the string band and strummed rhythm guitar [ of ] country " . In " That ' s All Right " , the Presley trio ' s first record , Scotty Moore ' s guitar solo , " a combination of Merle Travis – style country finger - picking , double - stop slides from acoustic boogie , and blues - based bent - note , single - string work , is a microcosm of this fusion " . While Katherine Charlton calls Presley " rockabilly ' s originator " , Carl Perkins , another pioneer of rock ' n ' roll , said that " [ Sam ] Phillips , Elvis , and I didn ' t create rockabilly " . According to Michael Campbell , the first major rockabilly song was recorded by Bill Haley . In Moore ' s view , " It had been there for quite a while , really . Carl Perkins was doing basically the same sort of thing up around Jackson , and I know for a fact Jerry Lee Lewis had been playing that kind of music ever since he was ten years old . "	What is the first major rockabilly song recorded?	The first major rockabilly song was recorded by Bill Haley according to Michael Campbell
Presley ' s second Milton Berle Show appearance came on June 5 at NBC ' s Hollywood studio , amid another hectic tour . Milton Berle persuaded Presley to leave his guitar backstage , advising , " Let ' em see you , son . " During the performance , Presley abruptly halted an uptempo rendition of " Hound Dog " with a wave of his arm and launched into a slow , grinding version accentuated with energetic , exaggerated body movements . His gyrations created a storm of controversy . Television critics were outraged : Jack Gould of The New York Times wrote , " Mr . Presley has no discernible singing ability .   ... His phrasing , if it can be called that , consists of the stereotyped variations that go with a beginner ' s aria in a bathtub .   ... His one specialty is an accented movement of the body   ... primarily identified with the repertoire of the blond bombshells of the burlesque runway . " Ben Gross of the New York Daily News opined that popular music " has reached its lowest depths in the ' grunt and groin ' antics of one Elvis Presley .   ... Elvis , who rotates his pelvis   ... gave an exhibition that was suggestive and vulgar , tinged with the kind of animalism that should be confined to dives and bordellos " . Ed Sullivan , whose own variety show was the nation ' s most popular , declared Presley " unfit for family viewing " . To Presley ' s displeasure , he soon found himself being referred to as " Elvis the Pelvis " , which he called " one of the most childish expressions I ever heard , comin ' from an adult " .	How did television critics react to your performance?	Television critics were outraged by my performance, with one critic stating that I had no discernible singing ability and another critic describing my movements as suggestive, vulgar, and tinged with animalism.
Presley made his third and final Ed Sullivan Show appearance on January 6 , 1957 — on this occasion indeed shot only down to the waist . Some commentators have claimed that Parker orchestrated an appearance of censorship to generate publicity . In any event , as critic Greil Marcus describes , Presley " did not tie himself down . Leaving behind the bland clothes he had worn on the first two shows , he stepped out in the outlandish costume of a pasha , if not a harem girl . From the make - up over his eyes , the hair falling in his face , the overwhelmingly sexual cast of his mouth , he was playing Rudolph Valentino in The Sheik , with all stops out . " To close , displaying his range and defying Sullivan ' s wishes , Presley sang a gentle black spiritual , " Peace in the Valley " . At the end of the show , Sullivan declared Presley " a real decent , fine boy " . Two days later , the Memphis draft board announced that Presley would be classified 1 - A and would probably be drafted sometime that year .	What appearance did you make on the show?	On the show, I was shot only down to the waist.
Presley took to the stage without introduction . The audience of 2 , 200 , including many celebrities , gave him a standing ovation before he sang a note and another after his performance . A third followed his encore , " Can ' t Help Falling in Love " ( a song that would be his closing number for much of his remaining life ) . At a press conference after the show , when a journalist referred to him as " The King " , Presley gestured toward Fats Domino , who was taking in the scene . " No , " Presley said , " that ' s the real king of rock and roll . " The next day , Parker ' s negotiations with the hotel resulted in a five - year contract for Presley to play each February and August , at an annual salary of $ 1   million . Newsweek commented , " There are several unbelievable things about Elvis , but the most incredible is his staying power in a world where meteoric careers fade like shooting stars . " Rolling Stone called Presley " supernatural , his own resurrection . " In November , Presley ' s final non - concert film , Change of Habit , opened . The double album From Memphis to Vegas / From Vegas to Memphis came out the same month ; the first LP consisted of live performances from the International , the second of more cuts from the American Sound sessions . " Suspicious Minds " reached the top of the charts — Presley ' s first U . S . pop number - one in over seven years , and his last .	Who gave you a standing ovation before you sang a note?	The audience, including many celebrities.
Presley and his wife , meanwhile , had become increasingly distant , barely cohabiting . In 1971 , an affair he had with Joyce Bova resulted — unbeknownst to him — in her pregnancy and an abortion . He often raised the possibility of Joyce moving into Graceland , saying that he was likely to leave Priscilla . The Presleys separated on February 23 , 1972 , after Priscilla disclosed her relationship with Mike Stone , a karate instructor Presley had recommended to her . Priscilla related that when she told him , Presley " grabbed   ... and forcefully made love to " her , declaring , " This is how a real man makes love to his woman " . She later stated in an interview that she regretted her choice of words in describing the incident , and said it had been an overstatement . Five months later , Presley ' s new girlfriend , Linda Thompson , a songwriter and one - time Memphis beauty queen , moved in with him . Presley and his wife filed for divorce on August 18 . According to Joe Moscheo of the Imperials , the failure of Presley ' s marriage " was a blow from which he never recovered " . At a rare press conference that June , a reporter had asked Presley whether he was satisfied with his image . Presley replied , " Well , the image is one thing and the human being another   ... it ' s very hard to live up to an image . "	Why did you suggest that Joyce Bova should move into Graceland?	I mentioned it because I was likely to leave my wife, Priscilla.
On January 10 , 1956 , Presley made his first recordings for RCA in Nashville . Extending his by - now customary backup of Moore , Black , Fontana , and Hayride pianist Floyd Cramer — who had been performing at live club dates with Presley — RCA enlisted guitarist Chet Atkins and three background singers , including Gordon Stoker of the popular Jordanaires quartet , to fill in the sound . The session produced the moody , unusual " Heartbreak Hotel " , released as a single on January 27 . Parker finally brought Presley to national television , booking him on CBS ' s Stage Show for six appearances over two months . The program , produced in New York City , was hosted on alternate weeks by big band leaders and brothers Tommy and Jimmy Dorsey . After his first appearance , on January 28 , Presley stayed in town to record at RCA Victor ' s New York studio . The sessions yielded eight songs , including a cover of Carl Perkins ' rockabilly anthem " Blue Suede Shoes " . In February , Presley ' s " I Forgot to Remember to Forget " , a Sun recording initially released the previous August , reached the top of the Billboard country chart . Neal ' s contract was terminated , and , on March 2 , Parker became Presley ' s manager .	What was the title of the single you released from the recording session?	"Heartbreak Hotel".
Each of the three Presley singles released in the first half of 1957 went to number one : " Too Much " , " All Shook Up " , and " ( Let Me Be Your ) Teddy Bear " . Already an international star , he was attracting fans even where his music was not officially released . Under the headline " Presley Records a Craze in Soviet " , The New York Times reported that pressings of his music on discarded X - ray plates were commanding high prices in Leningrad . Between film shoots and recording sessions , Presley purchased an 18 - room mansion , Graceland , on March 19 , 1957 , for the amount of $ 102 , 500 . The mansion , which was about 9 miles ( 14   km ) south of downtown Memphis , was for himself and his parents . Before the purchase , Elvis recorded Loving You — the soundtrack to his second film , which was released in July . It was his third straight number - one album . The title track was written by Leiber and Stoller , who were then retained to write four of the six songs recorded at the sessions for Jailhouse Rock , Presley ' s next film . The songwriting team effectively produced the Jailhouse sessions and developed a close working relationship with Presley , who came to regard them as his " good - luck charm " . " He was fast , " said Leiber . " Any demo you gave him he knew by heart in ten minutes . " The title track became another number - one hit , as was the Jailhouse Rock EP .	When did you purchase the mansion Graceland and for how much?	On March 19, 1957, for the amount of $102,500.
In 1994 , the Presley autopsy report was reopened . Joseph Davis , who had conducted thousands of autopsies as Miami - Dade County coroner , declared at its completion , " There is nothing in any of the data that supports a death from drugs . In fact , everything points to a sudden , violent heart attack . " More recent research has revealed that Francisco did not speak for the entire pathology team . Other staff " could say nothing with confidence until they got the results back from the laboratories , if then . That would be a matter of weeks . " One of the examiners , E . Eric Muirhead , " could not believe his ears . Francisco had not only presumed to speak for the hospital ' s team of pathologists , he had announced a conclusion that they had not reached .   ... Early on , a meticulous dissection of the body   ... confirmed [ that ] Elvis was chronically ill with diabetes , glaucoma , and constipation . As they proceeded , the doctors saw evidence that his body had been wracked over a span of years by a large and constant stream of drugs . They had also studied his hospital records , which included two admissions for drug detoxification and methadone treatments . " Writer Frank Coffey thought Presley ' s death was due to " a phenomenon called the Valsalva maneuver ( essentially straining on the toilet leading to heart stoppage — plausible because Elvis suffered constipation , a common reaction to drug use ) " . In similar terms , Dan Warlick , who was present at the autopsy , " believes Presley ' s chronic constipation — the result of years of prescription drug abuse and high - fat , high - cholesterol gorging — brought on what ' s known as Valsalva ' s maneuver . Put simply , the strain of attempting to defecate compressed the singer ' s abdominal aorta , shutting down his heart . "	According to writer Frank Coffey, what phenomenon do you believe caused your death?	According to Frank Coffey, I believed that my death was caused by a phenomenon called the Valsalva maneuver, which is essentially straining on the toilet leading to a heart stoppage. This theory is plausible because I suffered from constipation, which is a common reaction to drug use.
Presley was a central figure in the development of rockabilly , according to music historians . " Rockabilly crystallized into a recognizable style in 1954 with Elvis Presley ' s first release , on the Sun label , " writes Craig Morrison . Paul Friedlander described rockabilly as " essentially   ... an Elvis Presley construction " , with the defining elements as " the raw , emotive , and slurred vocal style and emphasis on rhythmic feeling [ of ] the blues with the string band and strummed rhythm guitar [ of ] country " . In " That ' s All Right " , the Presley trio ' s first record , Scotty Moore ' s guitar solo , " a combination of Merle Travis – style country finger - picking , double - stop slides from acoustic boogie , and blues - based bent - note , single - string work , is a microcosm of this fusion " . While Katherine Charlton calls Presley " rockabilly ' s originator " , Carl Perkins , another pioneer of rock ' n ' roll , said that " [ Sam ] Phillips , Elvis , and I didn ' t create rockabilly " . According to Michael Campbell , the first major rockabilly song was recorded by Bill Haley . In Moore ' s view , " It had been there for quite a while , really . Carl Perkins was doing basically the same sort of thing up around Jackson , and I know for a fact Jerry Lee Lewis had been playing that kind of music ever since he was ten years old . "	Who are you considered a central figure in the development of?	Rockabilly
Each of the three Presley singles released in the first half of 1957 went to number one : " Too Much " , " All Shook Up " , and " ( Let Me Be Your ) Teddy Bear " . Already an international star , he was attracting fans even where his music was not officially released . Under the headline " Presley Records a Craze in Soviet " , The New York Times reported that pressings of his music on discarded X - ray plates were commanding high prices in Leningrad . Between film shoots and recording sessions , Presley purchased an 18 - room mansion , Graceland , on March 19 , 1957 , for the amount of $ 102 , 500 . The mansion , which was about 9 miles ( 14   km ) south of downtown Memphis , was for himself and his parents . Before the purchase , Elvis recorded Loving You — the soundtrack to his second film , which was released in July . It was his third straight number - one album . The title track was written by Leiber and Stoller , who were then retained to write four of the six songs recorded at the sessions for Jailhouse Rock , Presley ' s next film . The songwriting team effectively produced the Jailhouse sessions and developed a close working relationship with Presley , who came to regard them as his " good - luck charm " . " He was fast , " said Leiber . " Any demo you gave him he knew by heart in ten minutes . " The title track became another number - one hit , as was the Jailhouse Rock EP .	What was the headline of The New York Times article about your records in Soviet Union?	"My Records a Craze in Soviet".
Presley was a central figure in the development of rockabilly , according to music historians . " Rockabilly crystallized into a recognizable style in 1954 with Elvis Presley ' s first release , on the Sun label , " writes Craig Morrison . Paul Friedlander described rockabilly as " essentially   ... an Elvis Presley construction " , with the defining elements as " the raw , emotive , and slurred vocal style and emphasis on rhythmic feeling [ of ] the blues with the string band and strummed rhythm guitar [ of ] country " . In " That ' s All Right " , the Presley trio ' s first record , Scotty Moore ' s guitar solo , " a combination of Merle Travis – style country finger - picking , double - stop slides from acoustic boogie , and blues - based bent - note , single - string work , is a microcosm of this fusion " . While Katherine Charlton calls Presley " rockabilly ' s originator " , Carl Perkins , another pioneer of rock ' n ' roll , said that " [ Sam ] Phillips , Elvis , and I didn ' t create rockabilly " . According to Michael Campbell , the first major rockabilly song was recorded by Bill Haley . In Moore ' s view , " It had been there for quite a while , really . Carl Perkins was doing basically the same sort of thing up around Jackson , and I know for a fact Jerry Lee Lewis had been playing that kind of music ever since he was ten years old . "	Who do you claim to be the originator of rockabilly?	Katherine Charlton claims I am the originator of rockabilly.
Presley and his wife , meanwhile , had become increasingly distant , barely cohabiting . In 1971 , an affair he had with Joyce Bova resulted — unbeknownst to him — in her pregnancy and an abortion . He often raised the possibility of Joyce moving into Graceland , saying that he was likely to leave Priscilla . The Presleys separated on February 23 , 1972 , after Priscilla disclosed her relationship with Mike Stone , a karate instructor Presley had recommended to her . Priscilla related that when she told him , Presley " grabbed   ... and forcefully made love to " her , declaring , " This is how a real man makes love to his woman " . She later stated in an interview that she regretted her choice of words in describing the incident , and said it had been an overstatement . Five months later , Presley ' s new girlfriend , Linda Thompson , a songwriter and one - time Memphis beauty queen , moved in with him . Presley and his wife filed for divorce on August 18 . According to Joe Moscheo of the Imperials , the failure of Presley ' s marriage " was a blow from which he never recovered " . At a rare press conference that June , a reporter had asked Presley whether he was satisfied with his image . Presley replied , " Well , the image is one thing and the human being another   ... it ' s very hard to live up to an image . "	When did we separate?	We separated on February 23, 1972.
Presley undertook three brief tours during the year , continuing to generate a crazed audience response . A Detroit newspaper suggested that " the trouble with going to see Elvis Presley is that you ' re liable to get killed " . Villanova students pelted the singer with eggs in Philadelphia , and in Vancouver the crowd rioted after the end of the show , destroying the stage . Frank Sinatra , who had inspired both the swooning and screaming of teenage girls in the 1940s , condemned the new musical phenomenon . In a magazine article , he decried rock and roll as " brutal , ugly , degenerate , vicious .   ... It fosters almost totally negative and destructive reactions in young people . It smells phoney and false . It is sung , played and written , for the most part , by cretinous goons .   ... This rancid - smelling aphrodisiac I deplore . " Asked for a response , Presley said , " I admire the man . He has a right to say what he wants to say . He is a great success and a fine actor , but I think he shouldn ' t have said it .   ... This is a trend , just the same as he faced when he started years ago . "	What were some of your experiences during your tours?	I had a crazed audience response and faced incidents like being pelted with eggs by Villanova students and a crowd rioting in Vancouver.
Presley and his wife , meanwhile , had become increasingly distant , barely cohabiting . In 1971 , an affair he had with Joyce Bova resulted — unbeknownst to him — in her pregnancy and an abortion . He often raised the possibility of Joyce moving into Graceland , saying that he was likely to leave Priscilla . The Presleys separated on February 23 , 1972 , after Priscilla disclosed her relationship with Mike Stone , a karate instructor Presley had recommended to her . Priscilla related that when she told him , Presley " grabbed   ... and forcefully made love to " her , declaring , " This is how a real man makes love to his woman " . She later stated in an interview that she regretted her choice of words in describing the incident , and said it had been an overstatement . Five months later , Presley ' s new girlfriend , Linda Thompson , a songwriter and one - time Memphis beauty queen , moved in with him . Presley and his wife filed for divorce on August 18 . According to Joe Moscheo of the Imperials , the failure of Presley ' s marriage " was a blow from which he never recovered " . At a rare press conference that June , a reporter had asked Presley whether he was satisfied with his image . Presley replied , " Well , the image is one thing and the human being another   ... it ' s very hard to live up to an image . "	What led to you and your wife becoming increasingly distant?	I had an affair with Joyce Bova, resulting in her pregnancy and an abortion.
On January 10 , 1956 , Presley made his first recordings for RCA in Nashville . Extending his by - now customary backup of Moore , Black , Fontana , and Hayride pianist Floyd Cramer — who had been performing at live club dates with Presley — RCA enlisted guitarist Chet Atkins and three background singers , including Gordon Stoker of the popular Jordanaires quartet , to fill in the sound . The session produced the moody , unusual " Heartbreak Hotel " , released as a single on January 27 . Parker finally brought Presley to national television , booking him on CBS ' s Stage Show for six appearances over two months . The program , produced in New York City , was hosted on alternate weeks by big band leaders and brothers Tommy and Jimmy Dorsey . After his first appearance , on January 28 , Presley stayed in town to record at RCA Victor ' s New York studio . The sessions yielded eight songs , including a cover of Carl Perkins ' rockabilly anthem " Blue Suede Shoes " . In February , Presley ' s " I Forgot to Remember to Forget " , a Sun recording initially released the previous August , reached the top of the Billboard country chart . Neal ' s contract was terminated , and , on March 2 , Parker became Presley ' s manager .	When did you make your first recordings for RCA?	On January 10, 1956.
Presley made his third and final Ed Sullivan Show appearance on January 6 , 1957 — on this occasion indeed shot only down to the waist . Some commentators have claimed that Parker orchestrated an appearance of censorship to generate publicity . In any event , as critic Greil Marcus describes , Presley " did not tie himself down . Leaving behind the bland clothes he had worn on the first two shows , he stepped out in the outlandish costume of a pasha , if not a harem girl . From the make - up over his eyes , the hair falling in his face , the overwhelmingly sexual cast of his mouth , he was playing Rudolph Valentino in The Sheik , with all stops out . " To close , displaying his range and defying Sullivan ' s wishes , Presley sang a gentle black spiritual , " Peace in the Valley " . At the end of the show , Sullivan declared Presley " a real decent , fine boy " . Two days later , the Memphis draft board announced that Presley would be classified 1 - A and would probably be drafted sometime that year .	What song did you sing to close the show?	To close the show, I sang a gentle black spiritual called "Peace in the Valley".
