Starting in late October 2017 , Eminem and Paul Rosenberg began teasing what fans speculated was the title of a new album titled Revival , in the form of advertisements for a fake medication of the same name . Later in November , the first single " Walk on Water " was released , which featured Beyonc é . The song was first performed , by Eminem , at the 2017 MTV Europe Music Awards on November 12 , featuring Skylar Grey . He appeared on Saturday Night Live on November 18 , performing " Walk on Water " , " Stan " and " Love the Way You Lie " with Skylar Grey . On November 28 , Dr . Dre posted a video confirming the album ' s release date as December 15 , 2017 . On December 8 , Eminem released a promotional single titled " Untouchable " , which featured a sample from the duo Cheech & Chong . Despite an online leak of the album two days prior , Revival was released as planned on December 15 . On January 5 , 2018 , the second single " River " was released , which featured Ed Sheeran . It became Eminem ' s eighth consecutive album to top the US Billboard 200 upon release with 197 , 000 copies sold in its first week . As a result , he became the first musical act to have eight entries in a row debut atop the chart . The album was met with mixed reviews from music critics and is generally considered his worst album . In 2018 , an extended edition of " Nowhere Fast " with Kehlani and a remix of " Chloraseptic " featuring 2 Chainz and Phresher were released from Revival .	When did you first perform the song "Walk on Water"?	At the 2017 MTV Europe Music Awards on November 12.
On December 5 , 2006 , the compilation album Eminem Presents : The Re - Up was released on Shady Records . The project began as a mixtape , but when Eminem found the material better than expected he released it as an album . The Re - Up was intended to introduce Stat Quo , Cashis and Bobby Creekwater . While he was recording Infinite , Eminem , Proof and Kon Artis assembled a group of fellow rappers now known as D12 , short for " Detroit Twelve " or " Dirty Dozen " , who performed in a style similar to Wu - Tang Clan . In 2001 D12 ' s debut album , Devil ' s Night , was released . The first single from the album was " Shit on You " , followed by " Purple Pills " ( an ode to recreational drug use ) and " Fight Music " . " Purple Pills " was rewritten for radio and television , removing many of the song ' s references to drugs and sex and renamed " Purple Hills " .	When was the compilation album You Present: The Re-Up released?	On December 5, 2006.
Eminem & D12 responded with " Quitter " , the second half of which is a take off on 2Pac ' s " Hit ' Em Up " ( a diss song aimed at The Notorious B . I . G . ) . The track ends with the spoken words , " Fuck him , that ' s it , I ' m done , I promise , I ' m done , that ' s it . " It was reported that long - time friends of Eminem , Limp Bizkit , were meant to be featured on the song , but Fred Durst canceled at the last moment . The record continued its release without featuring Limp Bizkit , causing the Everlast - Mathers dispute to continue . In a TRL interview , Limp Bizkit member , DJ Lethal , made a statement that if Mathers and Everlast were to fight in real life , Everlast would win . This would lead to an insulting track aimed at both Everlast and Limp Bizkit ( namely Durst and Lethal ) appearing on D12 ' s mainstream debut , Devil ' s Night , as the track " Girls " . Recently , things seem to have settled and Eminem has no longer been heard insulting Everlast or Limp Bizkit . It is currently unknown if the dispute is resolved .	Which song served as an inspiration for the second half of your "Quitter"?	The second half of my "Quitter" is a take off on 2Pac's "Hit 'Em Up".
According to a March 5 , 2009 , press release , Eminem would release two new albums that year . Relapse , the first , was released on May 19 ; its first single and music video , " We Made You " , had been released on April 7 . Although Relapse did not sell as well as Eminem ' s previous albums and received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success and re - established his presence in the hip hop world . It sold more than five million copies worldwide . During the 2009 MTV Movie Awards , Sacha Baron Cohen descended on the audience in an angel costume . He landed buttocks - first on Eminem , who stormed out of the ceremony ; three days later , Eminem said that the stunt had been staged . On October 30 he headlined at the Voodoo Experience in New Orleans , his first full performance of the year . Eminem ' s act included several songs from Relapse , many of his older hits and an appearance by D12 . On November 19 , he announced on his website that Relapse : Refill would be released on December 21 . The album was a re - release of Relapse with seven bonus tracks , including " Forever " and " Taking My Ball " . Eminem described the CD :	What was your first single and music video from the album Relapse?	My first single and music video from Relapse was "We Made You".
Recorded from 1999 to 2000 , The Marshall Mathers LP was released in May 2000 . It sold 1.76 million copies in its first week , breaking US records held by Snoop Dogg ' s Doggystyle for fastest - selling hip hop album and Britney Spears ' ... Baby One More Time for fastest - selling solo album . The first single from the album , " The Real Slim Shady " , was a success despite controversies about Eminem ' s insults and dubious claims about celebrities ( for example , that Christina Aguilera had performed oral sex on Carson Daly and Fred Durst ) . In his second single , " The Way I Am " , he reveals the pressure from his record company to top " My Name Is " . Although Eminem parodied shock rocker Marilyn Manson in the music video for " My Name Is " , they are reportedly on good terms ; Manson is mentioned in " The Way I Am " , appeared in its music video and has performed a live remix of the song with Eminem . In the third single , " Stan " ( which samples Dido ' s " Thank You " ) , Eminem tries to deal with his new fame , assuming the persona of a deranged fan who kills himself and his pregnant girlfriend ( mirroring " ' 97 Bonnie & Clyde " from The Slim Shady LP ) . The music magazine Q called " Stan " the third - greatest rap song of all time , and it was ranked tenth in a Top40 - Charts . com survey . The song has since been ranked 296th on Rolling Stone ' s " 500 Greatest Songs of All Time " list . In July 2000 , Eminem was the first white artist to appear on the cover of The Source . The Marshall Mathers LP was certified Diamond by the RIAA in March 2011 and sold 21 million copies worldwide . In 2000 Eminem also appeared in the Up in Smoke Tour with rappers Dr . Dre , Snoop Dogg , Xzibit and Ice Cube and the Family Values Tour with Limp Bizkit , headlining the Anger Management Tour with Papa Roach , Ludacris and Xzibit .	When was The Marshall Mathers LP released?	The Marshall Mathers LP was released in May 2000.
Encore , released in 2004 , was another success , but not as successful as his previous albums . Its sales were partially driven by the first single , " Just Lose It " , which contained slurs directed toward Michael Jackson . On October 12 , 2004 , a week after the release of " Just Lose It " , Jackson phoned Steve Harvey ' s radio show , The Steve Harvey Morning Show , to report his displeasure with its video ( which parodies Jackson ' s child molestation trial , plastic surgery and the 1984 incident when Jackson ' s hair caught fire during the filming of a commercial ) . In the song , Eminem says , " That ' s not a stab at Michael / That ' s just a metaphor / I ' m just psycho . " Many of Jackson ' s friends and supporters spoke out against the video , including Stevie Wonder , who described it as " kicking a man while he ' s down " and " bullshit " , and Steve Harvey ( who said , " Eminem has lost his ghetto pass . We want the pass back " ) . The video also parodied Pee - wee Herman , MC Hammer and Madonna during her Blond Ambition period . " Weird Al " Yankovic , who parodied the Eminem song " Lose Yourself " on " Couch Potato " for his 2003 album Poodle Hat , told the Chicago Sun - Times about Jackson ' s protest : " Last year , Eminem forced me to halt production on the video for my ' Lose Yourself ' parody because he somehow thought that it would be harmful to his image or career . So the irony of this situation with Michael is not lost on me . " Although Black Entertainment Television stopped playing the video , MTV announced that it would continue to air it . The Source , through CEO Raymond " Benzino " Scott , called for the video to be pulled , the song removed from the album and Eminem to apologize publicly to Jackson . In 2007 , Jackson and Sony bought Famous Music from Viacom , giving him the rights to songs by Eminem , Shakira , Beck and others .	When was your album Encore released?	My album Encore was released in 2004.
In 2010 , Eminem again began collaborating with Royce da 5 ' 9 " on their first EP as Bad Meets Evil ; the duo formed in 1998 . The EP , Hell : The Sequel , was released on June 14 , 2011 . Eminem was featured on Royce da 5 ' 9 " ' s " Writer ' s Block " , released on April 8 , 2011 . On May 3 they released the lead single " Fast Lane " from their upcoming EP and a music video was filmed . In March 2011 , within days of each other , The Eminem Show and The Marshall Mathers LP were certified diamond by the RIAA ; Eminem is the only rapper with two diamond - certified albums . With more than 60   million " likes " he was the most - followed person on Facebook , outscoring Lady Gaga , Justin Bieber , Rihanna and Michael Jackson . Eminem was the first artist in five years with two number - one albums ( Recovery and Hell : The Sequel ) in a 12 - month period . Early in 2011 he leaked " 2.0 Boys " , on which Yelawolf and Slaughterhouse collaborated when they signed with Shady Records in January and performed it in April . Bad Meets Evil released their next single , " Lighters " , on July 6 and its music video in late August . On August 6 , Eminem performed several songs from throughout his career at Lollapalooza with the artists who had been featured on each song .	Who were you featured on "Writer's Block" with?	I was featured on "Writer's Block" with Royce da 5'9", released on April 8, 2011.
Although Eminem usually collaborates with Aftermath Entertainment and Shady Records rappers such as Dr . Dre , 50 Cent , D12 , Obie Trice and Yelawolf , he has also worked with Redman , Kid Rock , DMX , Lil Wayne , Missy Elliott , Jay Z , Drake , Rihanna , Nas , Nicki Minaj , Xzibit , Method Man , Jadakiss , Fat Joe , Sticky Fingaz , T . I . and Young Jeezy . Eminem rapped a verse in a live performance of Busta Rhymes ' " Touch It " remix at the 2006 BET Music Awards . He appeared on Akon ' s single " Smack That " from Konvicted , Lil Wayne ' s hit " Drop the World " and " My Life " ( the lead single from 50 Cent ' s Street King Immortal ) .	What event did you appear at and perform alongside 50 Cent during the live performance of "Touch It" remix?	I appeared and performed alongside 50 Cent at the 2006 BET Music Awards during the live performance of Busta Rhymes' "Touch It" remix.
Eminem & D12 responded with " Quitter " , the second half of which is a take off on 2Pac ' s " Hit ' Em Up " ( a diss song aimed at The Notorious B . I . G . ) . The track ends with the spoken words , " Fuck him , that ' s it , I ' m done , I promise , I ' m done , that ' s it . " It was reported that long - time friends of Eminem , Limp Bizkit , were meant to be featured on the song , but Fred Durst canceled at the last moment . The record continued its release without featuring Limp Bizkit , causing the Everlast - Mathers dispute to continue . In a TRL interview , Limp Bizkit member , DJ Lethal , made a statement that if Mathers and Everlast were to fight in real life , Everlast would win . This would lead to an insulting track aimed at both Everlast and Limp Bizkit ( namely Durst and Lethal ) appearing on D12 ' s mainstream debut , Devil ' s Night , as the track " Girls " . Recently , things seem to have settled and Eminem has no longer been heard insulting Everlast or Limp Bizkit . It is currently unknown if the dispute is resolved .	What were the spoken words at the end of the track?	The spoken words at the end of the track were "Fuck him, that's it, I'm done, I promise, I'm done, that's it."
Although Eminem usually collaborates with Aftermath Entertainment and Shady Records rappers such as Dr . Dre , 50 Cent , D12 , Obie Trice and Yelawolf , he has also worked with Redman , Kid Rock , DMX , Lil Wayne , Missy Elliott , Jay Z , Drake , Rihanna , Nas , Nicki Minaj , Xzibit , Method Man , Jadakiss , Fat Joe , Sticky Fingaz , T . I . and Young Jeezy . Eminem rapped a verse in a live performance of Busta Rhymes ' " Touch It " remix at the 2006 BET Music Awards . He appeared on Akon ' s single " Smack That " from Konvicted , Lil Wayne ' s hit " Drop the World " and " My Life " ( the lead single from 50 Cent ' s Street King Immortal ) .	Apart from Aftermath Entertainment and Shady Records rappers, who are some other artists you have worked with?	I have worked with Redman, Kid Rock, DMX, Lil Wayne, Missy Elliott, Jay Z, Drake, Rihanna, Nas, Nicki Minaj, Xzibit, Method Man, Jadakiss, Fat Joe, Sticky Fingaz, T.I., and Young Jeezy.
Eminem & D12 responded with " Quitter " , the second half of which is a take off on 2Pac ' s " Hit ' Em Up " ( a diss song aimed at The Notorious B . I . G . ) . The track ends with the spoken words , " Fuck him , that ' s it , I ' m done , I promise , I ' m done , that ' s it . " It was reported that long - time friends of Eminem , Limp Bizkit , were meant to be featured on the song , but Fred Durst canceled at the last moment . The record continued its release without featuring Limp Bizkit , causing the Everlast - Mathers dispute to continue . In a TRL interview , Limp Bizkit member , DJ Lethal , made a statement that if Mathers and Everlast were to fight in real life , Everlast would win . This would lead to an insulting track aimed at both Everlast and Limp Bizkit ( namely Durst and Lethal ) appearing on D12 ' s mainstream debut , Devil ' s Night , as the track " Girls " . Recently , things seem to have settled and Eminem has no longer been heard insulting Everlast or Limp Bizkit . It is currently unknown if the dispute is resolved .	Who did you and D12 respond to with the song "Quitter"?	I and D12 responded to someone with the song "Quitter".
Encore , released in 2004 , was another success , but not as successful as his previous albums . Its sales were partially driven by the first single , " Just Lose It " , which contained slurs directed toward Michael Jackson . On October 12 , 2004 , a week after the release of " Just Lose It " , Jackson phoned Steve Harvey ' s radio show , The Steve Harvey Morning Show , to report his displeasure with its video ( which parodies Jackson ' s child molestation trial , plastic surgery and the 1984 incident when Jackson ' s hair caught fire during the filming of a commercial ) . In the song , Eminem says , " That ' s not a stab at Michael / That ' s just a metaphor / I ' m just psycho . " Many of Jackson ' s friends and supporters spoke out against the video , including Stevie Wonder , who described it as " kicking a man while he ' s down " and " bullshit " , and Steve Harvey ( who said , " Eminem has lost his ghetto pass . We want the pass back " ) . The video also parodied Pee - wee Herman , MC Hammer and Madonna during her Blond Ambition period . " Weird Al " Yankovic , who parodied the Eminem song " Lose Yourself " on " Couch Potato " for his 2003 album Poodle Hat , told the Chicago Sun - Times about Jackson ' s protest : " Last year , Eminem forced me to halt production on the video for my ' Lose Yourself ' parody because he somehow thought that it would be harmful to his image or career . So the irony of this situation with Michael is not lost on me . " Although Black Entertainment Television stopped playing the video , MTV announced that it would continue to air it . The Source , through CEO Raymond " Benzino " Scott , called for the video to be pulled , the song removed from the album and Eminem to apologize publicly to Jackson . In 2007 , Jackson and Sony bought Famous Music from Viacom , giving him the rights to songs by Eminem , Shakira , Beck and others .	Who did you report your displeasure with the video to?	I reported my displeasure with the video to Steve Harvey's radio show, The Steve Harvey Morning Show.
In 2010 , Eminem again began collaborating with Royce da 5 ' 9 " on their first EP as Bad Meets Evil ; the duo formed in 1998 . The EP , Hell : The Sequel , was released on June 14 , 2011 . Eminem was featured on Royce da 5 ' 9 " ' s " Writer ' s Block " , released on April 8 , 2011 . On May 3 they released the lead single " Fast Lane " from their upcoming EP and a music video was filmed . In March 2011 , within days of each other , The Eminem Show and The Marshall Mathers LP were certified diamond by the RIAA ; Eminem is the only rapper with two diamond - certified albums . With more than 60   million " likes " he was the most - followed person on Facebook , outscoring Lady Gaga , Justin Bieber , Rihanna and Michael Jackson . Eminem was the first artist in five years with two number - one albums ( Recovery and Hell : The Sequel ) in a 12 - month period . Early in 2011 he leaked " 2.0 Boys " , on which Yelawolf and Slaughterhouse collaborated when they signed with Shady Records in January and performed it in April . Bad Meets Evil released their next single , " Lighters " , on July 6 and its music video in late August . On August 6 , Eminem performed several songs from throughout his career at Lollapalooza with the artists who had been featured on each song .	How many diamond-certified albums do you have?	I am the only rapper with two diamond-certified albums: The Eminem Show and The Marshall Mathers LP.
In 2010 , Eminem again began collaborating with Royce da 5 ' 9 " on their first EP as Bad Meets Evil ; the duo formed in 1998 . The EP , Hell : The Sequel , was released on June 14 , 2011 . Eminem was featured on Royce da 5 ' 9 " ' s " Writer ' s Block " , released on April 8 , 2011 . On May 3 they released the lead single " Fast Lane " from their upcoming EP and a music video was filmed . In March 2011 , within days of each other , The Eminem Show and The Marshall Mathers LP were certified diamond by the RIAA ; Eminem is the only rapper with two diamond - certified albums . With more than 60   million " likes " he was the most - followed person on Facebook , outscoring Lady Gaga , Justin Bieber , Rihanna and Michael Jackson . Eminem was the first artist in five years with two number - one albums ( Recovery and Hell : The Sequel ) in a 12 - month period . Early in 2011 he leaked " 2.0 Boys " , on which Yelawolf and Slaughterhouse collaborated when they signed with Shady Records in January and performed it in April . Bad Meets Evil released their next single , " Lighters " , on July 6 and its music video in late August . On August 6 , Eminem performed several songs from throughout his career at Lollapalooza with the artists who had been featured on each song .	Which single did you and Royce da 5'9" release from your upcoming EP?	We released the lead single "Fast Lane" from our upcoming EP.
Encore , released in 2004 , was another success , but not as successful as his previous albums . Its sales were partially driven by the first single , " Just Lose It " , which contained slurs directed toward Michael Jackson . On October 12 , 2004 , a week after the release of " Just Lose It " , Jackson phoned Steve Harvey ' s radio show , The Steve Harvey Morning Show , to report his displeasure with its video ( which parodies Jackson ' s child molestation trial , plastic surgery and the 1984 incident when Jackson ' s hair caught fire during the filming of a commercial ) . In the song , Eminem says , " That ' s not a stab at Michael / That ' s just a metaphor / I ' m just psycho . " Many of Jackson ' s friends and supporters spoke out against the video , including Stevie Wonder , who described it as " kicking a man while he ' s down " and " bullshit " , and Steve Harvey ( who said , " Eminem has lost his ghetto pass . We want the pass back " ) . The video also parodied Pee - wee Herman , MC Hammer and Madonna during her Blond Ambition period . " Weird Al " Yankovic , who parodied the Eminem song " Lose Yourself " on " Couch Potato " for his 2003 album Poodle Hat , told the Chicago Sun - Times about Jackson ' s protest : " Last year , Eminem forced me to halt production on the video for my ' Lose Yourself ' parody because he somehow thought that it would be harmful to his image or career . So the irony of this situation with Michael is not lost on me . " Although Black Entertainment Television stopped playing the video , MTV announced that it would continue to air it . The Source , through CEO Raymond " Benzino " Scott , called for the video to be pulled , the song removed from the album and Eminem to apologize publicly to Jackson . In 2007 , Jackson and Sony bought Famous Music from Viacom , giving him the rights to songs by Eminem , Shakira , Beck and others .	What did "Weird Al" Yankovic say about Michael Jackson's protest?	"Weird Al" Yankovic mentioned the irony of the situation with Michael Jackson, as I had forced him to halt production on a video before.
According to a March 5 , 2009 , press release , Eminem would release two new albums that year . Relapse , the first , was released on May 19 ; its first single and music video , " We Made You " , had been released on April 7 . Although Relapse did not sell as well as Eminem ' s previous albums and received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success and re - established his presence in the hip hop world . It sold more than five million copies worldwide . During the 2009 MTV Movie Awards , Sacha Baron Cohen descended on the audience in an angel costume . He landed buttocks - first on Eminem , who stormed out of the ceremony ; three days later , Eminem said that the stunt had been staged . On October 30 he headlined at the Voodoo Experience in New Orleans , his first full performance of the year . Eminem ' s act included several songs from Relapse , many of his older hits and an appearance by D12 . On November 19 , he announced on his website that Relapse : Refill would be released on December 21 . The album was a re - release of Relapse with seven bonus tracks , including " Forever " and " Taking My Ball " . Eminem described the CD :	How did your album Relapse perform in terms of sales?	My album Relapse sold more than five million copies worldwide.
Starting in late October 2017 , Eminem and Paul Rosenberg began teasing what fans speculated was the title of a new album titled Revival , in the form of advertisements for a fake medication of the same name . Later in November , the first single " Walk on Water " was released , which featured Beyonc é . The song was first performed , by Eminem , at the 2017 MTV Europe Music Awards on November 12 , featuring Skylar Grey . He appeared on Saturday Night Live on November 18 , performing " Walk on Water " , " Stan " and " Love the Way You Lie " with Skylar Grey . On November 28 , Dr . Dre posted a video confirming the album ' s release date as December 15 , 2017 . On December 8 , Eminem released a promotional single titled " Untouchable " , which featured a sample from the duo Cheech & Chong . Despite an online leak of the album two days prior , Revival was released as planned on December 15 . On January 5 , 2018 , the second single " River " was released , which featured Ed Sheeran . It became Eminem ' s eighth consecutive album to top the US Billboard 200 upon release with 197 , 000 copies sold in its first week . As a result , he became the first musical act to have eight entries in a row debut atop the chart . The album was met with mixed reviews from music critics and is generally considered his worst album . In 2018 , an extended edition of " Nowhere Fast " with Kehlani and a remix of " Chloraseptic " featuring 2 Chainz and Phresher were released from Revival .	What song was released as your first single?	"Walk on Water".
Encore , released in 2004 , was another success , but not as successful as his previous albums . Its sales were partially driven by the first single , " Just Lose It " , which contained slurs directed toward Michael Jackson . On October 12 , 2004 , a week after the release of " Just Lose It " , Jackson phoned Steve Harvey ' s radio show , The Steve Harvey Morning Show , to report his displeasure with its video ( which parodies Jackson ' s child molestation trial , plastic surgery and the 1984 incident when Jackson ' s hair caught fire during the filming of a commercial ) . In the song , Eminem says , " That ' s not a stab at Michael / That ' s just a metaphor / I ' m just psycho . " Many of Jackson ' s friends and supporters spoke out against the video , including Stevie Wonder , who described it as " kicking a man while he ' s down " and " bullshit " , and Steve Harvey ( who said , " Eminem has lost his ghetto pass . We want the pass back " ) . The video also parodied Pee - wee Herman , MC Hammer and Madonna during her Blond Ambition period . " Weird Al " Yankovic , who parodied the Eminem song " Lose Yourself " on " Couch Potato " for his 2003 album Poodle Hat , told the Chicago Sun - Times about Jackson ' s protest : " Last year , Eminem forced me to halt production on the video for my ' Lose Yourself ' parody because he somehow thought that it would be harmful to his image or career . So the irony of this situation with Michael is not lost on me . " Although Black Entertainment Television stopped playing the video , MTV announced that it would continue to air it . The Source , through CEO Raymond " Benzino " Scott , called for the video to be pulled , the song removed from the album and Eminem to apologize publicly to Jackson . In 2007 , Jackson and Sony bought Famous Music from Viacom , giving him the rights to songs by Eminem , Shakira , Beck and others .	Who spoke out against the video?	Stevie Wonder and Steve Harvey spoke out against the video.
In February 2017 , Eminem appeared on " No Favors " , a track from Big Sean ' s album I Decided . In the song , Eminem calls the newly elected President Donald Trump a " bitch " and also raps about raping conservative social and political commentator Ann Coulter , who is a Trump supporter , with a variety of foreign objects . Coulter responded to the lyrics , stating , " I think it ' s unfortunate that the left , from Berkeley to Eminem with his rap songs , has normalized violence against women , as Eminem has done . " Eminem participated in the 2017 BET Hip Hop Awards ' annual cypher , using his verse , a freestyle rap called " The Storm " , to further criticize Trump and the administration for , among other things , Trump ' s focus on National Football League players ' protests during " The Star Spangled Banner " over Hurricane Maria recovery efforts and lack of gun control reform in the wake of the 2017 Las Vegas shooting . Eminem ended the cypher by giving an ultimatum saying that Trump supporters cannot be his fans . The verse received wide praise among other rappers following its release . In October 2017 , Eminem appeared on " Revenge " , a track from Pink ' s album Beautiful Trauma . It was reported that the Secret Service interviewed Eminem in 2018 – 2019 , regarding threatening lyrics towards President Trump and daughter Ivanka .	Which track did you appear on in Big Sean's album I Decided?	I appeared on the track "No Favors" in Big Sean's album I Decided.
Regarding his rehearsal with Eminem for the " Stan " duet at the 2001 Grammy Awards , English singer Elton John said , " [ When ] Eminem made his entrance , I got goose bumps , the likes of which I have not felt since I first saw Jimi Hendrix , Mick Jagger , James Brown and Aretha Franklin . Eminem was that good . I just thought , ' Fuck , this man is amazing . ' There are very few performers who can grab you like that the first time — only the greats . " John further praised Eminem , saying , " Eminem is a true poet of his time , someone we ' ll be talking about for decades to come . He tells stories in such a powerful and distinctive way . As a lyricist , he ' s one of the best ever . Eminem does for his audience what [ Bob ] Dylan did for his : He writes how he feels . His anger , vulnerability and humor come out . "	Who did you have a rehearsal with for the "Stan" duet at the 2001 Grammy Awards?	I had a rehearsal with Elton John for the "Stan" duet at the 2001 Grammy Awards.
Regarding his rehearsal with Eminem for the " Stan " duet at the 2001 Grammy Awards , English singer Elton John said , " [ When ] Eminem made his entrance , I got goose bumps , the likes of which I have not felt since I first saw Jimi Hendrix , Mick Jagger , James Brown and Aretha Franklin . Eminem was that good . I just thought , ' Fuck , this man is amazing . ' There are very few performers who can grab you like that the first time — only the greats . " John further praised Eminem , saying , " Eminem is a true poet of his time , someone we ' ll be talking about for decades to come . He tells stories in such a powerful and distinctive way . As a lyricist , he ' s one of the best ever . Eminem does for his audience what [ Bob ] Dylan did for his : He writes how he feels . His anger , vulnerability and humor come out . "	What did you think of my performance?	I thought you were amazing and considered you one of the great performers.
On December 5 , 2006 , the compilation album Eminem Presents : The Re - Up was released on Shady Records . The project began as a mixtape , but when Eminem found the material better than expected he released it as an album . The Re - Up was intended to introduce Stat Quo , Cashis and Bobby Creekwater . While he was recording Infinite , Eminem , Proof and Kon Artis assembled a group of fellow rappers now known as D12 , short for " Detroit Twelve " or " Dirty Dozen " , who performed in a style similar to Wu - Tang Clan . In 2001 D12 ' s debut album , Devil ' s Night , was released . The first single from the album was " Shit on You " , followed by " Purple Pills " ( an ode to recreational drug use ) and " Fight Music " . " Purple Pills " was rewritten for radio and television , removing many of the song ' s references to drugs and sex and renamed " Purple Hills " .	What was your original intention for the project that resulted in The Re-Up?	It started as a mixtape.
According to a March 5 , 2009 , press release , Eminem would release two new albums that year . Relapse , the first , was released on May 19 ; its first single and music video , " We Made You " , had been released on April 7 . Although Relapse did not sell as well as Eminem ' s previous albums and received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success and re - established his presence in the hip hop world . It sold more than five million copies worldwide . During the 2009 MTV Movie Awards , Sacha Baron Cohen descended on the audience in an angel costume . He landed buttocks - first on Eminem , who stormed out of the ceremony ; three days later , Eminem said that the stunt had been staged . On October 30 he headlined at the Voodoo Experience in New Orleans , his first full performance of the year . Eminem ' s act included several songs from Relapse , many of his older hits and an appearance by D12 . On November 19 , he announced on his website that Relapse : Refill would be released on December 21 . The album was a re - release of Relapse with seven bonus tracks , including " Forever " and " Taking My Ball " . Eminem described the CD :	When was your first album, Relapse, released?	Relapse was released on May 19.
In February 2017 , Eminem appeared on " No Favors " , a track from Big Sean ' s album I Decided . In the song , Eminem calls the newly elected President Donald Trump a " bitch " and also raps about raping conservative social and political commentator Ann Coulter , who is a Trump supporter , with a variety of foreign objects . Coulter responded to the lyrics , stating , " I think it ' s unfortunate that the left , from Berkeley to Eminem with his rap songs , has normalized violence against women , as Eminem has done . " Eminem participated in the 2017 BET Hip Hop Awards ' annual cypher , using his verse , a freestyle rap called " The Storm " , to further criticize Trump and the administration for , among other things , Trump ' s focus on National Football League players ' protests during " The Star Spangled Banner " over Hurricane Maria recovery efforts and lack of gun control reform in the wake of the 2017 Las Vegas shooting . Eminem ended the cypher by giving an ultimatum saying that Trump supporters cannot be his fans . The verse received wide praise among other rappers following its release . In October 2017 , Eminem appeared on " Revenge " , a track from Pink ' s album Beautiful Trauma . It was reported that the Secret Service interviewed Eminem in 2018 – 2019 , regarding threatening lyrics towards President Trump and daughter Ivanka .	What event did you participate in where you criticized Trump and his administration?	I participated in the 2017 BET Hip Hop Awards' annual cypher where I criticized Trump and his administration.
On December 5 , 2006 , the compilation album Eminem Presents : The Re - Up was released on Shady Records . The project began as a mixtape , but when Eminem found the material better than expected he released it as an album . The Re - Up was intended to introduce Stat Quo , Cashis and Bobby Creekwater . While he was recording Infinite , Eminem , Proof and Kon Artis assembled a group of fellow rappers now known as D12 , short for " Detroit Twelve " or " Dirty Dozen " , who performed in a style similar to Wu - Tang Clan . In 2001 D12 ' s debut album , Devil ' s Night , was released . The first single from the album was " Shit on You " , followed by " Purple Pills " ( an ode to recreational drug use ) and " Fight Music " . " Purple Pills " was rewritten for radio and television , removing many of the song ' s references to drugs and sex and renamed " Purple Hills " .	Who were the artists intended to be introduced through The Re-Up?	Stat Quo, Cashis, and Bobby Creekwater.
