Watson ' s first non - Potter role was the 2007 BBC film Ballet Shoes , an adaptation of the novel of the same title by Noel Streatfeild . The film ' s director , Sandra Goldbacher , commented that Watson was " perfect " for the starring role of aspiring actress Pauline Fossil : " She has a piercing , delicate aura that makes you want to gaze and gaze at her . " Ballet Shoes was broadcast in the UK on Boxing Day to 5.7   million viewers , to mixed reviews . The following year , she voiced the character Princess Pea in the animation The Tale of Despereaux , a children ' s comedy starring Matthew Broderick , with Harry Potter co - star Robbie Coltrane also starring in the film . The Tale of Despereaux was released in December 2008 and grossed $ 87   million worldwide .	How many viewers watched Ballet Shoes in the UK?	Ballet Shoes was watched by 5.7 million viewers in the UK.
In 2013 , Watson starred in the satirical crime film The Bling Ring . The Sofia Coppola - directed film is based on the real - life Bling Ring robberies , with Watson playing a fictionalised version of Alexis Neiers , a television personality who was one of seven teenagers involved in the robberies . While the film mostly received mixed reviews , critics gave almost unanimous praise for Watson ' s performance . Adam White of The Independent later stated that " She prove [ d ] remarkable .... Watson oozes casual disdain . Her sticky American vocal fry is clipped and monotone , as if she ' s swallowed a Kardashian for breakfast . " Watson also had a supporting role in the apocalyptic comedy This Is the End ( 2013 ) , in which she , Seth Rogen , James Franco and many others played " exaggerated versions of themselves " and Watson memorably dropped the " f - bomb " . She said she could not pass up the opportunity to make her first comedy and " work with some of the best comedians [ ... ] in the world right now " .	What film did you star in in 2013?	I starred in The Bling Ring.
With Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire ( 2005 ) , both Watson and the Harry Potter film series reached new milestones . The film set records for a Harry Potter opening weekend and opening weekend in the UK . Critics praised the increasing maturity of Watson and her teenage co - stars ; The New York Times called her performance " touchingly earnest " , and Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian wrote that " Watson ' s gutsy , confident performance nicely shows that inside and outside the world of magic there is a growing discrepancy between a teenage girl ' s status and her accelerating emotional and intellectual development . " For Watson , much of the film ' s humour sprang from the tension among the three lead characters as they matured . She said , " I loved all the arguing . ... I think it ' s much more realistic that they would argue and that there would be problems . " Nominated for three awards for Goblet of Fire , Watson won a bronze Otto Award .	What records did the film set for a Harry Potter opening weekend?	The film set records for a Harry Potter opening weekend and opening weekend in the UK.
In 2020 , Watson discussed her future career plans , stating : " Having been so public in making films and being so active on social [ media ] in my activism , I am curious to embrace a role where I work to amplify more voices , to continue to learn from those with different experiences " , adding that her work would include " fewer red carpets and more conference meetings " . In 2021 , various reports surfaced stating that Watson was engaged or retiring . Watson and her representatives refuted these reports ; she later labelled the speculation as clickbait and cited her relative public absence to continued social distancing during the COVID - 19 pandemic . In 2022 , Watson reunited with multiple cast members of the Harry Potter film series for an HBO Max special titled Harry Potter 20th Anniversary : Return to Hogwarts . The following year , Watson revealed in an interview with the Financial Times that a reason why she had not acted in almost five years was because she " wasn ' t very happy " with the profession and that she felt " a bit caged " . However , she went on to say that she will " absolutely " return to acting while also saying , " But I ' m happy to sit and wait for the next right thing . I love what I do . It ’ s finding a way to do it where I don ' t have to fracture myself into different faces and people . And I just don ’ t want to switch into robot mode any more . "	How did you respond to the reports in 2021?	I and my representatives refuted these reports and I labeled the speculation as clickbait.
In the same year , she starred opposite Tom Hanks in the film adaptation of Dave Eggers ' novel The Circle as Mae Holland , who begins working at a powerful tech corporation and enters a perilous situation concerning surveillance and freedom . The film received negative reviews but was a moderate box office success . In 2019 , Watson starred as Meg March in Greta Gerwig ' s adaptation of Louisa May Alcott ' s novel Little Women , co - starring with Saoirse Ronan , Florence Pugh , Laura Dern , Timoth é e Chalamet , and Meryl Streep . On the premise , Watson has stated " I think [ Little Women ] was good literary device to explain that there ' s not one way to be a feminist .... [ Meg ' s ] way of being a feminist is making the choice – because that ' s really , for me anyway , what feminism is about . Her choice is that she wants to be a full - time mother and wife . " Forbes stated that " Watson has perhaps the most challenging [ ... ] role , as the proverbial straight woman of the sisters who is put on the defensive when her dreams end up being the most conventional of the lot . " The film was critically acclaimed and grossed over $ 218 million against its $ 40 million budget .	In which year did you star as Meg March in the adaptation of Louisa May Alcott's novel Little Women?	2019.
In September 2009 , Watson announced her involvement with People Tree , a fair trade fashion brand . Watson worked as a creative adviser for the company to create a spring line of clothing , which was released in February 2010 ; the range featured styles inspired by southern France and London . The collection , described by The Times as " very clever " despite their " quiet hope that [ she ] would become tangled at the first hemp - woven hurdle " , was widely publicised in magazines such as Teen Vogue , Cosmopolitan , and People . Watson , who was not paid for the collaboration , admitted that competition for the range was minimal , but argued that " Fashion is a great way to empower people and give them skills ; rather than give cash to charity you can help people by buying the clothes they make and supporting things they take pride in " ; adding , " I think young people like me are becoming increasingly aware of the humanitarian issues surrounding fast fashion and want to make good choices but there aren ' t many options out there . " Watson continued her involvement with People Tree , resulting in the release of a 2010 Autumn / Winter collection .	When was your spring line of clothing released?	My spring line of clothing was released in February 2010.
In June 2012 , Watson was confirmed for the role as Ila , Shem ' s wife , in Darren Aronofsky ' s Noah , which began filming the following month , and was released in March 2014 . Watson referred to the role as " physically very demanding " given the usage of special effects and did extensive research on childbirth to effectively portray a scene in the film . The film , a box office success , received mixed reviews for its direction and casting ; Vanity Fair wrote that " Watson anchors the film ' s rawest emotional scenes .... Sitting on an Icelandic beach with Russell Crowe , her hair wild and eyes burning , Watson is quiet but ferocious . " In March 2013 , it was reported that Watson was in negotiations to star as the title character in Kenneth Branagh ' s live - action Disney adaptation of Cinderella . Watson was offered the role , but turned it down because she did not connect with the character . The role ultimately went to Lily James .	What is your character's name in Noah?	My character's name in Noah is Ila.
In the same year , she starred opposite Tom Hanks in the film adaptation of Dave Eggers ' novel The Circle as Mae Holland , who begins working at a powerful tech corporation and enters a perilous situation concerning surveillance and freedom . The film received negative reviews but was a moderate box office success . In 2019 , Watson starred as Meg March in Greta Gerwig ' s adaptation of Louisa May Alcott ' s novel Little Women , co - starring with Saoirse Ronan , Florence Pugh , Laura Dern , Timoth é e Chalamet , and Meryl Streep . On the premise , Watson has stated " I think [ Little Women ] was good literary device to explain that there ' s not one way to be a feminist .... [ Meg ' s ] way of being a feminist is making the choice – because that ' s really , for me anyway , what feminism is about . Her choice is that she wants to be a full - time mother and wife . " Forbes stated that " Watson has perhaps the most challenging [ ... ] role , as the proverbial straight woman of the sisters who is put on the defensive when her dreams end up being the most conventional of the lot . " The film was critically acclaimed and grossed over $ 218 million against its $ 40 million budget .	Who did you star opposite in the film adaptation of Dave Eggers' novel The Circle?	Tom Hanks.
Watson joined Judi Dench , Robert Downey Jr . , Mike Leigh , Julia Louis - Dreyfus , and Mark Ruffalo as recipients of the 2014 Britannia Awards , presented on 30 October in Los Angeles . Watson was awarded British Artist of the Year and she dedicated the prize to Millie , her pet hamster who died as Watson was filming Harry Potter and the Philosopher ' s Stone . Watson starred in two 2015 releases , the thrillers Colonia , opposite Daniel Br ü hl and Michael Nyqvist ; and Regression by Alejandro Amen á bar , alongside Ethan Hawke and her Harry Potter co - star David Thewlis . Both of these films received generally negative reviews ; The Daily Telegraph critic blamed Regression ' s script for her " pure dramatic cardboard " role . She also appeared in an episode of BBC ' s The Vicar of Dibley , in which she played Reverend Iris . In February 2016 , Watson announced she was taking a year - long break from acting . She planned to spend the time on her " personal development " and her women ' s rights work .	Who were your co-stars in Regression?	Ethan Hawke and David Thewlis.
In 2020 , Watson discussed her future career plans , stating : " Having been so public in making films and being so active on social [ media ] in my activism , I am curious to embrace a role where I work to amplify more voices , to continue to learn from those with different experiences " , adding that her work would include " fewer red carpets and more conference meetings " . In 2021 , various reports surfaced stating that Watson was engaged or retiring . Watson and her representatives refuted these reports ; she later labelled the speculation as clickbait and cited her relative public absence to continued social distancing during the COVID - 19 pandemic . In 2022 , Watson reunited with multiple cast members of the Harry Potter film series for an HBO Max special titled Harry Potter 20th Anniversary : Return to Hogwarts . The following year , Watson revealed in an interview with the Financial Times that a reason why she had not acted in almost five years was because she " wasn ' t very happy " with the profession and that she felt " a bit caged " . However , she went on to say that she will " absolutely " return to acting while also saying , " But I ' m happy to sit and wait for the next right thing . I love what I do . It ’ s finding a way to do it where I don ' t have to fracture myself into different faces and people . And I just don ’ t want to switch into robot mode any more . "	What are your future career plans?	I stated that I am interested in embracing a role where I can work to amplify more voices and continue to learn from those with different experiences.
Watson is an outspoken feminist . She has promoted education for girls , travelling to Bangladesh and Zambia to do so . In July 2014 , she was appointed a UN Women Goodwill ambassador . That September , an admittedly nervous Watson delivered an address at UN Headquarters in New York City to launch the UN Women campaign HeForShe , which aims to urge men to advocate for gender equality . In that speech she said she began questioning gender - based assumptions at age eight when she was called " bossy " , a trait she has attributed to her being a " perfectionist " , whilst boys were not , and at 14 when she was " sexualised by certain elements of the media " . Watson ' s speech described feminism as " the belief that men and women should have equal rights and opportunities " and declared that the perception of feminism as being " man - hating " is something that " has to stop " . The speech made worldwide headlines from both major news outlets and fashion blogs , and the organisation ' s website crashed after press coverage of the event . Watson later said she received threats within less than twelve hours of making the speech , which left her " raging . [ ... ] If they were trying to put me off [ women ' s rights work ] , it did the opposite . "	How did you describe feminism in your speech?	I described feminism as "the belief that men and women should have equal rights and opportunities".
In 2020 , Watson discussed her future career plans , stating : " Having been so public in making films and being so active on social [ media ] in my activism , I am curious to embrace a role where I work to amplify more voices , to continue to learn from those with different experiences " , adding that her work would include " fewer red carpets and more conference meetings " . In 2021 , various reports surfaced stating that Watson was engaged or retiring . Watson and her representatives refuted these reports ; she later labelled the speculation as clickbait and cited her relative public absence to continued social distancing during the COVID - 19 pandemic . In 2022 , Watson reunited with multiple cast members of the Harry Potter film series for an HBO Max special titled Harry Potter 20th Anniversary : Return to Hogwarts . The following year , Watson revealed in an interview with the Financial Times that a reason why she had not acted in almost five years was because she " wasn ' t very happy " with the profession and that she felt " a bit caged " . However , she went on to say that she will " absolutely " return to acting while also saying , " But I ' m happy to sit and wait for the next right thing . I love what I do . It ’ s finding a way to do it where I don ' t have to fracture myself into different faces and people . And I just don ’ t want to switch into robot mode any more . "	Why have you not acted in almost five years?	I revealed in an interview that I "wasn't very happy" with the profession and felt "a bit caged," but I also mentioned that I will "absolutely" return to acting when the right opportunity comes along.
In September 2009 , Watson announced her involvement with People Tree , a fair trade fashion brand . Watson worked as a creative adviser for the company to create a spring line of clothing , which was released in February 2010 ; the range featured styles inspired by southern France and London . The collection , described by The Times as " very clever " despite their " quiet hope that [ she ] would become tangled at the first hemp - woven hurdle " , was widely publicised in magazines such as Teen Vogue , Cosmopolitan , and People . Watson , who was not paid for the collaboration , admitted that competition for the range was minimal , but argued that " Fashion is a great way to empower people and give them skills ; rather than give cash to charity you can help people by buying the clothes they make and supporting things they take pride in " ; adding , " I think young people like me are becoming increasingly aware of the humanitarian issues surrounding fast fashion and want to make good choices but there aren ' t many options out there . " Watson continued her involvement with People Tree , resulting in the release of a 2010 Autumn / Winter collection .	What was your role in the collaboration with People Tree?	I worked as a creative adviser for the company.
Watson ' s first non - Potter role was the 2007 BBC film Ballet Shoes , an adaptation of the novel of the same title by Noel Streatfeild . The film ' s director , Sandra Goldbacher , commented that Watson was " perfect " for the starring role of aspiring actress Pauline Fossil : " She has a piercing , delicate aura that makes you want to gaze and gaze at her . " Ballet Shoes was broadcast in the UK on Boxing Day to 5.7   million viewers , to mixed reviews . The following year , she voiced the character Princess Pea in the animation The Tale of Despereaux , a children ' s comedy starring Matthew Broderick , with Harry Potter co - star Robbie Coltrane also starring in the film . The Tale of Despereaux was released in December 2008 and grossed $ 87   million worldwide .	What was your first non-Potter role?	My first non-Potter role was in the 2007 BBC film Ballet Shoes.
In the same year , she starred opposite Tom Hanks in the film adaptation of Dave Eggers ' novel The Circle as Mae Holland , who begins working at a powerful tech corporation and enters a perilous situation concerning surveillance and freedom . The film received negative reviews but was a moderate box office success . In 2019 , Watson starred as Meg March in Greta Gerwig ' s adaptation of Louisa May Alcott ' s novel Little Women , co - starring with Saoirse Ronan , Florence Pugh , Laura Dern , Timoth é e Chalamet , and Meryl Streep . On the premise , Watson has stated " I think [ Little Women ] was good literary device to explain that there ' s not one way to be a feminist .... [ Meg ' s ] way of being a feminist is making the choice – because that ' s really , for me anyway , what feminism is about . Her choice is that she wants to be a full - time mother and wife . " Forbes stated that " Watson has perhaps the most challenging [ ... ] role , as the proverbial straight woman of the sisters who is put on the defensive when her dreams end up being the most conventional of the lot . " The film was critically acclaimed and grossed over $ 218 million against its $ 40 million budget .	Who else starred in Little Women alongside you?	Saoirse Ronan, Florence Pugh, Laura Dern, Timoth é e Chalamet, and Meryl Streep.
With Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire ( 2005 ) , both Watson and the Harry Potter film series reached new milestones . The film set records for a Harry Potter opening weekend and opening weekend in the UK . Critics praised the increasing maturity of Watson and her teenage co - stars ; The New York Times called her performance " touchingly earnest " , and Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian wrote that " Watson ' s gutsy , confident performance nicely shows that inside and outside the world of magic there is a growing discrepancy between a teenage girl ' s status and her accelerating emotional and intellectual development . " For Watson , much of the film ' s humour sprang from the tension among the three lead characters as they matured . She said , " I loved all the arguing . ... I think it ' s much more realistic that they would argue and that there would be problems . " Nominated for three awards for Goblet of Fire , Watson won a bronze Otto Award .	How did critics describe your performance in the film?	The New York Times called my performance "touchingly earnest" and Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian wrote that "my gutsy, confident performance nicely shows that inside and outside the world of magic there is a growing discrepancy between a teenage girl's status and her accelerating emotional and intellectual development."
In September 2009 , Watson announced her involvement with People Tree , a fair trade fashion brand . Watson worked as a creative adviser for the company to create a spring line of clothing , which was released in February 2010 ; the range featured styles inspired by southern France and London . The collection , described by The Times as " very clever " despite their " quiet hope that [ she ] would become tangled at the first hemp - woven hurdle " , was widely publicised in magazines such as Teen Vogue , Cosmopolitan , and People . Watson , who was not paid for the collaboration , admitted that competition for the range was minimal , but argued that " Fashion is a great way to empower people and give them skills ; rather than give cash to charity you can help people by buying the clothes they make and supporting things they take pride in " ; adding , " I think young people like me are becoming increasingly aware of the humanitarian issues surrounding fast fashion and want to make good choices but there aren ' t many options out there . " Watson continued her involvement with People Tree , resulting in the release of a 2010 Autumn / Winter collection .	When did you announce your involvement with People Tree?	In September 2009.
Watson joined Judi Dench , Robert Downey Jr . , Mike Leigh , Julia Louis - Dreyfus , and Mark Ruffalo as recipients of the 2014 Britannia Awards , presented on 30 October in Los Angeles . Watson was awarded British Artist of the Year and she dedicated the prize to Millie , her pet hamster who died as Watson was filming Harry Potter and the Philosopher ' s Stone . Watson starred in two 2015 releases , the thrillers Colonia , opposite Daniel Br ü hl and Michael Nyqvist ; and Regression by Alejandro Amen á bar , alongside Ethan Hawke and her Harry Potter co - star David Thewlis . Both of these films received generally negative reviews ; The Daily Telegraph critic blamed Regression ' s script for her " pure dramatic cardboard " role . She also appeared in an episode of BBC ' s The Vicar of Dibley , in which she played Reverend Iris . In February 2016 , Watson announced she was taking a year - long break from acting . She planned to spend the time on her " personal development " and her women ' s rights work .	Who were the recipients of the 2014 Britannia Awards?	Judi Dench, Robert Downey Jr., Mike Leigh, Julia Louis-Dreyfus, and Mark Ruffalo.
In 2020 , Watson discussed her future career plans , stating : " Having been so public in making films and being so active on social [ media ] in my activism , I am curious to embrace a role where I work to amplify more voices , to continue to learn from those with different experiences " , adding that her work would include " fewer red carpets and more conference meetings " . In 2021 , various reports surfaced stating that Watson was engaged or retiring . Watson and her representatives refuted these reports ; she later labelled the speculation as clickbait and cited her relative public absence to continued social distancing during the COVID - 19 pandemic . In 2022 , Watson reunited with multiple cast members of the Harry Potter film series for an HBO Max special titled Harry Potter 20th Anniversary : Return to Hogwarts . The following year , Watson revealed in an interview with the Financial Times that a reason why she had not acted in almost five years was because she " wasn ' t very happy " with the profession and that she felt " a bit caged " . However , she went on to say that she will " absolutely " return to acting while also saying , " But I ' m happy to sit and wait for the next right thing . I love what I do . It ’ s finding a way to do it where I don ' t have to fracture myself into different faces and people . And I just don ’ t want to switch into robot mode any more . "	What were the reports about you in 2021?	Various reports surfaced stating that I was engaged or retiring.
With Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire ( 2005 ) , both Watson and the Harry Potter film series reached new milestones . The film set records for a Harry Potter opening weekend and opening weekend in the UK . Critics praised the increasing maturity of Watson and her teenage co - stars ; The New York Times called her performance " touchingly earnest " , and Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian wrote that " Watson ' s gutsy , confident performance nicely shows that inside and outside the world of magic there is a growing discrepancy between a teenage girl ' s status and her accelerating emotional and intellectual development . " For Watson , much of the film ' s humour sprang from the tension among the three lead characters as they matured . She said , " I loved all the arguing . ... I think it ' s much more realistic that they would argue and that there would be problems . " Nominated for three awards for Goblet of Fire , Watson won a bronze Otto Award .	How many awards were you nominated for the Goblet of Fire?	I was nominated for three awards for Goblet of Fire.
Watson is an outspoken feminist . She has promoted education for girls , travelling to Bangladesh and Zambia to do so . In July 2014 , she was appointed a UN Women Goodwill ambassador . That September , an admittedly nervous Watson delivered an address at UN Headquarters in New York City to launch the UN Women campaign HeForShe , which aims to urge men to advocate for gender equality . In that speech she said she began questioning gender - based assumptions at age eight when she was called " bossy " , a trait she has attributed to her being a " perfectionist " , whilst boys were not , and at 14 when she was " sexualised by certain elements of the media " . Watson ' s speech described feminism as " the belief that men and women should have equal rights and opportunities " and declared that the perception of feminism as being " man - hating " is something that " has to stop " . The speech made worldwide headlines from both major news outlets and fashion blogs , and the organisation ' s website crashed after press coverage of the event . Watson later said she received threats within less than twelve hours of making the speech , which left her " raging . [ ... ] If they were trying to put me off [ women ' s rights work ] , it did the opposite . "	What is the goal of the UN Women campaign HeForShe?	The goal is to urge men to advocate for gender equality.
In June 2021 , it was reported that Watson was part of a group of investors funding $ 12.5 million into FabricNano , a startup developing sustainable alternatives to petrochemical products . In January 2022 , Watson showed support for the Palestine cause by posting an image of a pro - Palestinian protest with a " Solidarity is a verb " banner on Instagram . This received backlash from former Israeli science minister Danny Danon , who posted on Twitter , " 10 points from Gryffindor for being an antisemite " . Israeli ambassador to the UN Gilad Erdan also criticised her . Danon ' s comment was criticised by Leah Greenberg , a co - executive director of Indivisible Project and Conservative Party peer Sayeeda Warsi . More than forty people , including Susan Sarandon , Mark Ruffalo , Miriam Margolyes , Gael Garc í a Bernal , Peter Capaldi , Maxine Peake , Viggo Mortensen , Steve Coogan and Charles Dance , supported Watson in a letter organised by Artists for Palestine UK .	What did you post on Instagram regarding the pro-Palestinian protest?	An image with a "Solidarity is a verb" banner.
In June 2012 , Watson was confirmed for the role as Ila , Shem ' s wife , in Darren Aronofsky ' s Noah , which began filming the following month , and was released in March 2014 . Watson referred to the role as " physically very demanding " given the usage of special effects and did extensive research on childbirth to effectively portray a scene in the film . The film , a box office success , received mixed reviews for its direction and casting ; Vanity Fair wrote that " Watson anchors the film ' s rawest emotional scenes .... Sitting on an Icelandic beach with Russell Crowe , her hair wild and eyes burning , Watson is quiet but ferocious . " In March 2013 , it was reported that Watson was in negotiations to star as the title character in Kenneth Branagh ' s live - action Disney adaptation of Cinderella . Watson was offered the role , but turned it down because she did not connect with the character . The role ultimately went to Lily James .	What kind of scenes did you have to do research on for Noah?	I did extensive research on childbirth to effectively portray a scene in the film Noah.
In 2013 , Watson starred in the satirical crime film The Bling Ring . The Sofia Coppola - directed film is based on the real - life Bling Ring robberies , with Watson playing a fictionalised version of Alexis Neiers , a television personality who was one of seven teenagers involved in the robberies . While the film mostly received mixed reviews , critics gave almost unanimous praise for Watson ' s performance . Adam White of The Independent later stated that " She prove [ d ] remarkable .... Watson oozes casual disdain . Her sticky American vocal fry is clipped and monotone , as if she ' s swallowed a Kardashian for breakfast . " Watson also had a supporting role in the apocalyptic comedy This Is the End ( 2013 ) , in which she , Seth Rogen , James Franco and many others played " exaggerated versions of themselves " and Watson memorably dropped the " f - bomb " . She said she could not pass up the opportunity to make her first comedy and " work with some of the best comedians [ ... ] in the world right now " .	Who did you play in The Bling Ring?	I played a fictionalised version of Alexis Neiers.
In June 2012 , Watson was confirmed for the role as Ila , Shem ' s wife , in Darren Aronofsky ' s Noah , which began filming the following month , and was released in March 2014 . Watson referred to the role as " physically very demanding " given the usage of special effects and did extensive research on childbirth to effectively portray a scene in the film . The film , a box office success , received mixed reviews for its direction and casting ; Vanity Fair wrote that " Watson anchors the film ' s rawest emotional scenes .... Sitting on an Icelandic beach with Russell Crowe , her hair wild and eyes burning , Watson is quiet but ferocious . " In March 2013 , it was reported that Watson was in negotiations to star as the title character in Kenneth Branagh ' s live - action Disney adaptation of Cinderella . Watson was offered the role , but turned it down because she did not connect with the character . The role ultimately went to Lily James .	How did you describe your role in Noah?	I described my role in Noah as "physically very demanding".
