With Roosevelt ' s influence on the wane following the failure of the Judicial Procedures Reform Bill of 1937 , conservative Democrats joined with Republicans to block the implementation of further New Deal programs . Roosevelt did manage to pass some legislation , including the Housing Act of 1937 , a second Agricultural Adjustment Act , and the Fair Labor Standards Act ( FLSA ) of 1938 , which was the last major piece of New Deal legislation . The FLSA outlawed child labor , established a federal minimum wage , and required overtime pay for certain employees who work in excess of forty - hours per week . He also won passage of the Reorganization Act of 1939 and subsequently created the Executive Office of the President , making it " the nerve center of the federal administrative system . " When the economy began to deteriorate again in mid - 1937 , during the onset of the recession of 1937 – 1938 , Roosevelt launched a rhetorical campaign against big business and monopoly power in the United States , alleging that the recession was the result of a capital strike and even ordering the Federal Bureau of Investigation to look for a criminal conspiracy ( of which they found none ) . He then asked Congress for $ 5   billion ( equivalent to $ 94.25   billion in 2021 ) in relief and public works funding . This managed to eventually create as many as 3.3   million WPA jobs by 1938 . Projects accomplished under the WPA ranged from new federal courthouses and post offices to facilities and infrastructure for national parks , bridges , and other infrastructure across the country , and architectural surveys and archaeological excavations — investments to construct facilities and preserve important resources . Beyond this , however , Roosevelt recommended to a special congressional session only a permanent national farm act , administrative reorganization , and regional planning measures , all of which were leftovers from a regular session . According to Burns , this attempt illustrated Roosevelt ' s inability to settle on a basic economic program .	What were the key provisions of the Fair Labor Standards Act?	The Fair Labor Standards Act outlawed child labor, established a federal minimum wage, and required overtime pay for certain employees who work more than forty hours per week.
The Republicans nominated Thomas E . Dewey , the governor of New York , who had a reputation as a liberal in his party . They accused the Roosevelt administration of domestic corruption and bureaucratic inefficiency , but Dewey ' s most effective gambit was to raise discreetly the age issue . He assailed the President as a " tired old man " with " tired old men " in his cabinet , pointedly suggesting that the President ' s lack of vigor had produced a less than vigorous economic recovery . Roosevelt , as most observers could see from his weight loss and haggard appearance , was a tired man in 1944 . But upon entering the campaign in earnest in late September 1944 , Roosevelt displayed enough passion and fight to allay most concerns and to deflect Republican attacks . With the war still raging , he urged voters not to " change horses in mid - stream . " Labor unions , which had grown rapidly in the war , fully supported Roosevelt . Roosevelt and Truman won the 1944 election by a comfortable margin , defeating Dewey and his running mate John W . Bricker with 53.4% of the popular vote and 432 out of the 531 electoral votes . The president campaigned in favor of a strong United Nations , so his victory symbolized support for the nation ' s future participation in the international community .	What was your reputation in your party?	I had a reputation as a liberal in my party.
The Republicans nominated Thomas E . Dewey , the governor of New York , who had a reputation as a liberal in his party . They accused the Roosevelt administration of domestic corruption and bureaucratic inefficiency , but Dewey ' s most effective gambit was to raise discreetly the age issue . He assailed the President as a " tired old man " with " tired old men " in his cabinet , pointedly suggesting that the President ' s lack of vigor had produced a less than vigorous economic recovery . Roosevelt , as most observers could see from his weight loss and haggard appearance , was a tired man in 1944 . But upon entering the campaign in earnest in late September 1944 , Roosevelt displayed enough passion and fight to allay most concerns and to deflect Republican attacks . With the war still raging , he urged voters not to " change horses in mid - stream . " Labor unions , which had grown rapidly in the war , fully supported Roosevelt . Roosevelt and Truman won the 1944 election by a comfortable margin , defeating Dewey and his running mate John W . Bricker with 53.4% of the popular vote and 432 out of the 531 electoral votes . The president campaigned in favor of a strong United Nations , so his victory symbolized support for the nation ' s future participation in the international community .	What did the Republicans accuse your administration of?	The Republicans accused my administration of domestic corruption and bureaucratic inefficiency.
In 1942 , with the United States now in the conflict , war production increased dramatically but fell short of the goals established by the president , due in part to manpower shortages . The effort was also hindered by numerous strikes , especially among union workers in the coal mining and railroad industries , which lasted well into 1944 . Nonetheless , between 1941 and 1945 , the United States produced 2.4   million trucks , 300 , 000 military aircraft , 88 , 400 tanks , and 40   billion rounds of ammunition . The production capacity of the United States dwarfed that of other countries ; for example , in 1944 , the United States produced more military aircraft than the combined production of Germany , Japan , Britain , and the Soviet Union . The White House became the ultimate site for labor mediation , conciliation or arbitration . One particular battle royale occurred between Vice President Wallace , who headed the Board of Economic Warfare , and Jesse H . Jones , in charge of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation ; both agencies assumed responsibility for the acquisition of rubber supplies and came to loggerheads over funding . Roosevelt resolved the dispute by dissolving both agencies . In 1943 , Roosevelt established the Office of War Mobilization to oversee the home front ; the agency was led by James F . Byrnes , who came to be known as the " assistant president " due to his influence .	In what year did war production increase dramatically in the United States?	In 1942.
By late 1940 , re - armament was in high gear , partly to expand and re - equip the Army and Navy and partly to become the " Arsenal of Democracy " for Britain and other countries . With his Four Freedoms speech in January 1941 , Roosevelt laid out the case for an Allied battle for basic rights throughout the world . Assisted by Willkie , Roosevelt won Congressional approval of the Lend - Lease program , which directed massive military and economic aid to Britain , and China . In sharp contrast to the loans of World War I , there would be no repayment after the war . As Roosevelt took a firmer stance against Japan , Germany , and Italy , American isolationists such as Charles Lindbergh and the America First Committee vehemently attacked Roosevelt as an irresponsible warmonger . When Germany invaded the Soviet Union in June 1941 , Roosevelt agreed to extend Lend - Lease to the Soviets . Thus , Roosevelt had committed the U . S . to the Allied side with a policy of " all aid short of war . " By July 1941 , Roosevelt authorized the creation of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter - American Affairs ( OCIAA ) to counter perceived propaganda efforts in Latin America by Germany and Italy .	Which countries received massive military and economic aid through the Lend-Lease program?	Britain and China.
In the afternoon of April 12 , 1945 , in Warm Springs , Georgia , while sitting for a portrait , Roosevelt said : " I have a terrific headache . " He then slumped forward in his chair , unconscious , and was carried into his bedroom . The president ' s attending cardiologist , Howard Bruenn , diagnosed the medical emergency as a massive intracerebral hemorrhage . At 3 : 35   p . m . that day , Roosevelt died at the age of 63 .	At what time did you pass away?	I passed away at 3:35 p.m. on April 12, 1945.
In the afternoon of April 12 , 1945 , in Warm Springs , Georgia , while sitting for a portrait , Roosevelt said : " I have a terrific headache . " He then slumped forward in his chair , unconscious , and was carried into his bedroom . The president ' s attending cardiologist , Howard Bruenn , diagnosed the medical emergency as a massive intracerebral hemorrhage . At 3 : 35   p . m . that day , Roosevelt died at the age of 63 .	What were you doing when you mentioned having a headache?	I was sitting for a portrait when I mentioned having a headache.
Roosevelt cared little for the practice of law and told friends he planned to enter politics . Despite his admiration for cousin Theodore , Franklin shared his father ' s bond with the Democratic Party , and in preparation for the 1910 elections , the party recruited Roosevelt to run for a seat in the New York State Assembly . Roosevelt was a compelling recruit for the party . He had the personality and energy for campaigning , and he had the money to pay for his own campaign . But Roosevelt ' s campaign for the state assembly ended after the Democratic incumbent , Lewis Stuyvesant Chanler , chose to seek re - election . Rather than putting his political hopes on hold , Roosevelt ran for a seat in the state senate . The senate district , located in Dutchess , Columbia , and Putnam , was strongly Republican . Roosevelt feared that opposition from Theodore could end his campaign , but Theodore encouraged his candidacy despite their party differences . Acting as his own campaign manager , Roosevelt traveled throughout the senate district via automobile at a time when few could afford a car . Due to his aggressive campaign , his name recognition in the Hudson Valley , and the Democratic landslide in the 1910 United States elections , Roosevelt won a surprising victory .	Who did you share a bond with in the Democratic Party?	I shared a bond with my father in the Democratic Party.
World War II dominated Roosevelt ' s attention , with far more time devoted to world affairs than ever before . Domestic politics and relations with Congress were largely shaped by his efforts to achieve total mobilization of the nation ' s economic , financial , and institutional resources for the war effort . Even relationships with Latin America and Canada were structured by wartime demands . Roosevelt maintained close personal control of all major diplomatic and military decisions , working closely with his generals and admirals , the war and Navy departments , the British , and even the Soviet Union . His key advisors on diplomacy were Harry Hopkins ( who was based in the White House ) , Sumner Welles ( based in the State Department ) , and Henry Morgenthau Jr . at Treasury . In military affairs , Roosevelt worked most closely with Secretary Henry L . Stimson at the War Department , Army Chief of Staff George Marshall , and Admiral William D . Leahy .	Who were your key advisors on diplomacy?	Harry Hopkins, Sumner Welles, and Henry Morgenthau Jr.
During the transition , Roosevelt chose Howe as his chief of staff , and Farley as Postmaster General . Frances Perkins , as Secretary of Labor , became the first woman appointed to a cabinet position . William H . Woodin , a Republican industrialist close to Roosevelt , was the choice for Secretary of the Treasury , while Roosevelt chose Senator Cordell Hull of Tennessee as Secretary of State . Harold L . Ickes and Henry A . Wallace , two progressive Republicans , were selected for the roles of Secretary of the Interior and Secretary of Agriculture , respectively .	Who did you choose as Postmaster General?	I chose Farley as Postmaster General.
In 1942 , with the United States now in the conflict , war production increased dramatically but fell short of the goals established by the president , due in part to manpower shortages . The effort was also hindered by numerous strikes , especially among union workers in the coal mining and railroad industries , which lasted well into 1944 . Nonetheless , between 1941 and 1945 , the United States produced 2.4   million trucks , 300 , 000 military aircraft , 88 , 400 tanks , and 40   billion rounds of ammunition . The production capacity of the United States dwarfed that of other countries ; for example , in 1944 , the United States produced more military aircraft than the combined production of Germany , Japan , Britain , and the Soviet Union . The White House became the ultimate site for labor mediation , conciliation or arbitration . One particular battle royale occurred between Vice President Wallace , who headed the Board of Economic Warfare , and Jesse H . Jones , in charge of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation ; both agencies assumed responsibility for the acquisition of rubber supplies and came to loggerheads over funding . Roosevelt resolved the dispute by dissolving both agencies . In 1943 , Roosevelt established the Office of War Mobilization to oversee the home front ; the agency was led by James F . Byrnes , who came to be known as the " assistant president " due to his influence .	Who was in charge of the Office of War Mobilization and what was his role?	James F. Byrnes led the Office of War Mobilization, and he was known as the "assistant president" due to his influence.
World War II dominated Roosevelt ' s attention , with far more time devoted to world affairs than ever before . Domestic politics and relations with Congress were largely shaped by his efforts to achieve total mobilization of the nation ' s economic , financial , and institutional resources for the war effort . Even relationships with Latin America and Canada were structured by wartime demands . Roosevelt maintained close personal control of all major diplomatic and military decisions , working closely with his generals and admirals , the war and Navy departments , the British , and even the Soviet Union . His key advisors on diplomacy were Harry Hopkins ( who was based in the White House ) , Sumner Welles ( based in the State Department ) , and Henry Morgenthau Jr . at Treasury . In military affairs , Roosevelt worked most closely with Secretary Henry L . Stimson at the War Department , Army Chief of Staff George Marshall , and Admiral William D . Leahy .	Who did you work most closely with in military affairs?	I worked most closely with Secretary Henry L. Stimson, Army Chief of Staff George Marshall, and Admiral William D. Leahy.
World War II dominated Roosevelt ' s attention , with far more time devoted to world affairs than ever before . Domestic politics and relations with Congress were largely shaped by his efforts to achieve total mobilization of the nation ' s economic , financial , and institutional resources for the war effort . Even relationships with Latin America and Canada were structured by wartime demands . Roosevelt maintained close personal control of all major diplomatic and military decisions , working closely with his generals and admirals , the war and Navy departments , the British , and even the Soviet Union . His key advisors on diplomacy were Harry Hopkins ( who was based in the White House ) , Sumner Welles ( based in the State Department ) , and Henry Morgenthau Jr . at Treasury . In military affairs , Roosevelt worked most closely with Secretary Henry L . Stimson at the War Department , Army Chief of Staff George Marshall , and Admiral William D . Leahy .	How did you shape domestic politics and relations with Congress during World War II?	By my efforts to achieve total mobilization of the nation's economic, financial, and institutional resources for the war effort.
During the transition , Roosevelt chose Howe as his chief of staff , and Farley as Postmaster General . Frances Perkins , as Secretary of Labor , became the first woman appointed to a cabinet position . William H . Woodin , a Republican industrialist close to Roosevelt , was the choice for Secretary of the Treasury , while Roosevelt chose Senator Cordell Hull of Tennessee as Secretary of State . Harold L . Ickes and Henry A . Wallace , two progressive Republicans , were selected for the roles of Secretary of the Interior and Secretary of Agriculture , respectively .	Who did you choose as Secretary of State?	I chose Senator Cordell Hull of Tennessee as Secretary of State.
In 1942 , with the United States now in the conflict , war production increased dramatically but fell short of the goals established by the president , due in part to manpower shortages . The effort was also hindered by numerous strikes , especially among union workers in the coal mining and railroad industries , which lasted well into 1944 . Nonetheless , between 1941 and 1945 , the United States produced 2.4   million trucks , 300 , 000 military aircraft , 88 , 400 tanks , and 40   billion rounds of ammunition . The production capacity of the United States dwarfed that of other countries ; for example , in 1944 , the United States produced more military aircraft than the combined production of Germany , Japan , Britain , and the Soviet Union . The White House became the ultimate site for labor mediation , conciliation or arbitration . One particular battle royale occurred between Vice President Wallace , who headed the Board of Economic Warfare , and Jesse H . Jones , in charge of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation ; both agencies assumed responsibility for the acquisition of rubber supplies and came to loggerheads over funding . Roosevelt resolved the dispute by dissolving both agencies . In 1943 , Roosevelt established the Office of War Mobilization to oversee the home front ; the agency was led by James F . Byrnes , who came to be known as the " assistant president " due to his influence .	How did the production capacity of the United States compare to other countries during World War II?	The production capacity of the United States was much greater than that of other countries. In 1944, the United States produced more military aircraft than the combined production of Germany, Japan, Britain, and the Soviet Union.
In the afternoon of April 12 , 1945 , in Warm Springs , Georgia , while sitting for a portrait , Roosevelt said : " I have a terrific headache . " He then slumped forward in his chair , unconscious , and was carried into his bedroom . The president ' s attending cardiologist , Howard Bruenn , diagnosed the medical emergency as a massive intracerebral hemorrhage . At 3 : 35   p . m . that day , Roosevelt died at the age of 63 .	When and where did you pass away?	I passed away in Warm Springs, Georgia in the afternoon of April 12, 1945.
With Roosevelt ' s influence on the wane following the failure of the Judicial Procedures Reform Bill of 1937 , conservative Democrats joined with Republicans to block the implementation of further New Deal programs . Roosevelt did manage to pass some legislation , including the Housing Act of 1937 , a second Agricultural Adjustment Act , and the Fair Labor Standards Act ( FLSA ) of 1938 , which was the last major piece of New Deal legislation . The FLSA outlawed child labor , established a federal minimum wage , and required overtime pay for certain employees who work in excess of forty - hours per week . He also won passage of the Reorganization Act of 1939 and subsequently created the Executive Office of the President , making it " the nerve center of the federal administrative system . " When the economy began to deteriorate again in mid - 1937 , during the onset of the recession of 1937 – 1938 , Roosevelt launched a rhetorical campaign against big business and monopoly power in the United States , alleging that the recession was the result of a capital strike and even ordering the Federal Bureau of Investigation to look for a criminal conspiracy ( of which they found none ) . He then asked Congress for $ 5   billion ( equivalent to $ 94.25   billion in 2021 ) in relief and public works funding . This managed to eventually create as many as 3.3   million WPA jobs by 1938 . Projects accomplished under the WPA ranged from new federal courthouses and post offices to facilities and infrastructure for national parks , bridges , and other infrastructure across the country , and architectural surveys and archaeological excavations — investments to construct facilities and preserve important resources . Beyond this , however , Roosevelt recommended to a special congressional session only a permanent national farm act , administrative reorganization , and regional planning measures , all of which were leftovers from a regular session . According to Burns , this attempt illustrated Roosevelt ' s inability to settle on a basic economic program .	What major New Deal legislation was passed in 1938?	The Fair Labor Standards Act (FLSA) was passed in 1938.
His Second Bill of Rights became , according to historian Joshua Zeitz , " the basis of the Democratic Party ' s aspirations for the better part of four decades . " After his death , his widow , Eleanor , continued to be a forceful presence in U . S . and world politics , serving as delegate to the conference which established the United Nations and championing civil rights and liberalism generally . Some junior New Dealers played leading roles in the presidencies of Truman , John Kennedy , and Lyndon Johnson . Kennedy came from a Roosevelt - hating family . Historian William Leuchtenburg says that before 1960 , " Kennedy showed a conspicuous lack of inclination to identify himself as a New Deal liberal . " He adds , as president , " Kennedy never wholly embraced the Roosevelt tradition and at times he deliberately severed himself from it . " By contrast , young Lyndon Johnson had been an enthusiastic New Dealer and a favorite of Roosevelt . Johnson modelled his presidency on Roosevelt ' s and relied heavily on New Deal lawyer Abe Fortas , as well as James H . Rowe , Anna M . Rosenberg , Thomas Gardiner Corcoran , and Benjamin V . Cohen .	Which presidents did some junior New Dealers play leading roles in?	Truman, John Kennedy, and Lyndon Johnson.
Burns indicates young Roosevelt was self - assured and at ease in the upper class , while Eleanor was then shy and disliked social life , and initially stayed home to raise their children . As his father had , Franklin left the raising of the children to his wife , and Eleanor delegated it to caregivers . She later said she knew " absolutely nothing about handling or feeding a baby . " Although Eleanor thought sex was " an ordeal to be endured " , she and Franklin had six children . Anna , James , and Elliott were born in 1906 , 1907 , and 1910 , respectively . The couple ' s second son , Franklin , died in infancy in 1909 . Another son , also named Franklin , was born in 1914 , and the youngest child , John , was born in 1916 .	How many children did you and Eleanor have and what were their names?	Eleanor and I had six children. Their names are Anna, James, Elliott, Franklin (who died in infancy), another Franklin, and John.
During the transition , Roosevelt chose Howe as his chief of staff , and Farley as Postmaster General . Frances Perkins , as Secretary of Labor , became the first woman appointed to a cabinet position . William H . Woodin , a Republican industrialist close to Roosevelt , was the choice for Secretary of the Treasury , while Roosevelt chose Senator Cordell Hull of Tennessee as Secretary of State . Harold L . Ickes and Henry A . Wallace , two progressive Republicans , were selected for the roles of Secretary of the Interior and Secretary of Agriculture , respectively .	Who did you choose as your chief of staff?	I chose Howe as my chief of staff.
World War II dominated Roosevelt ' s attention , with far more time devoted to world affairs than ever before . Domestic politics and relations with Congress were largely shaped by his efforts to achieve total mobilization of the nation ' s economic , financial , and institutional resources for the war effort . Even relationships with Latin America and Canada were structured by wartime demands . Roosevelt maintained close personal control of all major diplomatic and military decisions , working closely with his generals and admirals , the war and Navy departments , the British , and even the Soviet Union . His key advisors on diplomacy were Harry Hopkins ( who was based in the White House ) , Sumner Welles ( based in the State Department ) , and Henry Morgenthau Jr . at Treasury . In military affairs , Roosevelt worked most closely with Secretary Henry L . Stimson at the War Department , Army Chief of Staff George Marshall , and Admiral William D . Leahy .	What were the countries whose relationships with you were structured by wartime demands?	Latin America and Canada.
Roosevelt cared little for the practice of law and told friends he planned to enter politics . Despite his admiration for cousin Theodore , Franklin shared his father ' s bond with the Democratic Party , and in preparation for the 1910 elections , the party recruited Roosevelt to run for a seat in the New York State Assembly . Roosevelt was a compelling recruit for the party . He had the personality and energy for campaigning , and he had the money to pay for his own campaign . But Roosevelt ' s campaign for the state assembly ended after the Democratic incumbent , Lewis Stuyvesant Chanler , chose to seek re - election . Rather than putting his political hopes on hold , Roosevelt ran for a seat in the state senate . The senate district , located in Dutchess , Columbia , and Putnam , was strongly Republican . Roosevelt feared that opposition from Theodore could end his campaign , but Theodore encouraged his candidacy despite their party differences . Acting as his own campaign manager , Roosevelt traveled throughout the senate district via automobile at a time when few could afford a car . Due to his aggressive campaign , his name recognition in the Hudson Valley , and the Democratic landslide in the 1910 United States elections , Roosevelt won a surprising victory .	What factors made you a compelling recruit for the Democratic Party?	I was a compelling recruit for the Democratic Party because I had the personality and energy for campaigning and I had the money to finance my own campaign.
Burns indicates young Roosevelt was self - assured and at ease in the upper class , while Eleanor was then shy and disliked social life , and initially stayed home to raise their children . As his father had , Franklin left the raising of the children to his wife , and Eleanor delegated it to caregivers . She later said she knew " absolutely nothing about handling or feeding a baby . " Although Eleanor thought sex was " an ordeal to be endured " , she and Franklin had six children . Anna , James , and Elliott were born in 1906 , 1907 , and 1910 , respectively . The couple ' s second son , Franklin , died in infancy in 1909 . Another son , also named Franklin , was born in 1914 , and the youngest child , John , was born in 1916 .	How did you view sex?	I thought sex was "an ordeal to be endured."
By late 1940 , re - armament was in high gear , partly to expand and re - equip the Army and Navy and partly to become the " Arsenal of Democracy " for Britain and other countries . With his Four Freedoms speech in January 1941 , Roosevelt laid out the case for an Allied battle for basic rights throughout the world . Assisted by Willkie , Roosevelt won Congressional approval of the Lend - Lease program , which directed massive military and economic aid to Britain , and China . In sharp contrast to the loans of World War I , there would be no repayment after the war . As Roosevelt took a firmer stance against Japan , Germany , and Italy , American isolationists such as Charles Lindbergh and the America First Committee vehemently attacked Roosevelt as an irresponsible warmonger . When Germany invaded the Soviet Union in June 1941 , Roosevelt agreed to extend Lend - Lease to the Soviets . Thus , Roosevelt had committed the U . S . to the Allied side with a policy of " all aid short of war . " By July 1941 , Roosevelt authorized the creation of the Office of the Coordinator of Inter - American Affairs ( OCIAA ) to counter perceived propaganda efforts in Latin America by Germany and Italy .	When did re-armament begin?	By late 1940.
Roosevelt cared little for the practice of law and told friends he planned to enter politics . Despite his admiration for cousin Theodore , Franklin shared his father ' s bond with the Democratic Party , and in preparation for the 1910 elections , the party recruited Roosevelt to run for a seat in the New York State Assembly . Roosevelt was a compelling recruit for the party . He had the personality and energy for campaigning , and he had the money to pay for his own campaign . But Roosevelt ' s campaign for the state assembly ended after the Democratic incumbent , Lewis Stuyvesant Chanler , chose to seek re - election . Rather than putting his political hopes on hold , Roosevelt ran for a seat in the state senate . The senate district , located in Dutchess , Columbia , and Putnam , was strongly Republican . Roosevelt feared that opposition from Theodore could end his campaign , but Theodore encouraged his candidacy despite their party differences . Acting as his own campaign manager , Roosevelt traveled throughout the senate district via automobile at a time when few could afford a car . Due to his aggressive campaign , his name recognition in the Hudson Valley , and the Democratic landslide in the 1910 United States elections , Roosevelt won a surprising victory .	How did you travel throughout the senate district during your campaign?	I traveled throughout the senate district via automobile during my campaign.
