The most notable aspect of his songwriting involved the wide range of genres that he used , which included , among other styles , rockabilly , progressive rock , heavy metal , gospel , and disco . As he explained in a 1986 interview , " I hate doing the same thing again and again and again . I like to see what ' s happening now in music , film and theatre and incorporate all of those things . " Compared to many popular songwriters , Mercury also tended to write musically complex material . For example , " Bohemian Rhapsody " is non - cyclical in structure and comprises dozens of chords . He also wrote six songs from Queen II which deal with multiple key changes and complex material . " Crazy Little Thing Called Love " , on the other hand , contains only a few chords . Although Mercury often wrote very intricate harmonies , he claimed that he could barely read music . He composed most of his songs on the piano and used a wide variety of key signatures .	How does your songwriting compare to other popular songwriters?	Compared to many popular songwriters, I tend to write musically complex material.
As a young boy in India , Mercury received formal piano training up to the age of nine . Later on , while living in London , he learned guitar . Much of the music he liked was guitar - oriented : his favourite artists at the time were the Who , the Beatles , Jimi Hendrix , David Bowie , and Led Zeppelin . He was often self - deprecating about his skills on both instruments . However , Brian May states Mercury " had a wonderful touch on the piano . He could play what came from inside him like nobody else – incredible rhythm , incredible passion and feeling . " Keyboardist Rick Wakeman praised Mercury ' s playing style , saying he " discovered [ the piano ] for himself " and successfully composed a number of Queen songs on the instrument . From the early 1980s Mercury began extensively using guest keyboardists . Most notably , he enlisted Fred Mandel ( a Canadian musician who also worked for Pink Floyd , Elton John , and Supertramp ) for his first solo project . From 1982 Mercury collaborated with Morgan Fisher ( who performed with Queen in concert during the Hot Space leg ) , and from 1985 onward Mercury collaborated with Mike Moran ( in the studio ) and Spike Edney ( in concert ) .	Who did you collaborate with for your first solo project?	I enlisted Fred Mandel, a Canadian musician who also worked for Pink Floyd, Elton John, and Supertramp, for my first solo project.
As a young boy in India , Mercury received formal piano training up to the age of nine . Later on , while living in London , he learned guitar . Much of the music he liked was guitar - oriented : his favourite artists at the time were the Who , the Beatles , Jimi Hendrix , David Bowie , and Led Zeppelin . He was often self - deprecating about his skills on both instruments . However , Brian May states Mercury " had a wonderful touch on the piano . He could play what came from inside him like nobody else – incredible rhythm , incredible passion and feeling . " Keyboardist Rick Wakeman praised Mercury ' s playing style , saying he " discovered [ the piano ] for himself " and successfully composed a number of Queen songs on the instrument . From the early 1980s Mercury began extensively using guest keyboardists . Most notably , he enlisted Fred Mandel ( a Canadian musician who also worked for Pink Floyd , Elton John , and Supertramp ) for his first solo project . From 1982 Mercury collaborated with Morgan Fisher ( who performed with Queen in concert during the Hot Space leg ) , and from 1985 onward Mercury collaborated with Mike Moran ( in the studio ) and Spike Edney ( in concert ) .	At what age did you receive formal piano training?	I received formal piano training up to the age of nine.
Mercury and Austin remained friends through the years ; Mercury often referred to her as his only true friend . In a 1985 interview , he said of Austin : " All my lovers asked me why they couldn ' t replace Mary , but it ' s simply impossible . The only friend I ' ve got is Mary , and I don ' t want anybody else . To me , she was my common - law wife . To me , it was a marriage . We believe in each other , that ' s enough for me . " Mercury ' s final home , Garden Lodge , a 28 - room Georgian mansion in Kensington set in a quarter - acre manicured garden surrounded by a high brick wall , was picked out by Austin . Austin married the painting artist Piers Cameron ; they have two children . Mercury was the godfather of her older son , Richard . In his will , Mercury left his London home to Austin having told her , " You would have been my wife , and it would have been yours anyway . "	Who picked out your final home, Garden Lodge?	Austin
One of Mercury ' s most notable performances with Queen took place at Live Aid in 1985 . Queen ' s performance at the event has since been voted by a group of music executives as the greatest live performance in the history of rock music . The results were aired on a television program called " The World ' s Greatest Gigs " . Mercury ' s powerful , sustained note during the a cappella section came to be known as " The Note Heard Round the World " . In reviewing Live Aid in 2005 , one critic wrote , " Those who compile lists of Great Rock Frontmen and award the top spots to Mick Jagger , Robert Plant , etc . all are guilty of a terrible oversight . Freddie , as evidenced by his Dionysian Live Aid performance , was easily the most godlike of them all . " Photographer Denis O ' Regan , who captured a definitive pose of Mercury on stage — arched back , knee bent and facing toward the sky — during his final tour with Queen in 1986 , commented " Freddie was a once - in - a - lifetime showman " . Queen roadie Peter Hince states , " It wasn ' t just about his voice but the way he commanded the stage . For him it was all about interacting with the audience and knowing how to get them on his side . And he gave everything in every show . "	What is the name of the television program where the results of the vote were aired?	The results of the vote were aired on a television program called "The World's Greatest Gigs".
One of Mercury ' s most notable performances with Queen took place at Live Aid in 1985 . Queen ' s performance at the event has since been voted by a group of music executives as the greatest live performance in the history of rock music . The results were aired on a television program called " The World ' s Greatest Gigs " . Mercury ' s powerful , sustained note during the a cappella section came to be known as " The Note Heard Round the World " . In reviewing Live Aid in 2005 , one critic wrote , " Those who compile lists of Great Rock Frontmen and award the top spots to Mick Jagger , Robert Plant , etc . all are guilty of a terrible oversight . Freddie , as evidenced by his Dionysian Live Aid performance , was easily the most godlike of them all . " Photographer Denis O ' Regan , who captured a definitive pose of Mercury on stage — arched back , knee bent and facing toward the sky — during his final tour with Queen in 1986 , commented " Freddie was a once - in - a - lifetime showman " . Queen roadie Peter Hince states , " It wasn ' t just about his voice but the way he commanded the stage . For him it was all about interacting with the audience and knowing how to get them on his side . And he gave everything in every show . "	What is the name given to your powerful, sustained note during the a cappella section?	My powerful, sustained note during the a cappella section is known as "The Note Heard Round the World".
On 1 September 2016 , an English Heritage blue plaque was unveiled at Mercury ' s home in 22 Gladstone Avenue in Feltham , west London by his sister , Kashmira Cooke , and Brian May . Attending the ceremony , Karen Bradley , the UK Secretary of State for Culture , called Mercury " one of Britain ' s most influential musicians " , and added he " is a global icon whose music touched the lives of millions of people around the world " . On 24 February 2020 a street in Feltham was renamed Freddie Mercury Close during a ceremony attended by his sister Kashmira . On 5 September 2016 , the 70th anniversary of Mercury ' s birth , asteroid 17473 Freddiemercury was named after him . Issuing the certificate of designation to the " charismatic singer " , Joel Parker of the Southwest Research Institute added : " Freddie Mercury sang , ' I ' m a shooting star leaping through the sky '   — and now that is even more true than ever before . " In an April 2019 interview , British rock concert promoter Harvey Goldsmith referred to Mercury as " one of our most treasured talents " .	How did you describe me?	I called you "one of Britain's most influential musicians" and a "global icon whose music touched the lives of millions of people around the world".
Some believe Mercury was bisexual ; for example , regarding the creation of Celebrate Bisexuality Day , Wendy Curry said : " We were sitting around at one of the annual bi conventions , venting and someone   – I think it was Gigi   – said we should have a party . We all loved the great bisexual , Freddie Mercury . His birthday was in September , so why not Sept ? We wanted a weekend day to ensure the most people would do something . Gigi ' s birthday was September 23rd . It fell on a weekend day , so , poof ! We had a day . " The Advocate said in May 2018 , " Closeted throughout his life , Mercury , who was bisexual , engaged in affairs with men but referred to a woman he loved in his youth , Mary Austin , as ' the love of his life , ' according to the biography Somebody to Love : The Life , Death , and Legacy of Freddie Mercury . " Additionally , according to an obituary Mercury was a " self - confessed bisexual " . The 2018 biopic of Mercury , Bohemian Rhapsody , received criticism for its portrayal of Mercury ' s sexuality , which was described as " sterilized " and " confused " , and was even accused of being " dangerous " .	Why did you decide to have the celebration in September?	I decided to have the celebration in September because my birthday was in that month and I wanted a weekend day to ensure more people would participate.
Although he cultivated a flamboyant stage personality , Mercury was shy and retiring when not performing , particularly around people he did not know well , and granted very few interviews . He once said of himself : " When I ' m performing I ' m an extrovert , yet inside I ' m a completely different man . " On this contrast to " his larger - than - life stage persona " , BBC music broadcaster Bob Harris adds he was " lovely , bright , sensitive , and quite vulnerable . " While on stage , Mercury basked in the love from his audience . Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain ' s suicide note mentions how he admired and envied the way Mercury " seemed to love , relish in the love and adoration from the crowd " .	Who did you feel comfortable around?	People I knew well.
Mercury and Austin remained friends through the years ; Mercury often referred to her as his only true friend . In a 1985 interview , he said of Austin : " All my lovers asked me why they couldn ' t replace Mary , but it ' s simply impossible . The only friend I ' ve got is Mary , and I don ' t want anybody else . To me , she was my common - law wife . To me , it was a marriage . We believe in each other , that ' s enough for me . " Mercury ' s final home , Garden Lodge , a 28 - room Georgian mansion in Kensington set in a quarter - acre manicured garden surrounded by a high brick wall , was picked out by Austin . Austin married the painting artist Piers Cameron ; they have two children . Mercury was the godfather of her older son , Richard . In his will , Mercury left his London home to Austin having told her , " You would have been my wife , and it would have been yours anyway . "	Who were you the godfather of?	Austin's older son, Richard.
The most notable aspect of his songwriting involved the wide range of genres that he used , which included , among other styles , rockabilly , progressive rock , heavy metal , gospel , and disco . As he explained in a 1986 interview , " I hate doing the same thing again and again and again . I like to see what ' s happening now in music , film and theatre and incorporate all of those things . " Compared to many popular songwriters , Mercury also tended to write musically complex material . For example , " Bohemian Rhapsody " is non - cyclical in structure and comprises dozens of chords . He also wrote six songs from Queen II which deal with multiple key changes and complex material . " Crazy Little Thing Called Love " , on the other hand , contains only a few chords . Although Mercury often wrote very intricate harmonies , he claimed that he could barely read music . He composed most of his songs on the piano and used a wide variety of key signatures .	What was the most notable aspect of your songwriting?	The most notable aspect of my songwriting involved the wide range of genres that I used.
In 1987 , Mercury celebrated his 41st birthday at the Pikes Hotel , Ibiza , Spain , several months after discovering that he had contracted HIV . Mercury sought much comfort at the retreat and was a close friend of the owner , Anthony Pike , who described Mercury as " the most beautiful person I ' ve ever met in my life . So entertaining and generous . " According to biographer Lesley - Ann Jones , Mercury " felt very much at home there . He played some tennis , lounged by the pool , and ventured out to the odd gay club or bar at night . " The birthday party , held on 5 September 1987 , has been described as " the most incredible example of excess the Mediterranean island had ever seen " , and was attended by some 700 people . A cake in the shape of Antoni Gaudi ' s Sagrada Fam í lia was provided for the party . The original cake collapsed and was replaced with a two - metre - long sponge cake decorated with the notes from Mercury ' s song " Barcelona " . The bill , which included 232 broken glasses , was presented to Queen ' s manager , Jim Beach . Before his death , Mercury had told Beach , " You can do what you want with my music , but don ' t make me boring . "	How many people attended your birthday party?	Approximately 700 people attended my birthday party.
Throughout his career , Mercury performed an estimated 700 concerts in countries around the world with Queen . A notable aspect of Queen concerts was the large scale involved . He once explained , " We ' re the Cecil B . DeMille of rock and roll , always wanting to do things bigger and better . " The band was the first ever to play in South American stadiums , breaking worldwide records for concert attendance in the Morumbi Stadium in S ã o Paulo in 1981 . In 1986 , Queen also played behind the Iron Curtain when they performed to a crowd of 80 , 000 in Budapest , in what was one of the biggest rock concerts ever held in Eastern Europe . Mercury ' s final live performance with Queen took place on 9 August 1986 at Knebworth Park in England and drew an attendance estimated as high as 200 , 000 . A week prior to Knebworth , May recalled Mercury saying " I ' m not going to be doing this forever . This is probably the last time . " With the British national anthem " God Save the Queen " playing at the end of the concert , Mercury ' s final act on stage saw him draped in a robe , holding a golden crown aloft , bidding farewell to the crowd .	Where did Queen break worldwide records for concert attendance in 1981?	Queen broke worldwide records for concert attendance in the Morumbi Stadium in S ã o Paulo.
On 1 September 2016 , an English Heritage blue plaque was unveiled at Mercury ' s home in 22 Gladstone Avenue in Feltham , west London by his sister , Kashmira Cooke , and Brian May . Attending the ceremony , Karen Bradley , the UK Secretary of State for Culture , called Mercury " one of Britain ' s most influential musicians " , and added he " is a global icon whose music touched the lives of millions of people around the world " . On 24 February 2020 a street in Feltham was renamed Freddie Mercury Close during a ceremony attended by his sister Kashmira . On 5 September 2016 , the 70th anniversary of Mercury ' s birth , asteroid 17473 Freddiemercury was named after him . Issuing the certificate of designation to the " charismatic singer " , Joel Parker of the Southwest Research Institute added : " Freddie Mercury sang , ' I ' m a shooting star leaping through the sky '   — and now that is even more true than ever before . " In an April 2019 interview , British rock concert promoter Harvey Goldsmith referred to Mercury as " one of our most treasured talents " .	What is the address of your home?	22 Gladstone Avenue in Feltham, west London.
Although he cultivated a flamboyant stage personality , Mercury was shy and retiring when not performing , particularly around people he did not know well , and granted very few interviews . He once said of himself : " When I ' m performing I ' m an extrovert , yet inside I ' m a completely different man . " On this contrast to " his larger - than - life stage persona " , BBC music broadcaster Bob Harris adds he was " lovely , bright , sensitive , and quite vulnerable . " While on stage , Mercury basked in the love from his audience . Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain ' s suicide note mentions how he admired and envied the way Mercury " seemed to love , relish in the love and adoration from the crowd " .	How do you describe yourself when performing?	An extrovert on stage, but a completely different person inside.
In 1987 , Mercury celebrated his 41st birthday at the Pikes Hotel , Ibiza , Spain , several months after discovering that he had contracted HIV . Mercury sought much comfort at the retreat and was a close friend of the owner , Anthony Pike , who described Mercury as " the most beautiful person I ' ve ever met in my life . So entertaining and generous . " According to biographer Lesley - Ann Jones , Mercury " felt very much at home there . He played some tennis , lounged by the pool , and ventured out to the odd gay club or bar at night . " The birthday party , held on 5 September 1987 , has been described as " the most incredible example of excess the Mediterranean island had ever seen " , and was attended by some 700 people . A cake in the shape of Antoni Gaudi ' s Sagrada Fam í lia was provided for the party . The original cake collapsed and was replaced with a two - metre - long sponge cake decorated with the notes from Mercury ' s song " Barcelona " . The bill , which included 232 broken glasses , was presented to Queen ' s manager , Jim Beach . Before his death , Mercury had told Beach , " You can do what you want with my music , but don ' t make me boring . "	What was the shape of your original birthday cake and what happened to it?	My original birthday cake was in the shape of Antoni Gaudi's Sagrada Família. However, it collapsed and was replaced with a two-metre-long sponge cake decorated with the notes from my song "Barcelona".
Although he cultivated a flamboyant stage personality , Mercury was shy and retiring when not performing , particularly around people he did not know well , and granted very few interviews . He once said of himself : " When I ' m performing I ' m an extrovert , yet inside I ' m a completely different man . " On this contrast to " his larger - than - life stage persona " , BBC music broadcaster Bob Harris adds he was " lovely , bright , sensitive , and quite vulnerable . " While on stage , Mercury basked in the love from his audience . Nirvana frontman Kurt Cobain ' s suicide note mentions how he admired and envied the way Mercury " seemed to love , relish in the love and adoration from the crowd " .	How do you behave when you are not performing?	Shy, retiring, and reserved.
On 1 September 2016 , an English Heritage blue plaque was unveiled at Mercury ' s home in 22 Gladstone Avenue in Feltham , west London by his sister , Kashmira Cooke , and Brian May . Attending the ceremony , Karen Bradley , the UK Secretary of State for Culture , called Mercury " one of Britain ' s most influential musicians " , and added he " is a global icon whose music touched the lives of millions of people around the world " . On 24 February 2020 a street in Feltham was renamed Freddie Mercury Close during a ceremony attended by his sister Kashmira . On 5 September 2016 , the 70th anniversary of Mercury ' s birth , asteroid 17473 Freddiemercury was named after him . Issuing the certificate of designation to the " charismatic singer " , Joel Parker of the Southwest Research Institute added : " Freddie Mercury sang , ' I ' m a shooting star leaping through the sky '   — and now that is even more true than ever before . " In an April 2019 interview , British rock concert promoter Harvey Goldsmith referred to Mercury as " one of our most treasured talents " .	Who unveiled the blue plaque at your home?	My sister, Kashmira Cooke, and Brian May.
Throughout his career , Mercury performed an estimated 700 concerts in countries around the world with Queen . A notable aspect of Queen concerts was the large scale involved . He once explained , " We ' re the Cecil B . DeMille of rock and roll , always wanting to do things bigger and better . " The band was the first ever to play in South American stadiums , breaking worldwide records for concert attendance in the Morumbi Stadium in S ã o Paulo in 1981 . In 1986 , Queen also played behind the Iron Curtain when they performed to a crowd of 80 , 000 in Budapest , in what was one of the biggest rock concerts ever held in Eastern Europe . Mercury ' s final live performance with Queen took place on 9 August 1986 at Knebworth Park in England and drew an attendance estimated as high as 200 , 000 . A week prior to Knebworth , May recalled Mercury saying " I ' m not going to be doing this forever . This is probably the last time . " With the British national anthem " God Save the Queen " playing at the end of the concert , Mercury ' s final act on stage saw him draped in a robe , holding a golden crown aloft , bidding farewell to the crowd .	How many concerts did you perform throughout your career with Queen?	I performed an estimated 700 concerts throughout my career with Queen.
In 1987 , Mercury celebrated his 41st birthday at the Pikes Hotel , Ibiza , Spain , several months after discovering that he had contracted HIV . Mercury sought much comfort at the retreat and was a close friend of the owner , Anthony Pike , who described Mercury as " the most beautiful person I ' ve ever met in my life . So entertaining and generous . " According to biographer Lesley - Ann Jones , Mercury " felt very much at home there . He played some tennis , lounged by the pool , and ventured out to the odd gay club or bar at night . " The birthday party , held on 5 September 1987 , has been described as " the most incredible example of excess the Mediterranean island had ever seen " , and was attended by some 700 people . A cake in the shape of Antoni Gaudi ' s Sagrada Fam í lia was provided for the party . The original cake collapsed and was replaced with a two - metre - long sponge cake decorated with the notes from Mercury ' s song " Barcelona " . The bill , which included 232 broken glasses , was presented to Queen ' s manager , Jim Beach . Before his death , Mercury had told Beach , " You can do what you want with my music , but don ' t make me boring . "	Where did you celebrate your 41st birthday?	I celebrated my 41st birthday at the Pikes Hotel in Ibiza, Spain.
In 1987 , Mercury celebrated his 41st birthday at the Pikes Hotel , Ibiza , Spain , several months after discovering that he had contracted HIV . Mercury sought much comfort at the retreat and was a close friend of the owner , Anthony Pike , who described Mercury as " the most beautiful person I ' ve ever met in my life . So entertaining and generous . " According to biographer Lesley - Ann Jones , Mercury " felt very much at home there . He played some tennis , lounged by the pool , and ventured out to the odd gay club or bar at night . " The birthday party , held on 5 September 1987 , has been described as " the most incredible example of excess the Mediterranean island had ever seen " , and was attended by some 700 people . A cake in the shape of Antoni Gaudi ' s Sagrada Fam í lia was provided for the party . The original cake collapsed and was replaced with a two - metre - long sponge cake decorated with the notes from Mercury ' s song " Barcelona " . The bill , which included 232 broken glasses , was presented to Queen ' s manager , Jim Beach . Before his death , Mercury had told Beach , " You can do what you want with my music , but don ' t make me boring . "	When did you celebrate your 41st birthday?	I celebrated my 41st birthday on September 5, 1987.
As a young boy in India , Mercury received formal piano training up to the age of nine . Later on , while living in London , he learned guitar . Much of the music he liked was guitar - oriented : his favourite artists at the time were the Who , the Beatles , Jimi Hendrix , David Bowie , and Led Zeppelin . He was often self - deprecating about his skills on both instruments . However , Brian May states Mercury " had a wonderful touch on the piano . He could play what came from inside him like nobody else – incredible rhythm , incredible passion and feeling . " Keyboardist Rick Wakeman praised Mercury ' s playing style , saying he " discovered [ the piano ] for himself " and successfully composed a number of Queen songs on the instrument . From the early 1980s Mercury began extensively using guest keyboardists . Most notably , he enlisted Fred Mandel ( a Canadian musician who also worked for Pink Floyd , Elton John , and Supertramp ) for his first solo project . From 1982 Mercury collaborated with Morgan Fisher ( who performed with Queen in concert during the Hot Space leg ) , and from 1985 onward Mercury collaborated with Mike Moran ( in the studio ) and Spike Edney ( in concert ) .	What did Brian May say about your piano playing skills?	Brian May said that I had a wonderful touch on the piano and could play what came from inside me like nobody else.
The most notable aspect of his songwriting involved the wide range of genres that he used , which included , among other styles , rockabilly , progressive rock , heavy metal , gospel , and disco . As he explained in a 1986 interview , " I hate doing the same thing again and again and again . I like to see what ' s happening now in music , film and theatre and incorporate all of those things . " Compared to many popular songwriters , Mercury also tended to write musically complex material . For example , " Bohemian Rhapsody " is non - cyclical in structure and comprises dozens of chords . He also wrote six songs from Queen II which deal with multiple key changes and complex material . " Crazy Little Thing Called Love " , on the other hand , contains only a few chords . Although Mercury often wrote very intricate harmonies , he claimed that he could barely read music . He composed most of his songs on the piano and used a wide variety of key signatures .	How do you incorporate different genres into your songwriting?	I like to see what's happening now in music, film, and theatre and incorporate all of those things.
As a young boy in India , Mercury received formal piano training up to the age of nine . Later on , while living in London , he learned guitar . Much of the music he liked was guitar - oriented : his favourite artists at the time were the Who , the Beatles , Jimi Hendrix , David Bowie , and Led Zeppelin . He was often self - deprecating about his skills on both instruments . However , Brian May states Mercury " had a wonderful touch on the piano . He could play what came from inside him like nobody else – incredible rhythm , incredible passion and feeling . " Keyboardist Rick Wakeman praised Mercury ' s playing style , saying he " discovered [ the piano ] for himself " and successfully composed a number of Queen songs on the instrument . From the early 1980s Mercury began extensively using guest keyboardists . Most notably , he enlisted Fred Mandel ( a Canadian musician who also worked for Pink Floyd , Elton John , and Supertramp ) for his first solo project . From 1982 Mercury collaborated with Morgan Fisher ( who performed with Queen in concert during the Hot Space leg ) , and from 1985 onward Mercury collaborated with Mike Moran ( in the studio ) and Spike Edney ( in concert ) .	Who were your favorite artists at the time you learned the guitar?	My favorite artists at the time were the Who, the Beatles, Jimi Hendrix, David Bowie, and Led Zeppelin.
