In 1755 , Washington served voluntarily as an aide to General Edward Braddock , who led a British expedition to expel the French from Fort Duquesne and the Ohio Country . On Washington ' s recommendation , Braddock split the army into one main column and a lightly equipped " flying column " . Suffering from a severe case of dysentery , Washington was left behind , and when he rejoined Braddock at Monongahela the French and their Indian allies ambushed the divided army . Two - thirds of the British force became casualties , including the mortally wounded Braddock . Under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Gage , Washington , still very ill , rallied the survivors and formed a rear guard , allowing the remnants of the force to disengage and retreat . During the engagement , he had two horses shot from under him , and his hat and coat were bullet - pierced . His conduct under fire redeemed his reputation among critics of his command in the Battle of Fort Necessity , but he was not included by the succeeding commander ( Colonel Thomas Dunbar ) in planning subsequent operations .	What year did you serve as an aide to General Edward Braddock?	In 1755.
Howe was emboldened by his Long Island victory and dispatched Washington as " George Washington , Esq . " in futility to negotiate peace . Washington declined , demanding to be addressed with diplomatic protocol , as general and fellow belligerent , not as a " rebel " , lest his men are hanged as such if captured . The Royal Navy bombarded the unstable earthworks on lower Manhattan Island . Washington , with misgivings , heeded the advice of Generals Greene and Putnam to defend Fort Washington . They were unable to hold it , and Washington abandoned it despite General Lee ' s objections , as his army retired north to the White Plains . Howe ' s pursuit forced Washington to retreat across the Hudson River to Fort Lee to avoid encirclement . Howe landed his troops on Manhattan in November and captured Fort Washington , inflicting high casualties on the Americans . Washington was responsible for delaying the retreat , though he blamed Congress and General Greene . Loyalists in New York City considered Howe a liberator and spread a rumor that Washington had set fire to the city . Patriot morale reached its lowest when Lee was captured . Now reduced to 5 , 400 troops , Washington ' s army retreated through New Jersey , and Howe broke off pursuit , delaying his advance on Philadelphia , and set up winter quarters in New York .	Why did you decline to negotiate peace?	I demanded to be addressed with diplomatic protocol as a general and fellow belligerent, not as a rebel.
Washington grew restless in retirement , prompted by tensions with France , and he wrote to Secretary of War James McHenry offering to organize President Adams ' army . In a continuation of the French Revolutionary Wars , French privateers began seizing American ships in 1798 , and relations deteriorated with France and led to the " Quasi - War " . Without consulting Washington , Adams nominated him for a lieutenant general commission on July 4 , 1798 , and the position of commander - in - chief of the armies . Washington chose to accept , and he served as the commanding general from July 13 , 1798 , until his death 17 months later . He participated in planning for a provisional army , but he avoided involvement in details . In advising McHenry of potential officers for the army , he appeared to make a complete break with Jefferson ' s Democratic - Republicans : " you could as soon scrub the blackamoor white , as to change the principles of a profest Democrat ; and that he will leave nothing unattempted to overturn the government of this country . " Washington delegated the active leadership of the army to Hamilton , a major general . No army invaded the United States during this period , and Washington did not assume a field command .	What event led to the deteriorating relations with France?	French privateers seizing American ships.
Before returning to private life in June 1783 , Washington called for a strong union . Though he was concerned that he might be criticized for meddling in civil matters , he sent a circular letter to all the states , maintaining that the Articles of Confederation was no more than " a rope of sand " linking the states . He believed the nation was on the verge of " anarchy and confusion , " was vulnerable to foreign intervention , and that a national constitution would unify the states under a strong central government . When Shays ' Rebellion erupted in Massachusetts on August 29 , 1786 , over taxation , Washington was further convinced that a national constitution was needed . Some nationalists feared that the new republic had descended into lawlessness , and they met together on September 11 , 1786 , at Annapolis to ask Congress to revise the Articles of Confederation . One of their biggest efforts , however , was getting Washington to attend . Congress agreed to a Constitutional Convention to be held in Philadelphia in Spring 1787 , and each state was to send delegates .	What did you call for before returning to private life?	I called for a strong union before returning to private life.
The Continental Army , further diminished by expiring short - term enlistments , and by January 1776 reduced by half to 9 , 600 men , had to be supplemented with the militia , and was joined by Knox with heavy artillery captured from Fort Ticonderoga . When the Charles River froze over , Washington was eager to cross and storm Boston , but General Gates and others were opposed to untrained militia striking well - garrisoned fortifications . Washington reluctantly agreed to secure the Dorchester Heights , 100 feet above Boston , in an attempt to force the British out of the city . On March 9 , under cover of darkness , Washington ' s troops brought up Knox ' s big guns and bombarded British ships in Boston harbor . On March 17 , 9 , 000 British troops and Loyalists began a chaotic ten - day evacuation of Boston aboard 120 ships . Soon after , Washington entered the city with 500 men , with explicit orders not to plunder the city . He ordered variolation against smallpox to great effect , as he did later in Morristown , New Jersey . He refrained from exerting military authority in Boston , leaving civilian matters in the hands of local authorities . [ k ]	What was your plan for your troops in Boston?	My plan for my troops in Boston was to secure the Dorchester Heights, which were 100 feet above Boston, in an attempt to force the British out of the city.
The Continental Army , further diminished by expiring short - term enlistments , and by January 1776 reduced by half to 9 , 600 men , had to be supplemented with the militia , and was joined by Knox with heavy artillery captured from Fort Ticonderoga . When the Charles River froze over , Washington was eager to cross and storm Boston , but General Gates and others were opposed to untrained militia striking well - garrisoned fortifications . Washington reluctantly agreed to secure the Dorchester Heights , 100 feet above Boston , in an attempt to force the British out of the city . On March 9 , under cover of darkness , Washington ' s troops brought up Knox ' s big guns and bombarded British ships in Boston harbor . On March 17 , 9 , 000 British troops and Loyalists began a chaotic ten - day evacuation of Boston aboard 120 ships . Soon after , Washington entered the city with 500 men , with explicit orders not to plunder the city . He ordered variolation against smallpox to great effect , as he did later in Morristown , New Jersey . He refrained from exerting military authority in Boston , leaving civilian matters in the hands of local authorities . [ k ]	What did your troops do on March 9?	On March 9, under cover of darkness, my troops brought up Knox's big guns and bombarded British ships in Boston harbor.
The troops spotted Hessian positions a mile from Trenton , so Washington split his force into two columns , rallying his men : " Soldiers keep by your officers . For God ' s sake , keep by your officers . " The two columns were separated at the Birmingham crossroads . General Nathanael Greene ' s column took the upper Ferry Road , led by Washington , and General John Sullivan ' s column advanced on River Road . ( See map . ) The Americans marched in sleet and snowfall . Many were shoeless with bloodied feet , and two died of exposure . Meanwhile , Hessian Commander Johann Rall was held up at the home of Abraham Hunt , of Trenton , who had placated Rall and some of his officers with plenty of food and drink into the late hours of the evening and morning . At sunrise , Washington , aided by Major General Knox and artillery , led his men in a surprise attack on an unsuspecting Rall . The Hessians had 22 killed , including Colonel Rall , 83 wounded , and 850 captured with supplies .	What did you do when you spotted the Hessian positions?	I split my force into two columns.
After the surrender at Yorktown , a situation developed that threatened relations between the newly independent America and Britain . Following a series of retributive executions between Patriots and Loyalists , Washington , in May 1782 , wrote in a letter to General Moses Hazen that a British captain should be executed in retaliation for the execution of Joshua Huddy , a Patriot captain , who was hanged at the direction of the Loyalist Richard Lippincott . Washington initially had wanted Lippincott himself to be executed but was rebuffed . Later that same month , Charles Asgill was chosen from amongst 13 British Captains by the drawing of lots from a hat . This was a violation of the 14th article of the Yorktown Articles of Capitulation , which protected prisoners of war from acts of retaliation . Washington ' s feelings on matters soon changed , declaring in a June letter to General Elias Dayton , " I most devoutly Wish his Life may be saved . " Nonetheless , Washington refused to reconsider the death sentence . Rather , he passed on the responsibility of determining Asgill ' s fate to the Continental Congress . After much consideration , and due in large measure to appeals from French Foreign Minister , the comte de Vergennes , Asgill was released to return to England in November 1782 . Peter Henriques writes that the Asgill Affair " could have left an ugly blot on George Washington ' s reputation " , calling it " a blip that reminds us even the greatest of men make mistakes " .	Who did you want to be executed in retaliation for the hanging of Joshua Huddy?	I initially wanted the Loyalist Richard Lippincott to be executed in retaliation for the hanging of Joshua Huddy.
Washington grew restless in retirement , prompted by tensions with France , and he wrote to Secretary of War James McHenry offering to organize President Adams ' army . In a continuation of the French Revolutionary Wars , French privateers began seizing American ships in 1798 , and relations deteriorated with France and led to the " Quasi - War " . Without consulting Washington , Adams nominated him for a lieutenant general commission on July 4 , 1798 , and the position of commander - in - chief of the armies . Washington chose to accept , and he served as the commanding general from July 13 , 1798 , until his death 17 months later . He participated in planning for a provisional army , but he avoided involvement in details . In advising McHenry of potential officers for the army , he appeared to make a complete break with Jefferson ' s Democratic - Republicans : " you could as soon scrub the blackamoor white , as to change the principles of a profest Democrat ; and that he will leave nothing unattempted to overturn the government of this country . " Washington delegated the active leadership of the army to Hamilton , a major general . No army invaded the United States during this period , and Washington did not assume a field command .	What prompted you to grow restless in retirement?	Tensions with France.
Howe was emboldened by his Long Island victory and dispatched Washington as " George Washington , Esq . " in futility to negotiate peace . Washington declined , demanding to be addressed with diplomatic protocol , as general and fellow belligerent , not as a " rebel " , lest his men are hanged as such if captured . The Royal Navy bombarded the unstable earthworks on lower Manhattan Island . Washington , with misgivings , heeded the advice of Generals Greene and Putnam to defend Fort Washington . They were unable to hold it , and Washington abandoned it despite General Lee ' s objections , as his army retired north to the White Plains . Howe ' s pursuit forced Washington to retreat across the Hudson River to Fort Lee to avoid encirclement . Howe landed his troops on Manhattan in November and captured Fort Washington , inflicting high casualties on the Americans . Washington was responsible for delaying the retreat , though he blamed Congress and General Greene . Loyalists in New York City considered Howe a liberator and spread a rumor that Washington had set fire to the city . Patriot morale reached its lowest when Lee was captured . Now reduced to 5 , 400 troops , Washington ' s army retreated through New Jersey , and Howe broke off pursuit , delaying his advance on Philadelphia , and set up winter quarters in New York .	Who advised you to defend Fort Washington?	Generals Greene and Putnam.
After the surrender at Yorktown , a situation developed that threatened relations between the newly independent America and Britain . Following a series of retributive executions between Patriots and Loyalists , Washington , in May 1782 , wrote in a letter to General Moses Hazen that a British captain should be executed in retaliation for the execution of Joshua Huddy , a Patriot captain , who was hanged at the direction of the Loyalist Richard Lippincott . Washington initially had wanted Lippincott himself to be executed but was rebuffed . Later that same month , Charles Asgill was chosen from amongst 13 British Captains by the drawing of lots from a hat . This was a violation of the 14th article of the Yorktown Articles of Capitulation , which protected prisoners of war from acts of retaliation . Washington ' s feelings on matters soon changed , declaring in a June letter to General Elias Dayton , " I most devoutly Wish his Life may be saved . " Nonetheless , Washington refused to reconsider the death sentence . Rather , he passed on the responsibility of determining Asgill ' s fate to the Continental Congress . After much consideration , and due in large measure to appeals from French Foreign Minister , the comte de Vergennes , Asgill was released to return to England in November 1782 . Peter Henriques writes that the Asgill Affair " could have left an ugly blot on George Washington ' s reputation " , calling it " a blip that reminds us even the greatest of men make mistakes " .	Who was responsible for determining Asgill's fate after you refused to reconsider the death sentence?	The Continental Congress was responsible for determining Asgill's fate after I refused to reconsider the death sentence.
Howe was emboldened by his Long Island victory and dispatched Washington as " George Washington , Esq . " in futility to negotiate peace . Washington declined , demanding to be addressed with diplomatic protocol , as general and fellow belligerent , not as a " rebel " , lest his men are hanged as such if captured . The Royal Navy bombarded the unstable earthworks on lower Manhattan Island . Washington , with misgivings , heeded the advice of Generals Greene and Putnam to defend Fort Washington . They were unable to hold it , and Washington abandoned it despite General Lee ' s objections , as his army retired north to the White Plains . Howe ' s pursuit forced Washington to retreat across the Hudson River to Fort Lee to avoid encirclement . Howe landed his troops on Manhattan in November and captured Fort Washington , inflicting high casualties on the Americans . Washington was responsible for delaying the retreat , though he blamed Congress and General Greene . Loyalists in New York City considered Howe a liberator and spread a rumor that Washington had set fire to the city . Patriot morale reached its lowest when Lee was captured . Now reduced to 5 , 400 troops , Washington ' s army retreated through New Jersey , and Howe broke off pursuit , delaying his advance on Philadelphia , and set up winter quarters in New York .	What did the Royal Navy do after Howe's victory in Long Island?	They bombarded the unstable earthworks on lower Manhattan Island.
Washington believed in a " wise , inscrutable , and irresistible " Creator God who was active in the Universe , contrary to deistic thought . He referred to God in Enlightenment terms , including Providence , the Creator , or the Almighty , and the Divine Author or Supreme Being . He believed in a divine power who watched over battlefields , was involved in the outcome of war , was protecting his life , and was involved in American politics and specifically the creation of the United States . [ t ] Modern historian Ron Chernow has argued that Washington avoided evangelistic Christianity or hellfire - and - brimstone speech along with communion and anything inclined to " flaunt his religiosity " . Chernow has said Washington " never used his religion as a device for partisan purposes or in official undertakings " . No mention of Jesus Christ appears in his private correspondence , and such references are rare in his public writings . However , Washington frequently quoted from the Bible or paraphrased it , and often referred to the Anglican Book of Common Prayer . There is debate on whether he is best classed as a Christian or a theistic rationalist — or both .	Do you believe that God watches over battlefields and is involved in the outcome of war?	Yes, I believe that God watches over battlefields and is involved in the outcome of war.
Howe ' s troop strength totaled 32 , 000 regulars and Hessian auxiliaries , and Washington ' s consisted of 23 , 000 , mostly raw recruits and militia . In August , Howe landed 20 , 000 troops at Gravesend , Brooklyn , and approached Washington ' s fortifications , as George III proclaimed the rebellious American colonists to be traitors . Washington , opposing his generals , chose to fight , based upon inaccurate information that Howe ' s army had only 8 , 000 - plus troops . In the Battle of Long Island , Howe assaulted Washington ' s flank and inflicted 1 , 500 Patriot casualties , the British suffering 400 . Washington retreated , instructing General William Heath to acquisition river craft in the area . On August 30 , General William Alexander held off the British and gave cover while the army crossed the East River under darkness to Manhattan Island without loss of life or materiel , although Alexander was captured . Colonel John Glover ' s Massachusetts regiment successfully evacuated Washington ' s 9 , 000 men , horses , and artillery from Brooklyn to Manhattan on August 29 .	What happened to Colonel John Glover's Massachusetts regiment?	Colonel John Glover's Massachusetts regiment successfully evacuated my 9,000 men, horses, and artillery from Brooklyn to Manhattan on August 29.
In 1755 , Washington served voluntarily as an aide to General Edward Braddock , who led a British expedition to expel the French from Fort Duquesne and the Ohio Country . On Washington ' s recommendation , Braddock split the army into one main column and a lightly equipped " flying column " . Suffering from a severe case of dysentery , Washington was left behind , and when he rejoined Braddock at Monongahela the French and their Indian allies ambushed the divided army . Two - thirds of the British force became casualties , including the mortally wounded Braddock . Under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Gage , Washington , still very ill , rallied the survivors and formed a rear guard , allowing the remnants of the force to disengage and retreat . During the engagement , he had two horses shot from under him , and his hat and coat were bullet - pierced . His conduct under fire redeemed his reputation among critics of his command in the Battle of Fort Necessity , but he was not included by the succeeding commander ( Colonel Thomas Dunbar ) in planning subsequent operations .	Who took command of the troops after General Braddock was wounded?	Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Gage.
The troops spotted Hessian positions a mile from Trenton , so Washington split his force into two columns , rallying his men : " Soldiers keep by your officers . For God ' s sake , keep by your officers . " The two columns were separated at the Birmingham crossroads . General Nathanael Greene ' s column took the upper Ferry Road , led by Washington , and General John Sullivan ' s column advanced on River Road . ( See map . ) The Americans marched in sleet and snowfall . Many were shoeless with bloodied feet , and two died of exposure . Meanwhile , Hessian Commander Johann Rall was held up at the home of Abraham Hunt , of Trenton , who had placated Rall and some of his officers with plenty of food and drink into the late hours of the evening and morning . At sunrise , Washington , aided by Major General Knox and artillery , led his men in a surprise attack on an unsuspecting Rall . The Hessians had 22 killed , including Colonel Rall , 83 wounded , and 850 captured with supplies .	Which column did you lead?	I led the column that took the upper Ferry Road.
Washington grew restless in retirement , prompted by tensions with France , and he wrote to Secretary of War James McHenry offering to organize President Adams ' army . In a continuation of the French Revolutionary Wars , French privateers began seizing American ships in 1798 , and relations deteriorated with France and led to the " Quasi - War " . Without consulting Washington , Adams nominated him for a lieutenant general commission on July 4 , 1798 , and the position of commander - in - chief of the armies . Washington chose to accept , and he served as the commanding general from July 13 , 1798 , until his death 17 months later . He participated in planning for a provisional army , but he avoided involvement in details . In advising McHenry of potential officers for the army , he appeared to make a complete break with Jefferson ' s Democratic - Republicans : " you could as soon scrub the blackamoor white , as to change the principles of a profest Democrat ; and that he will leave nothing unattempted to overturn the government of this country . " Washington delegated the active leadership of the army to Hamilton , a major general . No army invaded the United States during this period , and Washington did not assume a field command .	Who did you delegate the active leadership of the army to?	Hamilton.
Washington first ordered a 60 - mile search for Durham boats to transport his army , and he ordered the destruction of vessels that could be used by the British . Washington crossed the Delaware River on Christmas night , December 25 , 1776 , while he personally risked capture staking out the Jersey shoreline . His men followed across the ice - obstructed river in sleet and snow from McConkey ' s Ferry , with 40 men per vessel . The wind churned up the waters , and they were pelted with hail , but by 3 : 00   a . m . on December 26 , they made it across with no losses . Henry Knox was delayed , managing frightened horses and about 18 field guns on flat - bottomed ferries . Cadwalader and Ewing failed to cross due to the ice and heavy currents , and awaiting Washington doubted his planned attack on Trenton . Once Knox arrived , Washington proceeded to Trenton to take only his troops against the Hessians , rather than risk being spotted returning his army to Pennsylvania .	When did you cross the Delaware River?	I crossed the Delaware River on Christmas night, December 25, 1776.
Before returning to private life in June 1783 , Washington called for a strong union . Though he was concerned that he might be criticized for meddling in civil matters , he sent a circular letter to all the states , maintaining that the Articles of Confederation was no more than " a rope of sand " linking the states . He believed the nation was on the verge of " anarchy and confusion , " was vulnerable to foreign intervention , and that a national constitution would unify the states under a strong central government . When Shays ' Rebellion erupted in Massachusetts on August 29 , 1786 , over taxation , Washington was further convinced that a national constitution was needed . Some nationalists feared that the new republic had descended into lawlessness , and they met together on September 11 , 1786 , at Annapolis to ask Congress to revise the Articles of Confederation . One of their biggest efforts , however , was getting Washington to attend . Congress agreed to a Constitutional Convention to be held in Philadelphia in Spring 1787 , and each state was to send delegates .	Why did you send a circular letter to all the states?	I sent a circular letter to all the states to maintain that the Articles of Confederation was no more than "a rope of sand" linking the states.
The troops spotted Hessian positions a mile from Trenton , so Washington split his force into two columns , rallying his men : " Soldiers keep by your officers . For God ' s sake , keep by your officers . " The two columns were separated at the Birmingham crossroads . General Nathanael Greene ' s column took the upper Ferry Road , led by Washington , and General John Sullivan ' s column advanced on River Road . ( See map . ) The Americans marched in sleet and snowfall . Many were shoeless with bloodied feet , and two died of exposure . Meanwhile , Hessian Commander Johann Rall was held up at the home of Abraham Hunt , of Trenton , who had placated Rall and some of his officers with plenty of food and drink into the late hours of the evening and morning . At sunrise , Washington , aided by Major General Knox and artillery , led his men in a surprise attack on an unsuspecting Rall . The Hessians had 22 killed , including Colonel Rall , 83 wounded , and 850 captured with supplies .	Where were the Hessian positions spotted by the troops?	The Hessian positions were spotted a mile from Trenton.
Washington believed in a " wise , inscrutable , and irresistible " Creator God who was active in the Universe , contrary to deistic thought . He referred to God in Enlightenment terms , including Providence , the Creator , or the Almighty , and the Divine Author or Supreme Being . He believed in a divine power who watched over battlefields , was involved in the outcome of war , was protecting his life , and was involved in American politics and specifically the creation of the United States . [ t ] Modern historian Ron Chernow has argued that Washington avoided evangelistic Christianity or hellfire - and - brimstone speech along with communion and anything inclined to " flaunt his religiosity " . Chernow has said Washington " never used his religion as a device for partisan purposes or in official undertakings " . No mention of Jesus Christ appears in his private correspondence , and such references are rare in his public writings . However , Washington frequently quoted from the Bible or paraphrased it , and often referred to the Anglican Book of Common Prayer . There is debate on whether he is best classed as a Christian or a theistic rationalist — or both .	Are you inclined to flaunt your religiosity?	No, I avoid flaunting my religiosity and do not use my religion for partisan purposes or in official undertakings.
In 1755 , Washington served voluntarily as an aide to General Edward Braddock , who led a British expedition to expel the French from Fort Duquesne and the Ohio Country . On Washington ' s recommendation , Braddock split the army into one main column and a lightly equipped " flying column " . Suffering from a severe case of dysentery , Washington was left behind , and when he rejoined Braddock at Monongahela the French and their Indian allies ambushed the divided army . Two - thirds of the British force became casualties , including the mortally wounded Braddock . Under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Thomas Gage , Washington , still very ill , rallied the survivors and formed a rear guard , allowing the remnants of the force to disengage and retreat . During the engagement , he had two horses shot from under him , and his hat and coat were bullet - pierced . His conduct under fire redeemed his reputation among critics of his command in the Battle of Fort Necessity , but he was not included by the succeeding commander ( Colonel Thomas Dunbar ) in planning subsequent operations .	What was the purpose of General Edward Braddock's expedition?	To expel the French from Fort Duquesne and the Ohio Country.
Howe was emboldened by his Long Island victory and dispatched Washington as " George Washington , Esq . " in futility to negotiate peace . Washington declined , demanding to be addressed with diplomatic protocol , as general and fellow belligerent , not as a " rebel " , lest his men are hanged as such if captured . The Royal Navy bombarded the unstable earthworks on lower Manhattan Island . Washington , with misgivings , heeded the advice of Generals Greene and Putnam to defend Fort Washington . They were unable to hold it , and Washington abandoned it despite General Lee ' s objections , as his army retired north to the White Plains . Howe ' s pursuit forced Washington to retreat across the Hudson River to Fort Lee to avoid encirclement . Howe landed his troops on Manhattan in November and captured Fort Washington , inflicting high casualties on the Americans . Washington was responsible for delaying the retreat , though he blamed Congress and General Greene . Loyalists in New York City considered Howe a liberator and spread a rumor that Washington had set fire to the city . Patriot morale reached its lowest when Lee was captured . Now reduced to 5 , 400 troops , Washington ' s army retreated through New Jersey , and Howe broke off pursuit , delaying his advance on Philadelphia , and set up winter quarters in New York .	Why did you abandon Fort Washington?	Despite General Lee's objections, I abandoned it because we were unable to hold it and my army retired north to the White Plains.
Washington grew restless in retirement , prompted by tensions with France , and he wrote to Secretary of War James McHenry offering to organize President Adams ' army . In a continuation of the French Revolutionary Wars , French privateers began seizing American ships in 1798 , and relations deteriorated with France and led to the " Quasi - War " . Without consulting Washington , Adams nominated him for a lieutenant general commission on July 4 , 1798 , and the position of commander - in - chief of the armies . Washington chose to accept , and he served as the commanding general from July 13 , 1798 , until his death 17 months later . He participated in planning for a provisional army , but he avoided involvement in details . In advising McHenry of potential officers for the army , he appeared to make a complete break with Jefferson ' s Democratic - Republicans : " you could as soon scrub the blackamoor white , as to change the principles of a profest Democrat ; and that he will leave nothing unattempted to overturn the government of this country . " Washington delegated the active leadership of the army to Hamilton , a major general . No army invaded the United States during this period , and Washington did not assume a field command .	Who did you offer to organize President Adams' army to?	Secretary of War James McHenry.
Before returning to private life in June 1783 , Washington called for a strong union . Though he was concerned that he might be criticized for meddling in civil matters , he sent a circular letter to all the states , maintaining that the Articles of Confederation was no more than " a rope of sand " linking the states . He believed the nation was on the verge of " anarchy and confusion , " was vulnerable to foreign intervention , and that a national constitution would unify the states under a strong central government . When Shays ' Rebellion erupted in Massachusetts on August 29 , 1786 , over taxation , Washington was further convinced that a national constitution was needed . Some nationalists feared that the new republic had descended into lawlessness , and they met together on September 11 , 1786 , at Annapolis to ask Congress to revise the Articles of Confederation . One of their biggest efforts , however , was getting Washington to attend . Congress agreed to a Constitutional Convention to be held in Philadelphia in Spring 1787 , and each state was to send delegates .	When and where was the Constitutional Convention held?	The Constitutional Convention was held in Philadelphia in Spring 1787.
