Because of his stutter , Albert dreaded public speaking . After his closing speech at the British Empire Exhibition at Wembley on 31 October 1925 , one which was an ordeal for both him and his listeners , he began to see Lionel Logue , an Australian - born speech therapist . The Duke and Logue practised breathing exercises , and the Duchess rehearsed with him patiently . Subsequently , he was able to speak with less hesitation . With his delivery improved , Albert opened the new Parliament House in Canberra , Australia , during a tour of the empire with the Duchess in 1927 . Their journey by sea to Australia , New Zealand and Fiji took them via Jamaica , where Albert played doubles tennis partnered with a black man , Bertrand Clark , which was unusual at the time and taken locally as a display of equality between races .	Where did you open the new Parliament House?	I opened the new Parliament House in Canberra, Australia.
In October 1919 , Albert went up to Trinity College , Cambridge , where he studied history , economics and civics for a year , with the historian R . V . Laurence as his " official mentor " . On 4 June 1920 his father created him Duke of York , Earl of Inverness and Baron Killarney . He began to take on more royal duties . He represented his father and toured coal mines , factories , and railyards . Through such visits he acquired the nickname of the " Industrial Prince " . His stutter , and his embarrassment over it , together with a tendency to shyness , caused him to appear less confident in public than his older brother , Edward . However , he was physically active and enjoyed playing tennis . He played at Wimbledon in the Men ' s Doubles with Louis Greig in 1926 , losing in the first round . He developed an interest in working conditions , and was president of the Industrial Welfare Society . His series of annual summer camps for boys between 1921 and 1939 brought together boys from different social backgrounds .	What titles did your father create for you on 4 June 1920?	On 4 June 1920, my father created me Duke of York, Earl of Inverness, and Baron Killarney.
Following the German invasion of Poland in September 1939 , the United Kingdom and the self - governing Dominions other than Ireland declared war on Nazi Germany . The King and Queen resolved to stay in London , despite German bombing raids . They officially stayed in Buckingham Palace throughout the war , although they usually spent nights at Windsor Castle . The first night of the Blitz on London , on 7 September 1940 , killed about one thousand civilians , mostly in the East End . On 13 September , the couple narrowly avoided death when two German bombs exploded in a courtyard at Buckingham Palace while they were there . In defiance , Elizabeth declared : " I am glad we have been bombed . It makes me feel we can look the East End in the face . " The royal family were portrayed as sharing the same dangers and deprivations as the rest of the country . They were subject to British rationing restrictions , and U . S . First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt remarked on the rationed food served and the limited bathwater that was permitted during a stay at the unheated and boarded - up Palace . In August 1942 , the King ' s brother , the Duke of Kent , was killed on active service .	When did we and the self-governing Dominions declare war on Nazi Germany?	Following the German invasion of Poland in September 1939.
The stress of the war had taken its toll on George ' s health , made worse by his heavy smoking , and subsequent development of lung cancer among other ailments , including arteriosclerosis and Buerger ' s disease . A planned tour of Australia and New Zealand was postponed after George suffered an arterial blockage in his right leg , which threatened the loss of the leg and was treated with a right lumbar sympathectomy in March 1949 . His elder daughter and heir presumptive , Elizabeth , took on more royal duties as her father ' s health deteriorated . The delayed tour was re - organised , with Princess Elizabeth and her husband , Philip , Duke of Edinburgh , taking the place of the King and Queen .	Why was your planned tour of Australia and New Zealand postponed?	It was postponed because I suffered an arterial blockage in my right leg.
Because of his stutter , Albert dreaded public speaking . After his closing speech at the British Empire Exhibition at Wembley on 31 October 1925 , one which was an ordeal for both him and his listeners , he began to see Lionel Logue , an Australian - born speech therapist . The Duke and Logue practised breathing exercises , and the Duchess rehearsed with him patiently . Subsequently , he was able to speak with less hesitation . With his delivery improved , Albert opened the new Parliament House in Canberra , Australia , during a tour of the empire with the Duchess in 1927 . Their journey by sea to Australia , New Zealand and Fiji took them via Jamaica , where Albert played doubles tennis partnered with a black man , Bertrand Clark , which was unusual at the time and taken locally as a display of equality between races .	Who rehearsed with you patiently?	The Duchess rehearsed with me patiently.
The Duke and Duchess had two children : Elizabeth ( called " Lilibet " by the family , and the future Elizabeth II ) who was born in 1926 , and Margaret who was born in 1930 . The close family lived at White Lodge , Richmond Park , and then at 145 Piccadilly , rather than one of the royal palaces . In 1931 , the Canadian prime minister , R . B . Bennett , considered Albert for Governor General of Canada — a proposal that King George V rejected on the advice of the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs , J . H . Thomas .	Where did your close family live initially?	My close family lived at White Lodge, Richmond Park.
Following the German invasion of Poland in September 1939 , the United Kingdom and the self - governing Dominions other than Ireland declared war on Nazi Germany . The King and Queen resolved to stay in London , despite German bombing raids . They officially stayed in Buckingham Palace throughout the war , although they usually spent nights at Windsor Castle . The first night of the Blitz on London , on 7 September 1940 , killed about one thousand civilians , mostly in the East End . On 13 September , the couple narrowly avoided death when two German bombs exploded in a courtyard at Buckingham Palace while they were there . In defiance , Elizabeth declared : " I am glad we have been bombed . It makes me feel we can look the East End in the face . " The royal family were portrayed as sharing the same dangers and deprivations as the rest of the country . They were subject to British rationing restrictions , and U . S . First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt remarked on the rationed food served and the limited bathwater that was permitted during a stay at the unheated and boarded - up Palace . In August 1942 , the King ' s brother , the Duke of Kent , was killed on active service .	How many civilians were killed during the first night of the Blitz on London?	About one thousand civilians were killed.
Throughout the war , George and Elizabeth provided morale - boosting visits throughout the United Kingdom , visiting bomb sites , munitions factories , and troops . George visited military forces abroad in France in December 1939 , North Africa and Malta in June 1943 , Normandy in June 1944 , southern Italy in July 1944 , and the Low Countries in October 1944 . Their high public profile and apparently indefatigable determination secured their place as symbols of national resistance . At a social function in 1944 , the Chief of the Imperial General Staff , Field Marshal Alan Brooke , revealed that every time he met Field Marshal Bernard Montgomery , he thought Montgomery was after his job . George replied : " You should worry , when I meet him , I always think he ' s after mine ! "	Where did you visit in June 1944?	Normandy.
The Duke and Duchess had two children : Elizabeth ( called " Lilibet " by the family , and the future Elizabeth II ) who was born in 1926 , and Margaret who was born in 1930 . The close family lived at White Lodge , Richmond Park , and then at 145 Piccadilly , rather than one of the royal palaces . In 1931 , the Canadian prime minister , R . B . Bennett , considered Albert for Governor General of Canada — a proposal that King George V rejected on the advice of the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs , J . H . Thomas .	How many children did you and the Duchess have?	We had two children: Elizabeth and Margaret.
As Edward was unmarried and had no children , Albert was the heir presumptive to the throne . Less than a year later , on 11 December 1936 , Edward abdicated in order to marry Wallis Simpson , who was divorced from her first husband and divorcing her second . Edward had been advised by British prime minister Stanley Baldwin that he could not remain king and marry a divorced woman with two living ex - husbands . He abdicated and Albert , though he had been reluctant to accept the throne , became king . The day before the abdication , Albert went to London to see his mother , Queen Mary . He wrote in his diary , " When I told her what had happened , I broke down and sobbed like a child . "	What was your initial reaction to accepting the throne?	I had been reluctant to accept the throne.
King George V had severe reservations about Prince Edward , saying " After I am dead , the boy will ruin himself in twelve months " and " I pray God that my eldest son will never marry and that nothing will come between Bertie and Lilibet and the throne . " On 20 January 1936 , George V died and Edward ascended the throne as King Edward VIII . In the Vigil of the Princes , Prince Albert and his three brothers ( the new king , Prince Henry , Duke of Gloucester , and Prince George , Duke of Kent ) took a shift standing guard over their father ' s body as it lay in state , in a closed casket , in Westminster Hall .	What were your father's reservations about your brother, Prince Edward?	My father had severe reservations about Prince Edward, saying "After I am dead, the boy will ruin himself in twelve months" and "I pray God that my eldest son will never marry and that nothing will come between me and Lilibet and the throne."
In May and June 1939 , the King and Queen toured Canada and the United States ; it was the first visit of a reigning British monarch to North America , although George had been to Canada prior to his accession . From Ottawa , George and Elizabeth were accompanied by Canadian prime minister Mackenzie King , to present themselves in North America as King and Queen of Canada . Both Mackenzie King and the Canadian governor general , Lord Tweedsmuir , hoped that George ' s presence in Canada would demonstrate the principles of the Statute of Westminster 1931 , which gave full sovereignty to the British Dominions . On 19 May , George personally accepted and approved the Letter of Credence of the new U . S . ambassador to Canada , Daniel Calhoun Roper ; gave royal assent to nine parliamentary bills ; and ratified two international treaties with the Great Seal of Canada . The official royal tour historian , Gustave Lanctot , wrote " the Statute of Westminster had assumed full reality " and George gave a speech emphasising " the free and equal association of the nations of the Commonwealth " .	When did you and the Queen tour Canada and the United States?	In May and June 1939.
In May and June 1939 , the King and Queen toured Canada and the United States ; it was the first visit of a reigning British monarch to North America , although George had been to Canada prior to his accession . From Ottawa , George and Elizabeth were accompanied by Canadian prime minister Mackenzie King , to present themselves in North America as King and Queen of Canada . Both Mackenzie King and the Canadian governor general , Lord Tweedsmuir , hoped that George ' s presence in Canada would demonstrate the principles of the Statute of Westminster 1931 , which gave full sovereignty to the British Dominions . On 19 May , George personally accepted and approved the Letter of Credence of the new U . S . ambassador to Canada , Daniel Calhoun Roper ; gave royal assent to nine parliamentary bills ; and ratified two international treaties with the Great Seal of Canada . The official royal tour historian , Gustave Lanctot , wrote " the Statute of Westminster had assumed full reality " and George gave a speech emphasising " the free and equal association of the nations of the Commonwealth " .	What did you personally do on May 19?	I accepted and approved the Letter of Credence of the new U.S. ambassador to Canada, gave royal assent to nine parliamentary bills, and ratified two international treaties with the Great Seal of Canada.
The stress of the war had taken its toll on George ' s health , made worse by his heavy smoking , and subsequent development of lung cancer among other ailments , including arteriosclerosis and Buerger ' s disease . A planned tour of Australia and New Zealand was postponed after George suffered an arterial blockage in his right leg , which threatened the loss of the leg and was treated with a right lumbar sympathectomy in March 1949 . His elder daughter and heir presumptive , Elizabeth , took on more royal duties as her father ' s health deteriorated . The delayed tour was re - organised , with Princess Elizabeth and her husband , Philip , Duke of Edinburgh , taking the place of the King and Queen .	Who replaced you and the Queen on the postponed tour?	Princess Elizabeth and her husband, Philip, Duke of Edinburgh.
Following the German invasion of Poland in September 1939 , the United Kingdom and the self - governing Dominions other than Ireland declared war on Nazi Germany . The King and Queen resolved to stay in London , despite German bombing raids . They officially stayed in Buckingham Palace throughout the war , although they usually spent nights at Windsor Castle . The first night of the Blitz on London , on 7 September 1940 , killed about one thousand civilians , mostly in the East End . On 13 September , the couple narrowly avoided death when two German bombs exploded in a courtyard at Buckingham Palace while they were there . In defiance , Elizabeth declared : " I am glad we have been bombed . It makes me feel we can look the East End in the face . " The royal family were portrayed as sharing the same dangers and deprivations as the rest of the country . They were subject to British rationing restrictions , and U . S . First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt remarked on the rationed food served and the limited bathwater that was permitted during a stay at the unheated and boarded - up Palace . In August 1942 , the King ' s brother , the Duke of Kent , was killed on active service .	When did the German bombs explode in a courtyard at your palace?	The German bombs exploded in a courtyard at my palace on 13 September.
From 9 February George ' s coffin rested in St Mary Magdalene Church , Sandringham , before lying in state at Westminster Hall from 11 February . His funeral took place at St George ' s Chapel , Windsor Castle , on the 15th . He was interred initially in the Royal Vault until he was transferred to the King George VI Memorial Chapel inside St George ' s on 26 March 1969 . In 2002 , fifty years after his death , the remains of his widow , Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother , and the ashes of his younger daughter , Princess Margaret , who both died that year , were interred in the chapel alongside him . In 2022 , the remains of Queen Elizabeth II and her husband , Prince Philip , were also interred in the chapel .	Where did your coffin rest before lying in state at Westminster Hall?	St Mary Magdalene Church, Sandringham.
From 9 February George ' s coffin rested in St Mary Magdalene Church , Sandringham , before lying in state at Westminster Hall from 11 February . His funeral took place at St George ' s Chapel , Windsor Castle , on the 15th . He was interred initially in the Royal Vault until he was transferred to the King George VI Memorial Chapel inside St George ' s on 26 March 1969 . In 2002 , fifty years after his death , the remains of his widow , Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother , and the ashes of his younger daughter , Princess Margaret , who both died that year , were interred in the chapel alongside him . In 2022 , the remains of Queen Elizabeth II and her husband , Prince Philip , were also interred in the chapel .	Whose remains were interred in your Memorial Chapel along with yours?	The remains of Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother and Princess Margaret.
King George V had severe reservations about Prince Edward , saying " After I am dead , the boy will ruin himself in twelve months " and " I pray God that my eldest son will never marry and that nothing will come between Bertie and Lilibet and the throne . " On 20 January 1936 , George V died and Edward ascended the throne as King Edward VIII . In the Vigil of the Princes , Prince Albert and his three brothers ( the new king , Prince Henry , Duke of Gloucester , and Prince George , Duke of Kent ) took a shift standing guard over their father ' s body as it lay in state , in a closed casket , in Westminster Hall .	When did your father die and who ascended the throne after him?	My father died on 20 January 1936 and my brother Edward ascended the throne as King Edward VIII.
From 9 February George ' s coffin rested in St Mary Magdalene Church , Sandringham , before lying in state at Westminster Hall from 11 February . His funeral took place at St George ' s Chapel , Windsor Castle , on the 15th . He was interred initially in the Royal Vault until he was transferred to the King George VI Memorial Chapel inside St George ' s on 26 March 1969 . In 2002 , fifty years after his death , the remains of his widow , Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother , and the ashes of his younger daughter , Princess Margaret , who both died that year , were interred in the chapel alongside him . In 2022 , the remains of Queen Elizabeth II and her husband , Prince Philip , were also interred in the chapel .	Where were you initially interred before being transferred?	The Royal Vault.
In May and June 1939 , the King and Queen toured Canada and the United States ; it was the first visit of a reigning British monarch to North America , although George had been to Canada prior to his accession . From Ottawa , George and Elizabeth were accompanied by Canadian prime minister Mackenzie King , to present themselves in North America as King and Queen of Canada . Both Mackenzie King and the Canadian governor general , Lord Tweedsmuir , hoped that George ' s presence in Canada would demonstrate the principles of the Statute of Westminster 1931 , which gave full sovereignty to the British Dominions . On 19 May , George personally accepted and approved the Letter of Credence of the new U . S . ambassador to Canada , Daniel Calhoun Roper ; gave royal assent to nine parliamentary bills ; and ratified two international treaties with the Great Seal of Canada . The official royal tour historian , Gustave Lanctot , wrote " the Statute of Westminster had assumed full reality " and George gave a speech emphasising " the free and equal association of the nations of the Commonwealth " .	What did Gustave Lanctot, the official royal tour historian, write about the Statute of Westminster?	He wrote that the Statute of Westminster had assumed full reality.
As Edward was unmarried and had no children , Albert was the heir presumptive to the throne . Less than a year later , on 11 December 1936 , Edward abdicated in order to marry Wallis Simpson , who was divorced from her first husband and divorcing her second . Edward had been advised by British prime minister Stanley Baldwin that he could not remain king and marry a divorced woman with two living ex - husbands . He abdicated and Albert , though he had been reluctant to accept the throne , became king . The day before the abdication , Albert went to London to see his mother , Queen Mary . He wrote in his diary , " When I told her what had happened , I broke down and sobbed like a child . "	Who was the heir presumptive to the throne before you abdicated?	I was.
In May and June 1939 , the King and Queen toured Canada and the United States ; it was the first visit of a reigning British monarch to North America , although George had been to Canada prior to his accession . From Ottawa , George and Elizabeth were accompanied by Canadian prime minister Mackenzie King , to present themselves in North America as King and Queen of Canada . Both Mackenzie King and the Canadian governor general , Lord Tweedsmuir , hoped that George ' s presence in Canada would demonstrate the principles of the Statute of Westminster 1931 , which gave full sovereignty to the British Dominions . On 19 May , George personally accepted and approved the Letter of Credence of the new U . S . ambassador to Canada , Daniel Calhoun Roper ; gave royal assent to nine parliamentary bills ; and ratified two international treaties with the Great Seal of Canada . The official royal tour historian , Gustave Lanctot , wrote " the Statute of Westminster had assumed full reality " and George gave a speech emphasising " the free and equal association of the nations of the Commonwealth " .	Who accompanied you and Elizabeth during your visit to Ottawa?	Canadian prime minister Mackenzie King.
In October 1919 , Albert went up to Trinity College , Cambridge , where he studied history , economics and civics for a year , with the historian R . V . Laurence as his " official mentor " . On 4 June 1920 his father created him Duke of York , Earl of Inverness and Baron Killarney . He began to take on more royal duties . He represented his father and toured coal mines , factories , and railyards . Through such visits he acquired the nickname of the " Industrial Prince " . His stutter , and his embarrassment over it , together with a tendency to shyness , caused him to appear less confident in public than his older brother , Edward . However , he was physically active and enjoyed playing tennis . He played at Wimbledon in the Men ' s Doubles with Louis Greig in 1926 , losing in the first round . He developed an interest in working conditions , and was president of the Industrial Welfare Society . His series of annual summer camps for boys between 1921 and 1939 brought together boys from different social backgrounds .	Who was your "official mentor" at Trinity College?	My "official mentor" at Trinity College was R. V. Laurence.
The Duke and Duchess had two children : Elizabeth ( called " Lilibet " by the family , and the future Elizabeth II ) who was born in 1926 , and Margaret who was born in 1930 . The close family lived at White Lodge , Richmond Park , and then at 145 Piccadilly , rather than one of the royal palaces . In 1931 , the Canadian prime minister , R . B . Bennett , considered Albert for Governor General of Canada — a proposal that King George V rejected on the advice of the Secretary of State for Dominion Affairs , J . H . Thomas .	When was Elizabeth born?	Elizabeth was born in 1926.
Following the German invasion of Poland in September 1939 , the United Kingdom and the self - governing Dominions other than Ireland declared war on Nazi Germany . The King and Queen resolved to stay in London , despite German bombing raids . They officially stayed in Buckingham Palace throughout the war , although they usually spent nights at Windsor Castle . The first night of the Blitz on London , on 7 September 1940 , killed about one thousand civilians , mostly in the East End . On 13 September , the couple narrowly avoided death when two German bombs exploded in a courtyard at Buckingham Palace while they were there . In defiance , Elizabeth declared : " I am glad we have been bombed . It makes me feel we can look the East End in the face . " The royal family were portrayed as sharing the same dangers and deprivations as the rest of the country . They were subject to British rationing restrictions , and U . S . First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt remarked on the rationed food served and the limited bathwater that was permitted during a stay at the unheated and boarded - up Palace . In August 1942 , the King ' s brother , the Duke of Kent , was killed on active service .	Where did you and the Queen stay during the war?	We officially stayed in Buckingham Palace throughout the war, although we usually spent nights at Windsor Castle.
