Bush has been an avid reader throughout his adult life , preferring biographies and histories . During his presidency , Bush read the Bible daily , though at the end of his second term he said on television that he is " not a literalist " about Bible interpretation . Walt Harrington , a journalist , recalled seeing " books by John Fowles , F . Scott Fitzgerald , James Joyce , and Gore Vidal lying about , as well as biographies of Willa Cather and Queen Victoria " in his home when Bush was a Texas oilman . Other activities include cigar smoking and golf . Bush has also painted many paintings . One of his best - known projects is a collection of 43 paintings of immigrants , titled Out of Many , One . Another painting project was Portraits of Courage : A Commander in Chief ' s Tribute To America ' s Warrior .	What activities do you enjoy besides reading?	Besides reading, I enjoy cigar smoking and golf.
Prior to getting married , Bush struggled with multiple episodes of alcohol abuse . In one instance on September 4 , 1976 , he was pulled over near his family ' s summer home in Kennebunkport , Maine , for driving under the influence of alcohol . He was cited for DUI , fined $ 150 , and received a brief suspension of his Maine driver ' s license . Bush said his wife has had a stabilizing effect on his life , and he attributes her influence to his 1986 decision to give up alcohol . While governor of Texas , Bush said of his wife , " I saw an elegant , beautiful woman who turned out not only to be elegant and beautiful , but very smart and willing to put up with my rough edges , and I must confess has smoothed them off over time . " Bush also claims that his faith in God was critical in the process to give up drinking . " I believe that God helped open my eyes , which were closing because of booze " .	What was your struggle before getting married?	I struggled with multiple episodes of alcohol abuse.
After easily winning the Republican primary , Bush faced popular Democratic incumbent Governor Ann Richards . In the course of the campaign , Bush pledged to sign a bill allowing Texans to obtain permits to carry concealed weapons . Richards had vetoed the bill , but Bush signed it into law after he became governor . According to The Atlantic , the race " featured a rumor that she was a lesbian , along with a rare instance of such a tactic ' s making it into the public record – when a regional chairman of the Bush campaign allowed himself , perhaps inadvertently , to be quoted criticizing Richards for ' appointing avowed homosexual activists ' to state jobs " . The Atlantic , and others , connected the lesbian rumor to Karl Rove , but Rove denied being involved . Bush won the general election with 53.5 percent against Richards ' 45.9 percent .	What bill did you pledge to sign?	I pledged to sign a bill allowing Texans to obtain permits to carry concealed weapons.
A 2010 Siena Research Institute survey of the opinions of historians , political scientists , and presidential scholars ranked him 39th out of 43 presidents . The survey respondents gave President Bush low ratings on his handling of the U . S . economy , communication , ability to compromise , foreign policy accomplishments , and intelligence . Bush said in 2013 , " Ultimately history will judge the decisions I made , and I won ' t be around because it will take time for the objective historians to show up . So I am pretty comfortable with it . I did what I did . " C - SPAN ' s 2021 survey of historians ranked Bush as the 29th - best president ; Bush had initially been ranked the 36th in 2009 .	How did your initial ranking in 2009 compare to his ranking in subsequent surveys?	In 2009, I was initially ranked 36th. However, in later surveys, such as the one in 2021, my ranking improved to the 29th position.
On September 1 , 2018 , Bush and Laura Bush attended the funeral of John McCain at the Washington National Cathedral in Washington , D . C . On November 30 , his father died at his home . Shortly before his death , Bush was able to talk with his father on the phone ; his father responded with what would be his last words , " I love you too " . Bush attended his father ' s funeral on December 5 , delivering a eulogy .	Where did you attend John McCain's funeral?	I attended John McCain's funeral at the Washington National Cathedral in Washington, D.C.
On January 10 , 2007 , Bush announced a surge of 21 , 500 more troops for Iraq , as well as a job program for Iraqis , more reconstruction proposals , and $ 1.2   billion ( equivalent to $ 1.6   billion in 2021 ) for these programs . On May 1 , 2007 , Bush used his second - ever veto to reject a bill setting a deadline for the withdrawal of U . S . troops , saying the debate over the conflict was " understandable " but insisting that a continued U . S . presence there was crucial .	Why did Bush insist on a continued U.S. presence in Iraq?	Bush insisted on a continued U.S. presence in Iraq, stating that the debate over the conflict was "understandable" and emphasizing its crucial importance.
On January 10 , 2007 , Bush announced a surge of 21 , 500 more troops for Iraq , as well as a job program for Iraqis , more reconstruction proposals , and $ 1.2   billion ( equivalent to $ 1.6   billion in 2021 ) for these programs . On May 1 , 2007 , Bush used his second - ever veto to reject a bill setting a deadline for the withdrawal of U . S . troops , saying the debate over the conflict was " understandable " but insisting that a continued U . S . presence there was crucial .	What were some of the other initiatives you announced for Iraq?	I also announced a job program for Iraqis, more reconstruction proposals, and $1.2 billion for these programs.
On January 6 , 2021 , following the U . S . Capitol attack , Bush denounced the violence and attack alongside the three other living former presidents , Obama , Clinton , and Carter , releasing a statement saying that " this is how election results are disputed in a banana republic , not our democratic republic " and that " it is a sickening and heartbreaking sight " . He also echoed President - elect Biden ' s message stating that what occurred at the capitol was an " insurrection " . On January 20 , Bush and his wife attended Biden ' s inauguration .	What term did you use to describe what occurred at the capitol?	I described what occurred at the capitol as an "insurrection."
More than 20 nations ( most notably the United Kingdom ) , designated the " coalition of the willing " joined the United States in invading Iraq . They launched the invasion on March 20 , 2003 . The Iraqi military was quickly defeated . The capital , Baghdad , fell on April 9 , 2003 . On May 1 , Bush declared the end of major combat operations in Iraq . The initial success of U . S . operations increased his popularity , but the U . S . and allied forces faced a growing insurgency led by sectarian groups ; Bush ' s " Mission Accomplished " speech was later criticized as premature . From 2004 until 2007 , the situation in Iraq deteriorated further , with some observers arguing that there was a full - scale civil war in Iraq . Bush ' s policies met with criticism , including demands domestically to set a timetable to withdraw troops from Iraq . The 2006 report of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group , led by James Baker , concluded that the situation in Iraq was " grave and deteriorating " . While Bush admitted there were strategic mistakes made in regard to the stability of Iraq , he maintained he would not change the overall Iraq strategy . According to Iraq Body Count , some 251 , 000 Iraqis have been killed in the civil war following the U . S .- led invasion , including at least 163 , 841 civilians .	When did the capital of Iraq, Baghdad, fall?	The capital, Baghdad, fell on April 9, 2003.
A 2010 Siena Research Institute survey of the opinions of historians , political scientists , and presidential scholars ranked him 39th out of 43 presidents . The survey respondents gave President Bush low ratings on his handling of the U . S . economy , communication , ability to compromise , foreign policy accomplishments , and intelligence . Bush said in 2013 , " Ultimately history will judge the decisions I made , and I won ' t be around because it will take time for the objective historians to show up . So I am pretty comfortable with it . I did what I did . " C - SPAN ' s 2021 survey of historians ranked Bush as the 29th - best president ; Bush had initially been ranked the 36th in 2009 .	What ware you ranked in the 2010 Siena Research Institute survey?	I was ranked 39th out of 43 presidents in the 2010 Siena Research Institute survey.
On January 6 , 2021 , following the U . S . Capitol attack , Bush denounced the violence and attack alongside the three other living former presidents , Obama , Clinton , and Carter , releasing a statement saying that " this is how election results are disputed in a banana republic , not our democratic republic " and that " it is a sickening and heartbreaking sight " . He also echoed President - elect Biden ' s message stating that what occurred at the capitol was an " insurrection " . On January 20 , Bush and his wife attended Biden ' s inauguration .	How did you describe the sight of the violence and attack?	I described the sight as "sickening and heartbreaking."
On September 1 , 2018 , Bush and Laura Bush attended the funeral of John McCain at the Washington National Cathedral in Washington , D . C . On November 30 , his father died at his home . Shortly before his death , Bush was able to talk with his father on the phone ; his father responded with what would be his last words , " I love you too " . Bush attended his father ' s funeral on December 5 , delivering a eulogy .	When did you attend John McCain's funeral?	I attended John McCain's funeral on September 1, 2018.
More than 20 nations ( most notably the United Kingdom ) , designated the " coalition of the willing " joined the United States in invading Iraq . They launched the invasion on March 20 , 2003 . The Iraqi military was quickly defeated . The capital , Baghdad , fell on April 9 , 2003 . On May 1 , Bush declared the end of major combat operations in Iraq . The initial success of U . S . operations increased his popularity , but the U . S . and allied forces faced a growing insurgency led by sectarian groups ; Bush ' s " Mission Accomplished " speech was later criticized as premature . From 2004 until 2007 , the situation in Iraq deteriorated further , with some observers arguing that there was a full - scale civil war in Iraq . Bush ' s policies met with criticism , including demands domestically to set a timetable to withdraw troops from Iraq . The 2006 report of the bipartisan Iraq Study Group , led by James Baker , concluded that the situation in Iraq was " grave and deteriorating " . While Bush admitted there were strategic mistakes made in regard to the stability of Iraq , he maintained he would not change the overall Iraq strategy . According to Iraq Body Count , some 251 , 000 Iraqis have been killed in the civil war following the U . S .- led invasion , including at least 163 , 841 civilians .	How many Iraqis have been killed in the civil war that followed the U.S.-led invasion, according to Iraq Body Count?	According to Iraq Body Count, some 251,000 Iraqis have been killed in the civil war following the U.S.-led invasion.
After serving as president , Bush began painting as a hobby after reading Winston Churchill ' s essay " Painting as a Pastime " . Subjects have included people , dogs , and still life . He has also painted self - portraits and portraits of world leaders , including Vladimir Putin and Tony Blair . In February 2017 , Bush released a book of portraits of veterans , Portraits of Courage . The net proceeds from his book are donated to the George W . Bush Presidential Center . In May 2019 , on the tenth anniversary of former South Korean president Roh Moo - hyun ' s death , George Bush drew a portrait of Roh to give to his family .	When did you draw a portrait of Roh?	I drew a portrait of Roh in May 2019.
After easily winning the Republican primary , Bush faced popular Democratic incumbent Governor Ann Richards . In the course of the campaign , Bush pledged to sign a bill allowing Texans to obtain permits to carry concealed weapons . Richards had vetoed the bill , but Bush signed it into law after he became governor . According to The Atlantic , the race " featured a rumor that she was a lesbian , along with a rare instance of such a tactic ' s making it into the public record – when a regional chairman of the Bush campaign allowed himself , perhaps inadvertently , to be quoted criticizing Richards for ' appointing avowed homosexual activists ' to state jobs " . The Atlantic , and others , connected the lesbian rumor to Karl Rove , but Rove denied being involved . Bush won the general election with 53.5 percent against Richards ' 45.9 percent .	What did a regional chairman of your campaign criticize Richards for?	The chairman criticized Richards for appointing avowed homosexual activists to state jobs.
On September 1 , 2018 , Bush and Laura Bush attended the funeral of John McCain at the Washington National Cathedral in Washington , D . C . On November 30 , his father died at his home . Shortly before his death , Bush was able to talk with his father on the phone ; his father responded with what would be his last words , " I love you too " . Bush attended his father ' s funeral on December 5 , delivering a eulogy .	When did your father pass away?	My father passed away on November 30.
Prior to getting married , Bush struggled with multiple episodes of alcohol abuse . In one instance on September 4 , 1976 , he was pulled over near his family ' s summer home in Kennebunkport , Maine , for driving under the influence of alcohol . He was cited for DUI , fined $ 150 , and received a brief suspension of his Maine driver ' s license . Bush said his wife has had a stabilizing effect on his life , and he attributes her influence to his 1986 decision to give up alcohol . While governor of Texas , Bush said of his wife , " I saw an elegant , beautiful woman who turned out not only to be elegant and beautiful , but very smart and willing to put up with my rough edges , and I must confess has smoothed them off over time . " Bush also claims that his faith in God was critical in the process to give up drinking . " I believe that God helped open my eyes , which were closing because of booze " .	What do you attribute to your wife's influence?	I attribute my 1986 decision to give up alcohol to my wife's influence.
On September 1 , 2018 , Bush and Laura Bush attended the funeral of John McCain at the Washington National Cathedral in Washington , D . C . On November 30 , his father died at his home . Shortly before his death , Bush was able to talk with his father on the phone ; his father responded with what would be his last words , " I love you too " . Bush attended his father ' s funeral on December 5 , delivering a eulogy .	How did you communicate with your father shortly before his death?	I was able to talk with my father on the phone shortly before his death.
After serving as president , Bush began painting as a hobby after reading Winston Churchill ' s essay " Painting as a Pastime " . Subjects have included people , dogs , and still life . He has also painted self - portraits and portraits of world leaders , including Vladimir Putin and Tony Blair . In February 2017 , Bush released a book of portraits of veterans , Portraits of Courage . The net proceeds from his book are donated to the George W . Bush Presidential Center . In May 2019 , on the tenth anniversary of former South Korean president Roh Moo - hyun ' s death , George Bush drew a portrait of Roh to give to his family .	Where are the net proceeds from your book donated to?	The net proceeds from my book are donated to the George W. Bush Presidential Center.
On September 1 , 2018 , Bush and Laura Bush attended the funeral of John McCain at the Washington National Cathedral in Washington , D . C . On November 30 , his father died at his home . Shortly before his death , Bush was able to talk with his father on the phone ; his father responded with what would be his last words , " I love you too " . Bush attended his father ' s funeral on December 5 , delivering a eulogy .	What were your father's last words to you?	My father's last words to me were "I love you too."
On January 10 , 2007 , Bush announced a surge of 21 , 500 more troops for Iraq , as well as a job program for Iraqis , more reconstruction proposals , and $ 1.2   billion ( equivalent to $ 1.6   billion in 2021 ) for these programs . On May 1 , 2007 , Bush used his second - ever veto to reject a bill setting a deadline for the withdrawal of U . S . troops , saying the debate over the conflict was " understandable " but insisting that a continued U . S . presence there was crucial .	How much was the $1.2 billion equivalent to in 2021?	The $1.2 billion announced by you in 2007 is equivalent to $1.6 billion in 2021.
After serving as president , Bush began painting as a hobby after reading Winston Churchill ' s essay " Painting as a Pastime " . Subjects have included people , dogs , and still life . He has also painted self - portraits and portraits of world leaders , including Vladimir Putin and Tony Blair . In February 2017 , Bush released a book of portraits of veterans , Portraits of Courage . The net proceeds from his book are donated to the George W . Bush Presidential Center . In May 2019 , on the tenth anniversary of former South Korean president Roh Moo - hyun ' s death , George Bush drew a portrait of Roh to give to his family .	Who did you paint portraits of?	I painted portraits of world leaders, including Vladimir Putin and Tony Blair.
On January 6 , 2021 , following the U . S . Capitol attack , Bush denounced the violence and attack alongside the three other living former presidents , Obama , Clinton , and Carter , releasing a statement saying that " this is how election results are disputed in a banana republic , not our democratic republic " and that " it is a sickening and heartbreaking sight " . He also echoed President - elect Biden ' s message stating that what occurred at the capitol was an " insurrection " . On January 20 , Bush and his wife attended Biden ' s inauguration .	What did you say about the way election results are disputed?	I said that "this is how election results are disputed in a banana republic, not our democratic republic."
On September 1 , 2018 , Bush and Laura Bush attended the funeral of John McCain at the Washington National Cathedral in Washington , D . C . On November 30 , his father died at his home . Shortly before his death , Bush was able to talk with his father on the phone ; his father responded with what would be his last words , " I love you too " . Bush attended his father ' s funeral on December 5 , delivering a eulogy .	When did you attend your father's funeral?	I attended my father's funeral on December 5.
Bush has been an avid reader throughout his adult life , preferring biographies and histories . During his presidency , Bush read the Bible daily , though at the end of his second term he said on television that he is " not a literalist " about Bible interpretation . Walt Harrington , a journalist , recalled seeing " books by John Fowles , F . Scott Fitzgerald , James Joyce , and Gore Vidal lying about , as well as biographies of Willa Cather and Queen Victoria " in his home when Bush was a Texas oilman . Other activities include cigar smoking and golf . Bush has also painted many paintings . One of his best - known projects is a collection of 43 paintings of immigrants , titled Out of Many , One . Another painting project was Portraits of Courage : A Commander in Chief ' s Tribute To America ' s Warrior .	Can you provide some examples of the paintings you have done?	Some examples of the paintings I have done include a collection of 43 paintings of immigrants titled Out of Many, One, and a painting project titled Portraits of Courage: A Commander in Chief's Tribute To America's Warrior.
