On 31 March 2008 , stimulating another controversy pertaining to Ledger ' s estate , Gemma Jones and Janet Fife - Yeomans published an " Exclusive " report , in The Daily Telegraph , citing Ledger ' s uncle Haydn Ledger and other family members , who " believe the late actor may have fathered a secret love child " when he was 17 , and stating that " If it is confirmed that Ledger is the girl ' s biological father , it could split his multi - million dollar estate between ... Matilda Rose ... and his secret love child . " A few days later , reports citing telephone interviews with Ledger ' s uncles Haydn and Mike Ledger and the family of the other little girl , published in OK ! and Us Weekly , " denied " those " claims " , with Ledger ' s uncles and the little girl ' s mother and stepfather describing them as unfounded " rumors " distorted and exaggerated by the media .	Who were the family members mentioned in the report who believed you may have fathered a secret love child?	My uncle Haydn Ledger and other family members.
After Ledger ' s death , in response to some press reports about his will , filed in New York City on 28 February 2008 , and his daughter ' s access to his financial legacy , his father , Kim Ledger , said that he considered the financial well - being of Heath ' s daughter Matilda Rose an " absolute priority , " whilst also stating that her mother , Michelle Williams , was " an integral part of our family " . He added , " They will be taken care of and that ' s how Heath would want it to be " . Some of Ledger ' s relatives may be challenging the legal status of his will signed in 2003 , prior to his involvement with Williams and the birth of their daughter and not updated to include them , which divides half of his estate between his parents and half among his siblings ; they claim that there is a second , unsigned will , which leaves most of that estate to Matilda Rose . Williams ' father , Larry Williams , has also joined the controversy about Ledger ' s will , as it was filed in New York City soon after his death .	What press reports were filed in New York City on 28 February 2008 regarding your will?	Some press reports about my will were filed in New York City on 28 February 2008.
Several actors made statements expressing their sorrow at Ledger ' s death , including Daniel Day - Lewis , who dedicated his Screen Actors Guild Award to him , saying that he was inspired by Ledger ' s acting ; Day - Lewis praised Ledger ' s performances in Monster ' s Ball and Brokeback Mountain , describing the latter as " unique , perfect " . Verne Troyer , who was working with Ledger on The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus at the time of his death , had a heart shape , an exact duplicate of a symbol that Ledger scrawled on a piece of paper with his email address , tattooed on his hand in remembrance of Ledger because Ledger " had made such an impression on [ him ] " . On 1 February , in her first public statement after Ledger ' s death , Michelle Williams expressed her heartbreak and described Ledger ' s spirit as surviving in their daughter .	What symbol did you tattoo on your hand in remembrance of me?	I tattooed a heart shape, an exact duplicate of a symbol that you scrawled on a piece of paper with your email address.
At a news conference at the 2007 Venice Film Festival , Ledger spoke of his desire to make a documentary film about the British singer - songwriter Nick Drake , who died in 1974 , at the age of 26 , from an overdose of an antidepressant . Ledger created and acted in a music video set to Drake ' s recording of the singer ' s 1974 song about depression " Black Eyed Dog " — a title " inspired by Winston Churchill ' s descriptive term for depression " ( black dog ) ; it was shown publicly only twice , first at the Bumbershoot Festival , in Seattle , held from 1 to 3 September 2007 ; and secondly as part of " A Place To Be : A Celebration of Nick Drake " , with its screening of Their Place : Reflections On Nick Drake , " a series of short filmed homages to Nick Drake " ( including Ledger ' s ) , sponsored by American Cinematheque , at the Grauman ' s Egyptian Theatre , in Hollywood , on 5 October 2007 . After Ledger ' s death , his music video for " Black Eyed Dog " was shown on the Internet and excerpted in news clips distributed via YouTube . [ b ]	Where was your music video for "Black Eyed Dog" shown publicly for the first time?	My music video for "Black Eyed Dog" was shown publicly for the first time at the Bumbershoot Festival in Seattle.
At a news conference at the 2007 Venice Film Festival , Ledger spoke of his desire to make a documentary film about the British singer - songwriter Nick Drake , who died in 1974 , at the age of 26 , from an overdose of an antidepressant . Ledger created and acted in a music video set to Drake ' s recording of the singer ' s 1974 song about depression " Black Eyed Dog " — a title " inspired by Winston Churchill ' s descriptive term for depression " ( black dog ) ; it was shown publicly only twice , first at the Bumbershoot Festival , in Seattle , held from 1 to 3 September 2007 ; and secondly as part of " A Place To Be : A Celebration of Nick Drake " , with its screening of Their Place : Reflections On Nick Drake , " a series of short filmed homages to Nick Drake " ( including Ledger ' s ) , sponsored by American Cinematheque , at the Grauman ' s Egyptian Theatre , in Hollywood , on 5 October 2007 . After Ledger ' s death , his music video for " Black Eyed Dog " was shown on the Internet and excerpted in news clips distributed via YouTube . [ b ]	What was your desire mentioned at the 2007 Venice Film Festival?	I spoke of my desire to make a documentary film about the British singer-songwriter Nick Drake.
On 31 March 2008 , stimulating another controversy pertaining to Ledger ' s estate , Gemma Jones and Janet Fife - Yeomans published an " Exclusive " report , in The Daily Telegraph , citing Ledger ' s uncle Haydn Ledger and other family members , who " believe the late actor may have fathered a secret love child " when he was 17 , and stating that " If it is confirmed that Ledger is the girl ' s biological father , it could split his multi - million dollar estate between ... Matilda Rose ... and his secret love child . " A few days later , reports citing telephone interviews with Ledger ' s uncles Haydn and Mike Ledger and the family of the other little girl , published in OK ! and Us Weekly , " denied " those " claims " , with Ledger ' s uncles and the little girl ' s mother and stepfather describing them as unfounded " rumors " distorted and exaggerated by the media .	What would happen to your estate if it was confirmed that you are the biological father of the girl?	It could be split between Matilda Rose and my secret love child.
Directors who have worked with the actor praised him for his creativity , seriousness , and intuition . " I ' ve never felt as old as I did watching Heath explore his talents , " The Dark Knight director Christopher Nolan has written , expressing amazement over the actor ' s working process , genuine curiosity and charisma . Marc Forster , who directed Ledger in Monster ' s Ball , complimented him as taking the job " very seriously " , being disciplined , observant , understanding , and intuitive . In 2007 , director Todd Haynes compared Ledger ' s presence to actor James Dean , casting Ledger as Robbie Clarke , a fictive personification of Bob Dylan in I ' m Not There . Drawing on the similar characteristics between the actors , Haynes further highlighted Ledger ' s " precocious seriousness " and intuition . He also felt that Ledger had a rare maturity beyond his years . " Ledger , however , disconnected himself and acting from perfectionism . " I ' m always gonna pull myself apart and dissect [ the work ] . I mean , there ' s no such thing as perfection in what [ actors ] do . Pornos are more perfect than we are , because they ' re actually fucking . "	In what movie did director Todd Haynes cast you as Robbie Clarke?	Director Todd Haynes cast me as Robbie Clarke in the movie "I'm Not There."
After Ledger ' s death , in response to some press reports about his will , filed in New York City on 28 February 2008 , and his daughter ' s access to his financial legacy , his father , Kim Ledger , said that he considered the financial well - being of Heath ' s daughter Matilda Rose an " absolute priority , " whilst also stating that her mother , Michelle Williams , was " an integral part of our family " . He added , " They will be taken care of and that ' s how Heath would want it to be " . Some of Ledger ' s relatives may be challenging the legal status of his will signed in 2003 , prior to his involvement with Williams and the birth of their daughter and not updated to include them , which divides half of his estate between his parents and half among his siblings ; they claim that there is a second , unsigned will , which leaves most of that estate to Matilda Rose . Williams ' father , Larry Williams , has also joined the controversy about Ledger ' s will , as it was filed in New York City soon after his death .	Who did your father state was an integral part of your family?	My father stated that Michelle Williams, Matilda Rose's mother, was an integral part of our family.
After Ledger ' s death , in response to some press reports about his will , filed in New York City on 28 February 2008 , and his daughter ' s access to his financial legacy , his father , Kim Ledger , said that he considered the financial well - being of Heath ' s daughter Matilda Rose an " absolute priority , " whilst also stating that her mother , Michelle Williams , was " an integral part of our family " . He added , " They will be taken care of and that ' s how Heath would want it to be " . Some of Ledger ' s relatives may be challenging the legal status of his will signed in 2003 , prior to his involvement with Williams and the birth of their daughter and not updated to include them , which divides half of his estate between his parents and half among his siblings ; they claim that there is a second , unsigned will , which leaves most of that estate to Matilda Rose . Williams ' father , Larry Williams , has also joined the controversy about Ledger ' s will , as it was filed in New York City soon after his death .	Who did your father consider the financial well-being of?	My father considered the financial well-being of my daughter Matilda Rose.
Portraying a variety of roles , from romantic heroes to tragic characters , Ledger created a hodgepodge of characters that are deliberately unlike one another , stating : " I feel like I am wasting my time if I repeat myself " . He also reflected on his inability to be happy with his work , " I feel the same thing about everything I do . The day I say , ' It ' s good ' is the day I should start doing something else . " Ledger liked to wait between jobs so that he would start creatively hungry on new projects . In his own words , acting was about harnessing " the infinite power of belief , " thus using belief as a tool for creating .	Why are you unable to be happy with your work?	I state that I feel the same thing about everything I do and that the day I say, "It's good" is the day I should start doing something else.
Several actors made statements expressing their sorrow at Ledger ' s death , including Daniel Day - Lewis , who dedicated his Screen Actors Guild Award to him , saying that he was inspired by Ledger ' s acting ; Day - Lewis praised Ledger ' s performances in Monster ' s Ball and Brokeback Mountain , describing the latter as " unique , perfect " . Verne Troyer , who was working with Ledger on The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus at the time of his death , had a heart shape , an exact duplicate of a symbol that Ledger scrawled on a piece of paper with his email address , tattooed on his hand in remembrance of Ledger because Ledger " had made such an impression on [ him ] " . On 1 February , in her first public statement after Ledger ' s death , Michelle Williams expressed her heartbreak and described Ledger ' s spirit as surviving in their daughter .	Why did you tattoo the symbol on your hand?	I tattooed the symbol in remembrance of Ledger because Ledger had made such an impression on me.
On 15 July 2008 , Fife - Yeomans reported further , via Australian News Limited , that " While Ledger left everything to his parents and three sisters , it is understood they have legal advice that under Western Australia law , Matilda Rose is entitled to the lion ' s share " of his estate ; its executors , Kim Ledger ' s former business colleague Robert John Collins and Geraldton accountant William Mark Dyson , " have applied for probate in the West Australian Supreme Court in Perth , advertising for ' creditors and other persons ' having claims on the estate to lodge them by 11 August 2008 ... to ensure all debts are paid before the estate is distributed .... " According to this report by Fife - Yeomans , earlier reports citing Ledger ' s uncles , and subsequent reports citing Ledger ' s father , which do not include his actual posthumous earnings , " his entire fortune , mostly held in Australian trusts , is likely to be worth up to $ 20   million . "	When did you pass away?	I passed away on 15 July 2008.
On 15 July 2008 , Fife - Yeomans reported further , via Australian News Limited , that " While Ledger left everything to his parents and three sisters , it is understood they have legal advice that under Western Australia law , Matilda Rose is entitled to the lion ' s share " of his estate ; its executors , Kim Ledger ' s former business colleague Robert John Collins and Geraldton accountant William Mark Dyson , " have applied for probate in the West Australian Supreme Court in Perth , advertising for ' creditors and other persons ' having claims on the estate to lodge them by 11 August 2008 ... to ensure all debts are paid before the estate is distributed .... " According to this report by Fife - Yeomans , earlier reports citing Ledger ' s uncles , and subsequent reports citing Ledger ' s father , which do not include his actual posthumous earnings , " his entire fortune , mostly held in Australian trusts , is likely to be worth up to $ 20   million . "	How much is your estate estimated to be worth?	My estate is estimated to be worth up to $20 million.
On 31 March 2008 , stimulating another controversy pertaining to Ledger ' s estate , Gemma Jones and Janet Fife - Yeomans published an " Exclusive " report , in The Daily Telegraph , citing Ledger ' s uncle Haydn Ledger and other family members , who " believe the late actor may have fathered a secret love child " when he was 17 , and stating that " If it is confirmed that Ledger is the girl ' s biological father , it could split his multi - million dollar estate between ... Matilda Rose ... and his secret love child . " A few days later , reports citing telephone interviews with Ledger ' s uncles Haydn and Mike Ledger and the family of the other little girl , published in OK ! and Us Weekly , " denied " those " claims " , with Ledger ' s uncles and the little girl ' s mother and stepfather describing them as unfounded " rumors " distorted and exaggerated by the media .	When did the controversy about your estate arise?	On 31 March 2008.
On 15 July 2008 , Fife - Yeomans reported further , via Australian News Limited , that " While Ledger left everything to his parents and three sisters , it is understood they have legal advice that under Western Australia law , Matilda Rose is entitled to the lion ' s share " of his estate ; its executors , Kim Ledger ' s former business colleague Robert John Collins and Geraldton accountant William Mark Dyson , " have applied for probate in the West Australian Supreme Court in Perth , advertising for ' creditors and other persons ' having claims on the estate to lodge them by 11 August 2008 ... to ensure all debts are paid before the estate is distributed .... " According to this report by Fife - Yeomans , earlier reports citing Ledger ' s uncles , and subsequent reports citing Ledger ' s father , which do not include his actual posthumous earnings , " his entire fortune , mostly held in Australian trusts , is likely to be worth up to $ 20   million . "	Who are the executors of your estate?	My father's former business colleague Robert John Collins and Geraldton accountant William Mark Dyson are the executors of my estate.
Several actors made statements expressing their sorrow at Ledger ' s death , including Daniel Day - Lewis , who dedicated his Screen Actors Guild Award to him , saying that he was inspired by Ledger ' s acting ; Day - Lewis praised Ledger ' s performances in Monster ' s Ball and Brokeback Mountain , describing the latter as " unique , perfect " . Verne Troyer , who was working with Ledger on The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus at the time of his death , had a heart shape , an exact duplicate of a symbol that Ledger scrawled on a piece of paper with his email address , tattooed on his hand in remembrance of Ledger because Ledger " had made such an impression on [ him ] " . On 1 February , in her first public statement after Ledger ' s death , Michelle Williams expressed her heartbreak and described Ledger ' s spirit as surviving in their daughter .	What did Daniel Day-Lewis say about your acting?	He was inspired by my acting and praised my performances in Monster's Ball and Brokeback Mountain, describing the latter as "unique, perfect".
Several actors made statements expressing their sorrow at Ledger ' s death , including Daniel Day - Lewis , who dedicated his Screen Actors Guild Award to him , saying that he was inspired by Ledger ' s acting ; Day - Lewis praised Ledger ' s performances in Monster ' s Ball and Brokeback Mountain , describing the latter as " unique , perfect " . Verne Troyer , who was working with Ledger on The Imaginarium of Doctor Parnassus at the time of his death , had a heart shape , an exact duplicate of a symbol that Ledger scrawled on a piece of paper with his email address , tattooed on his hand in remembrance of Ledger because Ledger " had made such an impression on [ him ] " . On 1 February , in her first public statement after Ledger ' s death , Michelle Williams expressed her heartbreak and described Ledger ' s spirit as surviving in their daughter .	How did you describe your spirit in your first public statement after your death?	I expressed my heartbreak and described my spirit as surviving in our daughter.
Portraying a variety of roles , from romantic heroes to tragic characters , Ledger created a hodgepodge of characters that are deliberately unlike one another , stating : " I feel like I am wasting my time if I repeat myself " . He also reflected on his inability to be happy with his work , " I feel the same thing about everything I do . The day I say , ' It ' s good ' is the day I should start doing something else . " Ledger liked to wait between jobs so that he would start creatively hungry on new projects . In his own words , acting was about harnessing " the infinite power of belief , " thus using belief as a tool for creating .	How do you feel about repeating yourself in your roles?	I feel like I am wasting my time if I repeat myself in my roles.
Speaking of editing The Dark Knight , on which Ledger had completed his work in October 2007 , Nolan recalled , " It was tremendously emotional , right when he passed , having to go back in and look at him every day . ... But the truth is , I feel very lucky to have something productive to do , to have a performance that he was very , very proud of , and that he had entrusted to me to finish . " All of Ledger ' s scenes appear as he completed them in the filming ; in editing the film , Nolan added no " digital effects " to alter Ledger ' s actual performance posthumously . Nolan dedicated the film in part to Ledger ' s memory , as well as to the memory of technician Conway Wickliffe , who was killed during a car accident while preparing one of the film ' s stunts .	Who else did you dedicate the film to?	I dedicated the film in part to the memory of technician Conway Wickliffe.
Directors who have worked with the actor praised him for his creativity , seriousness , and intuition . " I ' ve never felt as old as I did watching Heath explore his talents , " The Dark Knight director Christopher Nolan has written , expressing amazement over the actor ' s working process , genuine curiosity and charisma . Marc Forster , who directed Ledger in Monster ' s Ball , complimented him as taking the job " very seriously " , being disciplined , observant , understanding , and intuitive . In 2007 , director Todd Haynes compared Ledger ' s presence to actor James Dean , casting Ledger as Robbie Clarke , a fictive personification of Bob Dylan in I ' m Not There . Drawing on the similar characteristics between the actors , Haynes further highlighted Ledger ' s " precocious seriousness " and intuition . He also felt that Ledger had a rare maturity beyond his years . " Ledger , however , disconnected himself and acting from perfectionism . " I ' m always gonna pull myself apart and dissect [ the work ] . I mean , there ' s no such thing as perfection in what [ actors ] do . Pornos are more perfect than we are , because they ' re actually fucking . "	How did you describe your approach to your job?	I described myself as someone who takes the job "very seriously," is disciplined, observant, understanding, and intuitive.
On 31 March 2008 , stimulating another controversy pertaining to Ledger ' s estate , Gemma Jones and Janet Fife - Yeomans published an " Exclusive " report , in The Daily Telegraph , citing Ledger ' s uncle Haydn Ledger and other family members , who " believe the late actor may have fathered a secret love child " when he was 17 , and stating that " If it is confirmed that Ledger is the girl ' s biological father , it could split his multi - million dollar estate between ... Matilda Rose ... and his secret love child . " A few days later , reports citing telephone interviews with Ledger ' s uncles Haydn and Mike Ledger and the family of the other little girl , published in OK ! and Us Weekly , " denied " those " claims " , with Ledger ' s uncles and the little girl ' s mother and stepfather describing them as unfounded " rumors " distorted and exaggerated by the media .	How did your uncles and the little girl's mother and stepfather react to the claims?	They described them as unfounded "rumors" distorted and exaggerated by the media.
Speaking of editing The Dark Knight , on which Ledger had completed his work in October 2007 , Nolan recalled , " It was tremendously emotional , right when he passed , having to go back in and look at him every day . ... But the truth is , I feel very lucky to have something productive to do , to have a performance that he was very , very proud of , and that he had entrusted to me to finish . " All of Ledger ' s scenes appear as he completed them in the filming ; in editing the film , Nolan added no " digital effects " to alter Ledger ' s actual performance posthumously . Nolan dedicated the film in part to Ledger ' s memory , as well as to the memory of technician Conway Wickliffe , who was killed during a car accident while preparing one of the film ' s stunts .	Did you make any edits or alterations to my performance in the film?	No, you didn't add any "digital effects" to alter my actual performance.
At a news conference at the 2007 Venice Film Festival , Ledger spoke of his desire to make a documentary film about the British singer - songwriter Nick Drake , who died in 1974 , at the age of 26 , from an overdose of an antidepressant . Ledger created and acted in a music video set to Drake ' s recording of the singer ' s 1974 song about depression " Black Eyed Dog " — a title " inspired by Winston Churchill ' s descriptive term for depression " ( black dog ) ; it was shown publicly only twice , first at the Bumbershoot Festival , in Seattle , held from 1 to 3 September 2007 ; and secondly as part of " A Place To Be : A Celebration of Nick Drake " , with its screening of Their Place : Reflections On Nick Drake , " a series of short filmed homages to Nick Drake " ( including Ledger ' s ) , sponsored by American Cinematheque , at the Grauman ' s Egyptian Theatre , in Hollywood , on 5 October 2007 . After Ledger ' s death , his music video for " Black Eyed Dog " was shown on the Internet and excerpted in news clips distributed via YouTube . [ b ]	What was the title of the song created by Drake in 1974?	The song created by Drake in 1974 was called "Black Eyed Dog."
On 15 July 2008 , Fife - Yeomans reported further , via Australian News Limited , that " While Ledger left everything to his parents and three sisters , it is understood they have legal advice that under Western Australia law , Matilda Rose is entitled to the lion ' s share " of his estate ; its executors , Kim Ledger ' s former business colleague Robert John Collins and Geraldton accountant William Mark Dyson , " have applied for probate in the West Australian Supreme Court in Perth , advertising for ' creditors and other persons ' having claims on the estate to lodge them by 11 August 2008 ... to ensure all debts are paid before the estate is distributed .... " According to this report by Fife - Yeomans , earlier reports citing Ledger ' s uncles , and subsequent reports citing Ledger ' s father , which do not include his actual posthumous earnings , " his entire fortune , mostly held in Australian trusts , is likely to be worth up to $ 20   million . "	Who are the beneficiaries of your estate?	My parents and three sisters are the beneficiaries of my estate.
Released in July 2008 , The Dark Knight broke several box office records and received both popular and critical accolades , especially with regard to Ledger ' s performance as the Joker . Even film critic David Denby , who does not praise the film overall in his pre - release review in The New Yorker , evaluates Ledger ' s work highly , describing his performance as both " sinister and frightening " and Ledger as " mesmerising in every scene " , concluding : " His performance is a heroic , unsettling final act : this young actor looked into the abyss . " Attempting to dispel widespread speculations that Ledger ' s performance as the Joker had in any way led to his death ( as Denby and others suggest ) , Ledger ' s co - star and friend Christian Bale , who played opposite him as Batman , has stressed that , as an actor , Ledger greatly enjoyed meeting the challenges of creating that role , an experience that Ledger himself described as " the most fun I ' ve ever had , or probably ever will have , playing a character " . Terry Gilliam also refuted the claims that playing the Joker made him crazy , calling it " absolute nonsense " and going on to say , " Heath was so solid . His feet were on the ground and he was the least neurotic person I ' ve ever met . "	When was The Dark Knight released?	The Dark Knight was released in July 2008.
