A particular focus of modern historiography has been the extent to which the events of Henry ' s life ( including his marriages , foreign policy and religious changes ) were the result of his own initiative and , if they were , whether they were the result of opportunism or of a principled undertaking by Henry . The traditional interpretation of those events was provided by historian A . F . Pollard , who in 1902 presented his own , largely positive , view of the king , lauding him , " as the king and statesman who , whatever his personal failings , led England down the road to parliamentary democracy and empire " . Pollard ' s interpretation remained the dominant interpretation of Henry ' s life until the publication of the doctoral thesis of G . R . Elton in 1953 .	Who presented your own interpretation of your life in 1902?	Historian A.F. Pollard presented my own interpretation of my life in 1902, which remained the dominant interpretation until the publication of G.R. Elton's doctoral thesis in 1953.
A particular focus of modern historiography has been the extent to which the events of Henry ' s life ( including his marriages , foreign policy and religious changes ) were the result of his own initiative and , if they were , whether they were the result of opportunism or of a principled undertaking by Henry . The traditional interpretation of those events was provided by historian A . F . Pollard , who in 1902 presented his own , largely positive , view of the king , lauding him , " as the king and statesman who , whatever his personal failings , led England down the road to parliamentary democracy and empire " . Pollard ' s interpretation remained the dominant interpretation of Henry ' s life until the publication of the doctoral thesis of G . R . Elton in 1953 .	What aspects of your life have been the focus of modern historiography?	The extent to which the events of my life, including my marriages, foreign policy, and religious changes, have been the focus of modern historiography.
Other missions concentrated on arranging an ecclesiastical court to meet in England , with a representative from Clement VII . Although Clement agreed to the creation of such a court , he never had any intention of empowering his legate , Lorenzo Campeggio , to decide in Henry ' s favour . This bias was perhaps the result of pressure from Emperor Charles V , Catherine ' s nephew , but it is not clear how far this influenced either Campeggio or the Pope . After less than two months of hearing evidence , Clement called the case back to Rome in July 1529 , from which it was clear that it would never re - emerge . With the chance for an annulment lost , Cardinal Wolsey bore the blame . He was charged with praemunire in October 1529 , and his fall from grace was " sudden and total " . Briefly reconciled with Henry ( and officially pardoned ) in the first half of 1530 , he was charged once more in November 1530 , this time for treason , but died while awaiting trial . After a short period in which Henry took government upon his own shoulders , Sir Thomas More took on the role of Lord Chancellor and chief minister . Intelligent and able , but a devout Catholic and opponent of the annulment , More initially cooperated with the king ' s new policy , denouncing Wolsey in Parliament .	Why was your chance for an annulment lost?	My chance for an annulment was lost when Clement called the case back to Rome in July 1529, indicating that it would never re-emerge.
The Desmond situation was resolved on his death in 1529 , which was followed by a period of uncertainty . This was effectively ended with the appointment of Henry FitzRoy , Duke of Richmond and the king ' s son , as lord lieutenant . Richmond had never before visited Ireland , his appointment a break with past policy . For a time it looked as if peace might be restored with the return of Kildare to Ireland to manage the tribes , but the effect was limited and the Irish parliament soon rendered ineffective . Ireland began to receive the attention of Cromwell , who had supporters of Ormond and Desmond promoted . Kildare , on the other hand , was summoned to London ; after some hesitation , he departed for London in 1534 , where he would face charges of treason . His son , Thomas , Lord Offaly , was more forthright , denouncing the king and leading a " Catholic crusade " against the king , who was by this time mired in marital problems . Offaly had the Archbishop of Dublin murdered and besieged Dublin . Offaly led a mixture of Pale gentry and Irish tribes , although he failed to secure the support of Lord Darcy , a sympathiser , or Charles V . What was effectively a civil war was ended with the intervention of 2 , 000 English troops – a large army by Irish standards – and the execution of Offaly ( his father was already dead ) and his uncles .	Who was appointed as lord lieutenant after the period of uncertainty?	I, Henry FitzRoy, Duke of Richmond and the king's son, was appointed as lord lieutenant.
On 30 June 1513 , Henry invaded France , and his troops defeated a French army at the Battle of the Spurs – a relatively minor result , but one which was seized on by the English for propaganda purposes . Soon after , the English took Th é rouanne and handed it over to Maximillian ; Tournai , a more significant settlement , followed . Henry had led the army personally , complete with a large entourage . His absence from the country , however , had prompted his brother - in - law James IV of Scotland to invade England at the behest of Louis . Nevertheless , the English army , overseen by Queen Catherine , decisively defeated the Scots at the Battle of Flodden on 9 September 1513 . Among the dead was the Scottish king , thus ending Scotland ' s brief involvement in the war . These campaigns had given Henry a taste of the military success he so desired . However , despite initial indications , he decided not to pursue a 1514 campaign . He had been supporting Ferdinand and Maximilian financially during the campaign but had received little in return ; England ' s coffers were now empty . With the replacement of Julius by Pope Leo X , who was inclined to negotiate for peace with France , Henry signed his own treaty with Louis : his sister Mary would become Louis ' wife , having previously been pledged to the younger Charles , and peace was secured for eight years , a remarkably long time .	Which settlements did you capture after the Battle of the Spurs?	I captured Thérouanne and Tournai after the Battle of the Spurs.
In practice , Tudor monarchs used patronage to maintain a royal court that included formal institutions such as the Privy Council as well as more informal advisers and confidants . Both the rise and fall of court nobles could be swift : Henry did undoubtedly execute at will , burning or beheading two of his wives , 20 peers , four leading public servants , six close attendants and friends , one cardinal ( John Fisher ) and numerous abbots . Among those who were in favour at any given point in Henry ' s reign , one could usually be identified as a chief minister , though one of the enduring debates in the historiography of the period has been the extent to which those chief ministers controlled Henry rather than vice versa . In particular , historian G . R . Elton has argued that one such minister , Thomas Cromwell , led a " Tudor revolution in government " independently of the king , whom Elton presented as an opportunistic , essentially lazy participant in the nitty - gritty of politics . Where Henry did intervene personally in the running of the country , Elton argued , he mostly did so to its detriment . The prominence and influence of faction in Henry ' s court is similarly discussed in the context of at least five episodes of Henry ' s reign , including the downfall of Anne Boleyn .	How did Tudor monarchs maintain a royal court?	Tudor monarchs used patronage to maintain a royal court, which included formal institutions such as the Privy Council as well as informal advisers and confidants.
Henry ' s precise motivations and intentions over the coming years are not widely agreed on . Henry himself , at least in the early part of his reign , was a devout and well - informed Catholic to the extent that his 1521 publication Assertio Septem Sacramentorum ( " Defence of the Seven Sacraments " ) earned him the title of Fidei Defensor ( Defender of the Faith ) from Pope Leo X . The work represented a staunch defence of papal supremacy , albeit one couched in somewhat contingent terms . It is not clear exactly when Henry changed his mind on the issue as he grew more intent on a second marriage . Certainly , by 1527 , he had convinced himself that Catherine had produced no male heir because their union was " blighted in the eyes of God " . Indeed , in marrying Catherine , his brother ' s wife , he had acted contrary to Leviticus 20 : 21 , a justification Thomas Cranmer used to declare the marriage null . [ nb 2 ] Martin Luther , on the other hand , had initially argued against the annulment , stating that Henry VIII could take a second wife in accordance with his teaching that the Bible allowed for polygamy but not divorce . Henry now believed the Pope had lacked the authority to grant a dispensation from this impediment . It was this argument Henry took to Pope Clement VII in 1527 in the hope of having his marriage to Catherine annulled , forgoing at least one less openly defiant line of attack . In going public , all hope of tempting Catherine to retire to a nunnery or otherwise stay quiet was lost . Henry sent his secretary , William Knight , to appeal directly to the Holy See by way of a deceptively worded draft papal bull . Knight was unsuccessful ; the Pope could not be misled so easily .	What was your religious affiliation in the early part of your reign?	I was a devout and well-informed Catholic.
In practice , Tudor monarchs used patronage to maintain a royal court that included formal institutions such as the Privy Council as well as more informal advisers and confidants . Both the rise and fall of court nobles could be swift : Henry did undoubtedly execute at will , burning or beheading two of his wives , 20 peers , four leading public servants , six close attendants and friends , one cardinal ( John Fisher ) and numerous abbots . Among those who were in favour at any given point in Henry ' s reign , one could usually be identified as a chief minister , though one of the enduring debates in the historiography of the period has been the extent to which those chief ministers controlled Henry rather than vice versa . In particular , historian G . R . Elton has argued that one such minister , Thomas Cromwell , led a " Tudor revolution in government " independently of the king , whom Elton presented as an opportunistic , essentially lazy participant in the nitty - gritty of politics . Where Henry did intervene personally in the running of the country , Elton argued , he mostly did so to its detriment . The prominence and influence of faction in Henry ' s court is similarly discussed in the context of at least five episodes of Henry ' s reign , including the downfall of Anne Boleyn .	What did historian G.R. Elton argue about you?	Historian G.R. Elton argued that Thomas Cromwell, one of my chief ministers, led a "Tudor revolution in government" independently of me. Elton presented me as an opportunistic and essentially lazy participant in politics.
The Desmond situation was resolved on his death in 1529 , which was followed by a period of uncertainty . This was effectively ended with the appointment of Henry FitzRoy , Duke of Richmond and the king ' s son , as lord lieutenant . Richmond had never before visited Ireland , his appointment a break with past policy . For a time it looked as if peace might be restored with the return of Kildare to Ireland to manage the tribes , but the effect was limited and the Irish parliament soon rendered ineffective . Ireland began to receive the attention of Cromwell , who had supporters of Ormond and Desmond promoted . Kildare , on the other hand , was summoned to London ; after some hesitation , he departed for London in 1534 , where he would face charges of treason . His son , Thomas , Lord Offaly , was more forthright , denouncing the king and leading a " Catholic crusade " against the king , who was by this time mired in marital problems . Offaly had the Archbishop of Dublin murdered and besieged Dublin . Offaly led a mixture of Pale gentry and Irish tribes , although he failed to secure the support of Lord Darcy , a sympathiser , or Charles V . What was effectively a civil war was ended with the intervention of 2 , 000 English troops – a large army by Irish standards – and the execution of Offaly ( his father was already dead ) and his uncles .	When was the Desmond situation resolved?	The Desmond situation was resolved on his death in 1529.
Henry ' s precise motivations and intentions over the coming years are not widely agreed on . Henry himself , at least in the early part of his reign , was a devout and well - informed Catholic to the extent that his 1521 publication Assertio Septem Sacramentorum ( " Defence of the Seven Sacraments " ) earned him the title of Fidei Defensor ( Defender of the Faith ) from Pope Leo X . The work represented a staunch defence of papal supremacy , albeit one couched in somewhat contingent terms . It is not clear exactly when Henry changed his mind on the issue as he grew more intent on a second marriage . Certainly , by 1527 , he had convinced himself that Catherine had produced no male heir because their union was " blighted in the eyes of God " . Indeed , in marrying Catherine , his brother ' s wife , he had acted contrary to Leviticus 20 : 21 , a justification Thomas Cranmer used to declare the marriage null . [ nb 2 ] Martin Luther , on the other hand , had initially argued against the annulment , stating that Henry VIII could take a second wife in accordance with his teaching that the Bible allowed for polygamy but not divorce . Henry now believed the Pope had lacked the authority to grant a dispensation from this impediment . It was this argument Henry took to Pope Clement VII in 1527 in the hope of having his marriage to Catherine annulled , forgoing at least one less openly defiant line of attack . In going public , all hope of tempting Catherine to retire to a nunnery or otherwise stay quiet was lost . Henry sent his secretary , William Knight , to appeal directly to the Holy See by way of a deceptively worded draft papal bull . Knight was unsuccessful ; the Pope could not be misled so easily .	What title did Pope Leo X give to you?	Pope Leo X gave me the title of Fidei Defensor (Defender of the Faith).
The day after Anne ' s execution the 45 - year - old Henry became engaged to Seymour , who had been one of the queen ' s ladies - in - waiting . They were married ten days later at the Palace of Whitehall , Whitehall , London , in the queen ' s closet , by Stephen Gardiner , Bishop of Winchester . On 12 October 1537 , Jane gave birth to a son , Prince Edward , the future Edward VI . The birth was difficult , and Queen Jane died on 24 October 1537 from an infection and was buried in Windsor . The euphoria that had accompanied Edward ' s birth became sorrow , but it was only over time that Henry came to long for his wife . At the time , Henry recovered quickly from the shock . Measures were immediately put in place to find another wife for Henry , which , at the insistence of Cromwell and the Privy Council , were focused on the European continent .	What happened to Queen Jane after giving birth?	Queen Jane died on 24 October 1537 from an infection and was buried in Windsor.
Henry ' s precise motivations and intentions over the coming years are not widely agreed on . Henry himself , at least in the early part of his reign , was a devout and well - informed Catholic to the extent that his 1521 publication Assertio Septem Sacramentorum ( " Defence of the Seven Sacraments " ) earned him the title of Fidei Defensor ( Defender of the Faith ) from Pope Leo X . The work represented a staunch defence of papal supremacy , albeit one couched in somewhat contingent terms . It is not clear exactly when Henry changed his mind on the issue as he grew more intent on a second marriage . Certainly , by 1527 , he had convinced himself that Catherine had produced no male heir because their union was " blighted in the eyes of God " . Indeed , in marrying Catherine , his brother ' s wife , he had acted contrary to Leviticus 20 : 21 , a justification Thomas Cranmer used to declare the marriage null . [ nb 2 ] Martin Luther , on the other hand , had initially argued against the annulment , stating that Henry VIII could take a second wife in accordance with his teaching that the Bible allowed for polygamy but not divorce . Henry now believed the Pope had lacked the authority to grant a dispensation from this impediment . It was this argument Henry took to Pope Clement VII in 1527 in the hope of having his marriage to Catherine annulled , forgoing at least one less openly defiant line of attack . In going public , all hope of tempting Catherine to retire to a nunnery or otherwise stay quiet was lost . Henry sent his secretary , William Knight , to appeal directly to the Holy See by way of a deceptively worded draft papal bull . Knight was unsuccessful ; the Pope could not be misled so easily .	What did you publish in 1521?	I published the "Defence of the Seven Sacraments".
Other missions concentrated on arranging an ecclesiastical court to meet in England , with a representative from Clement VII . Although Clement agreed to the creation of such a court , he never had any intention of empowering his legate , Lorenzo Campeggio , to decide in Henry ' s favour . This bias was perhaps the result of pressure from Emperor Charles V , Catherine ' s nephew , but it is not clear how far this influenced either Campeggio or the Pope . After less than two months of hearing evidence , Clement called the case back to Rome in July 1529 , from which it was clear that it would never re - emerge . With the chance for an annulment lost , Cardinal Wolsey bore the blame . He was charged with praemunire in October 1529 , and his fall from grace was " sudden and total " . Briefly reconciled with Henry ( and officially pardoned ) in the first half of 1530 , he was charged once more in November 1530 , this time for treason , but died while awaiting trial . After a short period in which Henry took government upon his own shoulders , Sir Thomas More took on the role of Lord Chancellor and chief minister . Intelligent and able , but a devout Catholic and opponent of the annulment , More initially cooperated with the king ' s new policy , denouncing Wolsey in Parliament .	Who had the power to decide in your favor in the court?	It is not clear if Lorenzo Campeggio, the legate of Clement VII, had the intention of deciding in my favor.
The day after Anne ' s execution the 45 - year - old Henry became engaged to Seymour , who had been one of the queen ' s ladies - in - waiting . They were married ten days later at the Palace of Whitehall , Whitehall , London , in the queen ' s closet , by Stephen Gardiner , Bishop of Winchester . On 12 October 1537 , Jane gave birth to a son , Prince Edward , the future Edward VI . The birth was difficult , and Queen Jane died on 24 October 1537 from an infection and was buried in Windsor . The euphoria that had accompanied Edward ' s birth became sorrow , but it was only over time that Henry came to long for his wife . At the time , Henry recovered quickly from the shock . Measures were immediately put in place to find another wife for Henry , which , at the insistence of Cromwell and the Privy Council , were focused on the European continent .	Where did you and Seymour get married?	We got married at the Palace of Whitehall, Whitehall, London, in the queen's closet.
Henry ' s precise motivations and intentions over the coming years are not widely agreed on . Henry himself , at least in the early part of his reign , was a devout and well - informed Catholic to the extent that his 1521 publication Assertio Septem Sacramentorum ( " Defence of the Seven Sacraments " ) earned him the title of Fidei Defensor ( Defender of the Faith ) from Pope Leo X . The work represented a staunch defence of papal supremacy , albeit one couched in somewhat contingent terms . It is not clear exactly when Henry changed his mind on the issue as he grew more intent on a second marriage . Certainly , by 1527 , he had convinced himself that Catherine had produced no male heir because their union was " blighted in the eyes of God " . Indeed , in marrying Catherine , his brother ' s wife , he had acted contrary to Leviticus 20 : 21 , a justification Thomas Cranmer used to declare the marriage null . [ nb 2 ] Martin Luther , on the other hand , had initially argued against the annulment , stating that Henry VIII could take a second wife in accordance with his teaching that the Bible allowed for polygamy but not divorce . Henry now believed the Pope had lacked the authority to grant a dispensation from this impediment . It was this argument Henry took to Pope Clement VII in 1527 in the hope of having his marriage to Catherine annulled , forgoing at least one less openly defiant line of attack . In going public , all hope of tempting Catherine to retire to a nunnery or otherwise stay quiet was lost . Henry sent his secretary , William Knight , to appeal directly to the Holy See by way of a deceptively worded draft papal bull . Knight was unsuccessful ; the Pope could not be misled so easily .	When did you believe that your marriage to Catherine was "blighted in the eyes of God"?	I believed that my marriage to Catherine was "blighted in the eyes of God" by 1527.
In practice , Tudor monarchs used patronage to maintain a royal court that included formal institutions such as the Privy Council as well as more informal advisers and confidants . Both the rise and fall of court nobles could be swift : Henry did undoubtedly execute at will , burning or beheading two of his wives , 20 peers , four leading public servants , six close attendants and friends , one cardinal ( John Fisher ) and numerous abbots . Among those who were in favour at any given point in Henry ' s reign , one could usually be identified as a chief minister , though one of the enduring debates in the historiography of the period has been the extent to which those chief ministers controlled Henry rather than vice versa . In particular , historian G . R . Elton has argued that one such minister , Thomas Cromwell , led a " Tudor revolution in government " independently of the king , whom Elton presented as an opportunistic , essentially lazy participant in the nitty - gritty of politics . Where Henry did intervene personally in the running of the country , Elton argued , he mostly did so to its detriment . The prominence and influence of faction in Henry ' s court is similarly discussed in the context of at least five episodes of Henry ' s reign , including the downfall of Anne Boleyn .	What were the consequences of falling out of favor with you?	The rise and fall of court nobles under me could be swift, as I executed individuals at will. This included burning or beheading two of my wives, 20 peers, four leading public servants, six close attendants and friends, one cardinal (John Fisher), and numerous abbots.
The day after Anne ' s execution the 45 - year - old Henry became engaged to Seymour , who had been one of the queen ' s ladies - in - waiting . They were married ten days later at the Palace of Whitehall , Whitehall , London , in the queen ' s closet , by Stephen Gardiner , Bishop of Winchester . On 12 October 1537 , Jane gave birth to a son , Prince Edward , the future Edward VI . The birth was difficult , and Queen Jane died on 24 October 1537 from an infection and was buried in Windsor . The euphoria that had accompanied Edward ' s birth became sorrow , but it was only over time that Henry came to long for his wife . At the time , Henry recovered quickly from the shock . Measures were immediately put in place to find another wife for Henry , which , at the insistence of Cromwell and the Privy Council , were focused on the European continent .	When did Jane give birth to Prince Edward?	Jane gave birth to Prince Edward on 12 October 1537.
In practice , Tudor monarchs used patronage to maintain a royal court that included formal institutions such as the Privy Council as well as more informal advisers and confidants . Both the rise and fall of court nobles could be swift : Henry did undoubtedly execute at will , burning or beheading two of his wives , 20 peers , four leading public servants , six close attendants and friends , one cardinal ( John Fisher ) and numerous abbots . Among those who were in favour at any given point in Henry ' s reign , one could usually be identified as a chief minister , though one of the enduring debates in the historiography of the period has been the extent to which those chief ministers controlled Henry rather than vice versa . In particular , historian G . R . Elton has argued that one such minister , Thomas Cromwell , led a " Tudor revolution in government " independently of the king , whom Elton presented as an opportunistic , essentially lazy participant in the nitty - gritty of politics . Where Henry did intervene personally in the running of the country , Elton argued , he mostly did so to its detriment . The prominence and influence of faction in Henry ' s court is similarly discussed in the context of at least five episodes of Henry ' s reign , including the downfall of Anne Boleyn .	Was there a chief minister during your reign?	Yes, during my reign, there could usually be identified a chief minister among those who were in favor at any given point. However, there is debate among historians regarding the extent of control these chief ministers had over me.
A particular focus of modern historiography has been the extent to which the events of Henry ' s life ( including his marriages , foreign policy and religious changes ) were the result of his own initiative and , if they were , whether they were the result of opportunism or of a principled undertaking by Henry . The traditional interpretation of those events was provided by historian A . F . Pollard , who in 1902 presented his own , largely positive , view of the king , lauding him , " as the king and statesman who , whatever his personal failings , led England down the road to parliamentary democracy and empire " . Pollard ' s interpretation remained the dominant interpretation of Henry ' s life until the publication of the doctoral thesis of G . R . Elton in 1953 .	What is the traditional interpretation of your life?	The traditional interpretation of my life, provided by historian A.F. Pollard, presents a largely positive view of me, lauding me as the king and statesman who led England towards parliamentary democracy and empire.
In 1510 , France , with a fragile alliance with the Holy Roman Empire in the League of Cambrai , was winning a war against Venice . Henry renewed his father ' s friendship with Louis XII of France , an issue that divided his council . Certainly , war with the combined might of the two powers would have been exceedingly difficult . Shortly thereafter , however , Henry also signed a pact with Ferdinand II of Aragon . After Pope Julius II created the anti - French Holy League in October 1511 , Henry followed Ferdinand ' s lead and brought England into the new League . An initial joint Anglo - Spanish attack was planned for the spring to recover Aquitaine for England , the start of making Henry ' s dreams of ruling France a reality . The attack , however , following a formal declaration of war in April 1512 , was not led by Henry personally and was a considerable failure ; Ferdinand used it simply to further his own ends , and it strained the Anglo - Spanish alliance . Nevertheless , the French were pushed out of Italy soon after , and the alliance survived , with both parties keen to win further victories over the French . Henry then pulled off a diplomatic coup by convincing Emperor Maximilian to join the Holy League . Remarkably , Henry had secured the promised title of " Most Christian King of France " from Julius and possibly coronation by the Pope himself in Paris , if only Louis could be defeated .	What war was France winning in 1510?	France was winning a war against Venice.
Other missions concentrated on arranging an ecclesiastical court to meet in England , with a representative from Clement VII . Although Clement agreed to the creation of such a court , he never had any intention of empowering his legate , Lorenzo Campeggio , to decide in Henry ' s favour . This bias was perhaps the result of pressure from Emperor Charles V , Catherine ' s nephew , but it is not clear how far this influenced either Campeggio or the Pope . After less than two months of hearing evidence , Clement called the case back to Rome in July 1529 , from which it was clear that it would never re - emerge . With the chance for an annulment lost , Cardinal Wolsey bore the blame . He was charged with praemunire in October 1529 , and his fall from grace was " sudden and total " . Briefly reconciled with Henry ( and officially pardoned ) in the first half of 1530 , he was charged once more in November 1530 , this time for treason , but died while awaiting trial . After a short period in which Henry took government upon his own shoulders , Sir Thomas More took on the role of Lord Chancellor and chief minister . Intelligent and able , but a devout Catholic and opponent of the annulment , More initially cooperated with the king ' s new policy , denouncing Wolsey in Parliament .	Who took on the role of Lord Chancellor and chief minister after me?	I took on the role of Lord Chancellor and chief minister after Cardinal Wolsey.
In practice , Tudor monarchs used patronage to maintain a royal court that included formal institutions such as the Privy Council as well as more informal advisers and confidants . Both the rise and fall of court nobles could be swift : Henry did undoubtedly execute at will , burning or beheading two of his wives , 20 peers , four leading public servants , six close attendants and friends , one cardinal ( John Fisher ) and numerous abbots . Among those who were in favour at any given point in Henry ' s reign , one could usually be identified as a chief minister , though one of the enduring debates in the historiography of the period has been the extent to which those chief ministers controlled Henry rather than vice versa . In particular , historian G . R . Elton has argued that one such minister , Thomas Cromwell , led a " Tudor revolution in government " independently of the king , whom Elton presented as an opportunistic , essentially lazy participant in the nitty - gritty of politics . Where Henry did intervene personally in the running of the country , Elton argued , he mostly did so to its detriment . The prominence and influence of faction in Henry ' s court is similarly discussed in the context of at least five episodes of Henry ' s reign , including the downfall of Anne Boleyn .	How is the influence of faction discussed in your court?	The influence of faction in my court is discussed in the context of at least five episodes of my reign, including the downfall of Anne Boleyn.
Following the marriage , there was a period of consolidation , taking the form of a series of statutes of the Reformation Parliament aimed at finding solutions to any remaining issues , whilst protecting the new reforms from challenge , convincing the public of their legitimacy , and exposing and dealing with opponents . Although the canon law was dealt with at length by Cranmer and others , these acts were advanced by Thomas Cromwell , Thomas Audley and the Duke of Norfolk and indeed by Henry himself . With this process complete , in May 1532 More resigned as Lord Chancellor , leaving Cromwell as Henry ' s chief minister . With the Act of Succession 1533 , Catherine ' s daughter , Mary , was declared illegitimate ; Henry ' s marriage to Anne was declared legitimate ; and Anne ' s issue declared to be next in the line of succession . With the Acts of Supremacy in 1534 , Parliament recognised the king ' s status as head of the church in England and , together with the Act in Restraint of Appeals in 1532 , abolished the right of appeal to Rome . It was only then that Pope Clement VII took the step of excommunicating the king and Cranmer , although the excommunication was not made official until some time later . [ nb 3 ]	What did the Acts of Supremacy in 1534 recognize about you?	They recognized my status as the head of the church in England.
Following the marriage , there was a period of consolidation , taking the form of a series of statutes of the Reformation Parliament aimed at finding solutions to any remaining issues , whilst protecting the new reforms from challenge , convincing the public of their legitimacy , and exposing and dealing with opponents . Although the canon law was dealt with at length by Cranmer and others , these acts were advanced by Thomas Cromwell , Thomas Audley and the Duke of Norfolk and indeed by Henry himself . With this process complete , in May 1532 More resigned as Lord Chancellor , leaving Cromwell as Henry ' s chief minister . With the Act of Succession 1533 , Catherine ' s daughter , Mary , was declared illegitimate ; Henry ' s marriage to Anne was declared legitimate ; and Anne ' s issue declared to be next in the line of succession . With the Acts of Supremacy in 1534 , Parliament recognised the king ' s status as head of the church in England and , together with the Act in Restraint of Appeals in 1532 , abolished the right of appeal to Rome . It was only then that Pope Clement VII took the step of excommunicating the king and Cranmer , although the excommunication was not made official until some time later . [ nb 3 ]	What did the Act of Succession 1533 declare?	It declared Catherine's daughter, Mary, illegitimate, my marriage to Anne legitimate, and Anne's issue next in the line of succession.
The Desmond situation was resolved on his death in 1529 , which was followed by a period of uncertainty . This was effectively ended with the appointment of Henry FitzRoy , Duke of Richmond and the king ' s son , as lord lieutenant . Richmond had never before visited Ireland , his appointment a break with past policy . For a time it looked as if peace might be restored with the return of Kildare to Ireland to manage the tribes , but the effect was limited and the Irish parliament soon rendered ineffective . Ireland began to receive the attention of Cromwell , who had supporters of Ormond and Desmond promoted . Kildare , on the other hand , was summoned to London ; after some hesitation , he departed for London in 1534 , where he would face charges of treason . His son , Thomas , Lord Offaly , was more forthright , denouncing the king and leading a " Catholic crusade " against the king , who was by this time mired in marital problems . Offaly had the Archbishop of Dublin murdered and besieged Dublin . Offaly led a mixture of Pale gentry and Irish tribes , although he failed to secure the support of Lord Darcy , a sympathiser , or Charles V . What was effectively a civil war was ended with the intervention of 2 , 000 English troops – a large army by Irish standards – and the execution of Offaly ( his father was already dead ) and his uncles .	Had you ever visited Ireland before your appointment?	No, I had never before visited Ireland.
