On November 25 , 2003 , Jay - Z held a concert — billed as a " retirement party " at Madison Square Garden in New York City , which would later be the focus of his film Fade to Black . All proceeds went to charity . Other performers included collaborators like the Roots ( in the form of his backing band ) , Missy Elliott , Memphis Bleek , Beanie Siegel , Freeway , Mary J . Blige , Beyonc é , Twista , Ghostface Killah , Foxy Brown , Pharrell Williams and R . Kelly with special appearances by Voletta Wallace and Afeni Shakur , the mothers of The Notorious B . I . G . and Tupac Shakur , respectively . While Jay - Z had attested to a retirement from making new studio albums , various side projects and appearances soon followed . Included in these were a greatest hits record , as well as the release and tour of Unfinished Business , the second collaborative album between Jay - Z and R . Kelly .	When and where did you hold your retirement party concert?	On November 25, 2003, I held my retirement party concert at Madison Square Garden in New York City.
Jay - Z collaborated with M . I . A on her single " XXXO " , which achieved a fair level of success and went on to become remixed by several producers worldwide . In May 2012 , Jay - Z and former Philadelphia mayor Michael A . Nutter announced Jay - Z as the curator and the headliner for the first annual " Budweiser Made in America " festival at Fairmount Park in Philadelphia on September 1 and 2 , 2012 . The performance was produced by Live Nation and assembled an eclectic lineup of " rock , hip hop , R & B , Latin music and dance " musicians . Jay - Z and Rihanna were the two main headlining acts for BBC Radio 1 ' s 2012 Hackney Weekend music festival on June 23 to 24 . Jay - Z opened his set with an appearance from Rihanna , they performed " Run this Town " . On September 6 , " Clique " was released , a single from the album " Cruel Summer " , by GOOD Music . Kanye West and Big Sean starred alongside Jay - Z on the track . Jay - Z took the subway to his sold - out show at The Barclays Center on October 6 , 2012 . On November 12 , 2012 , Coldplay announced that they will be playing with Jay - Z at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn on December 31 .	What was the name of the festival that you curated in Philadelphia on September 1 and 2, 2012?	Budweiser Made in America festival
Jay - Z collaborated with M . I . A on her single " XXXO " , which achieved a fair level of success and went on to become remixed by several producers worldwide . In May 2012 , Jay - Z and former Philadelphia mayor Michael A . Nutter announced Jay - Z as the curator and the headliner for the first annual " Budweiser Made in America " festival at Fairmount Park in Philadelphia on September 1 and 2 , 2012 . The performance was produced by Live Nation and assembled an eclectic lineup of " rock , hip hop , R & B , Latin music and dance " musicians . Jay - Z and Rihanna were the two main headlining acts for BBC Radio 1 ' s 2012 Hackney Weekend music festival on June 23 to 24 . Jay - Z opened his set with an appearance from Rihanna , they performed " Run this Town " . On September 6 , " Clique " was released , a single from the album " Cruel Summer " , by GOOD Music . Kanye West and Big Sean starred alongside Jay - Z on the track . Jay - Z took the subway to his sold - out show at The Barclays Center on October 6 , 2012 . On November 12 , 2012 , Coldplay announced that they will be playing with Jay - Z at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn on December 31 .	Who were the two main headlining acts for BBC Radio 1's 2012 Hackney Weekend music festival?	I and Rihanna
On October 27 , 2005 , Jay - Z headlined New York ' s Power 105.1 annual concert , Powerhouse . The concert was entitled the " I Declare War " concert leading to intense speculation in the weeks preceding the event on whom exactly Jay - Z would declare war . As he had previously " declared war " on other artists taking lyrical shots at him at other events , many believed that the Powerhouse show would represent an all - out assault by Jay - Z upon his rivals . The theme of the concert was Jay - Z ' s position as president and CEO of Def Jam , complete with an on - stage mock - up of the Oval Office . Many artists made appearances such as the old roster of Roc - A - Fella records artists , as well as Ne - Yo , Teairra Mar í , T . I . , Young Jeezy , Akon , Kanye West , Paul Wall , The LOX , and Diddy .	What was the theme of your concert?	The theme of my concert was my position as president and CEO of Def Jam, complete with an on-stage mock-up of the Oval Office.
In winter 2008 , it was announced that Jay - Z would become the first major hip hop artist to headline Britain ' s Glastonbury Festival . Tickets sold out quickly . Former headliner Noel Gallagher of Oasis condemned the festival organizers for choosing Jay - Z to headline a traditionally guitar - driven festival . " I ' m sorry , but Jay - Z ? " Gallagher asked , swearing . " No chance . Glastonbury has a tradition of , kind of , guitar music , do you know what I mean ? And even when they throw the odd curve balls in on a Sunday night — you go , ' Kylie Minogue ? I don ' t know about that ' , do you know what I mean ? — but I ' m not having hip hop at Glastonbury , no way , no , no . It ' s wrong . " As controversy mounted , Jay - Z replied , " We don ' t play guitars , Noel , but hip hop has put in its work like any other form of music . This headline show is just a natural progression . Rap music is still evolving . We have to respect each other ' s genre of music and move forward . " Jay - Z opened his Glastonbury set with a tongue - in - cheek cover of Oasis ' s iconic song " Wonderwall " , and went on to deliver a performance heralded as a successful response to pre - festival criticism .	What did Noel Gallagher say about you headlining the festival?	"I'm sorry, but me? No chance. Glastonbury has a tradition of, kind of, guitar music, do you know what I mean? And even when they throw the odd curve balls in on a Sunday night — you go, 'Kylie Minogue? I don't know about that', do you know what I mean? — but I'm not having hip hop at Glastonbury, no way, no, no. It's wrong."
On September 23 , 2010 , Q - Tip confirmed working on Jay - Z ' s follow - up album to The Blueprint 3 , saying the album was to hit stores by spring 2011 . In May 2012 it was reported that Jay - Z would work on new music with Roc Nation producer Jahlil Beats . Beats told XXL magazine : " Me and Jay - Z been going back and forth . He picked a couple of my joints that he ' s working on . I don ' t even wanna say too much about Jay , but we definitely working on some stuff . I haven ' t even sent him a bunch of beats . I sent him my favorite stuff . He hit me right back like , ' Yo , I ' ma go in on this , ' or , ' I like this . ' " The album has been named one of the most anticipated albums of 2013 by Complex Magazine , MTV , and XXL . Production will come from Jahlil Beats , Kanye West , Rick Rubin , Swizz Beatz , Timbaland , and Pharrell Williams . Jay - Z also made an appearance on Justin Timberlake ' s comeback single " Suit & Tie " from his third studio album The 20 / 20 Experience , the song itself was produced by both Jay - Z and Timberlake ' s mutual friend , Timbaland . Timberlake and Jay - Z embarked on the co - headlining Legends of the Summer Stadium Tour . During the fifth game of the 2013 NBA Finals , Carter announced his twelfth studio album , Magna Carta Holy Grail , and was released on July 4 , 2013 . Not long after , Jay - Z confirmed that the hyphen in his stage name would be left out and officially stylized in all capital letters . Magna Carta Holy Grail debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 and sold 528 , 000 copies in its first week , which bypassed its predicted debut in the range of 350 , 000 to 400 , 000 .	When did Q-Tip confirm working on your follow-up album to The Blueprint 3?	On September 23, 2010.
He also headlined many other summer festivals in 2008 , including Roskilde Festival in Denmark , Hove Festival in Norway and O2 Wireless Festival in London . During Kanye West ' s concert of August 6 , 2008 , at Madison Square Garden , Jay - Z came out to perform a new song and he and West proclaimed that it was to be on The Blueprint 3 . On May 21 , 2009 , Jay - Z announced he would be parting ways with Def Jam , and had struck a multi - million - dollar deal to sign with Live Nation , with whom he would start his Roc Nation imprint which would serve as a record label , talent / management agency , and music publishing company and also partnered with production team Stargate to start a record label called StarRoc . Jay - Z ' s 11th studio album The Blueprint 3 was originally to be released on September 11 , 2009 , but was instead released in North America on September 8 , 2009 , due to increasing anticipation . Its international release followed on September 14 . It is his 11th album to reach No . 1 on the Billboard 200 and has surpassed Elvis Presley ' s previous record , making him the current solo - artist record holder . On October 9 , 2009 , Jay - Z kicked off his tour for The Blueprint 3 , during which he supported his new album in North America . In a Shave Magazine review of his performance at Rexall Place in Edmonton , Jake Tomlinson expressed that " It was the type of smooth performance you would expect from the hip - hop superstar . " The review gave this performance 4 stars . His North American tour continued until November 22 , 2009 . At his concert on November 8 , 2009 , at UCLA ' s Pauley Pavilion , Rihanna joined him on stage and performed " Hard " for the first time , then performed " Run This Town " with Jay - Z . Among his success , Jay - Z has ventured into producing Broadway shows . Along with Jada Pinkett Smith and Will Smith , Jay - Z helped produce the play Fela ! , a musical celebrating the work of the late Nigerian star Fela Kuti . Jay - Z said he was inspired by the power of Kuti ' s work and his life story , which resulted in his interest to help produce the musical . Fela ! is a story about an African pioneer and political activist who made his first moves on the scene during the 1970s .	When did you announce your departure from Def Jam?	On May 21, 2009.
On October 27 , 2005 , Jay - Z headlined New York ' s Power 105.1 annual concert , Powerhouse . The concert was entitled the " I Declare War " concert leading to intense speculation in the weeks preceding the event on whom exactly Jay - Z would declare war . As he had previously " declared war " on other artists taking lyrical shots at him at other events , many believed that the Powerhouse show would represent an all - out assault by Jay - Z upon his rivals . The theme of the concert was Jay - Z ' s position as president and CEO of Def Jam , complete with an on - stage mock - up of the Oval Office . Many artists made appearances such as the old roster of Roc - A - Fella records artists , as well as Ne - Yo , Teairra Mar í , T . I . , Young Jeezy , Akon , Kanye West , Paul Wall , The LOX , and Diddy .	Which artists made appearances at the concert?	Artists such as the old roster of Roc-A-Fella records artists, Ne-Yo, Teairra Marí, T.I., Young Jeezy, Akon, Kanye West, Paul Wall, The LOX, and Diddy made appearances at the concert.
He also headlined many other summer festivals in 2008 , including Roskilde Festival in Denmark , Hove Festival in Norway and O2 Wireless Festival in London . During Kanye West ' s concert of August 6 , 2008 , at Madison Square Garden , Jay - Z came out to perform a new song and he and West proclaimed that it was to be on The Blueprint 3 . On May 21 , 2009 , Jay - Z announced he would be parting ways with Def Jam , and had struck a multi - million - dollar deal to sign with Live Nation , with whom he would start his Roc Nation imprint which would serve as a record label , talent / management agency , and music publishing company and also partnered with production team Stargate to start a record label called StarRoc . Jay - Z ' s 11th studio album The Blueprint 3 was originally to be released on September 11 , 2009 , but was instead released in North America on September 8 , 2009 , due to increasing anticipation . Its international release followed on September 14 . It is his 11th album to reach No . 1 on the Billboard 200 and has surpassed Elvis Presley ' s previous record , making him the current solo - artist record holder . On October 9 , 2009 , Jay - Z kicked off his tour for The Blueprint 3 , during which he supported his new album in North America . In a Shave Magazine review of his performance at Rexall Place in Edmonton , Jake Tomlinson expressed that " It was the type of smooth performance you would expect from the hip - hop superstar . " The review gave this performance 4 stars . His North American tour continued until November 22 , 2009 . At his concert on November 8 , 2009 , at UCLA ' s Pauley Pavilion , Rihanna joined him on stage and performed " Hard " for the first time , then performed " Run This Town " with Jay - Z . Among his success , Jay - Z has ventured into producing Broadway shows . Along with Jada Pinkett Smith and Will Smith , Jay - Z helped produce the play Fela ! , a musical celebrating the work of the late Nigerian star Fela Kuti . Jay - Z said he was inspired by the power of Kuti ' s work and his life story , which resulted in his interest to help produce the musical . Fela ! is a story about an African pioneer and political activist who made his first moves on the scene during the 1970s .	Which festivals did you headline in 2008?	Roskilde Festival in Denmark, Hove Festival in Norway, and O2 Wireless Festival in London.
On January 23 , 2010 , Jay - Z released a track , " Stranded ( Haiti Mon Amour ) " , with Rihanna , and U2 ' s Bono and The Edge , as well as performing it at the Hope For Haiti Now telethon . In June 2010 , Eminem and Jay - Z announced they would perform together in a pair of concerts in Detroit and New York . The event was dubbed The Home & Home Tour . The first two concerts rapidly sold out , prompting the scheduling of an additional show at each venue . Jay - Z was the supporting act for U2 on the Australian and New Zealand leg of their U2 360 ° Tour , beginning in Auckland , New Zealand , in November 2010 , followed by Melbourne , Sydney , Brisbane and Perth in December . Jay - Z also appeared on stage during U2 performances of " Sunday Bloody Sunday " , and in Auckland also on a five - track EP entitled Watch the Throne , although it was later revealed by West that the project had become a full - length LP . Recording sessions for the album took place at various recording locations and began in November 2010 . The first single released for the project was " H • A • M " . The track was co - produced by Lex Luger and West himself . The track ended up being on the deluxe edition of the album . The follow - up to that was the second single " Otis " , which premiered on Funkmaster Flex ' s Hot 97 radio show , and was later released to the iTunes Store eleven days later . The song ' s existence , along with several other tracks from the album , was confirmed during a listening session hosted by Jay - Z . The album was first released on the iTunes Store , five days prior to its being released in physical format , a strategy Jay - Z later said was used to block an internet leak . It debuted at No . 1 on the iTunes Store in 23 countries . It also broke Coldplay ' s record for most albums sold in one week on the online retailer , selling 290 , 000 copies on iTunes alone . It held that record until Lil Wayne ' s Tha Carter IV was released twenty - one days later , selling 10 , 000 copies more . It debuted on the U . S . Billboard 200 chart at No . 1 , selling 436 , 000 copies in its first week . The album received generally positive reviews . Jay - Z and West later gave a surprise performance of " Otis " at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards .	When did Eminem and you announce your joint concerts in Detroit and New York?	Eminem and I announced our joint concerts in June 2010.
On September 23 , 2010 , Q - Tip confirmed working on Jay - Z ' s follow - up album to The Blueprint 3 , saying the album was to hit stores by spring 2011 . In May 2012 it was reported that Jay - Z would work on new music with Roc Nation producer Jahlil Beats . Beats told XXL magazine : " Me and Jay - Z been going back and forth . He picked a couple of my joints that he ' s working on . I don ' t even wanna say too much about Jay , but we definitely working on some stuff . I haven ' t even sent him a bunch of beats . I sent him my favorite stuff . He hit me right back like , ' Yo , I ' ma go in on this , ' or , ' I like this . ' " The album has been named one of the most anticipated albums of 2013 by Complex Magazine , MTV , and XXL . Production will come from Jahlil Beats , Kanye West , Rick Rubin , Swizz Beatz , Timbaland , and Pharrell Williams . Jay - Z also made an appearance on Justin Timberlake ' s comeback single " Suit & Tie " from his third studio album The 20 / 20 Experience , the song itself was produced by both Jay - Z and Timberlake ' s mutual friend , Timbaland . Timberlake and Jay - Z embarked on the co - headlining Legends of the Summer Stadium Tour . During the fifth game of the 2013 NBA Finals , Carter announced his twelfth studio album , Magna Carta Holy Grail , and was released on July 4 , 2013 . Not long after , Jay - Z confirmed that the hyphen in his stage name would be left out and officially stylized in all capital letters . Magna Carta Holy Grail debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 and sold 528 , 000 copies in its first week , which bypassed its predicted debut in the range of 350 , 000 to 400 , 000 .	Who confirmed working on some stuff with you?	Jahlil Beats.
In winter 2008 , it was announced that Jay - Z would become the first major hip hop artist to headline Britain ' s Glastonbury Festival . Tickets sold out quickly . Former headliner Noel Gallagher of Oasis condemned the festival organizers for choosing Jay - Z to headline a traditionally guitar - driven festival . " I ' m sorry , but Jay - Z ? " Gallagher asked , swearing . " No chance . Glastonbury has a tradition of , kind of , guitar music , do you know what I mean ? And even when they throw the odd curve balls in on a Sunday night — you go , ' Kylie Minogue ? I don ' t know about that ' , do you know what I mean ? — but I ' m not having hip hop at Glastonbury , no way , no , no . It ' s wrong . " As controversy mounted , Jay - Z replied , " We don ' t play guitars , Noel , but hip hop has put in its work like any other form of music . This headline show is just a natural progression . Rap music is still evolving . We have to respect each other ' s genre of music and move forward . " Jay - Z opened his Glastonbury set with a tongue - in - cheek cover of Oasis ' s iconic song " Wonderwall " , and went on to deliver a performance heralded as a successful response to pre - festival criticism .	When was it announced that you would headline Britain's Glastonbury Festival?	In winter 2008.
On October 27 , 2005 , Jay - Z headlined New York ' s Power 105.1 annual concert , Powerhouse . The concert was entitled the " I Declare War " concert leading to intense speculation in the weeks preceding the event on whom exactly Jay - Z would declare war . As he had previously " declared war " on other artists taking lyrical shots at him at other events , many believed that the Powerhouse show would represent an all - out assault by Jay - Z upon his rivals . The theme of the concert was Jay - Z ' s position as president and CEO of Def Jam , complete with an on - stage mock - up of the Oval Office . Many artists made appearances such as the old roster of Roc - A - Fella records artists , as well as Ne - Yo , Teairra Mar í , T . I . , Young Jeezy , Akon , Kanye West , Paul Wall , The LOX , and Diddy .	What was the speculation surrounding your concert?	There was intense speculation on whom exactly I would declare war on during the concert.
During his first retirement from music , [ failed verification ] Jay - Z also became involved in philanthropic activity . In 2003 , Jay - Z , together with his mother , founded the Shawn Carter Foundation , which has assisted eligible students facing socio - economic hardships through college . On August 9 , 2006 , he met with United Nations Secretary General Kofi Annan at the organization ' s headquarters in New York City . The rapper pledged to use his upcoming world tour to raise awareness of and combat global water shortage . Already on the look - out for a way to , in his own words , " become helpful " , he had been made aware of this issue during a visit to Africa by Bono from the rock group U2 . The effort took place in partnership with the UN , as well as MTV , which produced a documentary entitled Diary of Jay - Z : Water for Life , first airing in November 2006 . Along with Sean " Diddy " Combs , Jay - Z pledged $ 1   million to the American Red Cross ' s relief effort after Hurricane Katrina . Jay - Z stated his support for Kanye West after the latter ' s outburst against President George W . Bush during a live Katrina charity telethon . He also addressed the issue of the Katrina disaster , and the government ' s response , in his one - verse song " Minority Report " .	Who did you pledge $1 million to for their relief effort after Hurricane Katrina?	I pledged $1 million to the American Red Cross's relief effort after Hurricane Katrina.
He also headlined many other summer festivals in 2008 , including Roskilde Festival in Denmark , Hove Festival in Norway and O2 Wireless Festival in London . During Kanye West ' s concert of August 6 , 2008 , at Madison Square Garden , Jay - Z came out to perform a new song and he and West proclaimed that it was to be on The Blueprint 3 . On May 21 , 2009 , Jay - Z announced he would be parting ways with Def Jam , and had struck a multi - million - dollar deal to sign with Live Nation , with whom he would start his Roc Nation imprint which would serve as a record label , talent / management agency , and music publishing company and also partnered with production team Stargate to start a record label called StarRoc . Jay - Z ' s 11th studio album The Blueprint 3 was originally to be released on September 11 , 2009 , but was instead released in North America on September 8 , 2009 , due to increasing anticipation . Its international release followed on September 14 . It is his 11th album to reach No . 1 on the Billboard 200 and has surpassed Elvis Presley ' s previous record , making him the current solo - artist record holder . On October 9 , 2009 , Jay - Z kicked off his tour for The Blueprint 3 , during which he supported his new album in North America . In a Shave Magazine review of his performance at Rexall Place in Edmonton , Jake Tomlinson expressed that " It was the type of smooth performance you would expect from the hip - hop superstar . " The review gave this performance 4 stars . His North American tour continued until November 22 , 2009 . At his concert on November 8 , 2009 , at UCLA ' s Pauley Pavilion , Rihanna joined him on stage and performed " Hard " for the first time , then performed " Run This Town " with Jay - Z . Among his success , Jay - Z has ventured into producing Broadway shows . Along with Jada Pinkett Smith and Will Smith , Jay - Z helped produce the play Fela ! , a musical celebrating the work of the late Nigerian star Fela Kuti . Jay - Z said he was inspired by the power of Kuti ' s work and his life story , which resulted in his interest to help produce the musical . Fela ! is a story about an African pioneer and political activist who made his first moves on the scene during the 1970s .	When was The Blueprint 3 originally supposed to be released?	The Blueprint 3 was originally supposed to be released on September 11, 2009.
On January 23 , 2010 , Jay - Z released a track , " Stranded ( Haiti Mon Amour ) " , with Rihanna , and U2 ' s Bono and The Edge , as well as performing it at the Hope For Haiti Now telethon . In June 2010 , Eminem and Jay - Z announced they would perform together in a pair of concerts in Detroit and New York . The event was dubbed The Home & Home Tour . The first two concerts rapidly sold out , prompting the scheduling of an additional show at each venue . Jay - Z was the supporting act for U2 on the Australian and New Zealand leg of their U2 360 ° Tour , beginning in Auckland , New Zealand , in November 2010 , followed by Melbourne , Sydney , Brisbane and Perth in December . Jay - Z also appeared on stage during U2 performances of " Sunday Bloody Sunday " , and in Auckland also on a five - track EP entitled Watch the Throne , although it was later revealed by West that the project had become a full - length LP . Recording sessions for the album took place at various recording locations and began in November 2010 . The first single released for the project was " H • A • M " . The track was co - produced by Lex Luger and West himself . The track ended up being on the deluxe edition of the album . The follow - up to that was the second single " Otis " , which premiered on Funkmaster Flex ' s Hot 97 radio show , and was later released to the iTunes Store eleven days later . The song ' s existence , along with several other tracks from the album , was confirmed during a listening session hosted by Jay - Z . The album was first released on the iTunes Store , five days prior to its being released in physical format , a strategy Jay - Z later said was used to block an internet leak . It debuted at No . 1 on the iTunes Store in 23 countries . It also broke Coldplay ' s record for most albums sold in one week on the online retailer , selling 290 , 000 copies on iTunes alone . It held that record until Lil Wayne ' s Tha Carter IV was released twenty - one days later , selling 10 , 000 copies more . It debuted on the U . S . Billboard 200 chart at No . 1 , selling 436 , 000 copies in its first week . The album received generally positive reviews . Jay - Z and West later gave a surprise performance of " Otis " at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards .	Where did you and West give a surprise performance of "Otis"?	We gave a surprise performance of "Otis" at the 2011 MTV Video Music Awards.
Jay - Z returned with his comeback album on November 21 , 2006 , titled Kingdom Come . Jay - Z ' s comeback single , " Show Me What You Got " , was leaked on the Internet in early October 2006 , scheduled to be released later on that month , received heavy air - play after its leak , causing the FBI to step in and investigate . Jay - Z worked with video director Hype Williams , and the single ' s video was directed by F . Gary Gray . The album features production from Just Blaze , Pharrell , Kanye West , Dr . Dre and Coldplay ' s Chris Martin ( single entitled " Beach Chair " ) . The first week saw 680 , 000 sales of the CD , which Entertainment Weekly said was " the highest single - week total in Jay ' s decade long career " . This album has sold 2   million copies in the U . S .	Who directed the music video for the single?	The music video for the single was directed by F. Gary Gray.
Jay - Z returned with his comeback album on November 21 , 2006 , titled Kingdom Come . Jay - Z ' s comeback single , " Show Me What You Got " , was leaked on the Internet in early October 2006 , scheduled to be released later on that month , received heavy air - play after its leak , causing the FBI to step in and investigate . Jay - Z worked with video director Hype Williams , and the single ' s video was directed by F . Gary Gray . The album features production from Just Blaze , Pharrell , Kanye West , Dr . Dre and Coldplay ' s Chris Martin ( single entitled " Beach Chair " ) . The first week saw 680 , 000 sales of the CD , which Entertainment Weekly said was " the highest single - week total in Jay ' s decade long career " . This album has sold 2   million copies in the U . S .	Which single from your album was leaked on the Internet?	The single that was leaked on the Internet was called "Show Me What You Got".
Jay - Z returned with his comeback album on November 21 , 2006 , titled Kingdom Come . Jay - Z ' s comeback single , " Show Me What You Got " , was leaked on the Internet in early October 2006 , scheduled to be released later on that month , received heavy air - play after its leak , causing the FBI to step in and investigate . Jay - Z worked with video director Hype Williams , and the single ' s video was directed by F . Gary Gray . The album features production from Just Blaze , Pharrell , Kanye West , Dr . Dre and Coldplay ' s Chris Martin ( single entitled " Beach Chair " ) . The first week saw 680 , 000 sales of the CD , which Entertainment Weekly said was " the highest single - week total in Jay ' s decade long career " . This album has sold 2   million copies in the U . S .	What was the title of your comeback album?	The title of my comeback album was "Kingdom Come".
On November 25 , 2003 , Jay - Z held a concert — billed as a " retirement party " at Madison Square Garden in New York City , which would later be the focus of his film Fade to Black . All proceeds went to charity . Other performers included collaborators like the Roots ( in the form of his backing band ) , Missy Elliott , Memphis Bleek , Beanie Siegel , Freeway , Mary J . Blige , Beyonc é , Twista , Ghostface Killah , Foxy Brown , Pharrell Williams and R . Kelly with special appearances by Voletta Wallace and Afeni Shakur , the mothers of The Notorious B . I . G . and Tupac Shakur , respectively . While Jay - Z had attested to a retirement from making new studio albums , various side projects and appearances soon followed . Included in these were a greatest hits record , as well as the release and tour of Unfinished Business , the second collaborative album between Jay - Z and R . Kelly .	Who were some of the performers at the concert?	Some of the performers at the concert included the Roots, Missy Elliott, Memphis Bleek, Beanie Siegel, Freeway, Mary J. Blige, Beyoncé, Twista, Ghostface Killah, Foxy Brown, Pharrell Williams, and R. Kelly.
In 2004 , Jay - Z collaborated with rock group Linkin Park , in which they released their collaborative remix EP Collision Course , which featured mashups of both artists ' songs , as well as a concert DVD . The album ' s only single , " Numb / Encore " , went on to win a Grammy for Best Rap / Sung Collaboration , and was performed with Linkin Park live at the Grammys , with a special appearance by Paul McCartney , who added verses from the song " Yesterday " . The EP sold over 1   million copies in the U . S . Jay - Z was the executive producer of The Rising Tied , the debut album of Fort Minor , the hip hop side project of Linkin Park rapper Mike Shinoda . Jay - Z also planned to retire in 2004 .	How many copies of your EP "Collision Course" were sold in the U.S.?	Over 1 million copies.
On November 25 , 2003 , Jay - Z held a concert — billed as a " retirement party " at Madison Square Garden in New York City , which would later be the focus of his film Fade to Black . All proceeds went to charity . Other performers included collaborators like the Roots ( in the form of his backing band ) , Missy Elliott , Memphis Bleek , Beanie Siegel , Freeway , Mary J . Blige , Beyonc é , Twista , Ghostface Killah , Foxy Brown , Pharrell Williams and R . Kelly with special appearances by Voletta Wallace and Afeni Shakur , the mothers of The Notorious B . I . G . and Tupac Shakur , respectively . While Jay - Z had attested to a retirement from making new studio albums , various side projects and appearances soon followed . Included in these were a greatest hits record , as well as the release and tour of Unfinished Business , the second collaborative album between Jay - Z and R . Kelly .	Where did the proceeds from your concert go?	The proceeds from my concert went to charity.
Jay - Z collaborated with M . I . A on her single " XXXO " , which achieved a fair level of success and went on to become remixed by several producers worldwide . In May 2012 , Jay - Z and former Philadelphia mayor Michael A . Nutter announced Jay - Z as the curator and the headliner for the first annual " Budweiser Made in America " festival at Fairmount Park in Philadelphia on September 1 and 2 , 2012 . The performance was produced by Live Nation and assembled an eclectic lineup of " rock , hip hop , R & B , Latin music and dance " musicians . Jay - Z and Rihanna were the two main headlining acts for BBC Radio 1 ' s 2012 Hackney Weekend music festival on June 23 to 24 . Jay - Z opened his set with an appearance from Rihanna , they performed " Run this Town " . On September 6 , " Clique " was released , a single from the album " Cruel Summer " , by GOOD Music . Kanye West and Big Sean starred alongside Jay - Z on the track . Jay - Z took the subway to his sold - out show at The Barclays Center on October 6 , 2012 . On November 12 , 2012 , Coldplay announced that they will be playing with Jay - Z at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn on December 31 .	Who were the featured artists on your single "Clique"?	Kanye West and Big Sean
On November 25 , 2003 , Jay - Z held a concert — billed as a " retirement party " at Madison Square Garden in New York City , which would later be the focus of his film Fade to Black . All proceeds went to charity . Other performers included collaborators like the Roots ( in the form of his backing band ) , Missy Elliott , Memphis Bleek , Beanie Siegel , Freeway , Mary J . Blige , Beyonc é , Twista , Ghostface Killah , Foxy Brown , Pharrell Williams and R . Kelly with special appearances by Voletta Wallace and Afeni Shakur , the mothers of The Notorious B . I . G . and Tupac Shakur , respectively . While Jay - Z had attested to a retirement from making new studio albums , various side projects and appearances soon followed . Included in these were a greatest hits record , as well as the release and tour of Unfinished Business , the second collaborative album between Jay - Z and R . Kelly .	Who made special appearances at the concert?	Special appearances were made by Voletta Wallace and Afeni Shakur, the mothers of The Notorious B.I.G. and Tupac Shakur, respectively.
In 2004 , Jay - Z collaborated with rock group Linkin Park , in which they released their collaborative remix EP Collision Course , which featured mashups of both artists ' songs , as well as a concert DVD . The album ' s only single , " Numb / Encore " , went on to win a Grammy for Best Rap / Sung Collaboration , and was performed with Linkin Park live at the Grammys , with a special appearance by Paul McCartney , who added verses from the song " Yesterday " . The EP sold over 1   million copies in the U . S . Jay - Z was the executive producer of The Rising Tied , the debut album of Fort Minor , the hip hop side project of Linkin Park rapper Mike Shinoda . Jay - Z also planned to retire in 2004 .	Which song from my EP "Collision Course" won a Grammy for Best Rap/Sung Collaboration?	"Numb/Encore".
