In January 1985 , Dahmer was hired as a mixer at the Milwaukee Ambrosia Chocolate Factory , where he worked from 11   p . m to 7   a . m . six nights per week , with Saturday evenings off . Shortly after he found this job , an incident occurred in which Dahmer was propositioned by another man while reading in the West Allis Public Library . The stranger threw Dahmer a note offering to perform fellatio upon him . Although Dahmer did not respond to this proposition , the incident stirred in his mind the fantasies of control and dominance he had developed as a teenager , and he began to familiarize himself with Milwaukee ' s gay bars , gay bathhouses , and bookstores . He also stole a male mannequin from a store , which he briefly used for sexual stimulation , until his grandmother discovered the item stowed in a closet and demanded that he discard it .	When did you start working at the Milwaukee Ambrosia Chocolate Factory?	I started working at the Milwaukee Ambrosia Chocolate Factory in January 1985.
After his return to Ohio , Dahmer initially lived with his father and stepmother and insisted on being delegated numerous chores to occupy his time while he looked for work . He continued to drink heavily , and two weeks after his return , was arrested for drunk and disorderly conduct . He was fined $ 60 and given a suspended 10 - day jail sentence . Dahmer ' s father tried unsuccessfully to wean his son off alcohol . In December 1981 , he and Dahmer ' s stepmother sent him to live with his grandmother in West Allis , Wisconsin . Dahmer ' s grandmother was the only family member to whom Dahmer displayed any affection . They hoped that her influence , plus the change of location , might persuade Dahmer to quit drinking , find a job , and live responsibly .	Why were you arrested two weeks after your return to Ohio?	I was arrested for drunk and disorderly conduct.
On May 14 , 1990 , Dahmer moved out of his grandmother ' s house and into 924 North 25th Street , Apartment 213 , taking Sears ' mummified head and genitals with him . [ n 10 ] Although located in a high - crime area , Dahmer ' s new apartment was close to his workplace , was furnished , and at $ 300 per month inclusive of all bills excluding electricity , was economical . Within one week of his moving into his new apartment , Dahmer had killed his sixth victim , Raymond Smith . Smith was a 32 - year - old male prostitute whom Dahmer lured to Apartment 213 with the promise of $ 50 for sex . Inside the apartment , he gave Smith a drink laced with seven sleeping pills , then manually strangled him .	When did you move out of your grandmother's house?	On May 14, 1990.
On July 3 , 1994 , a fellow inmate , Osvaldo Durruthy , attempted to slash Dahmer ' s throat with a razor embedded in a toothbrush as Dahmer sat in the prison chapel after the weekly church service was concluded . Dahmer received superficial wounds and was not seriously hurt in this incident . According to Dahmer ' s family , he had long been ready to die , and accepted any punishment which he might endure in prison . In addition to his father and stepmother maintaining regular contact , Dahmer ' s mother , Joyce , also maintained regular contact with her son . Prior to his arrest , the two had not seen each other since Christmas 1983 . Joyce related that in her weekly phone calls , whenever she expressed concerns for her son ' s physical well - being , Dahmer responded with comments to the effect of : " It doesn ' t matter , Mom . I don ' t care if something happens to me . "	How serious were your injuries from the incident?	I received superficial wounds and was not seriously hurt.
Six weeks after the murder of Hicks , Dahmer ' s father and his fianc é e returned to his home , where they discovered Dahmer living alone . That August , Dahmer enrolled at Ohio State University ( OSU ) , hoping to major in business . Dahmer ' s sole term at OSU was completely unproductive , largely because of his persistent alcohol abuse . He received failing grades in Introduction to Anthropology , Classical Civilizations , and Administrative Science . The only course Dahmer was successful at was Riflery , having received a B − grade . His overall GPA was 0.45 / 4.0 . On one occasion , Lionel paid a surprise visit to his son , only to find his room strewn with empty liquor bottles . Despite his father having paid in advance for the second term , Dahmer dropped out of OSU after just three months .	Who discovered you living alone at your home six weeks after the murder of Hicks?	My father and his fiancée.
On July 3 , 1994 , a fellow inmate , Osvaldo Durruthy , attempted to slash Dahmer ' s throat with a razor embedded in a toothbrush as Dahmer sat in the prison chapel after the weekly church service was concluded . Dahmer received superficial wounds and was not seriously hurt in this incident . According to Dahmer ' s family , he had long been ready to die , and accepted any punishment which he might endure in prison . In addition to his father and stepmother maintaining regular contact , Dahmer ' s mother , Joyce , also maintained regular contact with her son . Prior to his arrest , the two had not seen each other since Christmas 1983 . Joyce related that in her weekly phone calls , whenever she expressed concerns for her son ' s physical well - being , Dahmer responded with comments to the effect of : " It doesn ' t matter , Mom . I don ' t care if something happens to me . "	How did you try to harm me?	You attempted to slash my throat with a razor embedded in a toothbrush.
On July 22 , 1991 , Dahmer approached three men with an offer of $ 100 to accompany him to his apartment to pose for nude photographs , drink beer and simply keep him company . One of the trio , 32 - year - old Tracy Edwards , agreed to accompany him to his apartment . Upon entering Dahmer ' s apartment , Edwards noted a foul odor and several boxes of hydrochloric acid on the floor , which Dahmer claimed to use for cleaning bricks . After some minor conversation , Edwards responded to Dahmer ' s request to turn his head and view his tropical fish , whereupon Dahmer placed a handcuff upon his wrist . When Edwards asked , " What ' s happening ? " Dahmer unsuccessfully attempted to cuff his wrists together , then told Edwards to accompany him to the bedroom to pose for nude pictures . While inside the bedroom , Edwards noted nude male posters on the wall and that a videotape of The Exorcist   III was playing . He also noted a blue 57 - gallon drum in the corner , from which a strong odor emanated .	Who agreed to accompany you to your apartment?	Tracy Edwards, a 32-year-old man, agreed to accompany me.
On the afternoon of May 26 , 1991 , Dahmer encountered a 14 - year - old Lao teenager named Konerak Sinthasomphone on Wisconsin Avenue . Unknown to Dahmer , Sinthasomphone was the younger brother of the boy whom he had molested in 1988 . He approached the teenager with an offer of money to accompany him to his apartment to pose for Polaroid pictures . According to Dahmer , Sinthasomphone was initially reluctant to the proposal , before changing his mind and accompanying him to his apartment , where he posed for two pictures in his underwear before Dahmer drugged him into unconsciousness and performed oral sex on him . Before Sinthasomphone fell unconscious , Dahmer led the boy into his bedroom , where the body of Tony Hughes , whom Dahmer had killed three days earlier , lay naked on the floor . According to Dahmer , he " believed [ that Sinthasomphone ] saw this body " , yet did not react to seeing the bloated corpse — likely because of the effects of the sleeping pills he had ingested .	What was the relationship between Sinthasomphone and the boy you had molested in 1988?	Sinthasomphone was the younger brother of the boy whom I had molested in 1988.
On November 20 , 1987 , Dahmer — at the time residing with his grandmother in West Allis — encountered a 25 - year - old man from Ontonagon , Michigan , named Steven Tuomi at a bar and persuaded him to return to the Ambassador Hotel in Milwaukee , where Dahmer had rented a room for the evening . According to Dahmer , he had no intention of killing Tuomi , but rather intended to simply drug him and lie beside him as he explored his body . The following morning , however , Dahmer awoke to find Tuomi lying beneath him on the bed , his chest " crushed in " and " black and blue " with bruises . Blood was seeping from the corner of his mouth , and Dahmer ' s fists and one forearm were extensively bruised . Dahmer stated he had no memory of having killed Tuomi , and later informed investigators that he " could not believe this had happened . "	Where did you and Steven Tuomi go after meeting at the bar?	We went to the Ambassador Hotel in Milwaukee, where I had rented a room for the evening.
After his return to Ohio , Dahmer initially lived with his father and stepmother and insisted on being delegated numerous chores to occupy his time while he looked for work . He continued to drink heavily , and two weeks after his return , was arrested for drunk and disorderly conduct . He was fined $ 60 and given a suspended 10 - day jail sentence . Dahmer ' s father tried unsuccessfully to wean his son off alcohol . In December 1981 , he and Dahmer ' s stepmother sent him to live with his grandmother in West Allis , Wisconsin . Dahmer ' s grandmother was the only family member to whom Dahmer displayed any affection . They hoped that her influence , plus the change of location , might persuade Dahmer to quit drinking , find a job , and live responsibly .	Who did your father and stepmother send you to live with?	They sent me to live with my grandmother in West Allis, Wisconsin.
Friedman testified that it was a longing for companionship that caused Dahmer to kill and testified that Dahmer was not psychotic . He described Dahmer as " amiable , pleasant to be with , courteous , with a sense of humor , conventionally handsome , and charming in manner . He was , and still is , a bright young man . " He diagnosed Dahmer with a personality disorder not otherwise specified featuring borderline , obsessive - compulsive , and sadistic traits .	What caused you to kill according to Friedman's testimony?	Friedman testified that it was a longing for companionship that caused me to kill.
On July 3 , 1994 , a fellow inmate , Osvaldo Durruthy , attempted to slash Dahmer ' s throat with a razor embedded in a toothbrush as Dahmer sat in the prison chapel after the weekly church service was concluded . Dahmer received superficial wounds and was not seriously hurt in this incident . According to Dahmer ' s family , he had long been ready to die , and accepted any punishment which he might endure in prison . In addition to his father and stepmother maintaining regular contact , Dahmer ' s mother , Joyce , also maintained regular contact with her son . Prior to his arrest , the two had not seen each other since Christmas 1983 . Joyce related that in her weekly phone calls , whenever she expressed concerns for her son ' s physical well - being , Dahmer responded with comments to the effect of : " It doesn ' t matter , Mom . I don ' t care if something happens to me . "	How did you react to the incident?	According to my family, I had long been ready to die and accepted any punishment I might endure in prison.
On the afternoon of May 26 , 1991 , Dahmer encountered a 14 - year - old Lao teenager named Konerak Sinthasomphone on Wisconsin Avenue . Unknown to Dahmer , Sinthasomphone was the younger brother of the boy whom he had molested in 1988 . He approached the teenager with an offer of money to accompany him to his apartment to pose for Polaroid pictures . According to Dahmer , Sinthasomphone was initially reluctant to the proposal , before changing his mind and accompanying him to his apartment , where he posed for two pictures in his underwear before Dahmer drugged him into unconsciousness and performed oral sex on him . Before Sinthasomphone fell unconscious , Dahmer led the boy into his bedroom , where the body of Tony Hughes , whom Dahmer had killed three days earlier , lay naked on the floor . According to Dahmer , he " believed [ that Sinthasomphone ] saw this body " , yet did not react to seeing the bloated corpse — likely because of the effects of the sleeping pills he had ingested .	What did you offer Sinthasomphone?	I offered Sinthasomphone money to accompany me to my apartment to pose for Polaroid pictures.
On November 20 , 1987 , Dahmer — at the time residing with his grandmother in West Allis — encountered a 25 - year - old man from Ontonagon , Michigan , named Steven Tuomi at a bar and persuaded him to return to the Ambassador Hotel in Milwaukee , where Dahmer had rented a room for the evening . According to Dahmer , he had no intention of killing Tuomi , but rather intended to simply drug him and lie beside him as he explored his body . The following morning , however , Dahmer awoke to find Tuomi lying beneath him on the bed , his chest " crushed in " and " black and blue " with bruises . Blood was seeping from the corner of his mouth , and Dahmer ' s fists and one forearm were extensively bruised . Dahmer stated he had no memory of having killed Tuomi , and later informed investigators that he " could not believe this had happened . "	Who did you encounter at the bar on November 20, 1987?	I encountered a 25-year-old man named Steven Tuomi.
On November 20 , 1987 , Dahmer — at the time residing with his grandmother in West Allis — encountered a 25 - year - old man from Ontonagon , Michigan , named Steven Tuomi at a bar and persuaded him to return to the Ambassador Hotel in Milwaukee , where Dahmer had rented a room for the evening . According to Dahmer , he had no intention of killing Tuomi , but rather intended to simply drug him and lie beside him as he explored his body . The following morning , however , Dahmer awoke to find Tuomi lying beneath him on the bed , his chest " crushed in " and " black and blue " with bruises . Blood was seeping from the corner of his mouth , and Dahmer ' s fists and one forearm were extensively bruised . Dahmer stated he had no memory of having killed Tuomi , and later informed investigators that he " could not believe this had happened . "	What was your intention when you persuaded Tuomi to go to the hotel?	I intended to drug Tuomi and lie beside him as I explored his body.
On May 14 , 1990 , Dahmer moved out of his grandmother ' s house and into 924 North 25th Street , Apartment 213 , taking Sears ' mummified head and genitals with him . [ n 10 ] Although located in a high - crime area , Dahmer ' s new apartment was close to his workplace , was furnished , and at $ 300 per month inclusive of all bills excluding electricity , was economical . Within one week of his moving into his new apartment , Dahmer had killed his sixth victim , Raymond Smith . Smith was a 32 - year - old male prostitute whom Dahmer lured to Apartment 213 with the promise of $ 50 for sex . Inside the apartment , he gave Smith a drink laced with seven sleeping pills , then manually strangled him .	What did you take with you when you moved?	I took Sears' mummified head and genitals with me.
Six weeks after the murder of Hicks , Dahmer ' s father and his fianc é e returned to his home , where they discovered Dahmer living alone . That August , Dahmer enrolled at Ohio State University ( OSU ) , hoping to major in business . Dahmer ' s sole term at OSU was completely unproductive , largely because of his persistent alcohol abuse . He received failing grades in Introduction to Anthropology , Classical Civilizations , and Administrative Science . The only course Dahmer was successful at was Riflery , having received a B − grade . His overall GPA was 0.45 / 4.0 . On one occasion , Lionel paid a surprise visit to his son , only to find his room strewn with empty liquor bottles . Despite his father having paid in advance for the second term , Dahmer dropped out of OSU after just three months .	How successful was your term at OSU?	It was completely unproductive.
By late 1985 , Dahmer had begun to regularly frequent the bathhouses , which he later described as being " relaxing places " , but during his sexual encounters , he became frustrated at his partners ' moving during the act . Following his arrest , he stated : " I trained myself to view people as objects of pleasure instead of [ as ] people " . For this reason , beginning in June 1986 , he administered sleeping pills to his partners , giving them liquor laced with sedatives . He then waited for his partner to fall asleep before performing various sexual acts . To maintain an adequate supply of this medication , Dahmer informed doctors he worked nights and required the tablets to adjust to that schedule . After approximately 12 such instances , the bathhouses ' administration revoked Dahmer ' s membership , and he began to use hotel rooms to continue this practice .	What frustrates you during your sexual encounters?	I become frustrated at my partners' moving during the act.
In January 1985 , Dahmer was hired as a mixer at the Milwaukee Ambrosia Chocolate Factory , where he worked from 11   p . m to 7   a . m . six nights per week , with Saturday evenings off . Shortly after he found this job , an incident occurred in which Dahmer was propositioned by another man while reading in the West Allis Public Library . The stranger threw Dahmer a note offering to perform fellatio upon him . Although Dahmer did not respond to this proposition , the incident stirred in his mind the fantasies of control and dominance he had developed as a teenager , and he began to familiarize himself with Milwaukee ' s gay bars , gay bathhouses , and bookstores . He also stole a male mannequin from a store , which he briefly used for sexual stimulation , until his grandmother discovered the item stowed in a closet and demanded that he discard it .	What are your working hours at the chocolate factory?	I work from 11 p.m. to 7 a.m. six nights per week at the chocolate factory.
On July 22 , 1991 , Dahmer approached three men with an offer of $ 100 to accompany him to his apartment to pose for nude photographs , drink beer and simply keep him company . One of the trio , 32 - year - old Tracy Edwards , agreed to accompany him to his apartment . Upon entering Dahmer ' s apartment , Edwards noted a foul odor and several boxes of hydrochloric acid on the floor , which Dahmer claimed to use for cleaning bricks . After some minor conversation , Edwards responded to Dahmer ' s request to turn his head and view his tropical fish , whereupon Dahmer placed a handcuff upon his wrist . When Edwards asked , " What ' s happening ? " Dahmer unsuccessfully attempted to cuff his wrists together , then told Edwards to accompany him to the bedroom to pose for nude pictures . While inside the bedroom , Edwards noted nude male posters on the wall and that a videotape of The Exorcist   III was playing . He also noted a blue 57 - gallon drum in the corner , from which a strong odor emanated .	What did you do when Edwards entered the bedroom?	I placed a handcuff on Edwards' wrist and attempted to cuff his wrists together.
Six weeks after the murder of Hicks , Dahmer ' s father and his fianc é e returned to his home , where they discovered Dahmer living alone . That August , Dahmer enrolled at Ohio State University ( OSU ) , hoping to major in business . Dahmer ' s sole term at OSU was completely unproductive , largely because of his persistent alcohol abuse . He received failing grades in Introduction to Anthropology , Classical Civilizations , and Administrative Science . The only course Dahmer was successful at was Riflery , having received a B − grade . His overall GPA was 0.45 / 4.0 . On one occasion , Lionel paid a surprise visit to his son , only to find his room strewn with empty liquor bottles . Despite his father having paid in advance for the second term , Dahmer dropped out of OSU after just three months .	Where did you enroll after the murder of Hicks?	Ohio State University (OSU).
After his return to Ohio , Dahmer initially lived with his father and stepmother and insisted on being delegated numerous chores to occupy his time while he looked for work . He continued to drink heavily , and two weeks after his return , was arrested for drunk and disorderly conduct . He was fined $ 60 and given a suspended 10 - day jail sentence . Dahmer ' s father tried unsuccessfully to wean his son off alcohol . In December 1981 , he and Dahmer ' s stepmother sent him to live with his grandmother in West Allis , Wisconsin . Dahmer ' s grandmother was the only family member to whom Dahmer displayed any affection . They hoped that her influence , plus the change of location , might persuade Dahmer to quit drinking , find a job , and live responsibly .	What did your family hope for when sending you to live with your grandmother?	They hoped that her influence, plus the change of location, might persuade me to quit drinking, find a job, and live responsibly.
Six weeks after the murder of Hicks , Dahmer ' s father and his fianc é e returned to his home , where they discovered Dahmer living alone . That August , Dahmer enrolled at Ohio State University ( OSU ) , hoping to major in business . Dahmer ' s sole term at OSU was completely unproductive , largely because of his persistent alcohol abuse . He received failing grades in Introduction to Anthropology , Classical Civilizations , and Administrative Science . The only course Dahmer was successful at was Riflery , having received a B − grade . His overall GPA was 0.45 / 4.0 . On one occasion , Lionel paid a surprise visit to his son , only to find his room strewn with empty liquor bottles . Despite his father having paid in advance for the second term , Dahmer dropped out of OSU after just three months .	Why was your term at OSU unproductive?	It was largely because of my persistent alcohol abuse.
On July 22 , 1991 , Dahmer approached three men with an offer of $ 100 to accompany him to his apartment to pose for nude photographs , drink beer and simply keep him company . One of the trio , 32 - year - old Tracy Edwards , agreed to accompany him to his apartment . Upon entering Dahmer ' s apartment , Edwards noted a foul odor and several boxes of hydrochloric acid on the floor , which Dahmer claimed to use for cleaning bricks . After some minor conversation , Edwards responded to Dahmer ' s request to turn his head and view his tropical fish , whereupon Dahmer placed a handcuff upon his wrist . When Edwards asked , " What ' s happening ? " Dahmer unsuccessfully attempted to cuff his wrists together , then told Edwards to accompany him to the bedroom to pose for nude pictures . While inside the bedroom , Edwards noted nude male posters on the wall and that a videotape of The Exorcist   III was playing . He also noted a blue 57 - gallon drum in the corner , from which a strong odor emanated .	What did you notice when I entered your apartment?	You noticed a foul odor and several boxes of hydrochloric acid on the floor, which I claimed to use for cleaning bricks.
After his return to Ohio , Dahmer initially lived with his father and stepmother and insisted on being delegated numerous chores to occupy his time while he looked for work . He continued to drink heavily , and two weeks after his return , was arrested for drunk and disorderly conduct . He was fined $ 60 and given a suspended 10 - day jail sentence . Dahmer ' s father tried unsuccessfully to wean his son off alcohol . In December 1981 , he and Dahmer ' s stepmother sent him to live with his grandmother in West Allis , Wisconsin . Dahmer ' s grandmother was the only family member to whom Dahmer displayed any affection . They hoped that her influence , plus the change of location , might persuade Dahmer to quit drinking , find a job , and live responsibly .	What did your father try to do to help you?	My father tried unsuccessfully to wean me off alcohol.
