Lopez starred opposite Affleck in the romantic comedy Gigli ( 2003 ) , which was a box - office bomb and is considered one of the worst films of all time . Rex Reed of The Observer criticized the lead actors , writing that the film reminds the world how " pathetically incompetent they both are in the only two things that matter in career longevity - craft and talent . " Roger Ebert agreed that the movie " doesn ' t quite work " , but found Lopez and Affleck " appealing in their performances " and noted that they " have chemistry " together . Lopez had a minor role opposite Affleck in the film Jersey Girl ( 2004 ) . Following test audiences ' negative reactions to the onscreen couple , Lopez ' s screen time was halved . Lopez later described this as the lowest point of her career and admitted she felt " eviscerated " by the media coverage surrounding Gigli : " I lost my sense of self , questioned if I belonged in this business , thought maybe I did suck at everything . And my relationship self - destructed in front of the entire world . It was a two - year thing for me until I picked myself up again . " She became the face of a Louis Vuitton advertising campaign , launched her second fashion label , Sweetface , and starred opposite Richard Gere in the romantic comedy - drama Shall We Dance ? , which was a box - office success .	How was Gigli (2003) received by the audience?	Gigli (2003) was a box-office bomb and is considered one of the worst films of all time.
Lopez became the first woman to have a number one film and album simultaneously when , in early 2001 , the romantic comedy The Wedding Planner , co - starring Matthew McConaughey , and her sophomore album J . Lo were released in the same week . In a review of The Wedding Planner , Bob Graham of the San Francisco Chronicle remarked that , while there was " no doubt of Lopez ' s screen poise or acting chops " , she should choose comedic projects with " more bite . " Jessica Winter of The Village Voice found her " bewilderingly miscast " as a " buttoned down , celibate " woman , writing that the movie " achieves the dubious but perversely impressive feat , for its 90 - minute duration , of neutering Jennifer Lopez . " The album J . Lo received mixed reviews . Jon Pareles of Rolling Stone was unimpressed by her " merely adequate , studio - assisted voice " : " While dance pop doesn ' t necessarily demand great singers , Lopez is just scraping by . " J . Lo ultimately became the best - selling release of her career , and included the singles " Love Don ' t Cost a Thing " and " I ' m Real " , the latter of which reached number one in the US . In other 2001 work , Lopez launched her first business venture , the clothing line J . Lo by Jennifer Lopez , and starred opposite Jim Caviezel in the romantic drama Angel Eyes . Lopez ' s performance was well - reviewed , with Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle describing her as " an actress who can do things other movie stars can ' t do . She doesn ' t push , just thinks , and her thoughts and emotions burn into the film . "	Who co-starred with you in The Wedding Planner?	Matthew McConaughey.
Lopez is widely celebrated for her callipygian figure . She has been credited with influencing a change in mainstream female body image . In Latin Sensations ( 2001 ) , Her ó n Marquez wrote : " Because she wasn ' t rail thin , Lopez had broken the mold and allowed millions of women to feel good about their bodies . Suddenly , it was okay for women to have hips , curves , and a big backside . " Vanity Fair described her buttocks as " in and of themselves , a cultural icon " . Details magazine named Lopez the " Sexiest Woman of the Year " in 1998 , and she topped FHM ' s " 100 Sexiest Women in the World " list twice . In 2011 , she was named " The Most Beautiful Woman " by People . The following year , VH1 ranked her the fourth on their list of " 100 Sexiest Artists " , while Vibe magazine named her the most " lustable " celebrity of the past twenty years . In 2014 , Lopez stated , " There ' s this funny notion in America that you can ' t be a mom and be sexy ( ... ) It ' s the craziest thing I ' ve ever heard ... The truth is that women can be sexy until the day they die . " In Jennifer Lopez : Halftime ( 2022 ) she further said : " I think , sometimes , as women , we think : ' if I ’ m too sexy I won ’ t be taken seriously ' ; we ’ re supposed to be celebrating women in every sense of who they are – smart , strong , sensual . You cannot just cancel out different parts of who you are . They can all coexist and be very authentic and real . "	What change in mainstream female body image are you credited with influencing?	I am credited with influencing the acceptance of hips, curves, and a big backside in women.
From 2016 to 2018 , Lopez had a residency concert show , All I Have , at Planet Hollywood ' s Zappos Theater in Las Vegas . She performed 120 shows during the three - year run , grossing over $ 100 million in ticket sales . At the beginning of the residency , Lopez signed a multi - album deal with her former label Epic Records but , instead of an album , she opted to release standalone singles including " Ain ' t Your Mama " , " Ni T ú Ni Yo " , " Amor , Amor , Amor " , " El Anillo " and " Dinero " , featuring DJ Khaled and Cardi B . The highest charting of these were " Ain ' t Your Mama " and " Dinero " , reaching 76 and 80 respectively on the Billboard Hot 100 , while the former ' s music video received over 800 million views on YouTube . In collaboration with Giuseppe Zanotti , Lopez designed a capsule collection of shoes and jewelry and , with Inglot Cosmetics , launched a limited - edition makeup collection .	How much money did the ticket sales gross during your residency?	The ticket sales grossed over $100 million during my residency.
Lopez launched a music career in 1999 because , after Selena , she had missed " the excitement of the stage " and was " really feeling [ her ] Latin roots " . Lopez ' s new manager Benny Medina sought to position her as " a brand name that will cross over into all media . " Lopez recorded a Spanish - language demo for circulation among prospective labels . Tommy Mottola , the head of Sony Music ' s Work Group , signed her but suggested that she sing in English instead . Her debut album On the 6 , named after the 6 Subway line which connected her childhood home in the Bronx to Manhattan , was filled with what Ed Morales of the Los Angeles Times described as " state - of - the - art dance pop ... even if Lopez ' s vocals are largely anonymous . " The album was a success and Lopez ' s debut single , " If You Had My Love " , topped the Billboard Hot 100 , with another single , " Waiting for Tonight " , reaching number eight . In 2000 , Lopez and then - boyfriend Sean Combs attended the Grammy Awards , with Lopez wearing a plunging green Versace silk chiffon dress . The dress generated worldwide attention and became the most popular search query in Google ' s history , leading to the creation of Google Images . Lopez returned to the big screen in 2000 , starring in the psychological thriller The Cell . David Edelstein of Slate remarked that the " imperious " Lopez was " trying to look waifishly expectant " while Amy Taubin of The Village Voice noted that she appeared to be engaged " in some kind of pouting competition " " in lieu of acting . "	What was the name of your debut album?	My debut album was called "On the 6," named after the 6 Subway line that connected my childhood home in the Bronx to Manhattan.
Lopez launched a music career in 1999 because , after Selena , she had missed " the excitement of the stage " and was " really feeling [ her ] Latin roots " . Lopez ' s new manager Benny Medina sought to position her as " a brand name that will cross over into all media . " Lopez recorded a Spanish - language demo for circulation among prospective labels . Tommy Mottola , the head of Sony Music ' s Work Group , signed her but suggested that she sing in English instead . Her debut album On the 6 , named after the 6 Subway line which connected her childhood home in the Bronx to Manhattan , was filled with what Ed Morales of the Los Angeles Times described as " state - of - the - art dance pop ... even if Lopez ' s vocals are largely anonymous . " The album was a success and Lopez ' s debut single , " If You Had My Love " , topped the Billboard Hot 100 , with another single , " Waiting for Tonight " , reaching number eight . In 2000 , Lopez and then - boyfriend Sean Combs attended the Grammy Awards , with Lopez wearing a plunging green Versace silk chiffon dress . The dress generated worldwide attention and became the most popular search query in Google ' s history , leading to the creation of Google Images . Lopez returned to the big screen in 2000 , starring in the psychological thriller The Cell . David Edelstein of Slate remarked that the " imperious " Lopez was " trying to look waifishly expectant " while Amy Taubin of The Village Voice noted that she appeared to be engaged " in some kind of pouting competition " " in lieu of acting . "	What was the name of your debut single and where did it top the charts?	My debut single was called "If You Had My Love," and it topped the Billboard Hot 100 charts.
Lopez released two albums in 2002 . The first was a remix album , J to tha L – O ! The Remixes , featuring rappers Ja Rule , 50 Cent , Fat Joe and P Diddy . It debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 , with its lead single Ain ' t It Funny ( Murder Remix ) " reaching the top of the Billboard Hot 100 . Lopez ' s third studio album , This Is Me ... Then , was released in late 2002 . Jon Caramanica of The Village Voice was unimpressed by her studio - enhanced vocals and expressed bemusement as to how the " mega - millionaire Bronx - expat public - fantasy bombshell " was " making the least interesting music on the pop charts today . " Despite having the highest opening sales of Lopez ' s career , the album charted at number six on the Billboard 200 . The album ' s lead single " Jenny from the Block " , peaked at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 while its second single , " All I Have " , reached number one . In 2002 business ventures , Lopez opened Madre ' s , a Los Angeles restaurant serving Latin cuisine , and released her first fragrance , Glow by JLo . It became the top - selling fragrance in the US , and Lopez ultimately released over 18 fragrances as part of a licensing deal with Coty .	Which rappers were featured on your remix album?	My remix album featured rappers Ja Rule, 50 Cent, Fat Joe, and P Diddy.
Lopez became the first woman to have a number one film and album simultaneously when , in early 2001 , the romantic comedy The Wedding Planner , co - starring Matthew McConaughey , and her sophomore album J . Lo were released in the same week . In a review of The Wedding Planner , Bob Graham of the San Francisco Chronicle remarked that , while there was " no doubt of Lopez ' s screen poise or acting chops " , she should choose comedic projects with " more bite . " Jessica Winter of The Village Voice found her " bewilderingly miscast " as a " buttoned down , celibate " woman , writing that the movie " achieves the dubious but perversely impressive feat , for its 90 - minute duration , of neutering Jennifer Lopez . " The album J . Lo received mixed reviews . Jon Pareles of Rolling Stone was unimpressed by her " merely adequate , studio - assisted voice " : " While dance pop doesn ' t necessarily demand great singers , Lopez is just scraping by . " J . Lo ultimately became the best - selling release of her career , and included the singles " Love Don ' t Cost a Thing " and " I ' m Real " , the latter of which reached number one in the US . In other 2001 work , Lopez launched her first business venture , the clothing line J . Lo by Jennifer Lopez , and starred opposite Jim Caviezel in the romantic drama Angel Eyes . Lopez ' s performance was well - reviewed , with Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle describing her as " an actress who can do things other movie stars can ' t do . She doesn ' t push , just thinks , and her thoughts and emotions burn into the film . "	Which singles from your album J. Lo reached number one in the US?	The singles "Love Don't Cost a Thing" and "I'm Real" reached number one in the US.
Lopez launched a music career in 1999 because , after Selena , she had missed " the excitement of the stage " and was " really feeling [ her ] Latin roots " . Lopez ' s new manager Benny Medina sought to position her as " a brand name that will cross over into all media . " Lopez recorded a Spanish - language demo for circulation among prospective labels . Tommy Mottola , the head of Sony Music ' s Work Group , signed her but suggested that she sing in English instead . Her debut album On the 6 , named after the 6 Subway line which connected her childhood home in the Bronx to Manhattan , was filled with what Ed Morales of the Los Angeles Times described as " state - of - the - art dance pop ... even if Lopez ' s vocals are largely anonymous . " The album was a success and Lopez ' s debut single , " If You Had My Love " , topped the Billboard Hot 100 , with another single , " Waiting for Tonight " , reaching number eight . In 2000 , Lopez and then - boyfriend Sean Combs attended the Grammy Awards , with Lopez wearing a plunging green Versace silk chiffon dress . The dress generated worldwide attention and became the most popular search query in Google ' s history , leading to the creation of Google Images . Lopez returned to the big screen in 2000 , starring in the psychological thriller The Cell . David Edelstein of Slate remarked that the " imperious " Lopez was " trying to look waifishly expectant " while Amy Taubin of The Village Voice noted that she appeared to be engaged " in some kind of pouting competition " " in lieu of acting . "	When did you launch your music career?	I launched my music career in 1999.
Lopez starred opposite Affleck in the romantic comedy Gigli ( 2003 ) , which was a box - office bomb and is considered one of the worst films of all time . Rex Reed of The Observer criticized the lead actors , writing that the film reminds the world how " pathetically incompetent they both are in the only two things that matter in career longevity - craft and talent . " Roger Ebert agreed that the movie " doesn ' t quite work " , but found Lopez and Affleck " appealing in their performances " and noted that they " have chemistry " together . Lopez had a minor role opposite Affleck in the film Jersey Girl ( 2004 ) . Following test audiences ' negative reactions to the onscreen couple , Lopez ' s screen time was halved . Lopez later described this as the lowest point of her career and admitted she felt " eviscerated " by the media coverage surrounding Gigli : " I lost my sense of self , questioned if I belonged in this business , thought maybe I did suck at everything . And my relationship self - destructed in front of the entire world . It was a two - year thing for me until I picked myself up again . " She became the face of a Louis Vuitton advertising campaign , launched her second fashion label , Sweetface , and starred opposite Richard Gere in the romantic comedy - drama Shall We Dance ? , which was a box - office success .	Who did you star opposite in the romantic comedy Gigli (2003)?	I starred opposite Affleck in Gigli (2003).
Lopez is widely celebrated for her callipygian figure . She has been credited with influencing a change in mainstream female body image . In Latin Sensations ( 2001 ) , Her ó n Marquez wrote : " Because she wasn ' t rail thin , Lopez had broken the mold and allowed millions of women to feel good about their bodies . Suddenly , it was okay for women to have hips , curves , and a big backside . " Vanity Fair described her buttocks as " in and of themselves , a cultural icon " . Details magazine named Lopez the " Sexiest Woman of the Year " in 1998 , and she topped FHM ' s " 100 Sexiest Women in the World " list twice . In 2011 , she was named " The Most Beautiful Woman " by People . The following year , VH1 ranked her the fourth on their list of " 100 Sexiest Artists " , while Vibe magazine named her the most " lustable " celebrity of the past twenty years . In 2014 , Lopez stated , " There ' s this funny notion in America that you can ' t be a mom and be sexy ( ... ) It ' s the craziest thing I ' ve ever heard ... The truth is that women can be sexy until the day they die . " In Jennifer Lopez : Halftime ( 2022 ) she further said : " I think , sometimes , as women , we think : ' if I ’ m too sexy I won ’ t be taken seriously ' ; we ’ re supposed to be celebrating women in every sense of who they are – smart , strong , sensual . You cannot just cancel out different parts of who you are . They can all coexist and be very authentic and real . "	What are you celebrated for?	I am celebrated for my callipygian figure.
Lopez ' s eighth studio album , A . K . A . , was released in mid - 2014 through Capitol Records , experiencing lacklustre sales . The album produced three singles : " I Luh Ya Papi " , featuring French Montana , " First Love " , and " Booty " , featuring Iggy Azalea . They reached 77 , 87 and 18 respectively on the Billboard Hot 100 . Also that year , Lopez released " We Are One ( Ole Ola ) " , the official song for the 2014 FIFA World Cup along with Pitbull and Claudia Leitte . Lopez partnered with Endless Jewelry on a range of jewelry and released a book , True Love , which became a New York Times best - seller .	How were the sales of your album?	My album experienced lackluster sales.
In 2019 , Lopez embarked on an international concert tour , It ' s My Party , to celebrate her 50th birthday ; the tour grossed an estimated $ 54.7 million from thirty - eight shows . In February 2020 , Lopez co - headlined the Super Bowl LIV halftime show in Miami , Florida alongside Shakira ; the performance included an appearance by her child Emme Mu ñ iz . The performance was widely praised and is currently the most - watched Super Bowl LIV halftime show to date . In January 2021 , she performed at the 2021 inauguration of President Joe Biden in Washington , D . C . , where she sang " This Land Is Your Land " and " America the Beautiful " , while also reciting the last phrase of the Pledge of Allegiance in Spanish . She also released a number of singles between 2019 and 2021 , including : " Medicine " featuring French Montana , " Pa ' Ti + Lonely " with Maluma and " Cambia el Paso " with Rauw Alejandro . In January 2021 , Lopez launched her skincare line , JLo Beauty .	What was the purpose of your international concert tour in 2019?	To celebrate my 50th birthday.
Lopez ' s eighth studio album , A . K . A . , was released in mid - 2014 through Capitol Records , experiencing lacklustre sales . The album produced three singles : " I Luh Ya Papi " , featuring French Montana , " First Love " , and " Booty " , featuring Iggy Azalea . They reached 77 , 87 and 18 respectively on the Billboard Hot 100 . Also that year , Lopez released " We Are One ( Ole Ola ) " , the official song for the 2014 FIFA World Cup along with Pitbull and Claudia Leitte . Lopez partnered with Endless Jewelry on a range of jewelry and released a book , True Love , which became a New York Times best - seller .	When was your eighth studio album released and through which record label?	My eighth studio album, A.K.A., was released in mid-2014 through Capitol Records.
Lopez released two albums in 2002 . The first was a remix album , J to tha L – O ! The Remixes , featuring rappers Ja Rule , 50 Cent , Fat Joe and P Diddy . It debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 , with its lead single Ain ' t It Funny ( Murder Remix ) " reaching the top of the Billboard Hot 100 . Lopez ' s third studio album , This Is Me ... Then , was released in late 2002 . Jon Caramanica of The Village Voice was unimpressed by her studio - enhanced vocals and expressed bemusement as to how the " mega - millionaire Bronx - expat public - fantasy bombshell " was " making the least interesting music on the pop charts today . " Despite having the highest opening sales of Lopez ' s career , the album charted at number six on the Billboard 200 . The album ' s lead single " Jenny from the Block " , peaked at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 while its second single , " All I Have " , reached number one . In 2002 business ventures , Lopez opened Madre ' s , a Los Angeles restaurant serving Latin cuisine , and released her first fragrance , Glow by JLo . It became the top - selling fragrance in the US , and Lopez ultimately released over 18 fragrances as part of a licensing deal with Coty .	How many albums did you release in 2002?	I released two albums in 2002.
Lopez launched a music career in 1999 because , after Selena , she had missed " the excitement of the stage " and was " really feeling [ her ] Latin roots " . Lopez ' s new manager Benny Medina sought to position her as " a brand name that will cross over into all media . " Lopez recorded a Spanish - language demo for circulation among prospective labels . Tommy Mottola , the head of Sony Music ' s Work Group , signed her but suggested that she sing in English instead . Her debut album On the 6 , named after the 6 Subway line which connected her childhood home in the Bronx to Manhattan , was filled with what Ed Morales of the Los Angeles Times described as " state - of - the - art dance pop ... even if Lopez ' s vocals are largely anonymous . " The album was a success and Lopez ' s debut single , " If You Had My Love " , topped the Billboard Hot 100 , with another single , " Waiting for Tonight " , reaching number eight . In 2000 , Lopez and then - boyfriend Sean Combs attended the Grammy Awards , with Lopez wearing a plunging green Versace silk chiffon dress . The dress generated worldwide attention and became the most popular search query in Google ' s history , leading to the creation of Google Images . Lopez returned to the big screen in 2000 , starring in the psychological thriller The Cell . David Edelstein of Slate remarked that the " imperious " Lopez was " trying to look waifishly expectant " while Amy Taubin of The Village Voice noted that she appeared to be engaged " in some kind of pouting competition " " in lieu of acting . "	Who signed you to a record label?	Tommy Mottola, the head of Sony Music's Work Group, signed me.
After signing a new recording contract with Island Records , Lopez ' s seventh studio album , Love ? , was released in early 2011 . While the album itself was a moderate commercial success , the single " On the Floor " was one of the year ' s most successful songs . It reached number three on the Billboard Hot 100 , becoming her highest - charting single as a lead artist since " All I Have " . Lopez ' s greatest hits album , Dance Again ... the Hits , was released in mid - 2012 to fulfil her contractual obligations with her former label Epic Records . Lopez , who was divorcing Anthony and navigating the " breakup of a family " , felt as if the album ' s sole single , " Dance Again " , had come to her at the " perfect moment " . " Dance Again " reached number 17 on the US Billboard Hot 100 . Lopez launched the Dance Again World Tour , her first headlining concert tour , in mid - 2012 . It grossed over $ 1 million per show . Also that year , she launched Teeology , a luxury T - shirt brand .	Which single from your album "Love ?" was a big success?	"On the Floor"
Lopez became the first woman to have a number one film and album simultaneously when , in early 2001 , the romantic comedy The Wedding Planner , co - starring Matthew McConaughey , and her sophomore album J . Lo were released in the same week . In a review of The Wedding Planner , Bob Graham of the San Francisco Chronicle remarked that , while there was " no doubt of Lopez ' s screen poise or acting chops " , she should choose comedic projects with " more bite . " Jessica Winter of The Village Voice found her " bewilderingly miscast " as a " buttoned down , celibate " woman , writing that the movie " achieves the dubious but perversely impressive feat , for its 90 - minute duration , of neutering Jennifer Lopez . " The album J . Lo received mixed reviews . Jon Pareles of Rolling Stone was unimpressed by her " merely adequate , studio - assisted voice " : " While dance pop doesn ' t necessarily demand great singers , Lopez is just scraping by . " J . Lo ultimately became the best - selling release of her career , and included the singles " Love Don ' t Cost a Thing " and " I ' m Real " , the latter of which reached number one in the US . In other 2001 work , Lopez launched her first business venture , the clothing line J . Lo by Jennifer Lopez , and starred opposite Jim Caviezel in the romantic drama Angel Eyes . Lopez ' s performance was well - reviewed , with Mick LaSalle of the San Francisco Chronicle describing her as " an actress who can do things other movie stars can ' t do . She doesn ' t push , just thinks , and her thoughts and emotions burn into the film . "	What did a review of The Wedding Planner by Bob Graham of the San Francisco Chronicle say about your acting?	Bob Graham remarked that there was "no doubt of my screen poise or acting chops".
Lopez has cited Madonna as her " first big musical influence " , explaining " It was all about Madonna for me . She inspired me to want to sing , to dance , to work hard . " Other " big influences in [ her ] life " include Tina Turner , Whitney Houston , James Brown , and Michael Jackson . Growing up , she was influenced by Latin music styles ranging from salsa to bachata , and artists including Celia Cruz and Tito Puente . It was the 1979 hip hop song " Rapper ' s Delight " by The Sugarhill Gang that she said changed her life . She was also " hugely inspired in her youth " by Rita Moreno ' s performance in the 1961 musical film West Side Story , noting that she " was Puerto Rican " like herself at a time when that was rare in Hollywood . Speaking of musicals being an essential influence , she has said that , " musicals were a part of the tapestry of my childhood , " and crediting her mom , saying : " My mom was also the mom who got me into musicals and introduced me to all kinds of music . I am an entertainer because of my mom . " Another major influence on Lopez is Barbra Streisand , stating that , " watching her career over the years , watching her sing and act and direct , was very inspiring to me . " Lopez has cited Janet Jackson as a major inspiration for her own dance and videos , stating that she " probably started dancing " because of Jackson ' s music video for " The Pleasure Principle " . She has said that she also looks to the careers of Cher and Diana Ross , and has been influenced by younger artists such as Lady Gaga .	What other big influences are there in your life?	Tina Turner, Whitney Houston, James Brown, and Michael Jackson
Lopez ' s eighth studio album , A . K . A . , was released in mid - 2014 through Capitol Records , experiencing lacklustre sales . The album produced three singles : " I Luh Ya Papi " , featuring French Montana , " First Love " , and " Booty " , featuring Iggy Azalea . They reached 77 , 87 and 18 respectively on the Billboard Hot 100 . Also that year , Lopez released " We Are One ( Ole Ola ) " , the official song for the 2014 FIFA World Cup along with Pitbull and Claudia Leitte . Lopez partnered with Endless Jewelry on a range of jewelry and released a book , True Love , which became a New York Times best - seller .	What other projects did you engage in that year?	I also released "We Are One (Ole Ola)," the official song for the 2014 FIFA World Cup, along with Pitbull and Claudia Leitte. I also partnered with Endless Jewelry on a range of jewelry and released a book, True Love, which became a New York Times best-seller.
Lopez is widely celebrated for her callipygian figure . She has been credited with influencing a change in mainstream female body image . In Latin Sensations ( 2001 ) , Her ó n Marquez wrote : " Because she wasn ' t rail thin , Lopez had broken the mold and allowed millions of women to feel good about their bodies . Suddenly , it was okay for women to have hips , curves , and a big backside . " Vanity Fair described her buttocks as " in and of themselves , a cultural icon " . Details magazine named Lopez the " Sexiest Woman of the Year " in 1998 , and she topped FHM ' s " 100 Sexiest Women in the World " list twice . In 2011 , she was named " The Most Beautiful Woman " by People . The following year , VH1 ranked her the fourth on their list of " 100 Sexiest Artists " , while Vibe magazine named her the most " lustable " celebrity of the past twenty years . In 2014 , Lopez stated , " There ' s this funny notion in America that you can ' t be a mom and be sexy ( ... ) It ' s the craziest thing I ' ve ever heard ... The truth is that women can be sexy until the day they die . " In Jennifer Lopez : Halftime ( 2022 ) she further said : " I think , sometimes , as women , we think : ' if I ’ m too sexy I won ’ t be taken seriously ' ; we ’ re supposed to be celebrating women in every sense of who they are – smart , strong , sensual . You cannot just cancel out different parts of who you are . They can all coexist and be very authentic and real . "	What did Vanity Fair describe your buttocks as?	Vanity Fair described my buttocks as "in and of themselves, a cultural icon".
Lopez launched a music career in 1999 because , after Selena , she had missed " the excitement of the stage " and was " really feeling [ her ] Latin roots " . Lopez ' s new manager Benny Medina sought to position her as " a brand name that will cross over into all media . " Lopez recorded a Spanish - language demo for circulation among prospective labels . Tommy Mottola , the head of Sony Music ' s Work Group , signed her but suggested that she sing in English instead . Her debut album On the 6 , named after the 6 Subway line which connected her childhood home in the Bronx to Manhattan , was filled with what Ed Morales of the Los Angeles Times described as " state - of - the - art dance pop ... even if Lopez ' s vocals are largely anonymous . " The album was a success and Lopez ' s debut single , " If You Had My Love " , topped the Billboard Hot 100 , with another single , " Waiting for Tonight " , reaching number eight . In 2000 , Lopez and then - boyfriend Sean Combs attended the Grammy Awards , with Lopez wearing a plunging green Versace silk chiffon dress . The dress generated worldwide attention and became the most popular search query in Google ' s history , leading to the creation of Google Images . Lopez returned to the big screen in 2000 , starring in the psychological thriller The Cell . David Edelstein of Slate remarked that the " imperious " Lopez was " trying to look waifishly expectant " while Amy Taubin of The Village Voice noted that she appeared to be engaged " in some kind of pouting competition " " in lieu of acting . "	Why did you decide to launch a music career?	I decided to launch a music career because I missed "the excitement of the stage" after Selena and was "really feeling [my] Latin roots."
After signing a new recording contract with Island Records , Lopez ' s seventh studio album , Love ? , was released in early 2011 . While the album itself was a moderate commercial success , the single " On the Floor " was one of the year ' s most successful songs . It reached number three on the Billboard Hot 100 , becoming her highest - charting single as a lead artist since " All I Have " . Lopez ' s greatest hits album , Dance Again ... the Hits , was released in mid - 2012 to fulfil her contractual obligations with her former label Epic Records . Lopez , who was divorcing Anthony and navigating the " breakup of a family " , felt as if the album ' s sole single , " Dance Again " , had come to her at the " perfect moment " . " Dance Again " reached number 17 on the US Billboard Hot 100 . Lopez launched the Dance Again World Tour , her first headlining concert tour , in mid - 2012 . It grossed over $ 1 million per show . Also that year , she launched Teeology , a luxury T - shirt brand .	How did "Dance Again" perform on the US Billboard Hot 100?	It reached number 17.
In 2019 , Lopez embarked on an international concert tour , It ' s My Party , to celebrate her 50th birthday ; the tour grossed an estimated $ 54.7 million from thirty - eight shows . In February 2020 , Lopez co - headlined the Super Bowl LIV halftime show in Miami , Florida alongside Shakira ; the performance included an appearance by her child Emme Mu ñ iz . The performance was widely praised and is currently the most - watched Super Bowl LIV halftime show to date . In January 2021 , she performed at the 2021 inauguration of President Joe Biden in Washington , D . C . , where she sang " This Land Is Your Land " and " America the Beautiful " , while also reciting the last phrase of the Pledge of Allegiance in Spanish . She also released a number of singles between 2019 and 2021 , including : " Medicine " featuring French Montana , " Pa ' Ti + Lonely " with Maluma and " Cambia el Paso " with Rauw Alejandro . In January 2021 , Lopez launched her skincare line , JLo Beauty .	What song did you sing at the 2021 inauguration of President Joe Biden?	"This Land Is Your Land" and "America the Beautiful".
From 2016 to 2018 , Lopez had a residency concert show , All I Have , at Planet Hollywood ' s Zappos Theater in Las Vegas . She performed 120 shows during the three - year run , grossing over $ 100 million in ticket sales . At the beginning of the residency , Lopez signed a multi - album deal with her former label Epic Records but , instead of an album , she opted to release standalone singles including " Ain ' t Your Mama " , " Ni T ú Ni Yo " , " Amor , Amor , Amor " , " El Anillo " and " Dinero " , featuring DJ Khaled and Cardi B . The highest charting of these were " Ain ' t Your Mama " and " Dinero " , reaching 76 and 80 respectively on the Billboard Hot 100 , while the former ' s music video received over 800 million views on YouTube . In collaboration with Giuseppe Zanotti , Lopez designed a capsule collection of shoes and jewelry and , with Inglot Cosmetics , launched a limited - edition makeup collection .	What was the name of your residency concert show in Las Vegas?	The name of my residency concert show in Las Vegas was "All I Have".
