Her next film was the romantic comedy The Break - Up ( 2006 ) , alongside Vince Vaughn , in which she starred as one half of a couple having a complicated split when both refuse to move out of the pair ' s recently purchased home . It received mixed reviews but grossed approximately $ 39.17   million during its opening weekend and $ 204   million worldwide . The A . V . Club ' s Keith Phipps gave the film a negative review , stating , " It ' s like watching the ' we were on a break ' episode of Friends stretched to feature length , and without the blessed relief of commercial breaks or the promise of Seinfeld around the corner . " CinemaBlend gave the film a positive review stating , " In an era of formulaic romantic movies that bear no resemblance to reality , The Break - Up offers a refreshing flipside . "	What was the worldwide gross of the film "The Break-Up"?	$204 million
Since 2007 , she has worked in a publicity campaign for the drink SmartWater ; on March 7 , 2011 , she released a YouTube video for SmartWater , Jennifer Aniston Goes Viral , which tripled online interest in the product within 24 hours of its release . In 2012 , Aniston co - founded hair care brand Living Proof and also became its spokeswoman . She left when the company was sold to Unilever in 2016 . In January 2013 , she became the new spokeswoman of Aveeno Skincare . She replaced Daniella van Graas as Aveeno ' s spokesmodel and became its new " face " . Reportedly , Aniston is paid " eight figures " for her endorsement . For roughly $ 5   million she became the new face of Emirates airline in 2015 , which was reportedly a success . For pharmaceutical company Shire , she appeared in a 2016 campaign raising awareness about chronic dry eye .	What campaign did you work on for SmartWater?	I worked on a publicity campaign for SmartWater.
Aniston appeared in the comedy Wanderlust ( 2012 ) with Paul Rudd , with whom she acted in The Object of My Affection and also Friends , as a married couple who join a commune after losing their money and deciding modern life is not for them . The script for Wanderlust , bought by Universal Pictures , was produced by Judd Apatow . Wanderlust received positive reviews but was a box office failure , grossing only $ 21   million worldwide , against a production budget of $ 35   million . Aniston starred as a struggling stripper who agrees to pose as a wife for a drug deal , with Jason Sudeikis , in We ' re the Millers ( 2013 ) . The film received mixed reviews from critics , but was a financial success , grossing $ 269   million against a budget of $ 37   million .	How did Wanderlust fare at the box office?	Wanderlust was a box office failure, grossing only $21 million worldwide against a production budget of $35 million.
In 2013 , she was named the Entertainment Industry Foundation ( EIF ) ambassador for the Saks Fifth Avenue Key to the Cure campaign , which raises funds for the EIF Women ' s Cancer Research Fund . In 2015 , she supported the Comic Relief , Inc . charity . Other charities that Aniston has publicly supported include Clothes Off Our Back , Feeding America , EB Medical Research Foundation , Project A . L . S . , OmniPeace , and the Rape , Abuse & Incest National Network .	What is the purpose of the Saks Fifth Avenue Key to the Cure campaign?	The Saks Fifth Avenue Key to the Cure campaign raises funds for the EIF Women's Cancer Research Fund.
Aniston has been a celebrity advocate for numerous charities and received attention for her own donations . She has appeared in television commercials for St .   Jude ' s Children ' s Research Hospital , and hosted September 2008 ' s Stand Up to Cancer show . In the " It Can ' t Wait " campaign to free Burma , Aniston directed and starred in a video . She is a supporter of Friends of El   Faro , a nonprofit organization that helps raise money for Casa Hogar Sion , an orphanage in Tijuana , Mexico .	What event did you host in September 2008?	I hosted September 2008's Stand Up to Cancer show.
In Cake ( 2014 ) , Aniston starred as an astringent woman named Claire Simmons who struggles with chronic pain . The film received mixed reviews ; nonetheless , Aniston ' s performance was acclaimed , dubbed by some critics as " Oscar - worthy " . The Toronto International Film Festival called her performance " heartbreakingly good " , Gregory Ellwood of HitFix stated , " It ' s really on most people ' s radar for being a rare dramatic turn for Jennifer Aniston , and she doesn ' t disappoint . " He further stated , " Aniston makes you believe in Claire ' s pain . She makes you believe this character is at her lowest point and only she can pull herself out of it . ... It ' s a complete performance from beginning to end and she deserves the appropriate accolades for it . " For her performance , Aniston was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama , SAG Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role , and Critics ' Choice Movie Award for Best Actress .	What awards were you nominated for your performance in the film?	I was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Motion Picture - Drama, SAG Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role, and Critics' Choice Movie Award for Best Actress.
Aniston does not have any children . In July 2016 , she wrote an op - ed piece for the HuffPost titled " For the Record " , where she criticized the media for the focus on her body and speculation over potential pregnancies . She wrote , " The objectification and scrutiny we put women through is absurd and disturbing . " In November 2022 , she appeared on the cover of Allure for their final print issue . In the accompanying interview , Aniston said she had undergone IVF to try and have children when she was in her thirties and forties , but the attempts did not result in any pregnancies . She said , " All the years and years and years of speculation ... It was really hard . I was going through IVF , drinking Chinese teas , you name it . I was throwing everything at it . "	Do you have any children?	I do not have any children.
Since 2007 , she has worked in a publicity campaign for the drink SmartWater ; on March 7 , 2011 , she released a YouTube video for SmartWater , Jennifer Aniston Goes Viral , which tripled online interest in the product within 24 hours of its release . In 2012 , Aniston co - founded hair care brand Living Proof and also became its spokeswoman . She left when the company was sold to Unilever in 2016 . In January 2013 , she became the new spokeswoman of Aveeno Skincare . She replaced Daniella van Graas as Aveeno ' s spokesmodel and became its new " face " . Reportedly , Aniston is paid " eight figures " for her endorsement . For roughly $ 5   million she became the new face of Emirates airline in 2015 , which was reportedly a success . For pharmaceutical company Shire , she appeared in a 2016 campaign raising awareness about chronic dry eye .	What did you co-found in 2012?	I co-founded the hair care brand Living Proof in 2012.
Aniston has been a celebrity advocate for numerous charities and received attention for her own donations . She has appeared in television commercials for St .   Jude ' s Children ' s Research Hospital , and hosted September 2008 ' s Stand Up to Cancer show . In the " It Can ' t Wait " campaign to free Burma , Aniston directed and starred in a video . She is a supporter of Friends of El   Faro , a nonprofit organization that helps raise money for Casa Hogar Sion , an orphanage in Tijuana , Mexico .	Which nonprofit organization do you support?	I support Friends of El Faro, a nonprofit organization that helps raise money for Casa Hogar Sion, an orphanage in Tijuana, Mexico.
Aniston met Brad Pitt in 1998 , and their relationship was highly publicized . She married Pitt , after two years of dating , on July 29 , 2000 , in a lavish Malibu wedding . For a few years , their marriage was considered the rare Hollywood success . On January 7 , 2005 , they announced their separation , and finalized their divorce on October 2 . During their divorce proceedings , news media speculated that Pitt had been unfaithful to Aniston with his Mr . & Mrs . Smith co - star Angelina Jolie , with whom he began a relationship soon after the split . In the months following , the public ' s reaction towards the divorce was reported in the press , and " Team Aniston " and " Team Jolie " T - shirts appeared throughout the country . Aniston commented on the divorce in a January 2015 interview with The Hollywood Reporter , stating , " Nobody did anything wrong ... It was just like , sometimes things [ happen ] . "	Who was rumored to have been unfaithful to you during your divorce proceedings?	Brad Pitt was rumored to have been unfaithful to me with his co-star Angelina Jolie.
Aniston appeared in the comedy Wanderlust ( 2012 ) with Paul Rudd , with whom she acted in The Object of My Affection and also Friends , as a married couple who join a commune after losing their money and deciding modern life is not for them . The script for Wanderlust , bought by Universal Pictures , was produced by Judd Apatow . Wanderlust received positive reviews but was a box office failure , grossing only $ 21   million worldwide , against a production budget of $ 35   million . Aniston starred as a struggling stripper who agrees to pose as a wife for a drug deal , with Jason Sudeikis , in We ' re the Millers ( 2013 ) . The film received mixed reviews from critics , but was a financial success , grossing $ 269   million against a budget of $ 37   million .	What was the storyline of Wanderlust?	I and Paul Rudd's characters join a commune after losing our money and deciding modern life is not for us.
In Cake ( 2014 ) , Aniston starred as an astringent woman named Claire Simmons who struggles with chronic pain . The film received mixed reviews ; nonetheless , Aniston ' s performance was acclaimed , dubbed by some critics as " Oscar - worthy " . The Toronto International Film Festival called her performance " heartbreakingly good " , Gregory Ellwood of HitFix stated , " It ' s really on most people ' s radar for being a rare dramatic turn for Jennifer Aniston , and she doesn ' t disappoint . " He further stated , " Aniston makes you believe in Claire ' s pain . She makes you believe this character is at her lowest point and only she can pull herself out of it . ... It ' s a complete performance from beginning to end and she deserves the appropriate accolades for it . " For her performance , Aniston was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama , SAG Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role , and Critics ' Choice Movie Award for Best Actress .	Who did you portray in the film Cake (2014)?	I portrayed a woman named Claire Simmons.
Aniston has been included in various magazine lists of the world ' s most beautiful women . In 2005 , she became the first GQ Woman of the Year . She has frequently appeared on People magazine ' s annual list of Most Beautiful Women , topping the ranking in 2004 and 2016 . She also topped the magazine ' s Best Dressed List in 2006 . She has been a regular on FHM ' s 100 Sexiest Women in the World list since 1996 , most recently ranking at number 79 in 2012 . In 2011 , The Daily Telegraph reported the most sought - after body parts of the rich and famous revealed by two Hollywood plastic surgeons who carried out a survey among their patients to build up the picture of what the perfect woman would look like . Under the category of the most sought - after body shape , Aniston was voted in the top three , alongside Gisele B ü ndchen and Pen é lope Cruz . In the same year , readers of Men ' s Health voted Aniston as the Sexiest Woman of All Time . Men ' s Health also included her on its 100 Hottest Sex Symbols of All Time list , explaining that " Her down - to - earth persona makes her seem attainable , and anyone who ' s seen her in Office Space has to admit she makes even pieces of flair look good . She rarely plays the airhead , and she seldom overplays a role : she ' s funny in a quiet , refreshingly human way . And her all - too - human love life off screen inspires sympathy that not even a string of bland romantic comedies can diminish . Other sex symbols drift toward one - dimensionality , becoming flat icons in the process , but throughout her career Aniston has remained sexy , funny , and unmistakably real . " Although Aniston disliked the hairstyle she wore during her first two years on Friends , " The Rachel " became very popular .	According to the survey conducted by Hollywood plastic surgeons, were you voted in the top three for the most sought-after body shape along with Gisele Bündchen, and Penélope Cruz?	According to the survey, I, Gisele Bündchen, and Penélope Cruz were voted in the top three for the most sought-after body shape.
Aniston met Brad Pitt in 1998 , and their relationship was highly publicized . She married Pitt , after two years of dating , on July 29 , 2000 , in a lavish Malibu wedding . For a few years , their marriage was considered the rare Hollywood success . On January 7 , 2005 , they announced their separation , and finalized their divorce on October 2 . During their divorce proceedings , news media speculated that Pitt had been unfaithful to Aniston with his Mr . & Mrs . Smith co - star Angelina Jolie , with whom he began a relationship soon after the split . In the months following , the public ' s reaction towards the divorce was reported in the press , and " Team Aniston " and " Team Jolie " T - shirts appeared throughout the country . Aniston commented on the divorce in a January 2015 interview with The Hollywood Reporter , stating , " Nobody did anything wrong ... It was just like , sometimes things [ happen ] . "	When did you marry Brad Pitt?	I married Brad Pitt on July 29, 2000.
Aniston does not have any children . In July 2016 , she wrote an op - ed piece for the HuffPost titled " For the Record " , where she criticized the media for the focus on her body and speculation over potential pregnancies . She wrote , " The objectification and scrutiny we put women through is absurd and disturbing . " In November 2022 , she appeared on the cover of Allure for their final print issue . In the accompanying interview , Aniston said she had undergone IVF to try and have children when she was in her thirties and forties , but the attempts did not result in any pregnancies . She said , " All the years and years and years of speculation ... It was really hard . I was going through IVF , drinking Chinese teas , you name it . I was throwing everything at it . "	When did you appear on the cover of Allure for their final print issue?	I appeared on the cover of Allure for their final print issue in November 2022.
In Cake ( 2014 ) , Aniston starred as an astringent woman named Claire Simmons who struggles with chronic pain . The film received mixed reviews ; nonetheless , Aniston ' s performance was acclaimed , dubbed by some critics as " Oscar - worthy " . The Toronto International Film Festival called her performance " heartbreakingly good " , Gregory Ellwood of HitFix stated , " It ' s really on most people ' s radar for being a rare dramatic turn for Jennifer Aniston , and she doesn ' t disappoint . " He further stated , " Aniston makes you believe in Claire ' s pain . She makes you believe this character is at her lowest point and only she can pull herself out of it . ... It ' s a complete performance from beginning to end and she deserves the appropriate accolades for it . " For her performance , Aniston was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama , SAG Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role , and Critics ' Choice Movie Award for Best Actress .	How was your performance in the film reviewed?	My performance in the film received mixed reviews, but it was acclaimed by some critics as "Oscar-worthy".
Aniston has been a celebrity advocate for numerous charities and received attention for her own donations . She has appeared in television commercials for St .   Jude ' s Children ' s Research Hospital , and hosted September 2008 ' s Stand Up to Cancer show . In the " It Can ' t Wait " campaign to free Burma , Aniston directed and starred in a video . She is a supporter of Friends of El   Faro , a nonprofit organization that helps raise money for Casa Hogar Sion , an orphanage in Tijuana , Mexico .	Which organization did you appear in television commercials for?	I appeared in television commercials for St. Jude's Children's Research Hospital.
In 2013 , she was named the Entertainment Industry Foundation ( EIF ) ambassador for the Saks Fifth Avenue Key to the Cure campaign , which raises funds for the EIF Women ' s Cancer Research Fund . In 2015 , she supported the Comic Relief , Inc . charity . Other charities that Aniston has publicly supported include Clothes Off Our Back , Feeding America , EB Medical Research Foundation , Project A . L . S . , OmniPeace , and the Rape , Abuse & Incest National Network .	In which year were you named the EIF ambassador for the Saks Fifth Avenue Key to the Cure campaign?	I was named the EIF ambassador for the Saks Fifth Avenue Key to the Cure campaign in 2013.
Aniston practices Hatha yoga and Budokan karate . In 2014 , she spoke of her Transcendental Meditation practice . The following year , she revealed she has dyslexia , which had affected her education and self - esteem , and that after being diagnosed in her twenties , her outlook toward life changed . She stated , " I thought I wasn ' t smart . I just couldn ' t retain anything . Now I had this great discovery . I felt like all of my childhood trauma - dies , tragedies , dramas were explained . "	What forms of exercise do you practice?	I practice Hatha yoga and Budokan karate.
Aniston has been included in various magazine lists of the world ' s most beautiful women . In 2005 , she became the first GQ Woman of the Year . She has frequently appeared on People magazine ' s annual list of Most Beautiful Women , topping the ranking in 2004 and 2016 . She also topped the magazine ' s Best Dressed List in 2006 . She has been a regular on FHM ' s 100 Sexiest Women in the World list since 1996 , most recently ranking at number 79 in 2012 . In 2011 , The Daily Telegraph reported the most sought - after body parts of the rich and famous revealed by two Hollywood plastic surgeons who carried out a survey among their patients to build up the picture of what the perfect woman would look like . Under the category of the most sought - after body shape , Aniston was voted in the top three , alongside Gisele B ü ndchen and Pen é lope Cruz . In the same year , readers of Men ' s Health voted Aniston as the Sexiest Woman of All Time . Men ' s Health also included her on its 100 Hottest Sex Symbols of All Time list , explaining that " Her down - to - earth persona makes her seem attainable , and anyone who ' s seen her in Office Space has to admit she makes even pieces of flair look good . She rarely plays the airhead , and she seldom overplays a role : she ' s funny in a quiet , refreshingly human way . And her all - too - human love life off screen inspires sympathy that not even a string of bland romantic comedies can diminish . Other sex symbols drift toward one - dimensionality , becoming flat icons in the process , but throughout her career Aniston has remained sexy , funny , and unmistakably real . " Although Aniston disliked the hairstyle she wore during her first two years on Friends , " The Rachel " became very popular .	In which year did you top the Best Dressed List of People magazine?	I topped the Best Dressed List of People magazine in 2006.
Aniston practices Hatha yoga and Budokan karate . In 2014 , she spoke of her Transcendental Meditation practice . The following year , she revealed she has dyslexia , which had affected her education and self - esteem , and that after being diagnosed in her twenties , her outlook toward life changed . She stated , " I thought I wasn ' t smart . I just couldn ' t retain anything . Now I had this great discovery . I felt like all of my childhood trauma - dies , tragedies , dramas were explained . "	How did dyslexia affect you?	Dyslexia affected my education and self-esteem.
Aniston practices Hatha yoga and Budokan karate . In 2014 , she spoke of her Transcendental Meditation practice . The following year , she revealed she has dyslexia , which had affected her education and self - esteem , and that after being diagnosed in her twenties , her outlook toward life changed . She stated , " I thought I wasn ' t smart . I just couldn ' t retain anything . Now I had this great discovery . I felt like all of my childhood trauma - dies , tragedies , dramas were explained . "	How did being diagnosed with dyslexia change your outlook on life?	Being diagnosed with dyslexia changed my outlook on life. I thought I wasn't smart, but now I feel like all my childhood trauma, tragedies, and dramas were explained.
In Cake ( 2014 ) , Aniston starred as an astringent woman named Claire Simmons who struggles with chronic pain . The film received mixed reviews ; nonetheless , Aniston ' s performance was acclaimed , dubbed by some critics as " Oscar - worthy " . The Toronto International Film Festival called her performance " heartbreakingly good " , Gregory Ellwood of HitFix stated , " It ' s really on most people ' s radar for being a rare dramatic turn for Jennifer Aniston , and she doesn ' t disappoint . " He further stated , " Aniston makes you believe in Claire ' s pain . She makes you believe this character is at her lowest point and only she can pull herself out of it . ... It ' s a complete performance from beginning to end and she deserves the appropriate accolades for it . " For her performance , Aniston was nominated for the Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama , SAG Award for Outstanding Performance by a Female Actor in a Leading Role , and Critics ' Choice Movie Award for Best Actress .	What kind of struggles do you face in the film?	I struggle with chronic pain.
Aniston has been included in various magazine lists of the world ' s most beautiful women . In 2005 , she became the first GQ Woman of the Year . She has frequently appeared on People magazine ' s annual list of Most Beautiful Women , topping the ranking in 2004 and 2016 . She also topped the magazine ' s Best Dressed List in 2006 . She has been a regular on FHM ' s 100 Sexiest Women in the World list since 1996 , most recently ranking at number 79 in 2012 . In 2011 , The Daily Telegraph reported the most sought - after body parts of the rich and famous revealed by two Hollywood plastic surgeons who carried out a survey among their patients to build up the picture of what the perfect woman would look like . Under the category of the most sought - after body shape , Aniston was voted in the top three , alongside Gisele B ü ndchen and Pen é lope Cruz . In the same year , readers of Men ' s Health voted Aniston as the Sexiest Woman of All Time . Men ' s Health also included her on its 100 Hottest Sex Symbols of All Time list , explaining that " Her down - to - earth persona makes her seem attainable , and anyone who ' s seen her in Office Space has to admit she makes even pieces of flair look good . She rarely plays the airhead , and she seldom overplays a role : she ' s funny in a quiet , refreshingly human way . And her all - too - human love life off screen inspires sympathy that not even a string of bland romantic comedies can diminish . Other sex symbols drift toward one - dimensionality , becoming flat icons in the process , but throughout her career Aniston has remained sexy , funny , and unmistakably real . " Although Aniston disliked the hairstyle she wore during her first two years on Friends , " The Rachel " became very popular .	Which magazine ranked you as the Most Beautiful Woman in 2004 and 2016?	People magazine ranked me as the Most Beautiful Woman in 2004 and 2016.
Her next film was the romantic comedy The Break - Up ( 2006 ) , alongside Vince Vaughn , in which she starred as one half of a couple having a complicated split when both refuse to move out of the pair ' s recently purchased home . It received mixed reviews but grossed approximately $ 39.17   million during its opening weekend and $ 204   million worldwide . The A . V . Club ' s Keith Phipps gave the film a negative review , stating , " It ' s like watching the ' we were on a break ' episode of Friends stretched to feature length , and without the blessed relief of commercial breaks or the promise of Seinfeld around the corner . " CinemaBlend gave the film a positive review stating , " In an era of formulaic romantic movies that bear no resemblance to reality , The Break - Up offers a refreshing flipside . "	How much did your film "The Break-Up" gross during its opening weekend?	Approximately $39.17 million
