In the same year , Lawrence took on a supporting role in David O . Russell ' s ensemble black comedy crime American Hustle as Rosalyn Rosenfeld , the neurotic wife of con man Irving Rosenfeld ( played by Christian Bale ) . Inspired by the FBI ' s Abscam sting operation , the film is set against the backdrop of political corruption in 1970s New Jersey . She did little research for the role , and based her performance on knowledge of the era from films and television shows she had watched . Geoffrey Macnab of The Independent found Lawrence to be " brilliant " , " funny and acerbic " in her part , and highlighted an improvised scene in which she aggressively kisses her husband ' s mistress ( played by Amy Adams ) on the lips . For her performance , she won the Golden Globe and BAFTA Award for Best Supporting Actress , and received her third Screen Actors Guild Award and Academy Award nominations , her first in the supporting category . This made her the youngest actor to accrue three Oscar nominations .	What records did you break with your Oscar nominations for American Hustle?	I became the youngest actor to accrue three Oscar nominations.
Later in 2012 , Lawrence played Tiffany Maxwell , a troubled young widow , in David O . Russell ' s romantic comedy - drama Silver Linings Playbook . The film is an adaptation of Matthew Quick ' s novel of the same name , and follows her character as she finds companionship with Pat Solitano Jr . ( played by Bradley Cooper ) , a man with bipolar disorder . Lawrence was drawn to her character ' s complex personality , explaining , " She was just kind of this mysterious enigma to me because she didn ' t really fit any basic kind of character profile . Somebody who is very forceful and bullheaded is normally very insecure , but she isn ' t . " While Russell initially found her too young for the part , she convinced him to cast her via a Skype audition . She found herself challenged by Russell ' s spontaneity as a director , and described working on the project as the " best experience of [ her ] life " . Richard Corliss of Time magazine wrote : " Just 21 when the movie was shot , Lawrence is that rare young actress who plays , who is , grown - up . Sullen and sultry , she lends a mature intelligence to any role . " Peter Travers opined that Lawrence " is some kind of miracle . She ' s rude , dirty , funny , foulmouthed , sloppy , sexy , vibrant , and vulnerable , sometimes all in the same scene , even in the same breath . " She won the Golden Globe , SAG Award and the Academy Award for Best Actress , becoming — at age 22 — the second - youngest Best Actress Oscar winner . Her final film of the year was alongside Max Thieriot and Elisabeth Shue in Mark Tonderai ' s critically panned thriller House at the End of the Street .	What awards did you win for your role in Silver Linings Playbook?	I won the Golden Globe, SAG Award, and the Academy Award for Best Actress for my role in Silver Linings Playbook.
After her dramatic role in Winter ' s Bone , Lawrence looked for something less serious , and found it with her first high - profile release — Matthew Vaughn ' s superhero film X - Men : First Class ( 2011 ) — a prequel to the X - Men film series . She portrayed the shapeshifting mutant Mystique , a role played by Rebecca Romijn in the earlier films . Vaughn cast Lawrence , as he thought that she would be able to portray the weakness and strength involved in the character ' s transformation . For the part , Lawrence lost weight and practiced yoga . For Mystique ' s blue form , she had to undergo eight hours of makeup , where latex pieces and body paint were applied to her otherwise nude body , as Romijn had done on the other films . This process required Lawrence to report to set at 2   a . m . She was intimidated in the role as she admired Romijn . Writing for USA Today , Claudia Puig considered the film to be a " classy re - boot " of the film series , and believed that her " high - spirited performance " empowered the film . With worldwide earnings of $ 350 million , X - Men : First Class became Lawrence ' s highest - grossing film at that point .	What was your role in the film X-Men: First Class?	I portrayed the shapeshifting mutant Mystique.
Lawrence worked with David O . Russell for the third time on the biopic Joy ( 2015 ) , in which she played the eponymous character , a troubled single mother who becomes a successful businesswoman after inventing the Miracle Mop . During production in Boston , the press reported on a disagreement between Lawrence and Russell that resulted in a " screaming match " . She said their friendship made it easier for them to disagree , because people fight when they really love each other . The film was not as well - received as their previous collaborations , but Lawrence ' s performance was unanimously praised ; critic Richard Roeper found it to be her best work since Winter ' s Bone , terming it " a wonderfully layered performance that carries the film through its rough spots and sometime dubious detours . " She won her third Golden Globe for it , and was nominated for another Academy Award for Best Actress , becoming the youngest actor in history to accrue four Oscar nominations .	How was your performance in the film Joy received?	My performance in the film Joy was unanimously praised.
In 2012 , Lawrence starred as Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games , an adaptation of the first book in author Suzanne Collins ' Hunger Games trilogy . Set in a post - apocalyptic future , the series tells the story of the teenage heroine Everdeen as she joins rebel forces against a totalitarian government after winning a brutal televised annual event . Despite being an admirer of the books , Lawrence was initially hesitant to accept the part , because of the grand scale of the film . She agreed to the project after her mother convinced her to take the part . She practiced archery , rock and tree climbing , and hand - to - hand combat techniques , and other physically demanding activities for the role . While training for the part , she injured herself running into a wall . The Hunger Games garnered positive reviews , with Lawrence ' s portrayal of Everdeen being particularly praised ; Roger Ebert described the film as " an effective entertainment , " and found Lawrence to be " strong and convincing in the central role . " Similarly , Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter called her an " ideal screen actress " , believing that she had embodied the Everdeen of the novel , and added that she " anchors [ the film ] with impressive gravity and presence " . With worldwide revenues of over $ 690 million , The Hunger Games became a top - grossing film featuring a female lead , making Lawrence the highest - grossing action heroine of all time . The film ' s success established her as a global star .	Why were you hesitant to accept the role in The Hunger Games at first?	I was initially hesitant to accept the part because of the grand scale of the film.
After her dramatic role in Winter ' s Bone , Lawrence looked for something less serious , and found it with her first high - profile release — Matthew Vaughn ' s superhero film X - Men : First Class ( 2011 ) — a prequel to the X - Men film series . She portrayed the shapeshifting mutant Mystique , a role played by Rebecca Romijn in the earlier films . Vaughn cast Lawrence , as he thought that she would be able to portray the weakness and strength involved in the character ' s transformation . For the part , Lawrence lost weight and practiced yoga . For Mystique ' s blue form , she had to undergo eight hours of makeup , where latex pieces and body paint were applied to her otherwise nude body , as Romijn had done on the other films . This process required Lawrence to report to set at 2   a . m . She was intimidated in the role as she admired Romijn . Writing for USA Today , Claudia Puig considered the film to be a " classy re - boot " of the film series , and believed that her " high - spirited performance " empowered the film . With worldwide earnings of $ 350 million , X - Men : First Class became Lawrence ' s highest - grossing film at that point .	What did you have to do in order to transform into Mystique?	I had to undergo eight hours of makeup, where latex pieces and body paint were applied to my otherwise nude body.
Following roles in a series of mixed reviewed films , Lawrence took a small break from acting . She felt unsatisfied with her films , wanted to avoid media scrutiny , and focused on domestic activities during this period . Wanting to work with director Adam McKay since she was 19 , Lawrence returned in 2021 in his film Don ' t Look Up for Netflix for a reported fee of $ 25 million . A " slapstick apocalypse " , the film had her and costar Leonardo DiCaprio play two astronomers attempting to warn humanity about an extinction - level asteroid . For the role , Lawrence received a red dye job and an undercut ; in an interview with Vogue , she said that she extensively researched the typical look of aspiring astrophysicists . Reviews for the film were mixed , but critics mostly praised the performances of Lawrence and DiCaprio , who were described as " powerhouse " by Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy and " a delight to watch " by Saibal Chatterjee of NDTV . Lawrence earned a fifth Golden Globe nomination for the film . It broke the record for the most views , 152 million hours in a single week in Netflix history , and ranks as the platform ' s second most - watched film within 28 days of release .	What was the plot of your film "Don't Look Up"?	The film was about two astronomers attempting to warn humanity about an extinction-level asteroid.
In the same year , Lawrence took on a supporting role in David O . Russell ' s ensemble black comedy crime American Hustle as Rosalyn Rosenfeld , the neurotic wife of con man Irving Rosenfeld ( played by Christian Bale ) . Inspired by the FBI ' s Abscam sting operation , the film is set against the backdrop of political corruption in 1970s New Jersey . She did little research for the role , and based her performance on knowledge of the era from films and television shows she had watched . Geoffrey Macnab of The Independent found Lawrence to be " brilliant " , " funny and acerbic " in her part , and highlighted an improvised scene in which she aggressively kisses her husband ' s mistress ( played by Amy Adams ) on the lips . For her performance , she won the Golden Globe and BAFTA Award for Best Supporting Actress , and received her third Screen Actors Guild Award and Academy Award nominations , her first in the supporting category . This made her the youngest actor to accrue three Oscar nominations .	What role did you play in American Hustle?	I played the role of Rosalyn Rosenfeld, the neurotic wife of con man Irving Rosenfeld.
Lawrence worked with David O . Russell for the third time on the biopic Joy ( 2015 ) , in which she played the eponymous character , a troubled single mother who becomes a successful businesswoman after inventing the Miracle Mop . During production in Boston , the press reported on a disagreement between Lawrence and Russell that resulted in a " screaming match " . She said their friendship made it easier for them to disagree , because people fight when they really love each other . The film was not as well - received as their previous collaborations , but Lawrence ' s performance was unanimously praised ; critic Richard Roeper found it to be her best work since Winter ' s Bone , terming it " a wonderfully layered performance that carries the film through its rough spots and sometime dubious detours . " She won her third Golden Globe for it , and was nominated for another Academy Award for Best Actress , becoming the youngest actor in history to accrue four Oscar nominations .	Where was the film Joy produced?	The film Joy was produced in Boston.
In the same year , Lawrence took on a supporting role in David O . Russell ' s ensemble black comedy crime American Hustle as Rosalyn Rosenfeld , the neurotic wife of con man Irving Rosenfeld ( played by Christian Bale ) . Inspired by the FBI ' s Abscam sting operation , the film is set against the backdrop of political corruption in 1970s New Jersey . She did little research for the role , and based her performance on knowledge of the era from films and television shows she had watched . Geoffrey Macnab of The Independent found Lawrence to be " brilliant " , " funny and acerbic " in her part , and highlighted an improvised scene in which she aggressively kisses her husband ' s mistress ( played by Amy Adams ) on the lips . For her performance , she won the Golden Globe and BAFTA Award for Best Supporting Actress , and received her third Screen Actors Guild Award and Academy Award nominations , her first in the supporting category . This made her the youngest actor to accrue three Oscar nominations .	What awards did you win for your performance in American Hustle?	I won the Golden Globe and BAFTA Award for Best Supporting Actress.
Following roles in a series of mixed reviewed films , Lawrence took a small break from acting . She felt unsatisfied with her films , wanted to avoid media scrutiny , and focused on domestic activities during this period . Wanting to work with director Adam McKay since she was 19 , Lawrence returned in 2021 in his film Don ' t Look Up for Netflix for a reported fee of $ 25 million . A " slapstick apocalypse " , the film had her and costar Leonardo DiCaprio play two astronomers attempting to warn humanity about an extinction - level asteroid . For the role , Lawrence received a red dye job and an undercut ; in an interview with Vogue , she said that she extensively researched the typical look of aspiring astrophysicists . Reviews for the film were mixed , but critics mostly praised the performances of Lawrence and DiCaprio , who were described as " powerhouse " by Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy and " a delight to watch " by Saibal Chatterjee of NDTV . Lawrence earned a fifth Golden Globe nomination for the film . It broke the record for the most views , 152 million hours in a single week in Netflix history , and ranks as the platform ' s second most - watched film within 28 days of release .	Who did you want to work with since you were 19?	I wanted to work with director Adam McKay.
The following year , she starred as Dominika Egorova , a Russian spy who makes contact with a mysterious CIA agent ( played by Joel Edgerton ) , in Francis Lawrence ' s espionage thriller Red Sparrow , based on Jason Matthews ' novel of the same name . In preparation for the part , she learned to speak in a Russian accent and trained in ballet for four months . Having been the victim of a nude photo hack , the actress found herself challenged by the sexuality in her role but said that performing the nude scenes made her feel empowered . Eric Kohn of IndieWire disliked the film ' s denouement , but praised the performances of Lawrence and Charlotte Rampling , remarking that " the considerable talent on display is [ the film ' s ] constant saving grace . " In 2019 , Lawrence made her fourth and final appearance as Mystique , in the superhero film Dark Phoenix , which emerged as a critical and box - office failure .	Who did you star as in Red Sparrow?	I starred as Dominika Egorova, a Russian spy.
In 2012 , Lawrence starred as Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games , an adaptation of the first book in author Suzanne Collins ' Hunger Games trilogy . Set in a post - apocalyptic future , the series tells the story of the teenage heroine Everdeen as she joins rebel forces against a totalitarian government after winning a brutal televised annual event . Despite being an admirer of the books , Lawrence was initially hesitant to accept the part , because of the grand scale of the film . She agreed to the project after her mother convinced her to take the part . She practiced archery , rock and tree climbing , and hand - to - hand combat techniques , and other physically demanding activities for the role . While training for the part , she injured herself running into a wall . The Hunger Games garnered positive reviews , with Lawrence ' s portrayal of Everdeen being particularly praised ; Roger Ebert described the film as " an effective entertainment , " and found Lawrence to be " strong and convincing in the central role . " Similarly , Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter called her an " ideal screen actress " , believing that she had embodied the Everdeen of the novel , and added that she " anchors [ the film ] with impressive gravity and presence " . With worldwide revenues of over $ 690 million , The Hunger Games became a top - grossing film featuring a female lead , making Lawrence the highest - grossing action heroine of all time . The film ' s success established her as a global star .	Who did you portray in The Hunger Games?	I portrayed Katniss Everdeen in The Hunger Games.
Lawrence ' s next two releases were the final installments of The Hunger Games film series , Mockingjay – Part 1 ( 2014 ) and Part 2 ( 2015 ) . For the soundtrack of the former film , she recorded the song " The Hanging Tree " , which charted on multiple international singles charts . In a review of the final installment in the series , Manohla Dargis of The New York Times drew similarities between Everdeen ' s journey as a rebel leader and Lawrence ' s rise to stardom , stating that the actress " now inhabits the role as effortlessly as breathing , partly because , like all great stars , she seems to be playing a version of her ' real ' self . " Both films grossed over $ 650 million worldwide .	What song did you record for the soundtrack of the former film?	I recorded the song "The Hanging Tree" for the soundtrack.
Later in 2012 , Lawrence played Tiffany Maxwell , a troubled young widow , in David O . Russell ' s romantic comedy - drama Silver Linings Playbook . The film is an adaptation of Matthew Quick ' s novel of the same name , and follows her character as she finds companionship with Pat Solitano Jr . ( played by Bradley Cooper ) , a man with bipolar disorder . Lawrence was drawn to her character ' s complex personality , explaining , " She was just kind of this mysterious enigma to me because she didn ' t really fit any basic kind of character profile . Somebody who is very forceful and bullheaded is normally very insecure , but she isn ' t . " While Russell initially found her too young for the part , she convinced him to cast her via a Skype audition . She found herself challenged by Russell ' s spontaneity as a director , and described working on the project as the " best experience of [ her ] life " . Richard Corliss of Time magazine wrote : " Just 21 when the movie was shot , Lawrence is that rare young actress who plays , who is , grown - up . Sullen and sultry , she lends a mature intelligence to any role . " Peter Travers opined that Lawrence " is some kind of miracle . She ' s rude , dirty , funny , foulmouthed , sloppy , sexy , vibrant , and vulnerable , sometimes all in the same scene , even in the same breath . " She won the Golden Globe , SAG Award and the Academy Award for Best Actress , becoming — at age 22 — the second - youngest Best Actress Oscar winner . Her final film of the year was alongside Max Thieriot and Elisabeth Shue in Mark Tonderai ' s critically panned thriller House at the End of the Street .	How did you describe working on Silver Linings Playbook?	I described working on Silver Linings Playbook as the "best experience of my life".
In January 2013 , Lawrence hosted an episode of the NBC late - night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live . The Devil You Know , a small - scale production that she had filmed for in 2005 , was her first release of 2013 . She then reprised the role of Everdeen in The Hunger Games : Catching Fire , the second installment in the Hunger Games series . While performing the film ' s underwater stunts , Lawrence suffered from an ear infection that resulted in a brief loss of hearing . Writing for The Village Voice , Stephanie Zacharek believed that the actress ' portrayal of Everdeen made her an ideal role model , stating that " there ' s no sanctimony or pretense of false modesty in the way Lawrence plays her . " With box office earnings of $ 865 million , Catching Fire remains her highest - grossing film .	How much did your film Catching Fire earn at the box office?	Catching Fire earned $865 million at the box office, making it my highest-grossing film.
In 2012 , Rolling Stone called Lawrence " the most talented young actress in America " . Her The Hunger Games co - star Donald Sutherland found her an " exquisite and brilliant actor " , and favorably compared her craft to that of Laurence Olivier . David O . Russell , who directed Lawrence in Silver Linings Playbook , American Hustle and Joy , has praised her effortless acting that makes her performances look easy . She has played roles in both high - profile , mainstream productions and low - budget independent films , and appeared in a range of film genres . She did not study acting and has not been involved in professional theater . She has said she bases her acting approach on her observations of people around her . She said in 2010 that she did not " invest any of [ her ] real emotions " or take home any of her characters ' pain . She went on to say that " I don ' t even take it to craft services " and has never shared her characters ' experiences , relying instead on her imagination : " I can ' t go around looking for roles that are exactly like my life … If it ever came down to the point where , to make a part better , I had to lose a little bit of my sanity , I wouldn ' t do it . I would just do comedies . "	How does David O. Russell describe your acting?	David O. Russell has praised my effortless acting that makes my performances look easy.
Following roles in a series of mixed reviewed films , Lawrence took a small break from acting . She felt unsatisfied with her films , wanted to avoid media scrutiny , and focused on domestic activities during this period . Wanting to work with director Adam McKay since she was 19 , Lawrence returned in 2021 in his film Don ' t Look Up for Netflix for a reported fee of $ 25 million . A " slapstick apocalypse " , the film had her and costar Leonardo DiCaprio play two astronomers attempting to warn humanity about an extinction - level asteroid . For the role , Lawrence received a red dye job and an undercut ; in an interview with Vogue , she said that she extensively researched the typical look of aspiring astrophysicists . Reviews for the film were mixed , but critics mostly praised the performances of Lawrence and DiCaprio , who were described as " powerhouse " by Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy and " a delight to watch " by Saibal Chatterjee of NDTV . Lawrence earned a fifth Golden Globe nomination for the film . It broke the record for the most views , 152 million hours in a single week in Netflix history , and ranks as the platform ' s second most - watched film within 28 days of release .	In which year did you return to acting?	I returned to acting in 2021.
Lawrence ' s next two releases were the final installments of The Hunger Games film series , Mockingjay – Part 1 ( 2014 ) and Part 2 ( 2015 ) . For the soundtrack of the former film , she recorded the song " The Hanging Tree " , which charted on multiple international singles charts . In a review of the final installment in the series , Manohla Dargis of The New York Times drew similarities between Everdeen ' s journey as a rebel leader and Lawrence ' s rise to stardom , stating that the actress " now inhabits the role as effortlessly as breathing , partly because , like all great stars , she seems to be playing a version of her ' real ' self . " Both films grossed over $ 650 million worldwide .	What did you draw similarities between?	I drew similarities between Everdeen's journey as a rebel leader and my rise to stardom.
Lawrence ' s next two releases were the final installments of The Hunger Games film series , Mockingjay – Part 1 ( 2014 ) and Part 2 ( 2015 ) . For the soundtrack of the former film , she recorded the song " The Hanging Tree " , which charted on multiple international singles charts . In a review of the final installment in the series , Manohla Dargis of The New York Times drew similarities between Everdeen ' s journey as a rebel leader and Lawrence ' s rise to stardom , stating that the actress " now inhabits the role as effortlessly as breathing , partly because , like all great stars , she seems to be playing a version of her ' real ' self . " Both films grossed over $ 650 million worldwide .	Did "The Hanging Tree" chart on any international singles charts?	Yes, "The Hanging Tree" charted on multiple international singles charts.
The following year , she starred as Dominika Egorova , a Russian spy who makes contact with a mysterious CIA agent ( played by Joel Edgerton ) , in Francis Lawrence ' s espionage thriller Red Sparrow , based on Jason Matthews ' novel of the same name . In preparation for the part , she learned to speak in a Russian accent and trained in ballet for four months . Having been the victim of a nude photo hack , the actress found herself challenged by the sexuality in her role but said that performing the nude scenes made her feel empowered . Eric Kohn of IndieWire disliked the film ' s denouement , but praised the performances of Lawrence and Charlotte Rampling , remarking that " the considerable talent on display is [ the film ' s ] constant saving grace . " In 2019 , Lawrence made her fourth and final appearance as Mystique , in the superhero film Dark Phoenix , which emerged as a critical and box - office failure .	Who played the mysterious CIA agent in Red Sparrow?	Joel Edgerton played the mysterious CIA agent.
In January 2013 , Lawrence hosted an episode of the NBC late - night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live . The Devil You Know , a small - scale production that she had filmed for in 2005 , was her first release of 2013 . She then reprised the role of Everdeen in The Hunger Games : Catching Fire , the second installment in the Hunger Games series . While performing the film ' s underwater stunts , Lawrence suffered from an ear infection that resulted in a brief loss of hearing . Writing for The Village Voice , Stephanie Zacharek believed that the actress ' portrayal of Everdeen made her an ideal role model , stating that " there ' s no sanctimony or pretense of false modesty in the way Lawrence plays her . " With box office earnings of $ 865 million , Catching Fire remains her highest - grossing film .	What show did you host in January 2013?	I hosted an episode of the NBC late-night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live.
In January 2013 , Lawrence hosted an episode of the NBC late - night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live . The Devil You Know , a small - scale production that she had filmed for in 2005 , was her first release of 2013 . She then reprised the role of Everdeen in The Hunger Games : Catching Fire , the second installment in the Hunger Games series . While performing the film ' s underwater stunts , Lawrence suffered from an ear infection that resulted in a brief loss of hearing . Writing for The Village Voice , Stephanie Zacharek believed that the actress ' portrayal of Everdeen made her an ideal role model , stating that " there ' s no sanctimony or pretense of false modesty in the way Lawrence plays her . " With box office earnings of $ 865 million , Catching Fire remains her highest - grossing film .	In which film did you reprise the role of Everdeen?	I reprised the role of Everdeen in The Hunger Games: Catching Fire, the second installment in the Hunger Games series.
Lawrence worked with David O . Russell for the third time on the biopic Joy ( 2015 ) , in which she played the eponymous character , a troubled single mother who becomes a successful businesswoman after inventing the Miracle Mop . During production in Boston , the press reported on a disagreement between Lawrence and Russell that resulted in a " screaming match " . She said their friendship made it easier for them to disagree , because people fight when they really love each other . The film was not as well - received as their previous collaborations , but Lawrence ' s performance was unanimously praised ; critic Richard Roeper found it to be her best work since Winter ' s Bone , terming it " a wonderfully layered performance that carries the film through its rough spots and sometime dubious detours . " She won her third Golden Globe for it , and was nominated for another Academy Award for Best Actress , becoming the youngest actor in history to accrue four Oscar nominations .	What is the plot of the biopic Joy?	The biopic Joy is about a troubled single mother who becomes a successful businesswoman after inventing the Miracle Mop.
In January 2013 , Lawrence hosted an episode of the NBC late - night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live . The Devil You Know , a small - scale production that she had filmed for in 2005 , was her first release of 2013 . She then reprised the role of Everdeen in The Hunger Games : Catching Fire , the second installment in the Hunger Games series . While performing the film ' s underwater stunts , Lawrence suffered from an ear infection that resulted in a brief loss of hearing . Writing for The Village Voice , Stephanie Zacharek believed that the actress ' portrayal of Everdeen made her an ideal role model , stating that " there ' s no sanctimony or pretense of false modesty in the way Lawrence plays her . " With box office earnings of $ 865 million , Catching Fire remains her highest - grossing film .	Which film did you film in 2005 and release in 2013?	The Devil You Know was a small-scale production that I filmed in 2005 and was my first release in 2013.
