On November 2 , 2022 , while packing files at the Penn Biden Center , Biden ' s attorneys found classified documents dating to his vice presidency in a " locked closet " . According to the White House , the documents were reported that day to the U . S . National Archives , which recovered the documents the next day . On December 20 , a second batch of classified documents was discovered in the garage of Biden ' s Wilmington , Delaware residence . In January 2023 , these findings were made public , and on January 12 , Attorney General Merrick Garland appointed Robert K . Hur as special counsel to investigate " possible unauthorized removal and retention of classified documents or other records " . On January 20 , after a 13 - hour consensual search by FBI investigators , six more items with classified markings were recovered from Biden ' s Wilmington residence .	When were the documents recovered by the U.S. National Archives?	The documents were recovered the next day after being reported.
Biden favored arming Syria ' s rebel fighters . As the ISIL insurgency in Iraq intensified in 2014 , renewed attention was paid to the Biden - Gelb Iraqi federalization plan of 2006 , with some observers suggesting Biden had been right all along . Biden himself said the U . S . would follow ISIL " to the gates of hell " . Biden had close relationships with several Latin American leaders and was assigned a focus on the region during the administration ; he visited the region 16 times during his vice presidency , the most of any president or vice president . In August 2016 , Biden visited Serbia , where he met with the Serbian Prime Minister , Aleksandar Vu č i ć , and expressed his condolences for civilian victims of the bombing campaign during the Kosovo War .	What plan gained renewed attention in 2014 regarding Iraq?	My-Gelb Iraqi federalization plan of 2006 gained renewed attention in 2014.
On November 2 , 2022 , while packing files at the Penn Biden Center , Biden ' s attorneys found classified documents dating to his vice presidency in a " locked closet " . According to the White House , the documents were reported that day to the U . S . National Archives , which recovered the documents the next day . On December 20 , a second batch of classified documents was discovered in the garage of Biden ' s Wilmington , Delaware residence . In January 2023 , these findings were made public , and on January 12 , Attorney General Merrick Garland appointed Robert K . Hur as special counsel to investigate " possible unauthorized removal and retention of classified documents or other records " . On January 20 , after a 13 - hour consensual search by FBI investigators , six more items with classified markings were recovered from Biden ' s Wilmington residence .	When were these findings made public?	These findings were made public in January 2023.
By late 2006 , Biden ' s stance had shifted considerably . He opposed the troop surge of 2007 , saying General David Petraeus was " dead , flat wrong " in believing the surge could work . Biden instead advocated dividing Iraq into a loose federation of three ethnic states . In November 2006 , Biden and Leslie H . Gelb , president emeritus of the Council on Foreign Relations , released a comprehensive strategy to end sectarian violence in Iraq . Rather than continue the existing approach or withdrawing , the plan called for " a third way " : federalizing Iraq and giving Kurds , Shiites , and Sunnis " breathing room " in their own regions . In September 2007 , a non - binding resolution endorsing the plan passed the Senate , but the idea failed to gain traction .	What was your stance on the troop surge of 2007?	I opposed the troop surge and believed that General David Petraeus was wrong in thinking it could work.
Biden was a strong supporter of the War in Afghanistan , saying , " Whatever it takes , we should do it . " As head of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , he said in 2002 that Iraqi president Saddam Hussein was a threat to national security and there was no other option than to " eliminate " that threat . In October 2002 , he voted in favor of the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq , approving the U . S . Invasion of Iraq . As chair of the committee , he assembled a series of witnesses to testify in favor of the authorization . They gave testimony grossly misrepresenting the intent , history , and status of Saddam and his secular government , which was an avowed enemy of al - Qaeda , and touted Iraq ' s fictional possession of Weapons of Mass Destruction . Biden eventually became a critic of the war and viewed his vote and role as a " mistake " , but did not push for withdrawal . He supported the appropriations for the occupation , but argued that the war should be internationalized , that more soldiers were needed , and that the Bush administration should " level with the American people " about its cost and length .	What role did you have as chair of the committee?	As chair of the committee, I assembled witnesses to testify in favor of the authorization for the war.
Obama was soon comparing Biden to a basketball player " who does a bunch of things that don ' t show up in the stat sheet " . In May , Biden visited Kosovo and affirmed the U . S . position that its " independence is irreversible " . Biden lost an internal debate to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton about sending 21 , 000 new troops to Afghanistan , but his skepticism was valued , and in 2009 , Biden ' s views gained more influence as Obama reconsidered his Afghanistan strategy . Biden visited Iraq about every two months , becoming the administration ' s point man in delivering messages to Iraqi leadership about expected progress there . More generally , overseeing Iraq policy became Biden ' s responsibility : Obama was said to have said , " Joe , you do Iraq . " By 2012 , Biden had made eight trips there , but his oversight of U . S . policy in Iraq receded with the exit of U . S . troops in 2011 .	When did you visit Kosovo?	I visited Kosovo in May.
Biden was a strong supporter of the War in Afghanistan , saying , " Whatever it takes , we should do it . " As head of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee , he said in 2002 that Iraqi president Saddam Hussein was a threat to national security and there was no other option than to " eliminate " that threat . In October 2002 , he voted in favor of the Authorization for Use of Military Force Against Iraq , approving the U . S . Invasion of Iraq . As chair of the committee , he assembled a series of witnesses to testify in favor of the authorization . They gave testimony grossly misrepresenting the intent , history , and status of Saddam and his secular government , which was an avowed enemy of al - Qaeda , and touted Iraq ' s fictional possession of Weapons of Mass Destruction . Biden eventually became a critic of the war and viewed his vote and role as a " mistake " , but did not push for withdrawal . He supported the appropriations for the occupation , but argued that the war should be internationalized , that more soldiers were needed , and that the Bush administration should " level with the American people " about its cost and length .	What did you say about Iraqi president Saddam Hussein?	I said that Saddam Hussein was a threat to national security and there was no other option than to "eliminate" that threat.
China ' s assertiveness , particularly in the Pacific , remains a challenge for Biden . The Solomon Islands - China security pact caused alarm , as China could build military bases across the South Pacific . Biden sought to strengthen ties with Australia and New Zealand in the wake of the deal , as Anthony Albanese succeeded to the premiership of Australia and Jacinda Ardern ' s government took a firmer line on Chinese influence . In a September interview with 60 Minutes , Biden said that U . S . forces would defend Taiwan in the event of " an unprecedented attack " by the Chinese , which is in contrast to the long - standing U . S . policy of " strategic ambiguity " toward China and Taiwan . The September comments came after three previous comments by Biden that the U . S . would defend Taiwan in the event of a Chinese invasion . Amid increasing tension with China , Biden ' s administration has repeatedly walked back his statements and asserted that U . S . policy toward Taiwan has not changed . In late 2022 , Biden issued several executive orders and federal rules designed to slow Chinese technological growth , and maintain U . S . leadership over computing , biotech , and clean energy .	What is the main challenge for you regarding China?	China's assertiveness, particularly in the Pacific, remains a challenge for me.
Elected to the Senate in 1972 , Biden was reelected in 1978 , 1984 , 1990 , 1996 , 2002 , and 2008 , regularly receiving about 60% of the vote . He was junior senator to William Roth , who was first elected in 1970 , until Roth was defeated in 2000 . As of 2022 [ update ] , he was the 19th - longest - serving senator in U . S . history .	How many times have you been reelected to the Senate?	I have been reelected to the Senate in 1978, 1984, 1990, 1996, 2002, and 2008.
On November 2 , 2022 , while packing files at the Penn Biden Center , Biden ' s attorneys found classified documents dating to his vice presidency in a " locked closet " . According to the White House , the documents were reported that day to the U . S . National Archives , which recovered the documents the next day . On December 20 , a second batch of classified documents was discovered in the garage of Biden ' s Wilmington , Delaware residence . In January 2023 , these findings were made public , and on January 12 , Attorney General Merrick Garland appointed Robert K . Hur as special counsel to investigate " possible unauthorized removal and retention of classified documents or other records " . On January 20 , after a 13 - hour consensual search by FBI investigators , six more items with classified markings were recovered from Biden ' s Wilmington residence .	Where were the second batch of classified documents discovered?	The second batch of classified documents was discovered in my Wilmington, Delaware residence.
On January 6 , 2021 , during Congress ' electoral vote count , Trump told supporters gathered in front of the White House to march to the Capitol , saying , " We will never give up . We will never concede . It doesn ' t happen . You don ' t concede when there ' s theft involved . " Soon after , they attacked the Capitol . During the insurrection at the Capitol , Biden addressed the nation , calling the events " an unprecedented assault unlike anything we ' ve seen in modern times " . After the Capitol was cleared , Congress resumed its joint session and officially certified the election results with Vice President Mike Pence , in his capacity as President of the Senate , declaring Biden and Harris the winners .	Who officially certified the election results?	Congress, with Vice President Mike Pence, in his capacity as President of the Senate, declaring me and Harris the winners.
On November 2 , 2022 , while packing files at the Penn Biden Center , Biden ' s attorneys found classified documents dating to his vice presidency in a " locked closet " . According to the White House , the documents were reported that day to the U . S . National Archives , which recovered the documents the next day . On December 20 , a second batch of classified documents was discovered in the garage of Biden ' s Wilmington , Delaware residence . In January 2023 , these findings were made public , and on January 12 , Attorney General Merrick Garland appointed Robert K . Hur as special counsel to investigate " possible unauthorized removal and retention of classified documents or other records " . On January 20 , after a 13 - hour consensual search by FBI investigators , six more items with classified markings were recovered from Biden ' s Wilmington residence .	When were the classified documents found in the locked closet at your center?	On November 2, 2022.
During his second term , Biden was often said to be preparing for a possible bid for the 2016 Democratic presidential nomination . With his family , many friends , and donors encouraging him in mid - 2015 to enter the race , and with Hillary Clinton ' s favorability ratings in decline at that time , Biden was reported to again be seriously considering the prospect and a " Draft Biden 2016 " PAC was established . By late 2015 , Biden was still uncertain about running . He felt his son ' s recent death had largely drained his emotional energy , and said , " nobody has a right   ... to seek that office unless they ' re willing to give it 110% of who they are . " On October 21 , speaking from a podium in the Rose Garden with his wife and Obama by his side , Biden announced his decision not to run for president in 2016 .	When did you announce your decision not to run for president in 2016?	I announced my decision not to run for president in 2016 on October 21.
Obama was soon comparing Biden to a basketball player " who does a bunch of things that don ' t show up in the stat sheet " . In May , Biden visited Kosovo and affirmed the U . S . position that its " independence is irreversible " . Biden lost an internal debate to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton about sending 21 , 000 new troops to Afghanistan , but his skepticism was valued , and in 2009 , Biden ' s views gained more influence as Obama reconsidered his Afghanistan strategy . Biden visited Iraq about every two months , becoming the administration ' s point man in delivering messages to Iraqi leadership about expected progress there . More generally , overseeing Iraq policy became Biden ' s responsibility : Obama was said to have said , " Joe , you do Iraq . " By 2012 , Biden had made eight trips there , but his oversight of U . S . policy in Iraq receded with the exit of U . S . troops in 2011 .	Who did you lose an internal debate to about sending new troops to Afghanistan?	I lost an internal debate to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton about sending 21,000 new troops to Afghanistan.
Biden favored arming Syria ' s rebel fighters . As the ISIL insurgency in Iraq intensified in 2014 , renewed attention was paid to the Biden - Gelb Iraqi federalization plan of 2006 , with some observers suggesting Biden had been right all along . Biden himself said the U . S . would follow ISIL " to the gates of hell " . Biden had close relationships with several Latin American leaders and was assigned a focus on the region during the administration ; he visited the region 16 times during his vice presidency , the most of any president or vice president . In August 2016 , Biden visited Serbia , where he met with the Serbian Prime Minister , Aleksandar Vu č i ć , and expressed his condolences for civilian victims of the bombing campaign during the Kosovo War .	Who did you meet with during your visit to Serbia?	I met with the Serbian Prime Minister, Aleksandar Vučić.
Biden favored arming Syria ' s rebel fighters . As the ISIL insurgency in Iraq intensified in 2014 , renewed attention was paid to the Biden - Gelb Iraqi federalization plan of 2006 , with some observers suggesting Biden had been right all along . Biden himself said the U . S . would follow ISIL " to the gates of hell " . Biden had close relationships with several Latin American leaders and was assigned a focus on the region during the administration ; he visited the region 16 times during his vice presidency , the most of any president or vice president . In August 2016 , Biden visited Serbia , where he met with the Serbian Prime Minister , Aleksandar Vu č i ć , and expressed his condolences for civilian victims of the bombing campaign during the Kosovo War .	What was the purpose of your visit to Serbia?	The purpose of my visit to Serbia was to express my condolences for civilian victims of the bombing campaign during the Kosovo War.
In 1972 , Biden defeated Republican incumbent J . Caleb Boggs to become the junior U . S . senator from Delaware . He was the only Democrat willing to challenge Boggs , and with minimal campaign funds , he was given no chance of winning . Family members managed and staffed the campaign , which relied on meeting voters face - to - face and hand - distributing position papers , an approach made feasible by Delaware ' s small size . He received help from the AFL – CIO and Democratic pollster Patrick Caddell . His platform focused on the environment , withdrawal from Vietnam , civil rights , mass transit , equitable taxation , health care , and public dissatisfaction with " politics as usual " . A few months before the election , Biden trailed Boggs by almost thirty percentage points , but his energy , attractive young family , and ability to connect with voters ' emotions worked to his advantage , and he won with 50.5% of the vote .	When did you become the junior U.S. senator from Delaware?	In 1972.
In 1972 , Biden defeated Republican incumbent J . Caleb Boggs to become the junior U . S . senator from Delaware . He was the only Democrat willing to challenge Boggs , and with minimal campaign funds , he was given no chance of winning . Family members managed and staffed the campaign , which relied on meeting voters face - to - face and hand - distributing position papers , an approach made feasible by Delaware ' s small size . He received help from the AFL – CIO and Democratic pollster Patrick Caddell . His platform focused on the environment , withdrawal from Vietnam , civil rights , mass transit , equitable taxation , health care , and public dissatisfaction with " politics as usual " . A few months before the election , Biden trailed Boggs by almost thirty percentage points , but his energy , attractive young family , and ability to connect with voters ' emotions worked to his advantage , and he won with 50.5% of the vote .	Who did you defeat in order to become the junior U.S. senator from Delaware?	I defeated Republican incumbent J. Caleb Boggs.
China ' s assertiveness , particularly in the Pacific , remains a challenge for Biden . The Solomon Islands - China security pact caused alarm , as China could build military bases across the South Pacific . Biden sought to strengthen ties with Australia and New Zealand in the wake of the deal , as Anthony Albanese succeeded to the premiership of Australia and Jacinda Ardern ' s government took a firmer line on Chinese influence . In a September interview with 60 Minutes , Biden said that U . S . forces would defend Taiwan in the event of " an unprecedented attack " by the Chinese , which is in contrast to the long - standing U . S . policy of " strategic ambiguity " toward China and Taiwan . The September comments came after three previous comments by Biden that the U . S . would defend Taiwan in the event of a Chinese invasion . Amid increasing tension with China , Biden ' s administration has repeatedly walked back his statements and asserted that U . S . policy toward Taiwan has not changed . In late 2022 , Biden issued several executive orders and federal rules designed to slow Chinese technological growth , and maintain U . S . leadership over computing , biotech , and clean energy .	Which countries did you seek to strengthen ties with in response to the security pact?	I sought to strengthen ties with Australia and New Zealand in the wake of the security pact.
Biden favored arming Syria ' s rebel fighters . As the ISIL insurgency in Iraq intensified in 2014 , renewed attention was paid to the Biden - Gelb Iraqi federalization plan of 2006 , with some observers suggesting Biden had been right all along . Biden himself said the U . S . would follow ISIL " to the gates of hell " . Biden had close relationships with several Latin American leaders and was assigned a focus on the region during the administration ; he visited the region 16 times during his vice presidency , the most of any president or vice president . In August 2016 , Biden visited Serbia , where he met with the Serbian Prime Minister , Aleksandar Vu č i ć , and expressed his condolences for civilian victims of the bombing campaign during the Kosovo War .	How many times did you visit Latin America during your vice presidency?	I visited the region 16 times during my vice presidency, the most of any president or vice president.
During his second term , Biden was often said to be preparing for a possible bid for the 2016 Democratic presidential nomination . With his family , many friends , and donors encouraging him in mid - 2015 to enter the race , and with Hillary Clinton ' s favorability ratings in decline at that time , Biden was reported to again be seriously considering the prospect and a " Draft Biden 2016 " PAC was established . By late 2015 , Biden was still uncertain about running . He felt his son ' s recent death had largely drained his emotional energy , and said , " nobody has a right   ... to seek that office unless they ' re willing to give it 110% of who they are . " On October 21 , speaking from a podium in the Rose Garden with his wife and Obama by his side , Biden announced his decision not to run for president in 2016 .	What were you often said to be preparing for during your second term?	I was often said to be preparing for a possible bid for the 2016 Democratic presidential nomination.
Biden favored arming Syria ' s rebel fighters . As the ISIL insurgency in Iraq intensified in 2014 , renewed attention was paid to the Biden - Gelb Iraqi federalization plan of 2006 , with some observers suggesting Biden had been right all along . Biden himself said the U . S . would follow ISIL " to the gates of hell " . Biden had close relationships with several Latin American leaders and was assigned a focus on the region during the administration ; he visited the region 16 times during his vice presidency , the most of any president or vice president . In August 2016 , Biden visited Serbia , where he met with the Serbian Prime Minister , Aleksandar Vu č i ć , and expressed his condolences for civilian victims of the bombing campaign during the Kosovo War .	What did you say about the US's stance on ISIL?	I said the U.S. would follow ISIL "to the gates of hell".
In 1972 , Biden defeated Republican incumbent J . Caleb Boggs to become the junior U . S . senator from Delaware . He was the only Democrat willing to challenge Boggs , and with minimal campaign funds , he was given no chance of winning . Family members managed and staffed the campaign , which relied on meeting voters face - to - face and hand - distributing position papers , an approach made feasible by Delaware ' s small size . He received help from the AFL – CIO and Democratic pollster Patrick Caddell . His platform focused on the environment , withdrawal from Vietnam , civil rights , mass transit , equitable taxation , health care , and public dissatisfaction with " politics as usual " . A few months before the election , Biden trailed Boggs by almost thirty percentage points , but his energy , attractive young family , and ability to connect with voters ' emotions worked to his advantage , and he won with 50.5% of the vote .	Did you receive any help during your campaign?	Yes, I received help from the AFL–CIO and Democratic pollster Patrick Caddell.
Obama was soon comparing Biden to a basketball player " who does a bunch of things that don ' t show up in the stat sheet " . In May , Biden visited Kosovo and affirmed the U . S . position that its " independence is irreversible " . Biden lost an internal debate to Secretary of State Hillary Clinton about sending 21 , 000 new troops to Afghanistan , but his skepticism was valued , and in 2009 , Biden ' s views gained more influence as Obama reconsidered his Afghanistan strategy . Biden visited Iraq about every two months , becoming the administration ' s point man in delivering messages to Iraqi leadership about expected progress there . More generally , overseeing Iraq policy became Biden ' s responsibility : Obama was said to have said , " Joe , you do Iraq . " By 2012 , Biden had made eight trips there , but his oversight of U . S . policy in Iraq receded with the exit of U . S . troops in 2011 .	What was your role in overseeing Iraq policy?	I became responsible for overseeing Iraq policy and was told by Obama, "Joe, you do Iraq."
On January 6 , 2021 , during Congress ' electoral vote count , Trump told supporters gathered in front of the White House to march to the Capitol , saying , " We will never give up . We will never concede . It doesn ' t happen . You don ' t concede when there ' s theft involved . " Soon after , they attacked the Capitol . During the insurrection at the Capitol , Biden addressed the nation , calling the events " an unprecedented assault unlike anything we ' ve seen in modern times " . After the Capitol was cleared , Congress resumed its joint session and officially certified the election results with Vice President Mike Pence , in his capacity as President of the Senate , declaring Biden and Harris the winners .	What happened after Trump's supporters marched to the Capitol?	They attacked the Capitol.
