On 23 March 1973 , Lennon was ordered to leave the US within 60 days . Ono , meanwhile , was granted permanent residence . In response , Lennon and Ono held a press conference on 1 April 1973 at the New York City Bar Association , where they announced the formation of the state of Nutopia ; a place with " no land , no boundaries , no passports , only people " . Waving the white flag of Nutopia ( two handkerchiefs ) , they asked for political asylum in the US . The press conference was filmed , and appeared in a 2006 documentary , The U . S . vs . John Lennon . [ nb 9 ] Soon after the press conference , Nixon ' s involvement in a political scandal came to light , and in June the Watergate hearings began in Washington , DC . They led to the president ' s resignation 14 months later . In December 1974 , when he and members of his tour entourage visited the White House , Harrison asked Gerald Ford , Nixon ' s successor , to intercede in the matter . Ford ' s administration showed little interest in continuing the battle against Lennon , and the deportation order was overturned in 1975 . The following year , Lennon received his green card certifying his permanent residency , and when Jimmy Carter was inaugurated as president in January 1977 , Lennon and Ono attended the Inaugural Ball .	What did you and Ono announce during the press conference?	We announced the formation of the state of Nutopia, a place with "no land, no boundaries, no passports, only people."
In late June , the Beatles performed Lennon ' s " All You Need Is Love " as Britain ' s contribution to the Our World satellite broadcast , before an international audience estimated at up to 400   million . Intentionally simplistic in its message , the song formalised his pacifist stance and provided an anthem for the Summer of Love . After the Beatles were introduced to the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi , the group attended an August weekend of personal instruction at his Transcendental Meditation seminar in Bangor , Wales . During the seminar , they were informed of Epstein ' s death . " I knew we were in trouble then " , Lennon said later . " I didn ' t have any misconceptions about our ability to do anything other than play music . I was scared – I thought , ' We ' ve fucking had it now . ' " McCartney organised the group ' s first post - Epstein project , the self - written , - produced and - directed television film Magical Mystery Tour , which was released in December that year . While the film itself proved to be their first critical flop , its soundtrack release , featuring Lennon ' s Lewis Carroll - inspired " I Am the Walrus " , was a success .	What was your contribution to the Our World satellite broadcast in late June?	I performed "All You Need Is Love".
The British critic Nik Cohn observed of Lennon , " He owned one of the best pop voices ever , rasped and smashed and brooding , always fierce . " Cohn wrote that Lennon , performing " Twist and Shout " , would " rant his way into total incoherence , half rupture himself . " When the Beatles recorded the song , the final track during the mammoth one - day session that produced the band ' s 1963 debut album , Please Please Me , Lennon ' s voice , already compromised by a cold , came close to giving out . Lennon said , " I couldn ' t sing the damn thing , I was just screaming . " In the words of biographer Barry Miles , " Lennon simply shredded his vocal cords in the interests of rock ' n ' roll . " The Beatles ' producer , George Martin , tells how Lennon " had an inborn dislike of his own voice which I could never understand . He was always saying to me : ' DO something with my voice !   ... put something on it   ... Make it different . ' " Martin obliged , often using double - tracking and other techniques . [ citation needed ]	What happened to your voice when the Beatles recorded "Twist and Shout"?	My voice, already compromised by a cold, came close to giving out.
On 23 March 1973 , Lennon was ordered to leave the US within 60 days . Ono , meanwhile , was granted permanent residence . In response , Lennon and Ono held a press conference on 1 April 1973 at the New York City Bar Association , where they announced the formation of the state of Nutopia ; a place with " no land , no boundaries , no passports , only people " . Waving the white flag of Nutopia ( two handkerchiefs ) , they asked for political asylum in the US . The press conference was filmed , and appeared in a 2006 documentary , The U . S . vs . John Lennon . [ nb 9 ] Soon after the press conference , Nixon ' s involvement in a political scandal came to light , and in June the Watergate hearings began in Washington , DC . They led to the president ' s resignation 14 months later . In December 1974 , when he and members of his tour entourage visited the White House , Harrison asked Gerald Ford , Nixon ' s successor , to intercede in the matter . Ford ' s administration showed little interest in continuing the battle against Lennon , and the deportation order was overturned in 1975 . The following year , Lennon received his green card certifying his permanent residency , and when Jimmy Carter was inaugurated as president in January 1977 , Lennon and Ono attended the Inaugural Ball .	What did you and Ono ask for during the press conference?	We asked for political asylum in the US.
Led by Harrison and Lennon ' s interest , the Beatles travelled to the Maharishi ' s ashram in India in February 1968 for further guidance . While there , they composed most of the songs for their double album The Beatles , but the band members ' mixed experience with Transcendental Meditation signalled a sharp divergence in the group ' s camaraderie . On their return to London , they became increasingly involved in business activities with the formation of Apple Corps , a multimedia corporation composed of Apple Records and several other subsidiary companies . Lennon described the venture as an attempt to achieve " artistic freedom within a business structure " . Released amid the Protests of 1968 , the band ' s debut single for the Apple label included Lennon ' s B - side " Revolution " , in which he called for a " plan " rather than committing to Maoist revolution . The song ' s pacifist message led to ridicule from political radicals in the New Left press . Adding to the tensions at the Beatles ' recording sessions that year , Lennon insisted on having his new girlfriend , the Japanese artist Yoko Ono , beside him , thereby contravening the band ' s policy regarding wives and girlfriends in the studio . He was especially pleased with his songwriting contributions to the double album and identified it as a superior work to Sgt . Pepper . At the end of 1968 , Lennon participated in The Rolling Stones Rock and Roll Circus , a television special that was not broadcast . Lennon performed with the Dirty Mac , a supergroup composed of Lennon , Eric Clapton , Keith Richards and Mitch Mitchell . The group also backed a vocal performance by Ono . A film version was released in 1996 .	When did you travel to the Maharishi's ashram in India?	In February 1968.
Along with his estrangement from McCartney , Lennon always felt a musical competitiveness with him and kept an ear on his music . During his career break from 1975 until shortly before his death , according to Fred Seaman , Lennon and Ono ' s assistant at the time , Lennon was content to sit back as long as McCartney was producing what Lennon saw as mediocre material . Lennon took notice when McCartney released " Coming Up " in 1980 , which was the year Lennon returned to the studio . " It ' s driving me crackers ! " he jokingly complained , because he could not get the tune out of his head . That same year , Lennon was asked whether the group were dreaded enemies or the best of friends , and he replied that they were neither , and that he had not seen any of them in a long time . But he also said , " I still love those guys . The Beatles are over , but John , Paul , George and Ringo go on . "	How did you jokingly complain about McCartney's music?	I said it was driving me crackers and I couldn't get the tune out of my head.
Two years before the Beatles disbanded , Lennon and Ono began public protests against the Vietnam War . They were married in Gibraltar on 20 March 1969 , and spent their honeymoon at the Hilton Amsterdam , campaigning with a week - long Bed - In for Peace . They planned another Bed - In in the United States , but were denied entry , so held one instead at the Queen Elizabeth Hotel in Montreal , where they recorded " Give Peace a Chance " . They often combined advocacy with performance art , as in their " Bagism " , first introduced during a Vienna press conference . Lennon detailed this period in the Beatles song " The Ballad of John and Yoko " . Lennon changed his name by deed poll on 22 April 1969 , adding " Ono " as a middle name . The brief ceremony took place on the roof of the Apple Corps building , where the Beatles had performed their rooftop concert three months earlier . Although he used the name John Ono Lennon thereafter , some official documents referred to him as John Winston Ono Lennon . The couple settled at Tittenhurst Park at Sunninghill in Berkshire . After Ono was injured in a car accident , Lennon arranged for a king - size bed to be brought to the recording studio as he worked on the Beatles ' album , Abbey Road .	Where did you and Ono hold your Bed-In for Peace in the United States?	We were denied entry, so we held one at the Queen Elizabeth Hotel in Montreal.
McCartney recommended that his friend George Harrison become the lead guitarist . Lennon thought that Harrison , then 14 years old , was too young . McCartney engineered an audition on the upper deck of a Liverpool bus , where Harrison played " Raunchy " for Lennon and was asked to join . Stuart Sutcliffe , Lennon ' s friend from art school , later joined as bassist . Lennon , McCartney , Harrison and Sutcliffe became " The Beatles " in early 1960 . In August that year , the Beatles were engaged for a 48 - night residency in Hamburg , in West Germany , and were desperately in need of a drummer . They asked Pete Best to join them . Lennon ' s aunt , horrified when he told her about the trip , pleaded with Lennon to continue his art studies instead . After the first Hamburg residency , the band accepted another in April 1961 , and a third in April 1962 . As with the other band members , Lennon was introduced to Preludin while in Hamburg , and regularly took the drug as a stimulant during their long , overnight performances .	How did you join the band?	I joined the band after playing "Raunchy" for you during an audition on the upper deck of a Liverpool bus.
In late June , the Beatles performed Lennon ' s " All You Need Is Love " as Britain ' s contribution to the Our World satellite broadcast , before an international audience estimated at up to 400   million . Intentionally simplistic in its message , the song formalised his pacifist stance and provided an anthem for the Summer of Love . After the Beatles were introduced to the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi , the group attended an August weekend of personal instruction at his Transcendental Meditation seminar in Bangor , Wales . During the seminar , they were informed of Epstein ' s death . " I knew we were in trouble then " , Lennon said later . " I didn ' t have any misconceptions about our ability to do anything other than play music . I was scared – I thought , ' We ' ve fucking had it now . ' " McCartney organised the group ' s first post - Epstein project , the self - written , - produced and - directed television film Magical Mystery Tour , which was released in December that year . While the film itself proved to be their first critical flop , its soundtrack release , featuring Lennon ' s Lewis Carroll - inspired " I Am the Walrus " , was a success .	What was your first post-Epstein project?	My first post-Epstein project was the self-written, -produced and -directed television film Magical Mystery Tour.
Along with his estrangement from McCartney , Lennon always felt a musical competitiveness with him and kept an ear on his music . During his career break from 1975 until shortly before his death , according to Fred Seaman , Lennon and Ono ' s assistant at the time , Lennon was content to sit back as long as McCartney was producing what Lennon saw as mediocre material . Lennon took notice when McCartney released " Coming Up " in 1980 , which was the year Lennon returned to the studio . " It ' s driving me crackers ! " he jokingly complained , because he could not get the tune out of his head . That same year , Lennon was asked whether the group were dreaded enemies or the best of friends , and he replied that they were neither , and that he had not seen any of them in a long time . But he also said , " I still love those guys . The Beatles are over , but John , Paul , George and Ringo go on . "	Who did you feel a musical competitiveness with and kept an ear on his music?	McCartney
In the first two weeks of January 1975 , Elton John topped the US Billboard Hot 100 singles chart with his cover of " Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds " , featuring Lennon on guitar and backing vocals - Lennon is credited on the single under the moniker of " Dr . Winston O ' Boogie " . As January became February , Lennon and Ono reunited as Lennon and Bowie completed recording of their co - composition " Fame " , which became David Bowie ' s first US number one , featuring guitar and backing vocals by Lennon . In February , Lennon released Rock ' n ' Roll ( 1975 ) , an album of cover songs . " Stand by Me " , taken from the album and a US and UK hit , became his last single for five years . He made what would be his final stage appearance in the ATV special A Salute to Lew Grade , recorded on 18 April and televised in June . Playing acoustic guitar and backed by an eight - piece band , Lennon performed two songs from Rock ' n ' Roll ( " Stand by Me " , which was not broadcast , and " Slippin ' and Slidin ' " ) followed by " Imagine " . The band , known as Etc . , wore masks behind their heads , a dig by Lennon , who thought Grade was two - faced .	What song did you cover that topped the US Billboard Hot 100 singles chart?	"Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds"
Brian Epstein managed the Beatles from 1962 until his death in 1967 . He had no previous experience managing artists , but he had a strong influence on the group ' s dress code and attitude on stage . Lennon initially resisted his attempts to encourage the band to present a professional appearance , but eventually complied , saying " I ' ll wear a bloody balloon if somebody ' s going to pay me . " McCartney took over on bass after Sutcliffe decided to stay in Hamburg , and Best was replaced with drummer Ringo Starr ; this completed the four - piece line - up that would remain until the group ' s break - up in 1970 . The band ' s first single , " Love Me Do " , was released in October 1962 and reached No . 17 on the British charts . They recorded their debut album , Please Please Me , in under 10 hours on 11 February 1963 , a day when Lennon was suffering the effects of a cold , which is evident in the vocal on the last song to be recorded that day , " Twist and Shout " . The Lennon – McCartney songwriting partnership yielded eight of its fourteen tracks . With a few exceptions , one being the album title itself , Lennon had yet to bring his love of wordplay to bear on his song lyrics , saying : " We were just writing songs   ... pop songs with no more thought of them than that – to create a sound . And the words were almost irrelevant " . In a 1987 interview , McCartney said that the other Beatles idolised Lennon : " He was like our own little Elvis   ... We all looked up to John . He was older and he was very much the leader ; he was the quickest wit and the smartest . "	What influence did Brian Epstein have on the Beatles?	Brian Epstein had a strong influence on the Beatles' dress code and attitude on stage.
On 23 March 1973 , Lennon was ordered to leave the US within 60 days . Ono , meanwhile , was granted permanent residence . In response , Lennon and Ono held a press conference on 1 April 1973 at the New York City Bar Association , where they announced the formation of the state of Nutopia ; a place with " no land , no boundaries , no passports , only people " . Waving the white flag of Nutopia ( two handkerchiefs ) , they asked for political asylum in the US . The press conference was filmed , and appeared in a 2006 documentary , The U . S . vs . John Lennon . [ nb 9 ] Soon after the press conference , Nixon ' s involvement in a political scandal came to light , and in June the Watergate hearings began in Washington , DC . They led to the president ' s resignation 14 months later . In December 1974 , when he and members of his tour entourage visited the White House , Harrison asked Gerald Ford , Nixon ' s successor , to intercede in the matter . Ford ' s administration showed little interest in continuing the battle against Lennon , and the deportation order was overturned in 1975 . The following year , Lennon received his green card certifying his permanent residency , and when Jimmy Carter was inaugurated as president in January 1977 , Lennon and Ono attended the Inaugural Ball .	When did the deportation order against you get overturned?	The deportation order against me was overturned in 1975.
Led by Harrison and Lennon ' s interest , the Beatles travelled to the Maharishi ' s ashram in India in February 1968 for further guidance . While there , they composed most of the songs for their double album The Beatles , but the band members ' mixed experience with Transcendental Meditation signalled a sharp divergence in the group ' s camaraderie . On their return to London , they became increasingly involved in business activities with the formation of Apple Corps , a multimedia corporation composed of Apple Records and several other subsidiary companies . Lennon described the venture as an attempt to achieve " artistic freedom within a business structure " . Released amid the Protests of 1968 , the band ' s debut single for the Apple label included Lennon ' s B - side " Revolution " , in which he called for a " plan " rather than committing to Maoist revolution . The song ' s pacifist message led to ridicule from political radicals in the New Left press . Adding to the tensions at the Beatles ' recording sessions that year , Lennon insisted on having his new girlfriend , the Japanese artist Yoko Ono , beside him , thereby contravening the band ' s policy regarding wives and girlfriends in the studio . He was especially pleased with his songwriting contributions to the double album and identified it as a superior work to Sgt . Pepper . At the end of 1968 , Lennon participated in The Rolling Stones Rock and Roll Circus , a television special that was not broadcast . Lennon performed with the Dirty Mac , a supergroup composed of Lennon , Eric Clapton , Keith Richards and Mitch Mitchell . The group also backed a vocal performance by Ono . A film version was released in 1996 .	Who called for a "plan" instead of committing to Maoist revolution in one of your songs?	I did.
In the first two weeks of January 1975 , Elton John topped the US Billboard Hot 100 singles chart with his cover of " Lucy in the Sky with Diamonds " , featuring Lennon on guitar and backing vocals - Lennon is credited on the single under the moniker of " Dr . Winston O ' Boogie " . As January became February , Lennon and Ono reunited as Lennon and Bowie completed recording of their co - composition " Fame " , which became David Bowie ' s first US number one , featuring guitar and backing vocals by Lennon . In February , Lennon released Rock ' n ' Roll ( 1975 ) , an album of cover songs . " Stand by Me " , taken from the album and a US and UK hit , became his last single for five years . He made what would be his final stage appearance in the ATV special A Salute to Lew Grade , recorded on 18 April and televised in June . Playing acoustic guitar and backed by an eight - piece band , Lennon performed two songs from Rock ' n ' Roll ( " Stand by Me " , which was not broadcast , and " Slippin ' and Slidin ' " ) followed by " Imagine " . The band , known as Etc . , wore masks behind their heads , a dig by Lennon , who thought Grade was two - faced .	Who topped the US Billboard Hot 100 singles chart in the first two weeks of January 1975?	Elton John
Brian Epstein managed the Beatles from 1962 until his death in 1967 . He had no previous experience managing artists , but he had a strong influence on the group ' s dress code and attitude on stage . Lennon initially resisted his attempts to encourage the band to present a professional appearance , but eventually complied , saying " I ' ll wear a bloody balloon if somebody ' s going to pay me . " McCartney took over on bass after Sutcliffe decided to stay in Hamburg , and Best was replaced with drummer Ringo Starr ; this completed the four - piece line - up that would remain until the group ' s break - up in 1970 . The band ' s first single , " Love Me Do " , was released in October 1962 and reached No . 17 on the British charts . They recorded their debut album , Please Please Me , in under 10 hours on 11 February 1963 , a day when Lennon was suffering the effects of a cold , which is evident in the vocal on the last song to be recorded that day , " Twist and Shout " . The Lennon – McCartney songwriting partnership yielded eight of its fourteen tracks . With a few exceptions , one being the album title itself , Lennon had yet to bring his love of wordplay to bear on his song lyrics , saying : " We were just writing songs   ... pop songs with no more thought of them than that – to create a sound . And the words were almost irrelevant " . In a 1987 interview , McCartney said that the other Beatles idolised Lennon : " He was like our own little Elvis   ... We all looked up to John . He was older and he was very much the leader ; he was the quickest wit and the smartest . "	When was your first single, "Love Me Do," released?	My first single, "Love Me Do," was released in October 1962.
Along with his estrangement from McCartney , Lennon always felt a musical competitiveness with him and kept an ear on his music . During his career break from 1975 until shortly before his death , according to Fred Seaman , Lennon and Ono ' s assistant at the time , Lennon was content to sit back as long as McCartney was producing what Lennon saw as mediocre material . Lennon took notice when McCartney released " Coming Up " in 1980 , which was the year Lennon returned to the studio . " It ' s driving me crackers ! " he jokingly complained , because he could not get the tune out of his head . That same year , Lennon was asked whether the group were dreaded enemies or the best of friends , and he replied that they were neither , and that he had not seen any of them in a long time . But he also said , " I still love those guys . The Beatles are over , but John , Paul , George and Ringo go on . "	According to Fred Seaman, when did you take notice of McCartney's music?	When McCartney released "Coming Up" in 1980
The British critic Nik Cohn observed of Lennon , " He owned one of the best pop voices ever , rasped and smashed and brooding , always fierce . " Cohn wrote that Lennon , performing " Twist and Shout " , would " rant his way into total incoherence , half rupture himself . " When the Beatles recorded the song , the final track during the mammoth one - day session that produced the band ' s 1963 debut album , Please Please Me , Lennon ' s voice , already compromised by a cold , came close to giving out . Lennon said , " I couldn ' t sing the damn thing , I was just screaming . " In the words of biographer Barry Miles , " Lennon simply shredded his vocal cords in the interests of rock ' n ' roll . " The Beatles ' producer , George Martin , tells how Lennon " had an inborn dislike of his own voice which I could never understand . He was always saying to me : ' DO something with my voice !   ... put something on it   ... Make it different . ' " Martin obliged , often using double - tracking and other techniques . [ citation needed ]	What did the British critic Nik Cohn say about your voice?	He observed that I owned one of the best pop voices ever, rasped and smashed and brooding, always fierce.
Led by Harrison and Lennon ' s interest , the Beatles travelled to the Maharishi ' s ashram in India in February 1968 for further guidance . While there , they composed most of the songs for their double album The Beatles , but the band members ' mixed experience with Transcendental Meditation signalled a sharp divergence in the group ' s camaraderie . On their return to London , they became increasingly involved in business activities with the formation of Apple Corps , a multimedia corporation composed of Apple Records and several other subsidiary companies . Lennon described the venture as an attempt to achieve " artistic freedom within a business structure " . Released amid the Protests of 1968 , the band ' s debut single for the Apple label included Lennon ' s B - side " Revolution " , in which he called for a " plan " rather than committing to Maoist revolution . The song ' s pacifist message led to ridicule from political radicals in the New Left press . Adding to the tensions at the Beatles ' recording sessions that year , Lennon insisted on having his new girlfriend , the Japanese artist Yoko Ono , beside him , thereby contravening the band ' s policy regarding wives and girlfriends in the studio . He was especially pleased with his songwriting contributions to the double album and identified it as a superior work to Sgt . Pepper . At the end of 1968 , Lennon participated in The Rolling Stones Rock and Roll Circus , a television special that was not broadcast . Lennon performed with the Dirty Mac , a supergroup composed of Lennon , Eric Clapton , Keith Richards and Mitch Mitchell . The group also backed a vocal performance by Ono . A film version was released in 1996 .	What did you do while you were at the ashram?	I composed most of the songs for my double album The Beatles.
Two years before the Beatles disbanded , Lennon and Ono began public protests against the Vietnam War . They were married in Gibraltar on 20 March 1969 , and spent their honeymoon at the Hilton Amsterdam , campaigning with a week - long Bed - In for Peace . They planned another Bed - In in the United States , but were denied entry , so held one instead at the Queen Elizabeth Hotel in Montreal , where they recorded " Give Peace a Chance " . They often combined advocacy with performance art , as in their " Bagism " , first introduced during a Vienna press conference . Lennon detailed this period in the Beatles song " The Ballad of John and Yoko " . Lennon changed his name by deed poll on 22 April 1969 , adding " Ono " as a middle name . The brief ceremony took place on the roof of the Apple Corps building , where the Beatles had performed their rooftop concert three months earlier . Although he used the name John Ono Lennon thereafter , some official documents referred to him as John Winston Ono Lennon . The couple settled at Tittenhurst Park at Sunninghill in Berkshire . After Ono was injured in a car accident , Lennon arranged for a king - size bed to be brought to the recording studio as he worked on the Beatles ' album , Abbey Road .	Where did you and Ono record "Give Peace a Chance"?	The Queen Elizabeth Hotel in Montreal.
On 23 March 1973 , Lennon was ordered to leave the US within 60 days . Ono , meanwhile , was granted permanent residence . In response , Lennon and Ono held a press conference on 1 April 1973 at the New York City Bar Association , where they announced the formation of the state of Nutopia ; a place with " no land , no boundaries , no passports , only people " . Waving the white flag of Nutopia ( two handkerchiefs ) , they asked for political asylum in the US . The press conference was filmed , and appeared in a 2006 documentary , The U . S . vs . John Lennon . [ nb 9 ] Soon after the press conference , Nixon ' s involvement in a political scandal came to light , and in June the Watergate hearings began in Washington , DC . They led to the president ' s resignation 14 months later . In December 1974 , when he and members of his tour entourage visited the White House , Harrison asked Gerald Ford , Nixon ' s successor , to intercede in the matter . Ford ' s administration showed little interest in continuing the battle against Lennon , and the deportation order was overturned in 1975 . The following year , Lennon received his green card certifying his permanent residency , and when Jimmy Carter was inaugurated as president in January 1977 , Lennon and Ono attended the Inaugural Ball .	When did you and Ono hold a press conference?	I and Ono held a press conference on 1 April 1973.
The British critic Nik Cohn observed of Lennon , " He owned one of the best pop voices ever , rasped and smashed and brooding , always fierce . " Cohn wrote that Lennon , performing " Twist and Shout " , would " rant his way into total incoherence , half rupture himself . " When the Beatles recorded the song , the final track during the mammoth one - day session that produced the band ' s 1963 debut album , Please Please Me , Lennon ' s voice , already compromised by a cold , came close to giving out . Lennon said , " I couldn ' t sing the damn thing , I was just screaming . " In the words of biographer Barry Miles , " Lennon simply shredded his vocal cords in the interests of rock ' n ' roll . " The Beatles ' producer , George Martin , tells how Lennon " had an inborn dislike of his own voice which I could never understand . He was always saying to me : ' DO something with my voice !   ... put something on it   ... Make it different . ' " Martin obliged , often using double - tracking and other techniques . [ citation needed ]	How did you describe my performance of "Twist and Shout"?	I wrote that you would rant your way into total incoherence, half rupture yourself.
The British critic Nik Cohn observed of Lennon , " He owned one of the best pop voices ever , rasped and smashed and brooding , always fierce . " Cohn wrote that Lennon , performing " Twist and Shout " , would " rant his way into total incoherence , half rupture himself . " When the Beatles recorded the song , the final track during the mammoth one - day session that produced the band ' s 1963 debut album , Please Please Me , Lennon ' s voice , already compromised by a cold , came close to giving out . Lennon said , " I couldn ' t sing the damn thing , I was just screaming . " In the words of biographer Barry Miles , " Lennon simply shredded his vocal cords in the interests of rock ' n ' roll . " The Beatles ' producer , George Martin , tells how Lennon " had an inborn dislike of his own voice which I could never understand . He was always saying to me : ' DO something with my voice !   ... put something on it   ... Make it different . ' " Martin obliged , often using double - tracking and other techniques . [ citation needed ]	What did you say about your ability to sing "Twist and Shout" during the recording session?	I said I couldn't sing the song and was just screaming.
The Beatles were performing at Liverpool ' s Cavern Club in November 1961 when they were introduced to Brian Epstein after a midday concert . Epstein was homosexual and closeted , and according to biographer Philip Norman , one of Epstein ' s reasons for wanting to manage the group was that he was attracted to Lennon . Almost as soon as Julian was born , Lennon went on holiday to Spain with Epstein , which led to speculation about their relationship . When he was later questioned about it , Lennon said , " Well , it was almost a love affair , but not quite . It was never consummated . But it was a pretty intense relationship . It was my first experience with a homosexual that I was conscious was homosexual . We used to sit in a caf é in Torremolinos looking at all the boys and I ' d say , ' Do you like that one ? Do you like this one ? ' I was rather enjoying the experience , thinking like a writer all the time : I am experiencing this . " Soon after their return from Spain , at McCartney ' s twenty - first birthday party in June 1963 , Lennon physically attacked Cavern Club master of ceremonies Bob Wooler for saying " How was your honeymoon , John ? " The MC , known for his wordplay and affectionate but cutting remarks , was making a joke , but ten months had passed since Lennon ' s marriage , and the deferred honeymoon was still two months in the future . Lennon was drunk at the time and the matter was simple : " He called me a queer so I battered his bloody ribs in . "	What was one of your reasons for Brian Epstein wanting to manage The Beatles?	According to biographer Philip Norman, one of Brian Epstein's reasons for wanting to manage The Beatles was that he was attracted to me.
In late June , the Beatles performed Lennon ' s " All You Need Is Love " as Britain ' s contribution to the Our World satellite broadcast , before an international audience estimated at up to 400   million . Intentionally simplistic in its message , the song formalised his pacifist stance and provided an anthem for the Summer of Love . After the Beatles were introduced to the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi , the group attended an August weekend of personal instruction at his Transcendental Meditation seminar in Bangor , Wales . During the seminar , they were informed of Epstein ' s death . " I knew we were in trouble then " , Lennon said later . " I didn ' t have any misconceptions about our ability to do anything other than play music . I was scared – I thought , ' We ' ve fucking had it now . ' " McCartney organised the group ' s first post - Epstein project , the self - written , - produced and - directed television film Magical Mystery Tour , which was released in December that year . While the film itself proved to be their first critical flop , its soundtrack release , featuring Lennon ' s Lewis Carroll - inspired " I Am the Walrus " , was a success .	What did your song "All You Need Is Love" represent?	It formalised my pacifist stance and provided an anthem for the Summer of Love.
