According to film scholar Murray Pomerance , Depp ' s collaboration with Disney " can be seen to purport and herald a new era for Johnny Depp , one in which he is , finally , as though long - promised and long - expected , the proud proprietor of a much - accepted career ; not only a star but a middle - class hero " . In 2003 , the same year as the first film in the Pirates series was released , Depp was named " World ' s Sexiest Man " by People ; he would receive the title again in 2009 . During the decade and into the 2010s , Depp was one of the biggest and most popular film stars in the world and was named by public vote as " Favorite Male Movie Star " at the People ' s Choice Awards every year for 2005 through 2012 . In 2012 , Depp became the highest - paid actor in the American film industry , earning as high as $ 75 million per film , and as of 2020 , is the tenth highest - grossing actor worldwide , with his films having grossed over US $ 3.7 billion at the United States box office and over US $ 10 billion worldwide . Although a mainstream favorite with the audiences , critics ' views on Depp changed in the 2000s , becoming more negative as he was seen to conform more to the Hollywood ideal . Regardless , Depp continued to eschew more traditional leading - man roles until towards the end of the 2000s , when he starred as John Dillinger in Public Enemies ( 2009 ) .	How much did you earn per film when you became the highest-paid actor in the American film industry?	When I became the highest-paid actor in the American film industry, I earned as high as $75 million per film.
Disillusioned by his experiences as a teen idol in 21 Jump Street , Depp began taking roles he found more interesting , rather than those he thought would succeed at the box office . His first film release in 1990 was John Waters ' s Cry - Baby , a musical comedy set in the 1950s . Although not a box - office success upon its release , over the years it has gained cult classic status . Also in 1990 , Depp played the title character in Tim Burton ' s romantic fantasy film Edward Scissorhands opposite Dianne Wiest and Winona Ryder . The film was a commercial and critical success with a domestic gross of $ 53 million . In preparation for the role , Depp watched many Charlie Chaplin films to study how to create sympathy without dialogue . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised Depp ' s performance , writing that he " artfully expresses the fierce longing in gentle Edward ; it ' s a terrific performance " , while Rita Kempley of The Washington Post wrote that he " brings the eloquence of the silent era to this part of few words , saying it all through bright black eyes and the tremulous care with which he holds his horror - movie hands " . Depp earned his first Golden Globe nomination for the film . Owing to this role , a species of extinct arthropod with prominent claws was named after Depp as Kootenichela deppi ( chela is Latin for claws or scissors ) .	How did you prepare for your role in Edward Scissorhands?	I watched many Charlie Chaplin films to study how to create sympathy without dialogue.
Disillusioned by his experiences as a teen idol in 21 Jump Street , Depp began taking roles he found more interesting , rather than those he thought would succeed at the box office . His first film release in 1990 was John Waters ' s Cry - Baby , a musical comedy set in the 1950s . Although not a box - office success upon its release , over the years it has gained cult classic status . Also in 1990 , Depp played the title character in Tim Burton ' s romantic fantasy film Edward Scissorhands opposite Dianne Wiest and Winona Ryder . The film was a commercial and critical success with a domestic gross of $ 53 million . In preparation for the role , Depp watched many Charlie Chaplin films to study how to create sympathy without dialogue . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised Depp ' s performance , writing that he " artfully expresses the fierce longing in gentle Edward ; it ' s a terrific performance " , while Rita Kempley of The Washington Post wrote that he " brings the eloquence of the silent era to this part of few words , saying it all through bright black eyes and the tremulous care with which he holds his horror - movie hands " . Depp earned his first Golden Globe nomination for the film . Owing to this role , a species of extinct arthropod with prominent claws was named after Depp as Kootenichela deppi ( chela is Latin for claws or scissors ) .	What was your first film release in 1990?	My first film in 1990 was John Waters's Cry-Baby.
In March 2021 , City of Lies , which was originally scheduled for 2018 , was released in theaters and streaming services . The same month , an online petition to bring Depp back to the Pirates franchise , begun four months earlier , reached its goal of 500 , 000 signatures . His Pirates co - star Kevin McNally also expressed support for Depp returning to the role . In July 2021 , Andrew Levitas , the director of Minamata ( 2020 ) , accused MGM   of trying to bury the film due to Depp ' s involvement , with Depp claiming he is being boycotted by the Hollywood industry and calling his changed reputation an " absurdity of media mathematics " . Minamata was released in the UK and Ireland in August 2021 , and in North America in December 2021 . The film received positive reviews , with multiple publications praising Depp ' s performance as his best in years . Depp also continues as the face of Dior ' s men ' s fragrance , Sauvage .	Who expressed support for you returning to the Pirates franchise?	My Pirates co-star Kevin McNally expressed support for me returning to the role.
In March 2021 , City of Lies , which was originally scheduled for 2018 , was released in theaters and streaming services . The same month , an online petition to bring Depp back to the Pirates franchise , begun four months earlier , reached its goal of 500 , 000 signatures . His Pirates co - star Kevin McNally also expressed support for Depp returning to the role . In July 2021 , Andrew Levitas , the director of Minamata ( 2020 ) , accused MGM   of trying to bury the film due to Depp ' s involvement , with Depp claiming he is being boycotted by the Hollywood industry and calling his changed reputation an " absurdity of media mathematics " . Minamata was released in the UK and Ireland in August 2021 , and in North America in December 2021 . The film received positive reviews , with multiple publications praising Depp ' s performance as his best in years . Depp also continues as the face of Dior ' s men ' s fragrance , Sauvage .	When was Minamata released in the UK and Ireland?	Minamata was released in the UK and Ireland in August 2021.
Depp next starred as an author with writer ' s block in the thriller Secret Window ( 2004 ) , based on a short story by Stephen King . It was a moderate commercial success but received mixed reviews . Released around the same time , the British - Australian independent film The Libertine ( 2004 ) saw Depp portray the seventeenth - century poet and rake , the Earl of Rochester . It had only limited release , and received mainly negative reviews . Depp ' s third film of 2004 , Finding Neverland , was more positively received by the critics , and earned him his second Academy Award nomination as well as Golden Globe , BAFTA , and SAG nominations for his performance as Scottish author J . M . Barrie . Depp also made a brief cameo appearance in the French film Happily Ever After ( 2004 ) , and founded his own film production company , Infinitum Nihil , under Warner Bros . Pictures .	What did you star as in the thriller Secret Window?	I starred as an author with writer's block.
In 1997 , Depp and Al Pacino starred in the crime drama Donnie Brasco , directed by Mike Newell . Depp played Joseph D . Pistone , an undercover FBI agent who assumes the name Donnie Brasco to infiltrate the Mafia in New York City . To prepare , Depp spent time with Pistone , on whose memoirs the film was based . Donnie Brasco was a commercial and critical success , and is considered one of Depp ' s finest performances . Also in 1997 , Depp debuted as a director and screenwriter with The Brave . He starred in it as a poor Native American man who accepts a proposal from a wealthy man , played by Marlon Brando , to appear in a snuff film in exchange for money for his family . It premiered at the 1997 Cannes Film Festival to generally negative reviews . Variety called it " a turgid and unbelievable neo - western " , and Time Out wrote that " besides the implausibilities , the direction has two fatal flaws : it ' s both tediously slow and hugely narcissistic as the camera focuses repeatedly on Depp ' s bandana ' d head and rippling torso " . Due to the reviews , Depp did not release The Brave in the U . S .	Who did you play in Donnie Brasco?	I played the character Joseph D. Pistone, an undercover FBI agent.
Depp ' s first 2011 film release was the animated film Rango , in which he voiced the title character , a lizard . It was a major critical and commercial success . His second film of the year , the fourth installment in the Pirates series , On Stranger Tides , was again a box office hit , becoming the third - highest - grossing film of 2011 . Later in 2011 , Depp released the first two projects co - produced by his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was a film adaptation of the novel The Rum Diary by Hunter S . Thompson and starred Depp . It failed to bring back its production costs and received mixed reviews . The company ' s second undertaking , Martin Scorsese ' s Hugo ( 2011 ) , garnered major critical acclaim and several awards nominations , but similarly did not perform well in the box office . In 2011 , Depp also made a brief cameo in the Adam Sandler film Jack and Jill .	What was your second film release in 2011?	My second film release in 2011 was the fourth installment in the Pirates series, On Stranger Tides.
In 1997 , Depp and Al Pacino starred in the crime drama Donnie Brasco , directed by Mike Newell . Depp played Joseph D . Pistone , an undercover FBI agent who assumes the name Donnie Brasco to infiltrate the Mafia in New York City . To prepare , Depp spent time with Pistone , on whose memoirs the film was based . Donnie Brasco was a commercial and critical success , and is considered one of Depp ' s finest performances . Also in 1997 , Depp debuted as a director and screenwriter with The Brave . He starred in it as a poor Native American man who accepts a proposal from a wealthy man , played by Marlon Brando , to appear in a snuff film in exchange for money for his family . It premiered at the 1997 Cannes Film Festival to generally negative reviews . Variety called it " a turgid and unbelievable neo - western " , and Time Out wrote that " besides the implausibilities , the direction has two fatal flaws : it ' s both tediously slow and hugely narcissistic as the camera focuses repeatedly on Depp ' s bandana ' d head and rippling torso " . Due to the reviews , Depp did not release The Brave in the U . S .	Who directed the crime drama Donnie Brasco?	The crime drama Donnie Brasco was directed by Mike Newell.
In 2018 , Depp voiced the title character Sherlock Gnomes in the animated movie Gnomeo & Juliet : Sherlock Gnomes . Although moderately commercially successful , it was critically panned and earned Depp two Golden Raspberry nominations , one for his acting and another for his " fast - fading film career " . Depp then starred in two independent films , both produced by him and his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was City of Lies , in which he starred as Russell Poole , an LAPD detective who attempts to solve the murders of rappers Tupac Shakur and The Notorious B . I . G . It was set for release in September 2018 , but was pulled from the release schedule after a crew member sued Depp for assault . The second film was the comedy - drama Richard Says Goodbye , in which Depp played a professor with terminal cancer . It premiered at the Zurich Film Festival in October 2018 . Depp ' s last film release of 2018 was Fantastic Beasts : The Crimes of Grindelwald , in which he reprised his role as Grindelwald . Depp ' s casting received criticism from fans of the series due to the domestic violence allegations against him .	How was the movie Gnomeo & Juliet: Sherlock Gnomes received by critics?	The movie Gnomeo & Juliet: Sherlock Gnomes was critically panned.
In 2015 , Depp appeared in two films produced by Infinitum Nihil . The first was comedy - thriller Mortdecai , in which he acted opposite Gwyneth Paltrow . The film was a critical and commercial failure and brought both stars Golden Raspberry nominations . The second film , Black Mass ( 2015 ) , in which he played Boston crime boss Whitey Bulger , was better received . Critics from The Hollywood Reporter and Variety called it one of Depp ' s best performances to date , and the role earned Depp his third nomination for the Best Actor SAG award . However , the film failed to bring back its production costs . Depp also made a cameo appearance in the critically panned London Fields , starring his then - wife Amber Heard , which was to be released in 2015 , but its general release was delayed by litigation until 2018 . In addition to his work in films in 2015 , French luxury fashion house Dior signed Depp as the face of their men ' s fragrance , Sauvage , and he was inducted as a Disney Legend .	In which films did you appear in 2015?	I appeared in Mortdecai and Black Mass in 2015.
According to film scholar Murray Pomerance , Depp ' s collaboration with Disney " can be seen to purport and herald a new era for Johnny Depp , one in which he is , finally , as though long - promised and long - expected , the proud proprietor of a much - accepted career ; not only a star but a middle - class hero " . In 2003 , the same year as the first film in the Pirates series was released , Depp was named " World ' s Sexiest Man " by People ; he would receive the title again in 2009 . During the decade and into the 2010s , Depp was one of the biggest and most popular film stars in the world and was named by public vote as " Favorite Male Movie Star " at the People ' s Choice Awards every year for 2005 through 2012 . In 2012 , Depp became the highest - paid actor in the American film industry , earning as high as $ 75 million per film , and as of 2020 , is the tenth highest - grossing actor worldwide , with his films having grossed over US $ 3.7 billion at the United States box office and over US $ 10 billion worldwide . Although a mainstream favorite with the audiences , critics ' views on Depp changed in the 2000s , becoming more negative as he was seen to conform more to the Hollywood ideal . Regardless , Depp continued to eschew more traditional leading - man roles until towards the end of the 2000s , when he starred as John Dillinger in Public Enemies ( 2009 ) .	When did you become the highest-paid actor in the American film industry?	I became the highest-paid actor in the American film industry in 2012.
In 2018 , Depp voiced the title character Sherlock Gnomes in the animated movie Gnomeo & Juliet : Sherlock Gnomes . Although moderately commercially successful , it was critically panned and earned Depp two Golden Raspberry nominations , one for his acting and another for his " fast - fading film career " . Depp then starred in two independent films , both produced by him and his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was City of Lies , in which he starred as Russell Poole , an LAPD detective who attempts to solve the murders of rappers Tupac Shakur and The Notorious B . I . G . It was set for release in September 2018 , but was pulled from the release schedule after a crew member sued Depp for assault . The second film was the comedy - drama Richard Says Goodbye , in which Depp played a professor with terminal cancer . It premiered at the Zurich Film Festival in October 2018 . Depp ' s last film release of 2018 was Fantastic Beasts : The Crimes of Grindelwald , in which he reprised his role as Grindelwald . Depp ' s casting received criticism from fans of the series due to the domestic violence allegations against him .	What film did you star in as Russell Poole, an LAPD detective, in 2018?	I starred in the film City of Lies as Russell Poole, an LAPD detective.
In 2015 , Depp appeared in two films produced by Infinitum Nihil . The first was comedy - thriller Mortdecai , in which he acted opposite Gwyneth Paltrow . The film was a critical and commercial failure and brought both stars Golden Raspberry nominations . The second film , Black Mass ( 2015 ) , in which he played Boston crime boss Whitey Bulger , was better received . Critics from The Hollywood Reporter and Variety called it one of Depp ' s best performances to date , and the role earned Depp his third nomination for the Best Actor SAG award . However , the film failed to bring back its production costs . Depp also made a cameo appearance in the critically panned London Fields , starring his then - wife Amber Heard , which was to be released in 2015 , but its general release was delayed by litigation until 2018 . In addition to his work in films in 2015 , French luxury fashion house Dior signed Depp as the face of their men ' s fragrance , Sauvage , and he was inducted as a Disney Legend .	Which film did you play Boston crime boss Whitey Bulger?	I played Boston crime boss Whitey Bulger in the film Black Mass.
Depp next starred as an author with writer ' s block in the thriller Secret Window ( 2004 ) , based on a short story by Stephen King . It was a moderate commercial success but received mixed reviews . Released around the same time , the British - Australian independent film The Libertine ( 2004 ) saw Depp portray the seventeenth - century poet and rake , the Earl of Rochester . It had only limited release , and received mainly negative reviews . Depp ' s third film of 2004 , Finding Neverland , was more positively received by the critics , and earned him his second Academy Award nomination as well as Golden Globe , BAFTA , and SAG nominations for his performance as Scottish author J . M . Barrie . Depp also made a brief cameo appearance in the French film Happily Ever After ( 2004 ) , and founded his own film production company , Infinitum Nihil , under Warner Bros . Pictures .	Who wrote the short story that Secret Window was based on?	Secret Window was based on a short story by Stephen King.
In March 2021 , City of Lies , which was originally scheduled for 2018 , was released in theaters and streaming services . The same month , an online petition to bring Depp back to the Pirates franchise , begun four months earlier , reached its goal of 500 , 000 signatures . His Pirates co - star Kevin McNally also expressed support for Depp returning to the role . In July 2021 , Andrew Levitas , the director of Minamata ( 2020 ) , accused MGM   of trying to bury the film due to Depp ' s involvement , with Depp claiming he is being boycotted by the Hollywood industry and calling his changed reputation an " absurdity of media mathematics " . Minamata was released in the UK and Ireland in August 2021 , and in North America in December 2021 . The film received positive reviews , with multiple publications praising Depp ' s performance as his best in years . Depp also continues as the face of Dior ' s men ' s fragrance , Sauvage .	When was City of Lies released in theaters and streaming services?	City of Lies was released in theaters and streaming services in March 2021.
Depp ' s first 2011 film release was the animated film Rango , in which he voiced the title character , a lizard . It was a major critical and commercial success . His second film of the year , the fourth installment in the Pirates series , On Stranger Tides , was again a box office hit , becoming the third - highest - grossing film of 2011 . Later in 2011 , Depp released the first two projects co - produced by his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was a film adaptation of the novel The Rum Diary by Hunter S . Thompson and starred Depp . It failed to bring back its production costs and received mixed reviews . The company ' s second undertaking , Martin Scorsese ' s Hugo ( 2011 ) , garnered major critical acclaim and several awards nominations , but similarly did not perform well in the box office . In 2011 , Depp also made a brief cameo in the Adam Sandler film Jack and Jill .	Was the film Rango a critical and commercial success?	Yes, the film Rango was a major critical and commercial success.
Depp next starred as an author with writer ' s block in the thriller Secret Window ( 2004 ) , based on a short story by Stephen King . It was a moderate commercial success but received mixed reviews . Released around the same time , the British - Australian independent film The Libertine ( 2004 ) saw Depp portray the seventeenth - century poet and rake , the Earl of Rochester . It had only limited release , and received mainly negative reviews . Depp ' s third film of 2004 , Finding Neverland , was more positively received by the critics , and earned him his second Academy Award nomination as well as Golden Globe , BAFTA , and SAG nominations for his performance as Scottish author J . M . Barrie . Depp also made a brief cameo appearance in the French film Happily Ever After ( 2004 ) , and founded his own film production company , Infinitum Nihil , under Warner Bros . Pictures .	How was the reception of The Libertine?	The Libertine received mainly negative reviews and had only limited release.
Depp ' s first 2011 film release was the animated film Rango , in which he voiced the title character , a lizard . It was a major critical and commercial success . His second film of the year , the fourth installment in the Pirates series , On Stranger Tides , was again a box office hit , becoming the third - highest - grossing film of 2011 . Later in 2011 , Depp released the first two projects co - produced by his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was a film adaptation of the novel The Rum Diary by Hunter S . Thompson and starred Depp . It failed to bring back its production costs and received mixed reviews . The company ' s second undertaking , Martin Scorsese ' s Hugo ( 2011 ) , garnered major critical acclaim and several awards nominations , but similarly did not perform well in the box office . In 2011 , Depp also made a brief cameo in the Adam Sandler film Jack and Jill .	What character did you voice in the film Rango?	I voiced the title character, a lizard, in the film Rango.
Depp appeared in three films in 1999 . The first was the sci - fi thriller The Astronaut ' s Wife , co - starring Charlize Theron , which was not a commercial or critical success . The second , Roman Polanski ' s The Ninth Gate , starred Depp as a seller of old books who becomes entangled in a mystery . It was moderately more successful with audiences but received mixed reviews . The third was Burton ' s adaptation of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , where Depp played Ichabod Crane opposite Christina Ricci and Christopher Walken . For his performance , Depp took inspiration from Angela Lansbury , Roddy McDowall and Basil Rathbone , saying he " always thought of Ichabod as a very delicate , fragile person who was maybe a little too in touch with his feminine side , like a frightened little girl " . Sleepy Hollow was a commercial and critical success .	Who directed the film The Ninth Gate?	Roman Polanski directed The Ninth Gate.
Depp appeared in three films in 1999 . The first was the sci - fi thriller The Astronaut ' s Wife , co - starring Charlize Theron , which was not a commercial or critical success . The second , Roman Polanski ' s The Ninth Gate , starred Depp as a seller of old books who becomes entangled in a mystery . It was moderately more successful with audiences but received mixed reviews . The third was Burton ' s adaptation of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow , where Depp played Ichabod Crane opposite Christina Ricci and Christopher Walken . For his performance , Depp took inspiration from Angela Lansbury , Roddy McDowall and Basil Rathbone , saying he " always thought of Ichabod as a very delicate , fragile person who was maybe a little too in touch with his feminine side , like a frightened little girl " . Sleepy Hollow was a commercial and critical success .	Who did you play in Burton's adaptation of The Legend of Sleepy Hollow?	I played Ichabod Crane in The Legend of Sleepy Hollow.
According to film scholar Murray Pomerance , Depp ' s collaboration with Disney " can be seen to purport and herald a new era for Johnny Depp , one in which he is , finally , as though long - promised and long - expected , the proud proprietor of a much - accepted career ; not only a star but a middle - class hero " . In 2003 , the same year as the first film in the Pirates series was released , Depp was named " World ' s Sexiest Man " by People ; he would receive the title again in 2009 . During the decade and into the 2010s , Depp was one of the biggest and most popular film stars in the world and was named by public vote as " Favorite Male Movie Star " at the People ' s Choice Awards every year for 2005 through 2012 . In 2012 , Depp became the highest - paid actor in the American film industry , earning as high as $ 75 million per film , and as of 2020 , is the tenth highest - grossing actor worldwide , with his films having grossed over US $ 3.7 billion at the United States box office and over US $ 10 billion worldwide . Although a mainstream favorite with the audiences , critics ' views on Depp changed in the 2000s , becoming more negative as he was seen to conform more to the Hollywood ideal . Regardless , Depp continued to eschew more traditional leading - man roles until towards the end of the 2000s , when he starred as John Dillinger in Public Enemies ( 2009 ) .	According to film scholar Murray Pomerance, what does your collaboration with Disney signify?	My collaboration with Disney can be seen to purport and herald a new era for me, where I am finally recognized as a middle-class hero and the proud proprietor of a much-accepted career.
In 2018 , Depp voiced the title character Sherlock Gnomes in the animated movie Gnomeo & Juliet : Sherlock Gnomes . Although moderately commercially successful , it was critically panned and earned Depp two Golden Raspberry nominations , one for his acting and another for his " fast - fading film career " . Depp then starred in two independent films , both produced by him and his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was City of Lies , in which he starred as Russell Poole , an LAPD detective who attempts to solve the murders of rappers Tupac Shakur and The Notorious B . I . G . It was set for release in September 2018 , but was pulled from the release schedule after a crew member sued Depp for assault . The second film was the comedy - drama Richard Says Goodbye , in which Depp played a professor with terminal cancer . It premiered at the Zurich Film Festival in October 2018 . Depp ' s last film release of 2018 was Fantastic Beasts : The Crimes of Grindelwald , in which he reprised his role as Grindelwald . Depp ' s casting received criticism from fans of the series due to the domestic violence allegations against him .	What were the Golden Raspberry nominations that you received for the movie Gnomeo & Juliet: Sherlock Gnomes?	I received two Golden Raspberry nominations, one for my acting and another for my "fast-fading film career."
In 1997 , Depp and Al Pacino starred in the crime drama Donnie Brasco , directed by Mike Newell . Depp played Joseph D . Pistone , an undercover FBI agent who assumes the name Donnie Brasco to infiltrate the Mafia in New York City . To prepare , Depp spent time with Pistone , on whose memoirs the film was based . Donnie Brasco was a commercial and critical success , and is considered one of Depp ' s finest performances . Also in 1997 , Depp debuted as a director and screenwriter with The Brave . He starred in it as a poor Native American man who accepts a proposal from a wealthy man , played by Marlon Brando , to appear in a snuff film in exchange for money for his family . It premiered at the 1997 Cannes Film Festival to generally negative reviews . Variety called it " a turgid and unbelievable neo - western " , and Time Out wrote that " besides the implausibilities , the direction has two fatal flaws : it ' s both tediously slow and hugely narcissistic as the camera focuses repeatedly on Depp ' s bandana ' d head and rippling torso " . Due to the reviews , Depp did not release The Brave in the U . S .	Why did you not release The Brave in the U.S.?	I did not release The Brave in the U.S. due to the negative reviews.
Depp ' s first 2011 film release was the animated film Rango , in which he voiced the title character , a lizard . It was a major critical and commercial success . His second film of the year , the fourth installment in the Pirates series , On Stranger Tides , was again a box office hit , becoming the third - highest - grossing film of 2011 . Later in 2011 , Depp released the first two projects co - produced by his company , Infinitum Nihil . The first was a film adaptation of the novel The Rum Diary by Hunter S . Thompson and starred Depp . It failed to bring back its production costs and received mixed reviews . The company ' s second undertaking , Martin Scorsese ' s Hugo ( 2011 ) , garnered major critical acclaim and several awards nominations , but similarly did not perform well in the box office . In 2011 , Depp also made a brief cameo in the Adam Sandler film Jack and Jill .	How well did your film On Stranger Tides perform at the box office?	My film On Stranger Tides was a box office hit and became the third-highest-grossing film of 2011.
Disillusioned by his experiences as a teen idol in 21 Jump Street , Depp began taking roles he found more interesting , rather than those he thought would succeed at the box office . His first film release in 1990 was John Waters ' s Cry - Baby , a musical comedy set in the 1950s . Although not a box - office success upon its release , over the years it has gained cult classic status . Also in 1990 , Depp played the title character in Tim Burton ' s romantic fantasy film Edward Scissorhands opposite Dianne Wiest and Winona Ryder . The film was a commercial and critical success with a domestic gross of $ 53 million . In preparation for the role , Depp watched many Charlie Chaplin films to study how to create sympathy without dialogue . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised Depp ' s performance , writing that he " artfully expresses the fierce longing in gentle Edward ; it ' s a terrific performance " , while Rita Kempley of The Washington Post wrote that he " brings the eloquence of the silent era to this part of few words , saying it all through bright black eyes and the tremulous care with which he holds his horror - movie hands " . Depp earned his first Golden Globe nomination for the film . Owing to this role , a species of extinct arthropod with prominent claws was named after Depp as Kootenichela deppi ( chela is Latin for claws or scissors ) .	Who were your co-stars in Edward Scissorhands?	Dianne Wiest and Winona Ryder.
In March 2021 , City of Lies , which was originally scheduled for 2018 , was released in theaters and streaming services . The same month , an online petition to bring Depp back to the Pirates franchise , begun four months earlier , reached its goal of 500 , 000 signatures . His Pirates co - star Kevin McNally also expressed support for Depp returning to the role . In July 2021 , Andrew Levitas , the director of Minamata ( 2020 ) , accused MGM   of trying to bury the film due to Depp ' s involvement , with Depp claiming he is being boycotted by the Hollywood industry and calling his changed reputation an " absurdity of media mathematics " . Minamata was released in the UK and Ireland in August 2021 , and in North America in December 2021 . The film received positive reviews , with multiple publications praising Depp ' s performance as his best in years . Depp also continues as the face of Dior ' s men ' s fragrance , Sauvage .	When did the online petition to bring you back to the Pirates franchise reach its goal of 500,000 signatures?	The online petition to bring me back to the Pirates franchise reached its goal of 500,000 signatures in March 2021.
