Kennedy met his future wife , Jacqueline Lee " Jackie " Bouvier ( 1929 – 1994 ) , when he was a congressman . Charles L . Bartlett , a journalist , introduced the pair at a dinner party . They were married a year after he was elected senator , on September 12 , 1953 . After suffering a miscarriage in 1955 and a stillbirth in 1956 ( their daughter Arabella ) , their daughter Caroline was born in 1957 and is the only surviving member of JFK ' s immediate family . John Fitzgerald Kennedy Jr . , nicknamed " John - John " by the press as a child , was born in late November 1960 , 17 days after his father was elected . John Jr . , a graduate of Brown University , died in 1999 when the small plane he was piloting crashed en route to Martha ' s Vineyard . In 1963 , months before JFK ' s assassination , Jackie gave birth to a son , Patrick . However , he died after 2 days due to complications from birth .	Who introduced you to your future wife?	Charles L. Bartlett, a journalist.
At the urging of Kennedy ' s father , U . S . Representative James Michael Curley vacated his seat in the strongly Democratic 11th congressional district of Massachusetts to become mayor of Boston in 1946 . Kennedy established his residency at an apartment building on 122 Bowdoin Street across from the Massachusetts State House . With his father financing and running his campaign under the slogan " The New Generation Offers a Leader " , Kennedy won the Democratic primary with 42 percent of the vote , defeating ten other candidates . His father joked after the campaign , " With the money I spent , I could have elected my chauffeur . " Campaigning around Boston , Kennedy called for better housing for veterans , better health care for all , and support for organized labor ' s campaign for reasonable work hours , a healthy workplace , and the right to organize , bargain , and strike . In addition , he campaigned for peace through the United Nations and strong opposition to the Soviet Union . Though Republicans took control of the House in the 1946 elections , Kennedy defeated his Republican opponent in the general election , taking 73 percent of the vote . Along with Richard Nixon and Joseph McCarthy , Kennedy was one of several World War II veterans elected to Congress that year .	What percentage of the vote did you win in the Democratic primary?	I won the Democratic primary with 42 percent of the vote.
Kennedy met his future wife , Jacqueline Lee " Jackie " Bouvier ( 1929 – 1994 ) , when he was a congressman . Charles L . Bartlett , a journalist , introduced the pair at a dinner party . They were married a year after he was elected senator , on September 12 , 1953 . After suffering a miscarriage in 1955 and a stillbirth in 1956 ( their daughter Arabella ) , their daughter Caroline was born in 1957 and is the only surviving member of JFK ' s immediate family . John Fitzgerald Kennedy Jr . , nicknamed " John - John " by the press as a child , was born in late November 1960 , 17 days after his father was elected . John Jr . , a graduate of Brown University , died in 1999 when the small plane he was piloting crashed en route to Martha ' s Vineyard . In 1963 , months before JFK ' s assassination , Jackie gave birth to a son , Patrick . However , he died after 2 days due to complications from birth .	Did you have any other children?	Yes, I gave birth to a son named Patrick in 1963, but he died after 2 days due to complications from birth.
In January 1942 , Kennedy was assigned to the ONI field office at Headquarters , Sixth Naval District , in Charleston , South Carolina . He attended the Naval Reserve Officer Training School at Northwestern University in Chicago from July 27 to September 27 and then voluntarily entered the Motor Torpedo Boat Squadrons Training Center in Melville , Rhode Island . On October 10 , he was promoted to lieutenant junior grade . In early November , Kennedy was still mourning the death of his close , childhood friend , Marine Corps Second Lieutenant George Houk Mead Jr . , who had been killed in action at Guadalcanal that August and awarded the Navy Cross for his bravery . Accompanied by a female acquaintance from a wealthy Newport family , the couple had stopped in Middletown , Rhode Island at the cemetery where the decorated , naval spy , Commander Hugo W . Koehler , USN , had been buried the previous year . Ambling around the plots near the tiny St . Columba ' s chapel , Kennedy paused over Koehler ' s white granite cross grave marker and pondered his own mortality , hoping out loud that when his time came , he would not have to die without religion . " But these things can ' t be faked , " he added . " There ' s no bluffing . " Two decades later , Kennedy and Koehler ' s stepson , U . S . Senator Claiborne Pell had become good friends and political allies , although they had been acquaintances since the mid - 1930s during their " salad days " on the same Newport debutante party " circuit " and when Pell had dated Kathleen ( " Kick " ) Kennedy . Kennedy completed his training on December 2 and was assigned to Motor Torpedo Squadron FOUR .	Who were you mourning the death of in early November?	I was mourning the death of my close childhood friend, Marine Corps Second Lieutenant George Houk Mead Jr.
In 1958 , Kennedy was re - elected to a second term in the Senate , defeating Republican opponent , Boston lawyer Vincent J . Celeste , by a margin of 874 , 608 votes , the largest margin in the history of Massachusetts politics . It was during his re - election campaign that Kennedy ' s press secretary at the time , Robert E . Thompson , put together a film entitled The U . S . Senator John F . Kennedy Story , which exhibited a day in the life of the Senator and showcased his family life as well as the inner workings of his office to solve Massachusetts - related issues . It was the most comprehensive film produced about Kennedy up to that time . In the aftermath of his re - election , Kennedy began preparing to run for president by traveling throughout the U . S . with the aim of building his candidacy for 1960 .	What was the purpose of the film?	The film exhibited a day in the life of the Senator, showcased his family life, and portrayed the inner workings of his office to solve Massachusetts-related issues.
In 1958 , Kennedy was re - elected to a second term in the Senate , defeating Republican opponent , Boston lawyer Vincent J . Celeste , by a margin of 874 , 608 votes , the largest margin in the history of Massachusetts politics . It was during his re - election campaign that Kennedy ' s press secretary at the time , Robert E . Thompson , put together a film entitled The U . S . Senator John F . Kennedy Story , which exhibited a day in the life of the Senator and showcased his family life as well as the inner workings of his office to solve Massachusetts - related issues . It was the most comprehensive film produced about Kennedy up to that time . In the aftermath of his re - election , Kennedy began preparing to run for president by traveling throughout the U . S . with the aim of building his candidacy for 1960 .	Who was your Republican opponent in the re-election campaign?	Boston lawyer Vincent J. Celeste.
The Kennedy family is one of the most established political families in the United States , having produced a president , three senators , three ambassadors , and multiple other representatives and politicians , both at the federal and state level . While a Congressman , Kennedy embarked on a seven - week trip to India , Japan , Vietnam , and Israel in 1951 , at which point he became close with his then 25 - year - old brother Bobby , as well as his 27 - year - old sister Pat . Because they were several years apart in age , the brothers had previously seen little of each other . This 25 , 000 - mile ( 40 , 000   km ) trip was the first extended time they had spent together and resulted in their becoming best friends . Bobby would eventually play a major role in his brother ' s career , serving as his brother ' s attorney general and presidential advisor . Bobby would later run for president in 1968 before his assassination , while another Kennedy brother , Ted , ran for president in 1980 . Kennedy ' s nephew and Bobby ' s son , Robert Jr . , is running for president in 2024 .	What political positions have members of your family held?	My family has produced a president, three senators, three ambassadors, and multiple other representatives and politicians, both at the federal and state level.
In January 1942 , Kennedy was assigned to the ONI field office at Headquarters , Sixth Naval District , in Charleston , South Carolina . He attended the Naval Reserve Officer Training School at Northwestern University in Chicago from July 27 to September 27 and then voluntarily entered the Motor Torpedo Boat Squadrons Training Center in Melville , Rhode Island . On October 10 , he was promoted to lieutenant junior grade . In early November , Kennedy was still mourning the death of his close , childhood friend , Marine Corps Second Lieutenant George Houk Mead Jr . , who had been killed in action at Guadalcanal that August and awarded the Navy Cross for his bravery . Accompanied by a female acquaintance from a wealthy Newport family , the couple had stopped in Middletown , Rhode Island at the cemetery where the decorated , naval spy , Commander Hugo W . Koehler , USN , had been buried the previous year . Ambling around the plots near the tiny St . Columba ' s chapel , Kennedy paused over Koehler ' s white granite cross grave marker and pondered his own mortality , hoping out loud that when his time came , he would not have to die without religion . " But these things can ' t be faked , " he added . " There ' s no bluffing . " Two decades later , Kennedy and Koehler ' s stepson , U . S . Senator Claiborne Pell had become good friends and political allies , although they had been acquaintances since the mid - 1930s during their " salad days " on the same Newport debutante party " circuit " and when Pell had dated Kathleen ( " Kick " ) Kennedy . Kennedy completed his training on December 2 and was assigned to Motor Torpedo Squadron FOUR .	Who had you dated during your "salad days"?	I had dated Kathleen ("Kick") Kennedy.
At the urging of Kennedy ' s father , U . S . Representative James Michael Curley vacated his seat in the strongly Democratic 11th congressional district of Massachusetts to become mayor of Boston in 1946 . Kennedy established his residency at an apartment building on 122 Bowdoin Street across from the Massachusetts State House . With his father financing and running his campaign under the slogan " The New Generation Offers a Leader " , Kennedy won the Democratic primary with 42 percent of the vote , defeating ten other candidates . His father joked after the campaign , " With the money I spent , I could have elected my chauffeur . " Campaigning around Boston , Kennedy called for better housing for veterans , better health care for all , and support for organized labor ' s campaign for reasonable work hours , a healthy workplace , and the right to organize , bargain , and strike . In addition , he campaigned for peace through the United Nations and strong opposition to the Soviet Union . Though Republicans took control of the House in the 1946 elections , Kennedy defeated his Republican opponent in the general election , taking 73 percent of the vote . Along with Richard Nixon and Joseph McCarthy , Kennedy was one of several World War II veterans elected to Congress that year .	Where did you establish your residency?	I established my residency at an apartment building on 122 Bowdoin Street.
In January 1942 , Kennedy was assigned to the ONI field office at Headquarters , Sixth Naval District , in Charleston , South Carolina . He attended the Naval Reserve Officer Training School at Northwestern University in Chicago from July 27 to September 27 and then voluntarily entered the Motor Torpedo Boat Squadrons Training Center in Melville , Rhode Island . On October 10 , he was promoted to lieutenant junior grade . In early November , Kennedy was still mourning the death of his close , childhood friend , Marine Corps Second Lieutenant George Houk Mead Jr . , who had been killed in action at Guadalcanal that August and awarded the Navy Cross for his bravery . Accompanied by a female acquaintance from a wealthy Newport family , the couple had stopped in Middletown , Rhode Island at the cemetery where the decorated , naval spy , Commander Hugo W . Koehler , USN , had been buried the previous year . Ambling around the plots near the tiny St . Columba ' s chapel , Kennedy paused over Koehler ' s white granite cross grave marker and pondered his own mortality , hoping out loud that when his time came , he would not have to die without religion . " But these things can ' t be faked , " he added . " There ' s no bluffing . " Two decades later , Kennedy and Koehler ' s stepson , U . S . Senator Claiborne Pell had become good friends and political allies , although they had been acquaintances since the mid - 1930s during their " salad days " on the same Newport debutante party " circuit " and when Pell had dated Kathleen ( " Kick " ) Kennedy . Kennedy completed his training on December 2 and was assigned to Motor Torpedo Squadron FOUR .	Where did you attend the Naval Reserve Officer Training School?	I attended the Naval Reserve Officer Training School at Northwestern University in Chicago.
The term " Camelot " is often used to describe his presidency , reflecting both the mythic grandeur accorded Kennedy in death , and the powerful nostalgia that millions feel for that era of American history . According to Richard Dean Burns and Joseph M . Siracusa , the most popular theme surrounding Kennedy ' s legacy is its replay of the legend of King Arthur and Camelot from medieval England . In the days after JFK ' s death , his widow Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy , who herself would play a central role in the myth , approached journalist Theodore H . White . Mrs . Kennedy emphasized an image that would shape the adoring memory of JFK and his administration , highlighting the president ' s love for the popular Broadway musical " Camelot " . She emphasized how her husband loved the music of Alan Jay Lerner , a former classmate of his . Mrs . Kennedy claimed that JFK admired heroes like King Arthur , presenting him as an idealist , although White knew this to be untrue . In her attempt to convey a positive message during a tragic event , she quoted her husband as repeating the end of the " Camelot " show : said , " There will be great presidents again , but there will never be another Camelot . " White ' s influential essay , which included the Camelot story , was published in a special commemorative issue of Life magazine on December 3 , 1963 , reaching over 30 million people . To the grieving public , this uplifting message seemed logical . After all , JFK , the youngest person to enter the White House , displayed intelligence , articulation , and humor . Furthermore , his young , beautiful wife , who was revered internationally , along with his famous family , made it easy to associate Kennedy with the legend of King Arthur . Later , White expressed regret for his role in popularizing the Camelot myth . Over the years , critics , especially historians , have mocked the Camelot myth as a distortion of JFK ' s actions , beliefs , and policies . However , in the public memory , the years of Kennedy ' s presidency are still seen as a brief , brilliant , and shining moment .	Who did you approach after JFK's death?	I approached journalist Theodore H. White after JFK's death.
At the time of Kennedy ' s death , no final policy decision was made with respect to Vietnam . By November 1963 , there were 16 , 000 American military personnel in South Vietnam , up from Eisenhower ' s 900 advisors . In the aftermath of the aborted coup in September 1963 , the Kennedy administration reevaluated its policies in South Vietnam . Kennedy rejected both the full - scale deployment of ground soldiers , but also rejected the total withdrawal of U . S . forces from the country . Kennedy had signed National Security Action Memorandum ( NSAM ) 263 , dated October 11 , which ordered the withdrawal of 1 , 000 military personnel by year ' s end , and the bulk of them out by 1965 . Such an action would have been a policy reversal , but Kennedy was publicly moving in a less hawkish direction since his speech on world peace at American University on June 10 , 1963 . After Kennedy ' s assassination , President Johnson signed NSAM 273 on November 26 , 1963 . It reversed Kennedy ' s decision to withdraw 1 , 000 troops , and reaffirmed the policy of assistance to the South Vietnamese . U . S . involvement in the region escalated until his successor Lyndon Johnson directly deployed regular U . S . military forces for fighting the Vietnam War .	How many American military personnel were in South Vietnam by November 1963?	There were 16,000 American military personnel in South Vietnam.
At the time of Kennedy ' s death , no final policy decision was made with respect to Vietnam . By November 1963 , there were 16 , 000 American military personnel in South Vietnam , up from Eisenhower ' s 900 advisors . In the aftermath of the aborted coup in September 1963 , the Kennedy administration reevaluated its policies in South Vietnam . Kennedy rejected both the full - scale deployment of ground soldiers , but also rejected the total withdrawal of U . S . forces from the country . Kennedy had signed National Security Action Memorandum ( NSAM ) 263 , dated October 11 , which ordered the withdrawal of 1 , 000 military personnel by year ' s end , and the bulk of them out by 1965 . Such an action would have been a policy reversal , but Kennedy was publicly moving in a less hawkish direction since his speech on world peace at American University on June 10 , 1963 . After Kennedy ' s assassination , President Johnson signed NSAM 273 on November 26 , 1963 . It reversed Kennedy ' s decision to withdraw 1 , 000 troops , and reaffirmed the policy of assistance to the South Vietnamese . U . S . involvement in the region escalated until his successor Lyndon Johnson directly deployed regular U . S . military forces for fighting the Vietnam War .	What was your policy in South Vietnam after the aborted coup?	I reevaluated my policies in South Vietnam.
In January 1942 , Kennedy was assigned to the ONI field office at Headquarters , Sixth Naval District , in Charleston , South Carolina . He attended the Naval Reserve Officer Training School at Northwestern University in Chicago from July 27 to September 27 and then voluntarily entered the Motor Torpedo Boat Squadrons Training Center in Melville , Rhode Island . On October 10 , he was promoted to lieutenant junior grade . In early November , Kennedy was still mourning the death of his close , childhood friend , Marine Corps Second Lieutenant George Houk Mead Jr . , who had been killed in action at Guadalcanal that August and awarded the Navy Cross for his bravery . Accompanied by a female acquaintance from a wealthy Newport family , the couple had stopped in Middletown , Rhode Island at the cemetery where the decorated , naval spy , Commander Hugo W . Koehler , USN , had been buried the previous year . Ambling around the plots near the tiny St . Columba ' s chapel , Kennedy paused over Koehler ' s white granite cross grave marker and pondered his own mortality , hoping out loud that when his time came , he would not have to die without religion . " But these things can ' t be faked , " he added . " There ' s no bluffing . " Two decades later , Kennedy and Koehler ' s stepson , U . S . Senator Claiborne Pell had become good friends and political allies , although they had been acquaintances since the mid - 1930s during their " salad days " on the same Newport debutante party " circuit " and when Pell had dated Kathleen ( " Kick " ) Kennedy . Kennedy completed his training on December 2 and was assigned to Motor Torpedo Squadron FOUR .	When were you assigned to the ONI field office at Headquarters, Sixth Naval District in Charleston, South Carolina?	In January 1942.
In 1958 , Kennedy was re - elected to a second term in the Senate , defeating Republican opponent , Boston lawyer Vincent J . Celeste , by a margin of 874 , 608 votes , the largest margin in the history of Massachusetts politics . It was during his re - election campaign that Kennedy ' s press secretary at the time , Robert E . Thompson , put together a film entitled The U . S . Senator John F . Kennedy Story , which exhibited a day in the life of the Senator and showcased his family life as well as the inner workings of his office to solve Massachusetts - related issues . It was the most comprehensive film produced about Kennedy up to that time . In the aftermath of his re - election , Kennedy began preparing to run for president by traveling throughout the U . S . with the aim of building his candidacy for 1960 .	What was the title of the film that your press secretary put together during your re-election campaign?	The U.S. Senator John F. Kennedy Story.
On June 4 , 1961 , Kennedy met with Khrushchev in Vienna and left the meetings angry and disappointed that he had allowed the premier to bully him , despite the warnings he had received . Khrushchev , for his part , was impressed with the president ' s intelligence but thought him weak . Kennedy did succeed in conveying the bottom line to Khrushchev on the most sensitive issue before them , a proposed treaty between Moscow and East Berlin . He made it clear that any treaty interfering with U . S . access rights in West Berlin would be regarded as an act of war . Shortly after Kennedy returned home , the U . S . S . R . announced its plan to sign a treaty with East Berlin , abrogating any third - party occupation rights in either sector of the city . Depressed and angry , Kennedy assumed that his only option was to prepare the country for nuclear war , which he personally thought had a one - in - five chance of occurring .	What warnings had you received before meeting with Khrushchev?	The warnings about Khrushchev bullying me.
On June 4 , 1961 , Kennedy met with Khrushchev in Vienna and left the meetings angry and disappointed that he had allowed the premier to bully him , despite the warnings he had received . Khrushchev , for his part , was impressed with the president ' s intelligence but thought him weak . Kennedy did succeed in conveying the bottom line to Khrushchev on the most sensitive issue before them , a proposed treaty between Moscow and East Berlin . He made it clear that any treaty interfering with U . S . access rights in West Berlin would be regarded as an act of war . Shortly after Kennedy returned home , the U . S . S . R . announced its plan to sign a treaty with East Berlin , abrogating any third - party occupation rights in either sector of the city . Depressed and angry , Kennedy assumed that his only option was to prepare the country for nuclear war , which he personally thought had a one - in - five chance of occurring .	What issue did you convey the bottom line to Khrushchev about?	A proposed treaty between Moscow and East Berlin.
Kennedy ' s father was a strong supporter and friend of Senator Joseph McCarthy . Additionally , Bobby Kennedy worked for McCarthy ' s subcommittee , and McCarthy dated Kennedy ' s sister Patricia . Kennedy told historian Arthur M . Schlesinger Jr . , " Hell , half my voters [ particularly Catholics ] in Massachusetts look on McCarthy as a hero . " In 1954 , the Senate voted to censure McCarthy , and Kennedy drafted a speech supporting the censure . However , it was not delivered because Kennedy was hospitalized at the time . The speech put Kennedy in the apparent position of participating by " pairing " his vote against that of another senator and opposing the censure . Although Kennedy never indicated how he would have voted , the episode damaged his support among members of the liberal community , including Eleanor Roosevelt , in the 1956 and 1960 elections .	Who was your father a strong supporter and friend of?	My father was a strong supporter and friend of Senator Joseph McCarthy.
Kennedy ' s father was a strong supporter and friend of Senator Joseph McCarthy . Additionally , Bobby Kennedy worked for McCarthy ' s subcommittee , and McCarthy dated Kennedy ' s sister Patricia . Kennedy told historian Arthur M . Schlesinger Jr . , " Hell , half my voters [ particularly Catholics ] in Massachusetts look on McCarthy as a hero . " In 1954 , the Senate voted to censure McCarthy , and Kennedy drafted a speech supporting the censure . However , it was not delivered because Kennedy was hospitalized at the time . The speech put Kennedy in the apparent position of participating by " pairing " his vote against that of another senator and opposing the censure . Although Kennedy never indicated how he would have voted , the episode damaged his support among members of the liberal community , including Eleanor Roosevelt , in the 1956 and 1960 elections .	Who did you date?	I dated your sister Patricia.
In September 1962 , James Meredith enrolled at the University of Mississippi but was prevented from entering . In response to that , Attorney General Robert Kennedy sent 127 U . S . Marshals and 316 U . S . Border Patrol and 97 Federal correctional officers who were deputized as marshals . The Ole Miss riot of 1962 left two civilians dead and 300 people injured , prompting President Kennedy to send in 3 , 000 troops to quell the riot . Meredith did finally enroll for a class , and Kennedy regretted not sending in troops earlier . Kennedy began doubting as to whether the " evils of Reconstruction " of the 1860s and 1870s he had been taught or believed in were true . The instigating subculture during the Ole Miss riot , and many other racially ignited events , was the Ku Klux Klan . On November 20 , 1962 , Kennedy signed Executive Order 11063 , which prohibited racial discrimination in federally supported housing or " related facilities " . Despite this , in Boston , the Boston Housing Authority ( BHA ) Board would continue to actively segregate the public housing developments in the city during the John F . Collins administration ( 1960 – 1968 ) , with BHA departments engaging in bureaucratic resistance against integration through at least 1966 and the Board retaining control over tenant assignment until 1968 .	Why was James Meredith prevented from entering the University of Mississippi?	James Meredith was prevented from entering the University of Mississippi in September 1962.
Kennedy ' s father was a strong supporter and friend of Senator Joseph McCarthy . Additionally , Bobby Kennedy worked for McCarthy ' s subcommittee , and McCarthy dated Kennedy ' s sister Patricia . Kennedy told historian Arthur M . Schlesinger Jr . , " Hell , half my voters [ particularly Catholics ] in Massachusetts look on McCarthy as a hero . " In 1954 , the Senate voted to censure McCarthy , and Kennedy drafted a speech supporting the censure . However , it was not delivered because Kennedy was hospitalized at the time . The speech put Kennedy in the apparent position of participating by " pairing " his vote against that of another senator and opposing the censure . Although Kennedy never indicated how he would have voted , the episode damaged his support among members of the liberal community , including Eleanor Roosevelt , in the 1956 and 1960 elections .	Who did you work for?	I worked for McCarthy's subcommittee.
At the time of Kennedy ' s death , no final policy decision was made with respect to Vietnam . By November 1963 , there were 16 , 000 American military personnel in South Vietnam , up from Eisenhower ' s 900 advisors . In the aftermath of the aborted coup in September 1963 , the Kennedy administration reevaluated its policies in South Vietnam . Kennedy rejected both the full - scale deployment of ground soldiers , but also rejected the total withdrawal of U . S . forces from the country . Kennedy had signed National Security Action Memorandum ( NSAM ) 263 , dated October 11 , which ordered the withdrawal of 1 , 000 military personnel by year ' s end , and the bulk of them out by 1965 . Such an action would have been a policy reversal , but Kennedy was publicly moving in a less hawkish direction since his speech on world peace at American University on June 10 , 1963 . After Kennedy ' s assassination , President Johnson signed NSAM 273 on November 26 , 1963 . It reversed Kennedy ' s decision to withdraw 1 , 000 troops , and reaffirmed the policy of assistance to the South Vietnamese . U . S . involvement in the region escalated until his successor Lyndon Johnson directly deployed regular U . S . military forces for fighting the Vietnam War .	What did your National Security Action Memorandum (NSAM) 263 order?	NSAM 263 ordered the withdrawal of 1,000 military personnel by my year's end.
Kennedy ' s father was a strong supporter and friend of Senator Joseph McCarthy . Additionally , Bobby Kennedy worked for McCarthy ' s subcommittee , and McCarthy dated Kennedy ' s sister Patricia . Kennedy told historian Arthur M . Schlesinger Jr . , " Hell , half my voters [ particularly Catholics ] in Massachusetts look on McCarthy as a hero . " In 1954 , the Senate voted to censure McCarthy , and Kennedy drafted a speech supporting the censure . However , it was not delivered because Kennedy was hospitalized at the time . The speech put Kennedy in the apparent position of participating by " pairing " his vote against that of another senator and opposing the censure . Although Kennedy never indicated how he would have voted , the episode damaged his support among members of the liberal community , including Eleanor Roosevelt , in the 1956 and 1960 elections .	According to you, who do your voters in Massachusetts consider as a hero?	According to me, half of my voters in Massachusetts, particularly Catholics, consider McCarthy as a hero.
In September 1962 , James Meredith enrolled at the University of Mississippi but was prevented from entering . In response to that , Attorney General Robert Kennedy sent 127 U . S . Marshals and 316 U . S . Border Patrol and 97 Federal correctional officers who were deputized as marshals . The Ole Miss riot of 1962 left two civilians dead and 300 people injured , prompting President Kennedy to send in 3 , 000 troops to quell the riot . Meredith did finally enroll for a class , and Kennedy regretted not sending in troops earlier . Kennedy began doubting as to whether the " evils of Reconstruction " of the 1860s and 1870s he had been taught or believed in were true . The instigating subculture during the Ole Miss riot , and many other racially ignited events , was the Ku Klux Klan . On November 20 , 1962 , Kennedy signed Executive Order 11063 , which prohibited racial discrimination in federally supported housing or " related facilities " . Despite this , in Boston , the Boston Housing Authority ( BHA ) Board would continue to actively segregate the public housing developments in the city during the John F . Collins administration ( 1960 – 1968 ) , with BHA departments engaging in bureaucratic resistance against integration through at least 1966 and the Board retaining control over tenant assignment until 1968 .	When did you send troops to quell the riot at the University of Mississippi?	I sent 3,000 troops to quell the riot at the University of Mississippi.
On June 4 , 1961 , Kennedy met with Khrushchev in Vienna and left the meetings angry and disappointed that he had allowed the premier to bully him , despite the warnings he had received . Khrushchev , for his part , was impressed with the president ' s intelligence but thought him weak . Kennedy did succeed in conveying the bottom line to Khrushchev on the most sensitive issue before them , a proposed treaty between Moscow and East Berlin . He made it clear that any treaty interfering with U . S . access rights in West Berlin would be regarded as an act of war . Shortly after Kennedy returned home , the U . S . S . R . announced its plan to sign a treaty with East Berlin , abrogating any third - party occupation rights in either sector of the city . Depressed and angry , Kennedy assumed that his only option was to prepare the country for nuclear war , which he personally thought had a one - in - five chance of occurring .	How did Khrushchev view you?	Khrushchev thought I was weak but impressed with my intelligence.
