On January 27 , 2008 , at Royal Rumble , Cena made a surprise return as the final participant of the eponymous match , winning it and the traditional WrestleMania XXIV title shot , last eliminating Triple H . Instead of waiting until WrestleMania , the shot was cashed in against WWE Champion Randy Orton at No Way Out on February 17 , winning by disqualification , therefore not being awarded the title . The following night on Raw , Cena was placed back into WrestleMania ' s WWE Championship match on March 30 , defeating Orton in a non - title match with Triple H as special guest referee , making it a triple threat match , during which he was pinned by Orton . On April 27 at Backlash , Cena failed to regain the title in a fatal four - way elimination match , in which he was eliminated by Orton . During the match , Cena eliminated JBL , renewing their feud from 2005 . Cena defeated JBL on May 18 at Judgment Day and at One Night Stand on June 1 in a First Blood match . Cena failed to regain the WWE Championship from Triple H on June 29 at Night of Champions . JBL defeated Cena in a New York City Parking Lot Brawl at The Great American Bash on July 20 to end their feud .	How did you win the match against WWE Champion Randy Orton at No Way Out?	I won the match against WWE Champion Randy Orton at No Way Out by disqualification.
Cena ' s original gimmick portrayed a white rapper who wore jerseys , backwards hats , a chain with a padlock around his neck , and was known as the " Doctor of Thuganomics " . First as " The Prototype " , and later under his real name , Cena sometimes used underhanded tactics to score victories , such as using his chain as a weapon behind the referee ' s back . Cena often rapped before his matches , insulting his opponents , events that happened in the media and even the crowd . Cena also regularly performed " rap battles " , where he and his opponent took turns rapping on each other . In 2006 , shortly after his debut film , The Marine , his wrestling character shifted from that of a rapper to a young military upstart , wearing dog tags and cargo shorts to the ring and also performing a salute to the crowd . Cena said in a 2011 interview with WWE . com that " every night when I do that salute , it ' s also a sign of respect to the men and women that don the uniform of the Armed Forces . "	What was your original gimmick?	My original gimmick portrayed a white rapper who wore jerseys, backwards hats, a chain with a padlock around my neck, and was known as the "Doctor of Thuganomics".
Cena would issue an open challenge each week on the program with his United States Championship on the line , successfully defending the title against the likes of Dean Ambrose , Stardust , Bad News Barrett , Kane , Sami Zayn , Neville , Zack Ryder and Cesaro . Cena retained his title against Rusev in a Russian Chain match on April 26 at Extreme Rules and an " I Quit " match on May 17 at Payback , ending their feud . The following night on Raw , Cena was attacked by then - NXT Champion Kevin Owens , setting up a Champion vs . Champion match at Elimination Chamber on May 31 , which Owens won . Cena defeated Owens in a rematch at Money in the Bank on June 14 . At The Beast in the East on July 4 , Cena and Dolph Ziggler defeated Kane and King Barrett . Cena defeated Owens again at Battleground on July 19 to retain the United States Championship and end their feud . Cena then resumed his feud with then WWE World Heavyweight Champion Seth Rollins , with Rollins refusing Cena ' s challenges for the title . On the July 27 episode of Raw , The Authority forced Cena to defend the title against Rollins , which he did successfully despite suffering a legitimate broken nose during the match . Cena then faced Rollins in a " Winner Takes All " match at SummerSlam on August 23 , for both the WWE World Heavyweight Championship and the United States Championship , which Cena lost after guest host Jon Stewart , appearing to side with Cena , instead attacked him with a steel chair , ending Cena ' s reign at 147 days .	Who did you successfully defend your United States Championship against?	Dean Ambrose, Stardust, Bad News Barrett, Kane, Sami Zayn, Neville, Zack Ryder, and Cesaro.
On the October 27 episode of Raw , Cena rejected The Authority ' s offer to join forces , resulting in a 5 - on - 5 Survivor Series elimination tag match between Team Cena and Team Authority at Survivor Series . His team consisted of Dolph Ziggler , Big Show , Erick Rowan and Ryback . At Survivor Series on November 23 , Big Show turned on Cena , causing his elimination , but Ziggler eventually won the match for Team Cena with the interfering Sting ' s help . Per the match stipulation , The Authority were stripped from power and only Cena could bring them back . At TLC : Tables , Ladders & Chairs on December 14 , Cena defeated Rollins in a tables match to retain his WWE World Heavyweight Championship # 1 contender status . It was then announced that Cena would face Lesnar for the title at the Royal Rumble . On the December 29 episode of Raw , Rollins and Big Show held guest host Edge hostage , forcing Cena to reinstate The Authority . On the January 5 episode of Raw , The Authority added Rollins to the title match at Royal Rumble involving Cena and Lesnar . Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan were " fired " for joining Team Cena at Survivor Series . On the January 19 episode of Raw , Cena won a handicap match against Rollins , Big Show and Kane to retain his title shot at the Royal Rumble and win back the jobs of Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan . At the Royal Rumble on January 25 , Cena was unsuccessful in capturing the title .	Who were the members of your team in the 5-on-5 Survivor Series elimination tag match?	Dolph Ziggler, Big Show, Erick Rowan, and Ryback.
Cena would issue an open challenge each week on the program with his United States Championship on the line , successfully defending the title against the likes of Dean Ambrose , Stardust , Bad News Barrett , Kane , Sami Zayn , Neville , Zack Ryder and Cesaro . Cena retained his title against Rusev in a Russian Chain match on April 26 at Extreme Rules and an " I Quit " match on May 17 at Payback , ending their feud . The following night on Raw , Cena was attacked by then - NXT Champion Kevin Owens , setting up a Champion vs . Champion match at Elimination Chamber on May 31 , which Owens won . Cena defeated Owens in a rematch at Money in the Bank on June 14 . At The Beast in the East on July 4 , Cena and Dolph Ziggler defeated Kane and King Barrett . Cena defeated Owens again at Battleground on July 19 to retain the United States Championship and end their feud . Cena then resumed his feud with then WWE World Heavyweight Champion Seth Rollins , with Rollins refusing Cena ' s challenges for the title . On the July 27 episode of Raw , The Authority forced Cena to defend the title against Rollins , which he did successfully despite suffering a legitimate broken nose during the match . Cena then faced Rollins in a " Winner Takes All " match at SummerSlam on August 23 , for both the WWE World Heavyweight Championship and the United States Championship , which Cena lost after guest host Jon Stewart , appearing to side with Cena , instead attacked him with a steel chair , ending Cena ' s reign at 147 days .	Who attacked you on Raw after your match with Kevin Owens?	NXT Champion Kevin Owens.
On January 27 , 2013 , Cena won his second Royal Rumble match , announcing that he would pursue the WWE Championship at WrestleMania 29 . Cena , along with Ryback and Sheamus , began feuding with The Shield , culminating in a six - man tag team match on February 17 at Elimination Chamber , which The Shield won . On the February 25 episode of Raw , Cena defeated CM Punk to reaffirm his status as the # 1 contender for the Rock ' s WWE Championship . At WrestleMania on April 7 , Cena defeated Rock in their rematch to win his eleventh WWE Championship . Cena then began a rivalry with Ryback , during which he suffered a legitimate achilles tendon injury . Cena retained his championship against Ryback in a Last Man Standing match at Extreme Rules on May 19 ; the match ended in a no contest after both men were down for a 10 count . Cena then defeated Ryback in a Three Stages of Hell match on June 16 at Payback . He defeated Mark Henry via submission on July 14 at Money in the Bank . At SummerSlam on August 18 , Cena lost the WWE Championship to Daniel Bryan , with Triple H as the special guest referee ending his reign at 133 days . The following night on Raw , Cena announced he would undergo surgery for a triceps tear and would be out for four to six months .	Who did you announce you would pursue the WWE Championship at WrestleMania 29?	I announced I would pursue the WWE Championship at WrestleMania 29.
On January 27 , 2008 , at Royal Rumble , Cena made a surprise return as the final participant of the eponymous match , winning it and the traditional WrestleMania XXIV title shot , last eliminating Triple H . Instead of waiting until WrestleMania , the shot was cashed in against WWE Champion Randy Orton at No Way Out on February 17 , winning by disqualification , therefore not being awarded the title . The following night on Raw , Cena was placed back into WrestleMania ' s WWE Championship match on March 30 , defeating Orton in a non - title match with Triple H as special guest referee , making it a triple threat match , during which he was pinned by Orton . On April 27 at Backlash , Cena failed to regain the title in a fatal four - way elimination match , in which he was eliminated by Orton . During the match , Cena eliminated JBL , renewing their feud from 2005 . Cena defeated JBL on May 18 at Judgment Day and at One Night Stand on June 1 in a First Blood match . Cena failed to regain the WWE Championship from Triple H on June 29 at Night of Champions . JBL defeated Cena in a New York City Parking Lot Brawl at The Great American Bash on July 20 to end their feud .	When did you make a surprise return at Royal Rumble?	I made a surprise return at Royal Rumble on January 27, 2008.
On January 27 , 2013 , Cena won his second Royal Rumble match , announcing that he would pursue the WWE Championship at WrestleMania 29 . Cena , along with Ryback and Sheamus , began feuding with The Shield , culminating in a six - man tag team match on February 17 at Elimination Chamber , which The Shield won . On the February 25 episode of Raw , Cena defeated CM Punk to reaffirm his status as the # 1 contender for the Rock ' s WWE Championship . At WrestleMania on April 7 , Cena defeated Rock in their rematch to win his eleventh WWE Championship . Cena then began a rivalry with Ryback , during which he suffered a legitimate achilles tendon injury . Cena retained his championship against Ryback in a Last Man Standing match at Extreme Rules on May 19 ; the match ended in a no contest after both men were down for a 10 count . Cena then defeated Ryback in a Three Stages of Hell match on June 16 at Payback . He defeated Mark Henry via submission on July 14 at Money in the Bank . At SummerSlam on August 18 , Cena lost the WWE Championship to Daniel Bryan , with Triple H as the special guest referee ending his reign at 133 days . The following night on Raw , Cena announced he would undergo surgery for a triceps tear and would be out for four to six months .	Who did you, Ryback, and Sheamus begin feuding with?	I, Ryback, and Sheamus began feuding with The Shield.
On the June 6 , 2022 episode of Raw , it was announced that Cena would return on the June 27 episode of Raw , which marked the 20th anniversary of his main roster in - ring debut . On that episode of Raw , Cena returned and cut a promo recalling all his memories and thanking the fans for their support . He also made appearances backstage with The Street Profits , Ezekiel , Theory , Seth " Freakin " Rollins , and Omos . On the December 30 episode of SmackDown , Cena wrestled for the first time in over a year , where he and Kevin Owens defeated The Bloodline ' s Roman Reigns and Sami Zayn . On the day of " Raw is XXX " , Cena was announced as the cover star for the WWE 2K23 video game , the second time for him being a cover star of a WWE 2K game after WWE 2K15 . In February and March 2023 , Austin Theory would call out Cena multiple times and challenge him to a match at WrestleMania 39 for Theory ' s United States Championship . Cena would eventually accept , but lost the match between the pair .	When did you wrestle for the first time in over a year?	I wrestled for the first time in over a year on the December 30 episode of SmackDown.
In October , Cena and Billy Kidman failed to win a tag team tournament to crown the first WWE Tag Team Champions of the SmackDown ! brand in the first round . The next week on SmackDown ! , Cena turned on and attacked Kidman , blaming him for their loss and turning heel for the first and only time in his WWE career . On the October 17 episode of SmackDown ! , Cena defeated Kidman , but lost in a rematch the next week . At Rebellion on October 26 , Cena and Dawn Marie lost to Kidman and Torrie Wilson in a mixed tag team match . Shortly after , on a Halloween - themed episode of SmackDown ! , Cena dressed as Vanilla Ice , performing a freestyle rap . The following week on SmackDown ! , Cena received a new character : a rapper who cut promos while rhyming . He used the nickname " The Doctor of Thuganomics " and expanded his gimmick to include rapping before his matches , wearing hats and sports jerseys as part of his ring gear . While on a bus journey with other WWE superstars , Cena was involved in a freestyle rap session with Rikishi and Rey Mysterio , impressing Stephanie McMahon , leading to the gimmick ' s adoption . As the character evolved , Cena began adopting a variant of the 1980s WWF logo — dropping the " F " — as his " signature symbol " , along with the slogan " Word Life " . Moreover , he was joined by an enforcer , Bull Buchanan , who was rechristened to B - 2 ( also written B ² and pronounced " B - Squared " ) . Buchanan was replaced with Red Dogg until he was sent to the Raw brand in February .	Who did you blame for our loss in the tag team tournament?	I blamed Billy Kidman for our loss in the tag team tournament.
On the February 21 episode of Raw , Cena replied in rap form to comments made by The Rock the previous week , as he returned as the announced guest host of WrestleMania . That night , Cena was placed into a WWE Tag Team Championship match , teaming with The Miz to defeat Justin Gabriel and Heath Slater to become the new WWE Tag Team Champions . However , their rematch clause was immediately invoked , and Gabriel and Slater won the titles back after The Miz attacked Cena , making their reign the shortest in the title ' s history . After weeks of insults , Cena and The Rock finally met on the March 28 episode of Raw , where , after a verbal confrontation , and a brief attack by The Miz and Alex Riley , Cena attacked The Rock with the Attitude Adjustment . At WrestleMania on April 3 , Cena and Miz fought to a double countout , but The Rock restarted the match and performed a Rock Bottom on Cena , allowing The Miz to retain the title . The next night on Raw , Cena , in response to The Rock " screwing " him out of the title , agreed to face him in the main event of WrestleMania XXVIII , the first WrestleMania match to be set up one year in advance . At Extreme Rules on May 1 , Cena defeated The Miz and John Morrison in a triple threat steel cage match to become WWE Champion . Cena then successfully defended the title against The Miz on May 22 at Over the Limit in an " I Quit " match , and R - Truth on June 19 at Capitol Punishment .	Who did you defeat in the "I Quit" match on June 19?	I successfully defended the title against R-Truth at Capitol Punishment.
Cena returned at WrestleMania 32 on April 3 , 2016 , helping The Rock fend off The Wyatt Family . Cena then made his full return on the Memorial Day edition of Raw on May 30 , four months earlier than had been expected for his type of injury . He was confronted by AJ Styles , only to be betrayed by Styles , who joined his former Club teammates Luke Gallows and Karl Anderson in attacking Cena . On June 19 at Money in the Bank , Styles defeated Cena with interference from Gallows and Anderson . On the July 4 episode of Raw , Cena was again attacked by The Club , but was saved by Enzo Amore and Big Cass , setting up a six - man tag team match on July 24 at Battleground , which Cena , Amore , and Cass won after Cena pinned Styles . On the July 19 episode of SmackDown at the 2016 WWE draft , Cena was drafted to the SmackDown brand , while also defeating Club member Luke Gallows in a singles contest . Cena continued his feud with Styles , and at SummerSlam on August 21 , Cena lost their rematch . With Styles later winning the renamed WWE World Championship , Cena challenged him and Dean Ambrose in a triple threat match for the title on October 9 at No Mercy . He lost the match after being pinned by Styles , which came after Ambrose and Cena simultaneously made Styles submit , therefore restarting the match . Cena took a sabbatical from WWE to film American Grit season 2 .	Who attacked you during your match against AJ Styles at Money in the Bank?	I was attacked by Luke Gallows and Karl Anderson, who interfered in my match against AJ Styles at Money in the Bank.
On January 27 , 2008 , at Royal Rumble , Cena made a surprise return as the final participant of the eponymous match , winning it and the traditional WrestleMania XXIV title shot , last eliminating Triple H . Instead of waiting until WrestleMania , the shot was cashed in against WWE Champion Randy Orton at No Way Out on February 17 , winning by disqualification , therefore not being awarded the title . The following night on Raw , Cena was placed back into WrestleMania ' s WWE Championship match on March 30 , defeating Orton in a non - title match with Triple H as special guest referee , making it a triple threat match , during which he was pinned by Orton . On April 27 at Backlash , Cena failed to regain the title in a fatal four - way elimination match , in which he was eliminated by Orton . During the match , Cena eliminated JBL , renewing their feud from 2005 . Cena defeated JBL on May 18 at Judgment Day and at One Night Stand on June 1 in a First Blood match . Cena failed to regain the WWE Championship from Triple H on June 29 at Night of Champions . JBL defeated Cena in a New York City Parking Lot Brawl at The Great American Bash on July 20 to end their feud .	Who did you eliminate to win the eponymous match at Royal Rumble?	I eliminated Triple H to win the eponymous match at Royal Rumble.
On the June 6 , 2022 episode of Raw , it was announced that Cena would return on the June 27 episode of Raw , which marked the 20th anniversary of his main roster in - ring debut . On that episode of Raw , Cena returned and cut a promo recalling all his memories and thanking the fans for their support . He also made appearances backstage with The Street Profits , Ezekiel , Theory , Seth " Freakin " Rollins , and Omos . On the December 30 episode of SmackDown , Cena wrestled for the first time in over a year , where he and Kevin Owens defeated The Bloodline ' s Roman Reigns and Sami Zayn . On the day of " Raw is XXX " , Cena was announced as the cover star for the WWE 2K23 video game , the second time for him being a cover star of a WWE 2K game after WWE 2K15 . In February and March 2023 , Austin Theory would call out Cena multiple times and challenge him to a match at WrestleMania 39 for Theory ' s United States Championship . Cena would eventually accept , but lost the match between the pair .	Who was your tag team partner when you defeated The Bloodline's Roman Reigns and Sami Zayn?	My tag team partner was Kevin Owens when we defeated The Bloodline's Roman Reigns and Sami Zayn.
Cena ' s original gimmick portrayed a white rapper who wore jerseys , backwards hats , a chain with a padlock around his neck , and was known as the " Doctor of Thuganomics " . First as " The Prototype " , and later under his real name , Cena sometimes used underhanded tactics to score victories , such as using his chain as a weapon behind the referee ' s back . Cena often rapped before his matches , insulting his opponents , events that happened in the media and even the crowd . Cena also regularly performed " rap battles " , where he and his opponent took turns rapping on each other . In 2006 , shortly after his debut film , The Marine , his wrestling character shifted from that of a rapper to a young military upstart , wearing dog tags and cargo shorts to the ring and also performing a salute to the crowd . Cena said in a 2011 interview with WWE . com that " every night when I do that salute , it ' s also a sign of respect to the men and women that don the uniform of the Armed Forces . "	What did you do before your matches?	I often rapped before my matches, insulting my opponents, events that happened in the media, and even the crowd.
One night after the Royal Rumble , an impromptu team of Cena and Shawn Michaels defeated Rated - RKO ( Edge and Randy Orton ) for the World Tag Team Championship , making Cena a double champion . At WrestleMania 23 on April 1 , Cena retained the WWE Championship against Michaels . The next night on Raw , Michaels turned on Cena , costing them the tag titles in the second of two 10 - team battle royals , by throwing Cena over the top rope and eliminating the team . The Hardys ( Matt and Jeff ) won the match and the titles . Cena retained the WWE Championship against Michaels , Orton , and Edge in a fatal four - way match on April 29 at Backlash . The Great Khali then declared his intentions to challenge for Cena ' s championship , attacking and " laying out " all three of the top contenders before assaulting Cena and stealing the title belt . On May 20 at Judgment Day , Cena became the first person to defeat Khali by submission and then by pinfall on June 3 at One Night Stand in a Falls Count Anywhere match . Cena retained the WWE Championship in a five - pack challenge on June 24 at Vengeance : Night of Champions , and against Bobby Lashley on July 22 at The Great American Bash . Later that summer , Randy Orton was named the # 1 contender for Cena ' s championship . Leading up to SummerSlam on August 26 , Orton delivered a number of sneak - attacks , performing three RKOs to Cena , who in the actual match at SummerSlam , retained the championship . A rematch took place at Unforgiven on September 16 , which Orton won by disqualification after Cena ignored the referee ' s instructions and continued to beat on him in the corner .	Who did you turn on me with?	I turned on you with the tag titles.
On January 27 , 2008 , at Royal Rumble , Cena made a surprise return as the final participant of the eponymous match , winning it and the traditional WrestleMania XXIV title shot , last eliminating Triple H . Instead of waiting until WrestleMania , the shot was cashed in against WWE Champion Randy Orton at No Way Out on February 17 , winning by disqualification , therefore not being awarded the title . The following night on Raw , Cena was placed back into WrestleMania ' s WWE Championship match on March 30 , defeating Orton in a non - title match with Triple H as special guest referee , making it a triple threat match , during which he was pinned by Orton . On April 27 at Backlash , Cena failed to regain the title in a fatal four - way elimination match , in which he was eliminated by Orton . During the match , Cena eliminated JBL , renewing their feud from 2005 . Cena defeated JBL on May 18 at Judgment Day and at One Night Stand on June 1 in a First Blood match . Cena failed to regain the WWE Championship from Triple H on June 29 at Night of Champions . JBL defeated Cena in a New York City Parking Lot Brawl at The Great American Bash on July 20 to end their feud .	Did you win the WWE Championship at No Way Out?	No, I did not win the WWE Championship at No Way Out. I won the match by disqualification but was not awarded the title.
On the February 21 episode of Raw , Cena replied in rap form to comments made by The Rock the previous week , as he returned as the announced guest host of WrestleMania . That night , Cena was placed into a WWE Tag Team Championship match , teaming with The Miz to defeat Justin Gabriel and Heath Slater to become the new WWE Tag Team Champions . However , their rematch clause was immediately invoked , and Gabriel and Slater won the titles back after The Miz attacked Cena , making their reign the shortest in the title ' s history . After weeks of insults , Cena and The Rock finally met on the March 28 episode of Raw , where , after a verbal confrontation , and a brief attack by The Miz and Alex Riley , Cena attacked The Rock with the Attitude Adjustment . At WrestleMania on April 3 , Cena and Miz fought to a double countout , but The Rock restarted the match and performed a Rock Bottom on Cena , allowing The Miz to retain the title . The next night on Raw , Cena , in response to The Rock " screwing " him out of the title , agreed to face him in the main event of WrestleMania XXVIII , the first WrestleMania match to be set up one year in advance . At Extreme Rules on May 1 , Cena defeated The Miz and John Morrison in a triple threat steel cage match to become WWE Champion . Cena then successfully defended the title against The Miz on May 22 at Over the Limit in an " I Quit " match , and R - Truth on June 19 at Capitol Punishment .	What happened during your match at WrestleMania on April 3?	I and Miz fought to a double countout, but The Rock restarted the match and performed a Rock Bottom on me, allowing The Miz to retain the title.
On the October 27 episode of Raw , Cena rejected The Authority ' s offer to join forces , resulting in a 5 - on - 5 Survivor Series elimination tag match between Team Cena and Team Authority at Survivor Series . His team consisted of Dolph Ziggler , Big Show , Erick Rowan and Ryback . At Survivor Series on November 23 , Big Show turned on Cena , causing his elimination , but Ziggler eventually won the match for Team Cena with the interfering Sting ' s help . Per the match stipulation , The Authority were stripped from power and only Cena could bring them back . At TLC : Tables , Ladders & Chairs on December 14 , Cena defeated Rollins in a tables match to retain his WWE World Heavyweight Championship # 1 contender status . It was then announced that Cena would face Lesnar for the title at the Royal Rumble . On the December 29 episode of Raw , Rollins and Big Show held guest host Edge hostage , forcing Cena to reinstate The Authority . On the January 5 episode of Raw , The Authority added Rollins to the title match at Royal Rumble involving Cena and Lesnar . Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan were " fired " for joining Team Cena at Survivor Series . On the January 19 episode of Raw , Cena won a handicap match against Rollins , Big Show and Kane to retain his title shot at the Royal Rumble and win back the jobs of Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan . At the Royal Rumble on January 25 , Cena was unsuccessful in capturing the title .	What did the stipulation of your match at Survivor Series state?	That if my team won, The Authority would be stripped from power and only I could bring them back.
On the October 27 episode of Raw , Cena rejected The Authority ' s offer to join forces , resulting in a 5 - on - 5 Survivor Series elimination tag match between Team Cena and Team Authority at Survivor Series . His team consisted of Dolph Ziggler , Big Show , Erick Rowan and Ryback . At Survivor Series on November 23 , Big Show turned on Cena , causing his elimination , but Ziggler eventually won the match for Team Cena with the interfering Sting ' s help . Per the match stipulation , The Authority were stripped from power and only Cena could bring them back . At TLC : Tables , Ladders & Chairs on December 14 , Cena defeated Rollins in a tables match to retain his WWE World Heavyweight Championship # 1 contender status . It was then announced that Cena would face Lesnar for the title at the Royal Rumble . On the December 29 episode of Raw , Rollins and Big Show held guest host Edge hostage , forcing Cena to reinstate The Authority . On the January 5 episode of Raw , The Authority added Rollins to the title match at Royal Rumble involving Cena and Lesnar . Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan were " fired " for joining Team Cena at Survivor Series . On the January 19 episode of Raw , Cena won a handicap match against Rollins , Big Show and Kane to retain his title shot at the Royal Rumble and win back the jobs of Ziggler , Ryback and Rowan . At the Royal Rumble on January 25 , Cena was unsuccessful in capturing the title .	Who turned on you during Survivor Series, resulting in your elimination?	Big Show.
On the February 21 episode of Raw , Cena replied in rap form to comments made by The Rock the previous week , as he returned as the announced guest host of WrestleMania . That night , Cena was placed into a WWE Tag Team Championship match , teaming with The Miz to defeat Justin Gabriel and Heath Slater to become the new WWE Tag Team Champions . However , their rematch clause was immediately invoked , and Gabriel and Slater won the titles back after The Miz attacked Cena , making their reign the shortest in the title ' s history . After weeks of insults , Cena and The Rock finally met on the March 28 episode of Raw , where , after a verbal confrontation , and a brief attack by The Miz and Alex Riley , Cena attacked The Rock with the Attitude Adjustment . At WrestleMania on April 3 , Cena and Miz fought to a double countout , but The Rock restarted the match and performed a Rock Bottom on Cena , allowing The Miz to retain the title . The next night on Raw , Cena , in response to The Rock " screwing " him out of the title , agreed to face him in the main event of WrestleMania XXVIII , the first WrestleMania match to be set up one year in advance . At Extreme Rules on May 1 , Cena defeated The Miz and John Morrison in a triple threat steel cage match to become WWE Champion . Cena then successfully defended the title against The Miz on May 22 at Over the Limit in an " I Quit " match , and R - Truth on June 19 at Capitol Punishment .	What happened in your match against Justin Gabriel and Heath Slater?	I and The Miz defeated Justin Gabriel and Heath Slater to become the new WWE Tag Team Champions.
On January 27 , 2008 , at Royal Rumble , Cena made a surprise return as the final participant of the eponymous match , winning it and the traditional WrestleMania XXIV title shot , last eliminating Triple H . Instead of waiting until WrestleMania , the shot was cashed in against WWE Champion Randy Orton at No Way Out on February 17 , winning by disqualification , therefore not being awarded the title . The following night on Raw , Cena was placed back into WrestleMania ' s WWE Championship match on March 30 , defeating Orton in a non - title match with Triple H as special guest referee , making it a triple threat match , during which he was pinned by Orton . On April 27 at Backlash , Cena failed to regain the title in a fatal four - way elimination match , in which he was eliminated by Orton . During the match , Cena eliminated JBL , renewing their feud from 2005 . Cena defeated JBL on May 18 at Judgment Day and at One Night Stand on June 1 in a First Blood match . Cena failed to regain the WWE Championship from Triple H on June 29 at Night of Champions . JBL defeated Cena in a New York City Parking Lot Brawl at The Great American Bash on July 20 to end their feud .	When did you cash in your WrestleMania XXIV title shot?	I cashed in my WrestleMania XXIV title shot at No Way Out on February 17.
On the February 21 episode of Raw , Cena replied in rap form to comments made by The Rock the previous week , as he returned as the announced guest host of WrestleMania . That night , Cena was placed into a WWE Tag Team Championship match , teaming with The Miz to defeat Justin Gabriel and Heath Slater to become the new WWE Tag Team Champions . However , their rematch clause was immediately invoked , and Gabriel and Slater won the titles back after The Miz attacked Cena , making their reign the shortest in the title ' s history . After weeks of insults , Cena and The Rock finally met on the March 28 episode of Raw , where , after a verbal confrontation , and a brief attack by The Miz and Alex Riley , Cena attacked The Rock with the Attitude Adjustment . At WrestleMania on April 3 , Cena and Miz fought to a double countout , but The Rock restarted the match and performed a Rock Bottom on Cena , allowing The Miz to retain the title . The next night on Raw , Cena , in response to The Rock " screwing " him out of the title , agreed to face him in the main event of WrestleMania XXVIII , the first WrestleMania match to be set up one year in advance . At Extreme Rules on May 1 , Cena defeated The Miz and John Morrison in a triple threat steel cage match to become WWE Champion . Cena then successfully defended the title against The Miz on May 22 at Over the Limit in an " I Quit " match , and R - Truth on June 19 at Capitol Punishment .	Who did you team up with in the WWE Tag Team Championship match?	I teamed up with The Miz.
Cena ' s original gimmick portrayed a white rapper who wore jerseys , backwards hats , a chain with a padlock around his neck , and was known as the " Doctor of Thuganomics " . First as " The Prototype " , and later under his real name , Cena sometimes used underhanded tactics to score victories , such as using his chain as a weapon behind the referee ' s back . Cena often rapped before his matches , insulting his opponents , events that happened in the media and even the crowd . Cena also regularly performed " rap battles " , where he and his opponent took turns rapping on each other . In 2006 , shortly after his debut film , The Marine , his wrestling character shifted from that of a rapper to a young military upstart , wearing dog tags and cargo shorts to the ring and also performing a salute to the crowd . Cena said in a 2011 interview with WWE . com that " every night when I do that salute , it ' s also a sign of respect to the men and women that don the uniform of the Armed Forces . "	How did your wrestling character change in 2006?	In 2006, shortly after my debut film, The Marine, my wrestling character shifted from that of a rapper to a young military upstart, wearing dog tags and cargo shorts to the ring and also performing a salute to the crowd.
One night after the Royal Rumble , an impromptu team of Cena and Shawn Michaels defeated Rated - RKO ( Edge and Randy Orton ) for the World Tag Team Championship , making Cena a double champion . At WrestleMania 23 on April 1 , Cena retained the WWE Championship against Michaels . The next night on Raw , Michaels turned on Cena , costing them the tag titles in the second of two 10 - team battle royals , by throwing Cena over the top rope and eliminating the team . The Hardys ( Matt and Jeff ) won the match and the titles . Cena retained the WWE Championship against Michaels , Orton , and Edge in a fatal four - way match on April 29 at Backlash . The Great Khali then declared his intentions to challenge for Cena ' s championship , attacking and " laying out " all three of the top contenders before assaulting Cena and stealing the title belt . On May 20 at Judgment Day , Cena became the first person to defeat Khali by submission and then by pinfall on June 3 at One Night Stand in a Falls Count Anywhere match . Cena retained the WWE Championship in a five - pack challenge on June 24 at Vengeance : Night of Champions , and against Bobby Lashley on July 22 at The Great American Bash . Later that summer , Randy Orton was named the # 1 contender for Cena ' s championship . Leading up to SummerSlam on August 26 , Orton delivered a number of sneak - attacks , performing three RKOs to Cena , who in the actual match at SummerSlam , retained the championship . A rematch took place at Unforgiven on September 16 , which Orton won by disqualification after Cena ignored the referee ' s instructions and continued to beat on him in the corner .	Who did you and Shawn Michaels defeat for the World Tag Team Championship?	Rated - RKO (Edge and Randy Orton)
