After a San Francisco Police Department officer , Isaac Espinoza , was shot and killed in 2004 , U . S . senator ( and former San Francisco mayor ) Dianne Feinstein , U . S . senator Barbara Boxer , Oakland mayor Jerry Brown , and the San Francisco Police Officers Association pressured Harris to reverse that position , but she did not . ( Polls found that seventy percent of voters supported Harris ' s decision . ) When Edwin Ramos , an illegal immigrant and alleged MS - 13 gang member , was accused of murdering a man and his two sons in 2009 , Harris sought a sentence of life in prison without parole , a decision Mayor Gavin Newsom backed .	Which U.S. senator and former San Francisco mayor pressured you to reverse your position?	Dianne Feinstein.
In 2004 , Harris recruited civil rights activist Lateefah Simon to create the San Francisco Reentry Division . The flagship program was the Back on Track initiative , a first - of - its - kind reentry program for first - time nonviolent offenders aged 18 – 30 . Initiative participants whose crimes were not weapon - or gang - related would plead guilty in exchange for a deferral of sentencing and regular appearances before a judge over a twelve - to eighteen - month period . The program maintained rigorous graduation requirements , mandating completion of up to 220 hours of community service , obtaining a high - school - equivalency diploma , maintaining steady employment , taking parenting classes , and passing drug tests . At graduation , the court would dismiss the case and expunge the graduate ' s record . Over six years , the 200 people graduated from the program had a recidivism rate of less than ten percent , compared to the 53 percent of California ' s drug offenders who returned to prison within two years of release . Back on Track earned recognition from the U . S . Department of Justice as a model for reentry programs . The DOJ found that the cost to the taxpayers per participant was markedly lower ( $ 5 , 000 ) than the cost of adjudicating a case ( $ 10 , 000 ) and housing a low - level offender ( $ 50 , 000 ) . In 2009 , a state law ( the Back on Track Reentry Act , A . B . 750 ) was enacted , encouraging other California counties to start similar programs .	What did participants in the Back on Track initiative have to do in exchange for a deferral of sentencing?	Participants in the Back on Track initiative had to plead guilty and make regular appearances before a judge over a twelve-to-eighteen-month period.
In early 2014 , Harris issued a report titled , " Gangs Beyond Borders : California and the Fight Against Transnational Crime " , addressing the prominent role of drug , weapons , and human trafficking , money laundering , and technology crimes employed by various drug cartels from Mexico , Armenian Power , 18th Street Gang , and MS - 13 and offering recommendations for state and local law enforcement to combat the criminal activity . Later that year , Harris led a bipartisan delegation of state attorneys general to Mexico City to discuss transnational crime with Mexican prosecutors . Harris then convened a summit focused on the use of technology to fight transnational organized crime with state and federal officials from the U . S . , Mexico , and El Salvador .	Which drug cartels were mentioned in the report?	Mexican drug cartels, Armenian Power, 18th Street Gang, and MS-13.
During the first Democratic presidential debate in June 2019 , Harris scolded former vice president Joe Biden for " hurtful " remarks he made , speaking fondly of senators who opposed integration efforts in the 1970s and working with them to oppose mandatory school bussing . Harris ' s support rose by between six and nine points in polls following that debate . In the second debate in August , Harris was confronted by Biden and Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard over her record as attorney general . The San Jose Mercury News assessed that some of Gabbard ' s and Biden ' s accusations were on point , such as blocking the DNA testing of a death row inmate , while others did not stand up to scrutiny . In the immediate aftermath , Harris fell in the polls following that debate . Over the next few months her poll numbers fell to the low single digits . At a time when liberals were increasingly concerned about the excesses of the criminal justice system , Harris faced criticism from reformers for tough - on - crime policies she pursued while she was California ' s attorney general . For example , in 2014 , she decided to defend California ' s death penalty in court .	What accusations were made against you by Tulsi Gabbard and Joe Biden during the second debate?	Tulsi Gabbard and Joe Biden accused me of blocking the DNA testing of a death row inmate during my time as attorney general.
During the first Democratic presidential debate in June 2019 , Harris scolded former vice president Joe Biden for " hurtful " remarks he made , speaking fondly of senators who opposed integration efforts in the 1970s and working with them to oppose mandatory school bussing . Harris ' s support rose by between six and nine points in polls following that debate . In the second debate in August , Harris was confronted by Biden and Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard over her record as attorney general . The San Jose Mercury News assessed that some of Gabbard ' s and Biden ' s accusations were on point , such as blocking the DNA testing of a death row inmate , while others did not stand up to scrutiny . In the immediate aftermath , Harris fell in the polls following that debate . Over the next few months her poll numbers fell to the low single digits . At a time when liberals were increasingly concerned about the excesses of the criminal justice system , Harris faced criticism from reformers for tough - on - crime policies she pursued while she was California ' s attorney general . For example , in 2014 , she decided to defend California ' s death penalty in court .	How did your support change in the polls following the first Democratic presidential debate?	My support rose by between six and nine points in the polls following the first debate.
After a San Francisco Police Department officer , Isaac Espinoza , was shot and killed in 2004 , U . S . senator ( and former San Francisco mayor ) Dianne Feinstein , U . S . senator Barbara Boxer , Oakland mayor Jerry Brown , and the San Francisco Police Officers Association pressured Harris to reverse that position , but she did not . ( Polls found that seventy percent of voters supported Harris ' s decision . ) When Edwin Ramos , an illegal immigrant and alleged MS - 13 gang member , was accused of murdering a man and his two sons in 2009 , Harris sought a sentence of life in prison without parole , a decision Mayor Gavin Newsom backed .	What percentage of voters supported your decision regarding a certain position?	Seventy percent.
In 2004 , Harris recruited civil rights activist Lateefah Simon to create the San Francisco Reentry Division . The flagship program was the Back on Track initiative , a first - of - its - kind reentry program for first - time nonviolent offenders aged 18 – 30 . Initiative participants whose crimes were not weapon - or gang - related would plead guilty in exchange for a deferral of sentencing and regular appearances before a judge over a twelve - to eighteen - month period . The program maintained rigorous graduation requirements , mandating completion of up to 220 hours of community service , obtaining a high - school - equivalency diploma , maintaining steady employment , taking parenting classes , and passing drug tests . At graduation , the court would dismiss the case and expunge the graduate ' s record . Over six years , the 200 people graduated from the program had a recidivism rate of less than ten percent , compared to the 53 percent of California ' s drug offenders who returned to prison within two years of release . Back on Track earned recognition from the U . S . Department of Justice as a model for reentry programs . The DOJ found that the cost to the taxpayers per participant was markedly lower ( $ 5 , 000 ) than the cost of adjudicating a case ( $ 10 , 000 ) and housing a low - level offender ( $ 50 , 000 ) . In 2009 , a state law ( the Back on Track Reentry Act , A . B . 750 ) was enacted , encouraging other California counties to start similar programs .	What was the recidivism rate for the program graduates?	The recidivism rate for the program graduates was less than ten percent.
After a San Francisco Police Department officer , Isaac Espinoza , was shot and killed in 2004 , U . S . senator ( and former San Francisco mayor ) Dianne Feinstein , U . S . senator Barbara Boxer , Oakland mayor Jerry Brown , and the San Francisco Police Officers Association pressured Harris to reverse that position , but she did not . ( Polls found that seventy percent of voters supported Harris ' s decision . ) When Edwin Ramos , an illegal immigrant and alleged MS - 13 gang member , was accused of murdering a man and his two sons in 2009 , Harris sought a sentence of life in prison without parole , a decision Mayor Gavin Newsom backed .	Which U.S. senator also pressured you to reverse your position?	Barbara Boxer.
In early 2014 , Harris issued a report titled , " Gangs Beyond Borders : California and the Fight Against Transnational Crime " , addressing the prominent role of drug , weapons , and human trafficking , money laundering , and technology crimes employed by various drug cartels from Mexico , Armenian Power , 18th Street Gang , and MS - 13 and offering recommendations for state and local law enforcement to combat the criminal activity . Later that year , Harris led a bipartisan delegation of state attorneys general to Mexico City to discuss transnational crime with Mexican prosecutors . Harris then convened a summit focused on the use of technology to fight transnational organized crime with state and federal officials from the U . S . , Mexico , and El Salvador .	What were the types of crimes addressed in the report?	Drug trafficking, weapons trafficking, human trafficking, money laundering, and technology crimes.
Nearly two years before the 2010 election , Harris announced she planned to run . She also stated she would run only if then - Attorney General Jerry Brown did not seek re - election for that position . Brown instead chose to run for governor and Harris consolidated support from prominent California Democrats . Both of California ' s senators , Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer , House Speaker Nancy Pelosi , United Farm Workers cofounder Dolores Huerta , and mayor of Los Angeles Antonio Villaraigosa all endorsed her during the Democratic primary . In the June 8 , 2010 , primary , she was nominated with 33.6 percent of the vote , defeating Alberto Torrico and Chris Kelly .	Who did you choose to run for instead?	I chose to run for governor.
Harris created a Hate Crimes Unit , focusing on hate crimes against LGBT children and teens in schools . In early 2006 , Gwen Araujo , a 17 - year - old American Latina transgender teenager , was murdered by two men who later used the " gay panic defense " before being convicted of second - degree murder . Harris , alongside Araujo ' s mother Sylvia Guerrero , convened a two - day conference of at least 200 prosecutors and law enforcement officials nationwide to discuss strategies to counter such legal defenses . Harris subsequently supported A . B . 1160 , the Gwen Araujo Justice for Victims Act , advocating that California ' s penal code include jury instructions to ignore bias , sympathy , prejudice , or public opinion in making their decision , also making mandatory for district attorney ' s offices in California to educate prosecutors about panic strategies and how to prevent bias from affecting trial outcomes .	What was the focus of the Hate Crimes Unit?	The Hate Crimes Unit focused on hate crimes against LGBT children and teens in schools.
During the first Democratic presidential debate in June 2019 , Harris scolded former vice president Joe Biden for " hurtful " remarks he made , speaking fondly of senators who opposed integration efforts in the 1970s and working with them to oppose mandatory school bussing . Harris ' s support rose by between six and nine points in polls following that debate . In the second debate in August , Harris was confronted by Biden and Congresswoman Tulsi Gabbard over her record as attorney general . The San Jose Mercury News assessed that some of Gabbard ' s and Biden ' s accusations were on point , such as blocking the DNA testing of a death row inmate , while others did not stand up to scrutiny . In the immediate aftermath , Harris fell in the polls following that debate . Over the next few months her poll numbers fell to the low single digits . At a time when liberals were increasingly concerned about the excesses of the criminal justice system , Harris faced criticism from reformers for tough - on - crime policies she pursued while she was California ' s attorney general . For example , in 2014 , she decided to defend California ' s death penalty in court .	What criticism did you face from reformers regarding your record as California's attorney general?	I faced criticism from reformers for my tough-on-crime policies while I was California's attorney general.
In 2004 , Harris recruited civil rights activist Lateefah Simon to create the San Francisco Reentry Division . The flagship program was the Back on Track initiative , a first - of - its - kind reentry program for first - time nonviolent offenders aged 18 – 30 . Initiative participants whose crimes were not weapon - or gang - related would plead guilty in exchange for a deferral of sentencing and regular appearances before a judge over a twelve - to eighteen - month period . The program maintained rigorous graduation requirements , mandating completion of up to 220 hours of community service , obtaining a high - school - equivalency diploma , maintaining steady employment , taking parenting classes , and passing drug tests . At graduation , the court would dismiss the case and expunge the graduate ' s record . Over six years , the 200 people graduated from the program had a recidivism rate of less than ten percent , compared to the 53 percent of California ' s drug offenders who returned to prison within two years of release . Back on Track earned recognition from the U . S . Department of Justice as a model for reentry programs . The DOJ found that the cost to the taxpayers per participant was markedly lower ( $ 5 , 000 ) than the cost of adjudicating a case ( $ 10 , 000 ) and housing a low - level offender ( $ 50 , 000 ) . In 2009 , a state law ( the Back on Track Reentry Act , A . B . 750 ) was enacted , encouraging other California counties to start similar programs .	What were the graduation requirements for the Back on Track program?	The graduation requirements for the Back on Track program included completing up to 220 hours of community service, obtaining a high-school-equivalency diploma, maintaining steady employment, taking parenting classes, and passing drug tests.
In the runoff , Harris pledged never to seek the death penalty and to prosecute three - strike offenders only in cases of violent felonies . Harris ran a " forceful " campaign , assisted by former mayor Willie Brown , Senator Dianne Feinstein , writer and cartoonist Aaron McGruder , and comedians Eddie Griffin and Chris Rock . Harris differentiated herself from Hallinan by attacking his performance . She argued that she left his office because it was technologically inept , emphasizing his 52 - percent conviction rate for serious crimes despite an 83 - percent average conviction rate statewide . Harris charged that his office was not doing enough to stem the city ' s gun violence , particularly in poor neighborhoods like Bayview and the Tenderloin , and attacked his willingness to accept plea bargains in cases of domestic violence . Harris won with 56 percent of the vote , becoming the first person of color elected as district attorney of San Francisco .	Who assisted you in your "forceful" campaign?	Former mayor Willie Brown, Senator Dianne Feinstein, writer and cartoonist Aaron McGruder, and comedians Eddie Griffin and Chris Rock assisted me in my "forceful" campaign.
In February 1998 , San Francisco district attorney Terence Hallinan recruited Harris as an assistant district attorney . There , she became the chief of the Career Criminal Division , supervising five other attorneys , where she prosecuted homicide , burglary , robbery , and sexual assault cases   – particularly three - strikes cases . In 2000 , Harris reportedly clashed with Hallinan ' s assistant , Darrell Salomon , over Proposition   21 , which granted prosecutors the option of trying juvenile defendants in Superior Court rather than juvenile courts . Harris campaigned against the measure , which passed . Salomon opposed directing media inquiries about Prop   21 to Harris and reassigned her , a de facto demotion . Harris filed a complaint against Salomon and quit .	Why did you campaign against Proposition 21?	I campaigned against Proposition 21 because it granted prosecutors the option of trying juvenile defendants in Superior Court rather than juvenile courts.
Harris had been considered a top contender and potential frontrunner for the 2020 Democratic nomination for president . In June 2018 , she was quoted as " not ruling it out " . In July 2018 , it was announced that she would publish a memoir , a sign of a possible run . On January 21 , 2019 , Harris officially announced her candidacy for president of the United States in the 2020 United States presidential election . In the first 24   hours after her candidacy announcement , she tied a record set by Bernie Sanders in 2016 for the most donations raised in the day following an announcement . More than 20 , 000   people attended her formal campaign launch event in her hometown of Oakland , California , on January 27 , according to a police estimate .	What was announced in July 2018 regarding you?	I would publish a memoir
In early 2014 , Harris issued a report titled , " Gangs Beyond Borders : California and the Fight Against Transnational Crime " , addressing the prominent role of drug , weapons , and human trafficking , money laundering , and technology crimes employed by various drug cartels from Mexico , Armenian Power , 18th Street Gang , and MS - 13 and offering recommendations for state and local law enforcement to combat the criminal activity . Later that year , Harris led a bipartisan delegation of state attorneys general to Mexico City to discuss transnational crime with Mexican prosecutors . Harris then convened a summit focused on the use of technology to fight transnational organized crime with state and federal officials from the U . S . , Mexico , and El Salvador .	Who did you convene a summit with to discuss technology and transnational organized crime?	I convened a summit with state and federal officials from the U.S., Mexico, and El Salvador.
In June , Harris garnered media attention for her questioning of Rod Rosenstein , the deputy attorney general , over the role he played in the May 2017 firing of James Comey , the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation . The prosecutorial nature of her questioning caused Senator John McCain , an ex officio member of the Intelligence Committee , and Senator Richard Burr , the committee chairman , to interrupt her and request that she be more respectful of the witness . A week later , she questioned Jeff Sessions , the attorney general , on the same topic . Sessions said her questioning " makes me nervous " . Burr ' s singling out of Harris sparked suggestions in the news media that his behavior was sexist , with commentators arguing that Burr would not treat a male Senate colleague in a similar manner .	What role did Rod Rosenstein play in May 2017?	He played a role in the firing of James Comey.
Harris had been considered a top contender and potential frontrunner for the 2020 Democratic nomination for president . In June 2018 , she was quoted as " not ruling it out " . In July 2018 , it was announced that she would publish a memoir , a sign of a possible run . On January 21 , 2019 , Harris officially announced her candidacy for president of the United States in the 2020 United States presidential election . In the first 24   hours after her candidacy announcement , she tied a record set by Bernie Sanders in 2016 for the most donations raised in the day following an announcement . More than 20 , 000   people attended her formal campaign launch event in her hometown of Oakland , California , on January 27 , according to a police estimate .	How many people attended your formal campaign launch event in Oakland, California?	More than 20,000 people
In 2004 , Harris recruited civil rights activist Lateefah Simon to create the San Francisco Reentry Division . The flagship program was the Back on Track initiative , a first - of - its - kind reentry program for first - time nonviolent offenders aged 18 – 30 . Initiative participants whose crimes were not weapon - or gang - related would plead guilty in exchange for a deferral of sentencing and regular appearances before a judge over a twelve - to eighteen - month period . The program maintained rigorous graduation requirements , mandating completion of up to 220 hours of community service , obtaining a high - school - equivalency diploma , maintaining steady employment , taking parenting classes , and passing drug tests . At graduation , the court would dismiss the case and expunge the graduate ' s record . Over six years , the 200 people graduated from the program had a recidivism rate of less than ten percent , compared to the 53 percent of California ' s drug offenders who returned to prison within two years of release . Back on Track earned recognition from the U . S . Department of Justice as a model for reentry programs . The DOJ found that the cost to the taxpayers per participant was markedly lower ( $ 5 , 000 ) than the cost of adjudicating a case ( $ 10 , 000 ) and housing a low - level offender ( $ 50 , 000 ) . In 2009 , a state law ( the Back on Track Reentry Act , A . B . 750 ) was enacted , encouraging other California counties to start similar programs .	How did the cost per participant in Back on Track compare to other forms of adjudication and housing for low-level offenders?	The cost per participant in Back on Track was $5,000, which was markedly lower than the cost of adjudicating a case ($10,000) and housing a low-level offender ($50,000).
In the runoff , Harris pledged never to seek the death penalty and to prosecute three - strike offenders only in cases of violent felonies . Harris ran a " forceful " campaign , assisted by former mayor Willie Brown , Senator Dianne Feinstein , writer and cartoonist Aaron McGruder , and comedians Eddie Griffin and Chris Rock . Harris differentiated herself from Hallinan by attacking his performance . She argued that she left his office because it was technologically inept , emphasizing his 52 - percent conviction rate for serious crimes despite an 83 - percent average conviction rate statewide . Harris charged that his office was not doing enough to stem the city ' s gun violence , particularly in poor neighborhoods like Bayview and the Tenderloin , and attacked his willingness to accept plea bargains in cases of domestic violence . Harris won with 56 percent of the vote , becoming the first person of color elected as district attorney of San Francisco .	What was Hallinan's conviction rate for serious crimes?	Hallinan's conviction rate for serious crimes was 52 percent.
Nearly two years before the 2010 election , Harris announced she planned to run . She also stated she would run only if then - Attorney General Jerry Brown did not seek re - election for that position . Brown instead chose to run for governor and Harris consolidated support from prominent California Democrats . Both of California ' s senators , Dianne Feinstein and Barbara Boxer , House Speaker Nancy Pelosi , United Farm Workers cofounder Dolores Huerta , and mayor of Los Angeles Antonio Villaraigosa all endorsed her during the Democratic primary . In the June 8 , 2010 , primary , she was nominated with 33.6 percent of the vote , defeating Alberto Torrico and Chris Kelly .	When did you announce your plan to run for election?	Nearly two years before the 2010 election.
After a San Francisco Police Department officer , Isaac Espinoza , was shot and killed in 2004 , U . S . senator ( and former San Francisco mayor ) Dianne Feinstein , U . S . senator Barbara Boxer , Oakland mayor Jerry Brown , and the San Francisco Police Officers Association pressured Harris to reverse that position , but she did not . ( Polls found that seventy percent of voters supported Harris ' s decision . ) When Edwin Ramos , an illegal immigrant and alleged MS - 13 gang member , was accused of murdering a man and his two sons in 2009 , Harris sought a sentence of life in prison without parole , a decision Mayor Gavin Newsom backed .	Who was the San Francisco Police Department officer that was shot and killed in 2004?	Isaac Espinoza.
In June , Harris garnered media attention for her questioning of Rod Rosenstein , the deputy attorney general , over the role he played in the May 2017 firing of James Comey , the director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation . The prosecutorial nature of her questioning caused Senator John McCain , an ex officio member of the Intelligence Committee , and Senator Richard Burr , the committee chairman , to interrupt her and request that she be more respectful of the witness . A week later , she questioned Jeff Sessions , the attorney general , on the same topic . Sessions said her questioning " makes me nervous " . Burr ' s singling out of Harris sparked suggestions in the news media that his behavior was sexist , with commentators arguing that Burr would not treat a male Senate colleague in a similar manner .	What did Jeff Sessions say about your questioning?	He said my questioning makes him nervous.
In February 1998 , San Francisco district attorney Terence Hallinan recruited Harris as an assistant district attorney . There , she became the chief of the Career Criminal Division , supervising five other attorneys , where she prosecuted homicide , burglary , robbery , and sexual assault cases   – particularly three - strikes cases . In 2000 , Harris reportedly clashed with Hallinan ' s assistant , Darrell Salomon , over Proposition   21 , which granted prosecutors the option of trying juvenile defendants in Superior Court rather than juvenile courts . Harris campaigned against the measure , which passed . Salomon opposed directing media inquiries about Prop   21 to Harris and reassigned her , a de facto demotion . Harris filed a complaint against Salomon and quit .	What division did you become chief of?	I became chief of the Career Criminal Division.
