West recorded the remainder of the album in Los Angeles while recovering from the car accident . It was leaked months before its release date , and West used the opportunity to remix , remaster , and revise the album before its release ; West added new verses , string arrangements , gospel choirs , and improved drum programming . The album was postponed three times from its initial date in August 2003 , and was eventually released in February 2004 , reaching No .   2 on the Billboard 200 as his debut single , " Through the Wire " peaked at No .   15 while on the Billboard Hot 100 chart for five weeks . " Slow Jamz " , his second single , featuring Twista and Jamie Foxx , became the three musicians ' first No .   1 hit . The College Dropout received near - universal critical acclaim , was voted the top album of the year by two major music publications , [ which ? ] and has consistently been ranked among the great hip - hop works and debut albums by artists .	Where did you record the remainder of the album?	I recorded the remainder of the album in Los Angeles.
On January 5 , 2022 , West was announced as one of the 2022 headliners of Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival . Later that month on January 15 , West released the first single for his upcoming album Donda 2 , " Eazy " featuring The Game , to be executive produced by American rapper Future . West hosted a listening event for the album at LoanDepot Park in Miami , Florida , on February 22 . In April , shortly before Coachella , West pulled out as headlining act , then proceeded to pull out of headlining Rolling Loud . West and The Game performed the single on July 22 , marking West ' s first performance in five months following the low profile he had been keeping since Donda 2 remained unfinished . A day later , despite cancelling as headliner , he appeared at Rolling Loud during Lil Durk ' s set .	Who would be the executive producer for your album Donda 2?	American rapper Future.
West founded the record label and production company GOOD Music in 2004 , in conjunction with Sony BMG , shortly after releasing his debut album , The College Dropout . West , alongside then - unknown Ohio singer John Legend and fellow Chicago rapper Common were the label ' s inaugural artists . The label houses artists including West , Big Sean , Pusha T , Teyana Taylor , Yasiin Bey / Mos Def , D ' banj and John Legend , and producers including Hudson Mohawke , Q - Tip , Travis Scott , No I . D . , Jeff Bhasker , and S1 . GOOD Music has released ten albums certified gold or higher by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) . In November 2015 , West appointed Pusha T the new president of GOOD Music .	Who were your label's inaugural artists?	The label's inaugural artists were John Legend and Common, alongside me.
On January 5 , 2022 , West was announced as one of the 2022 headliners of Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival . Later that month on January 15 , West released the first single for his upcoming album Donda 2 , " Eazy " featuring The Game , to be executive produced by American rapper Future . West hosted a listening event for the album at LoanDepot Park in Miami , Florida , on February 22 . In April , shortly before Coachella , West pulled out as headlining act , then proceeded to pull out of headlining Rolling Loud . West and The Game performed the single on July 22 , marking West ' s first performance in five months following the low profile he had been keeping since Donda 2 remained unfinished . A day later , despite cancelling as headliner , he appeared at Rolling Loud during Lil Durk ' s set .	When were you announced as one of the headliners of Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival?	On January 5, 2022.
On January 5 , 2022 , West was announced as one of the 2022 headliners of Coachella Valley Music and Arts Festival . Later that month on January 15 , West released the first single for his upcoming album Donda 2 , " Eazy " featuring The Game , to be executive produced by American rapper Future . West hosted a listening event for the album at LoanDepot Park in Miami , Florida , on February 22 . In April , shortly before Coachella , West pulled out as headlining act , then proceeded to pull out of headlining Rolling Loud . West and The Game performed the single on July 22 , marking West ' s first performance in five months following the low profile he had been keeping since Donda 2 remained unfinished . A day later , despite cancelling as headliner , he appeared at Rolling Loud during Lil Durk ' s set .	When did you perform the single "Eazy" with The Game after a five-month hiatus?	On July 22.
West is among the most critically acclaimed popular music artists of the 21st century , earning praise from music critics , fans , industry peers , and cultural figures . In 2014 , NME named him the third most influential artist in music . Billboard senior editor Alex Gale declared West " absolutely one of the best , and you could make the argument for the best artist of the 21st century . " Sharing similar sentiments , Dave Bry of Complex Magazine called West the twenty - first century ' s " most important artist of any art form , of any genre . " The Atlantic writer David Samuels commented , " Kanye ' s power resides in his wild creativity and expressiveness , his mastery of form , and his deep and uncompromising attachment to a self - made aesthetic that he expresses through means that are entirely of the moment : rap music , digital downloads , fashion , Twitter , blogs , live streaming video . " Joe Muggs of The Guardian argued that " there is nobody else who can sell as many records as West does [ ... ] while remaining so resolutely experimental and capable of stirring things up culturally and politically . "	What did The Atlantic writer David Samuels comment about your power?	The Atlantic writer David Samuels commented that my power resides in my wild creativity and expressiveness, my mastery of form, and my deep and uncompromising attachment to a self-made aesthetic that I express through means that are entirely of the moment: rap music, digital downloads, fashion, Twitter, blogs, live streaming video.
In late 2022 , West made a series of antisemitic statements , resulting in the termination of his collaborations , sponsorships , and partnerships with Vogue , CAA , Balenciaga , Gap , and Adidas . West was widely condemned after appearing at a dinner hosted by Donald Trump at Mar - a - Lago beside Nick Fuentes , a white nationalist . In a subsequent December appearance on Alex Jones ' s InfoWars , West praised Adolf Hitler , denied the Holocaust , and identified as a Nazi . Following the interview , West ' s Twitter account was terminated after he posted an image depicting a swastika entangled within a Star of David . The School of the Art Institute of Chicago later rescinded West ' s honorary degree . According to a 2023 report published by the Anti - Defamation League , West ' s antisemitic rhetoric has caused several instances of hate - speech vandalism , harassment , and violence across the United States .	What happened to your Twitter account after the interview?	It was terminated after I posted an image depicting a swastika entangled within a Star of David.
West released a single titled " Wash Us in the Blood " on June 30 , 2020 , featuring fellow American rapper and singer Travis Scott , along with the music video , which was set to serve as the lead single from his tenth studio album Donda . However , in September 2020 , West stated that he would not be releasing any further music until he is " done with [ his ] contract with Sony and Universal " . On October 16 , he released the single " Nah Nah Nah " . West held several listening parties at Mercedes - Benz Stadium for his upcoming album Donda in the summer of 2021 , where he had taken up temporary residence in one of the stadium ' s locker rooms , converting it into a recording studio to finish the recording . After multiple delays , Donda was released on August 29 , 2021 . West claimed the album was released early without his approval and alleged that Universal had altered the tracklist . He released a delux edition of Donda , including five new songs , to streaming services on November 14 , 2021 . On November 20 , days after ending their long - running feud , West and rapper Drake confirmed that they would stage the " Free Larry Hoover " benefit concert on December 9 at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum .	Who did you collaborate with on the single "Wash Us in the Blood"?	I collaborated with fellow American rapper and singer Travis Scott on the single "Wash Us in the Blood".
It was reported in May 2017 that West was recording new music in Jackson Hole , Wyoming , with a wide range of collaborators . In April 2018 , West announced plans to write a philosophy book entitled Break the Simulation , later clarifying that he was sharing the book " in real time " on Twitter and began posting content that was likened to " life coaching " . Later that month , he also announced two new albums , a solo album and self - titled collaboration with Kid Cudi under the name Kids See Ghosts , both of which would be released in June . Additionally , he revealed he would produce upcoming albums by GOOD Music label - mates Pusha T and Teyana Taylor , as well as Nas . Shortly thereafter , West released the non - album singles " Lift Yourself " , a " strange , gibberish track " featuring nonsensical lyrics , and " Ye vs . the People " , in which he and T . I . discussed West ' s controversial support of Donald Trump .	Which artists did you reveal you would produce albums for?	I revealed I would produce upcoming albums for Pusha T, Teyana Taylor, and Nas.
West announced in January 2016 that SWISH would be released on February 11 , and later that month , released new songs " Real Friends " and a snippet of " No More Parties in LA " with Kendrick Lamar . On January 26 , 2016 , West revealed he had renamed the album from SWISH to Waves . In the weeks leading up to the album ' s release , West became embroiled in several Twitter controversies . Several days ahead of its release , West again changed the title , this time to The Life of Pablo . On February 11 , West premiered the album at Madison Square Garden as part of the presentation of his Yeezy Season   3 clothing line . Following the preview , West announced that he would be modifying the tracklist once more before its release to the public . He released the album exclusively on Tidal on February 14 , 2016 , following a performance on SNL . Following its release , West continued to tinker with mixes of several tracks , describing the work as " a living breathing changing creative expression " and proclaiming the end of the album as a dominant release form . Despite West ' s earlier comments , in addition to Tidal , the album was released through several other competing services starting in April .	What songs did you release in the same month?	"Real Friends" and a snippet of "No More Parties in LA" with Kendrick Lamar.
West announced in January 2016 that SWISH would be released on February 11 , and later that month , released new songs " Real Friends " and a snippet of " No More Parties in LA " with Kendrick Lamar . On January 26 , 2016 , West revealed he had renamed the album from SWISH to Waves . In the weeks leading up to the album ' s release , West became embroiled in several Twitter controversies . Several days ahead of its release , West again changed the title , this time to The Life of Pablo . On February 11 , West premiered the album at Madison Square Garden as part of the presentation of his Yeezy Season   3 clothing line . Following the preview , West announced that he would be modifying the tracklist once more before its release to the public . He released the album exclusively on Tidal on February 14 , 2016 , following a performance on SNL . Following its release , West continued to tinker with mixes of several tracks , describing the work as " a living breathing changing creative expression " and proclaiming the end of the album as a dominant release form . Despite West ' s earlier comments , in addition to Tidal , the album was released through several other competing services starting in April .	When did you release the album exclusively on Tidal?	On February 14, 2016, following a performance on SNL.
" Jesus Walks " , the album ' s fourth single , reached the top 20 of the Billboard pop charts , despite industry executives ' predictions that a song containing such blatant declarations of faith would never make it to the radio . The College Dropout was certified triple platinum in the US , and garnered West 10 Grammy nominations , including Album of the Year , and Best Rap Album ( which it received ) . During this period , West founded GOOD Music , a record label and management company that housed affiliate artists and producers , such as No I . D . and John Legend , and produced singles for Brandy , Common , Legend , and Slum Village .	Which awards did your album The College Dropout win at the Grammys?	My album The College Dropout won the Best Rap Album award at the Grammys.
West is among the most critically acclaimed popular music artists of the 21st century , earning praise from music critics , fans , industry peers , and cultural figures . In 2014 , NME named him the third most influential artist in music . Billboard senior editor Alex Gale declared West " absolutely one of the best , and you could make the argument for the best artist of the 21st century . " Sharing similar sentiments , Dave Bry of Complex Magazine called West the twenty - first century ' s " most important artist of any art form , of any genre . " The Atlantic writer David Samuels commented , " Kanye ' s power resides in his wild creativity and expressiveness , his mastery of form , and his deep and uncompromising attachment to a self - made aesthetic that he expresses through means that are entirely of the moment : rap music , digital downloads , fashion , Twitter , blogs , live streaming video . " Joe Muggs of The Guardian argued that " there is nobody else who can sell as many records as West does [ ... ] while remaining so resolutely experimental and capable of stirring things up culturally and politically . "	According to Dave Bry of Complex Magazine, who am I?	According to Dave Bry of Complex Magazine, I am the twenty-first century's "most important artist of any art form, of any genre."
In late 2022 , West made a series of antisemitic statements , resulting in the termination of his collaborations , sponsorships , and partnerships with Vogue , CAA , Balenciaga , Gap , and Adidas . West was widely condemned after appearing at a dinner hosted by Donald Trump at Mar - a - Lago beside Nick Fuentes , a white nationalist . In a subsequent December appearance on Alex Jones ' s InfoWars , West praised Adolf Hitler , denied the Holocaust , and identified as a Nazi . Following the interview , West ' s Twitter account was terminated after he posted an image depicting a swastika entangled within a Star of David . The School of the Art Institute of Chicago later rescinded West ' s honorary degree . According to a 2023 report published by the Anti - Defamation League , West ' s antisemitic rhetoric has caused several instances of hate - speech vandalism , harassment , and violence across the United States .	Who did you appear beside at a dinner hosted by Donald Trump at Mar-a-Lago?	I appeared beside Nick Fuentes, a white nationalist.
" Jesus Walks " , the album ' s fourth single , reached the top 20 of the Billboard pop charts , despite industry executives ' predictions that a song containing such blatant declarations of faith would never make it to the radio . The College Dropout was certified triple platinum in the US , and garnered West 10 Grammy nominations , including Album of the Year , and Best Rap Album ( which it received ) . During this period , West founded GOOD Music , a record label and management company that housed affiliate artists and producers , such as No I . D . and John Legend , and produced singles for Brandy , Common , Legend , and Slum Village .	What was the position of "Jesus Walks" on your Billboard pop charts?	"Jesus Walks" reached the top 20 of my Billboard pop charts.
Various political pundits speculated that West ' s presidential run was a publicity stunt to promote his latest music releases . On July 15 , 2020 , official paperwork was filed with the Federal Election Commission for West , under the " BDY " Party affiliation amid claims that he was preparing to drop out . West held his first rally that weekend , on July 19 . West aligned himself with the philosophy of a consistent life ethic , a tenet of Christian democracy . His platform advocated for the creation of a culture of life , endorsing environmental stewardship , supporting the arts , buttressing faith - based organizations , restoring school prayer , providing for a strong national defense , and " America First " diplomacy . In July 2020 , West told Forbes that he is ignorant on issues such as taxes and foreign policy .	What party affiliation did you have when you filed the official paperwork?	I had the "BDY" Party affiliation when I filed the official paperwork.
West released a single titled " Wash Us in the Blood " on June 30 , 2020 , featuring fellow American rapper and singer Travis Scott , along with the music video , which was set to serve as the lead single from his tenth studio album Donda . However , in September 2020 , West stated that he would not be releasing any further music until he is " done with [ his ] contract with Sony and Universal " . On October 16 , he released the single " Nah Nah Nah " . West held several listening parties at Mercedes - Benz Stadium for his upcoming album Donda in the summer of 2021 , where he had taken up temporary residence in one of the stadium ' s locker rooms , converting it into a recording studio to finish the recording . After multiple delays , Donda was released on August 29 , 2021 . West claimed the album was released early without his approval and alleged that Universal had altered the tracklist . He released a delux edition of Donda , including five new songs , to streaming services on November 14 , 2021 . On November 20 , days after ending their long - running feud , West and rapper Drake confirmed that they would stage the " Free Larry Hoover " benefit concert on December 9 at the Los Angeles Memorial Coliseum .	When did you release the single "Nah Nah Nah"?	I released the single "Nah Nah Nah" on October 16.
West is among the most critically acclaimed popular music artists of the 21st century , earning praise from music critics , fans , industry peers , and cultural figures . In 2014 , NME named him the third most influential artist in music . Billboard senior editor Alex Gale declared West " absolutely one of the best , and you could make the argument for the best artist of the 21st century . " Sharing similar sentiments , Dave Bry of Complex Magazine called West the twenty - first century ' s " most important artist of any art form , of any genre . " The Atlantic writer David Samuels commented , " Kanye ' s power resides in his wild creativity and expressiveness , his mastery of form , and his deep and uncompromising attachment to a self - made aesthetic that he expresses through means that are entirely of the moment : rap music , digital downloads , fashion , Twitter , blogs , live streaming video . " Joe Muggs of The Guardian argued that " there is nobody else who can sell as many records as West does [ ... ] while remaining so resolutely experimental and capable of stirring things up culturally and politically . "	According to Joe Muggs of The Guardian, what sets you apart from others in terms of record sales and cultural and political impact?	According to Joe Muggs of The Guardian, there is nobody else who can sell as many records as I do while remaining so resolutely experimental and capable of stirring things up culturally and politically.
It was reported in May 2017 that West was recording new music in Jackson Hole , Wyoming , with a wide range of collaborators . In April 2018 , West announced plans to write a philosophy book entitled Break the Simulation , later clarifying that he was sharing the book " in real time " on Twitter and began posting content that was likened to " life coaching " . Later that month , he also announced two new albums , a solo album and self - titled collaboration with Kid Cudi under the name Kids See Ghosts , both of which would be released in June . Additionally , he revealed he would produce upcoming albums by GOOD Music label - mates Pusha T and Teyana Taylor , as well as Nas . Shortly thereafter , West released the non - album singles " Lift Yourself " , a " strange , gibberish track " featuring nonsensical lyrics , and " Ye vs . the People " , in which he and T . I . discussed West ' s controversial support of Donald Trump .	What was the name of the collaboration you had with Kid Cudi?	The collaboration was self-titled and called Kids See Ghosts.
West founded the record label and production company GOOD Music in 2004 , in conjunction with Sony BMG , shortly after releasing his debut album , The College Dropout . West , alongside then - unknown Ohio singer John Legend and fellow Chicago rapper Common were the label ' s inaugural artists . The label houses artists including West , Big Sean , Pusha T , Teyana Taylor , Yasiin Bey / Mos Def , D ' banj and John Legend , and producers including Hudson Mohawke , Q - Tip , Travis Scott , No I . D . , Jeff Bhasker , and S1 . GOOD Music has released ten albums certified gold or higher by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) . In November 2015 , West appointed Pusha T the new president of GOOD Music .	How many albums have you released that are certified gold or higher by the RIAA?	I have released ten albums that are certified gold or higher by the RIAA.
West founded the record label and production company GOOD Music in 2004 , in conjunction with Sony BMG , shortly after releasing his debut album , The College Dropout . West , alongside then - unknown Ohio singer John Legend and fellow Chicago rapper Common were the label ' s inaugural artists . The label houses artists including West , Big Sean , Pusha T , Teyana Taylor , Yasiin Bey / Mos Def , D ' banj and John Legend , and producers including Hudson Mohawke , Q - Tip , Travis Scott , No I . D . , Jeff Bhasker , and S1 . GOOD Music has released ten albums certified gold or higher by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) . In November 2015 , West appointed Pusha T the new president of GOOD Music .	Which artists are currently housed under GOOD Music?	Currently, artists such as Big Sean, Pusha T, Teyana Taylor, Yasiin Bey/Mos Def, D'banj, and John Legend are housed under GOOD Music.
West recorded the remainder of the album in Los Angeles while recovering from the car accident . It was leaked months before its release date , and West used the opportunity to remix , remaster , and revise the album before its release ; West added new verses , string arrangements , gospel choirs , and improved drum programming . The album was postponed three times from its initial date in August 2003 , and was eventually released in February 2004 , reaching No .   2 on the Billboard 200 as his debut single , " Through the Wire " peaked at No .   15 while on the Billboard Hot 100 chart for five weeks . " Slow Jamz " , his second single , featuring Twista and Jamie Foxx , became the three musicians ' first No .   1 hit . The College Dropout received near - universal critical acclaim , was voted the top album of the year by two major music publications , [ which ? ] and has consistently been ranked among the great hip - hop works and debut albums by artists .	What was the highest position your album reached on the Billboard 200?	My album reached No. 2 on the Billboard 200.
West founded the record label and production company GOOD Music in 2004 , in conjunction with Sony BMG , shortly after releasing his debut album , The College Dropout . West , alongside then - unknown Ohio singer John Legend and fellow Chicago rapper Common were the label ' s inaugural artists . The label houses artists including West , Big Sean , Pusha T , Teyana Taylor , Yasiin Bey / Mos Def , D ' banj and John Legend , and producers including Hudson Mohawke , Q - Tip , Travis Scott , No I . D . , Jeff Bhasker , and S1 . GOOD Music has released ten albums certified gold or higher by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) . In November 2015 , West appointed Pusha T the new president of GOOD Music .	Who did you appoint as the new president of GOOD Music?	I appointed Pusha T as the new president of GOOD Music in November 2015.
In late 2022 , West made a series of antisemitic statements , resulting in the termination of his collaborations , sponsorships , and partnerships with Vogue , CAA , Balenciaga , Gap , and Adidas . West was widely condemned after appearing at a dinner hosted by Donald Trump at Mar - a - Lago beside Nick Fuentes , a white nationalist . In a subsequent December appearance on Alex Jones ' s InfoWars , West praised Adolf Hitler , denied the Holocaust , and identified as a Nazi . Following the interview , West ' s Twitter account was terminated after he posted an image depicting a swastika entangled within a Star of David . The School of the Art Institute of Chicago later rescinded West ' s honorary degree . According to a 2023 report published by the Anti - Defamation League , West ' s antisemitic rhetoric has caused several instances of hate - speech vandalism , harassment , and violence across the United States .	What did you do in a subsequent appearance on Alex Jones's InfoWars?	I praised Adolf Hitler, denied the Holocaust, and identified as a Nazi.
It was reported in May 2017 that West was recording new music in Jackson Hole , Wyoming , with a wide range of collaborators . In April 2018 , West announced plans to write a philosophy book entitled Break the Simulation , later clarifying that he was sharing the book " in real time " on Twitter and began posting content that was likened to " life coaching " . Later that month , he also announced two new albums , a solo album and self - titled collaboration with Kid Cudi under the name Kids See Ghosts , both of which would be released in June . Additionally , he revealed he would produce upcoming albums by GOOD Music label - mates Pusha T and Teyana Taylor , as well as Nas . Shortly thereafter , West released the non - album singles " Lift Yourself " , a " strange , gibberish track " featuring nonsensical lyrics , and " Ye vs . the People " , in which he and T . I . discussed West ' s controversial support of Donald Trump .	What were the two non-album singles you released?	The two non-album singles I released were "Lift Yourself" and "Ye vs. the People".
