Following the release of her single " Never Worn White " in March 2020 , Perry revealed in the accompanying music video that she was expecting her first child with Bloom . " Daisies " , the lead single from her sixth album , was released on May 15 , 2020 . Its second single " Smile " followed two months later . The album , also titled Smile , was released on August 28 , 2020 . Two days before its distribution , she gave birth to a daughter named Daisy Dove Bloom . The album received mixed reviews , and debuted at number five in the United States . Perry further promoted the album with four compilation EPs : Camp Katy , Empowered , Scorpio SZN , and Cosmic Energy . These EPs were followed by the single " Not the End of the World " in December 2020 , which had a music video in which Zooey Deschanel impersonates Perry . Additionally she collaborated with various artists to create two remixes of Smile album tracks . Ti ë sto remix of " Resilient " featuring Aitana was released in November 2020 , while Bruno Martini remix of " Cry About It Later " featuring Lu í sa Sonza was released in April 2021 .	Who did you reveal you were expecting your first child with in the music video of "Never Worn White"?	Bloom.
In August 2016 , Perry stated that she aspired to create material " that connects and relates and inspires " and told Ryan Seacrest that she was " not rushing " her fifth album , adding " I ' m just having a lot of fun , but experimenting and trying different producers , and different collaborators , and different styles " . On February 10 , 2017 , Perry released the album ' s lead single " Chained to the Rhythm " featuring Skip Marley . It reached number one in Hungary and number four in the United States . The track was also streamed over three million times on Spotify within 24 hours , breaking the music streaming service ' s record at the time for the highest first - day streaming for a single track by a female artist . The album ' s second single , " Bon App é tit " with Migos , was released that April . Its third single , " Swish Swish " , featured Nicki Minaj and followed the next month . They respectively peaked at numbers 59 and 46 in the United States , and made the top 15 in Canada .	Who was featured on your lead single "Chained to the Rhythm"?	Skip Marley.
Perry has described herself as a " singer - songwriter masquerading as a pop star " and maintains that honest songwriting is very important to her . She told Marie Claire : " I feel like my secret magic trick that separates me from a lot of my peers is the bravery to be vulnerable and truthful and honest . I think you become more relatable when you ' re vulnerable . " Actress and comedian Kristen Wiig commented that " as easy , breezy , and infectious as Perry ' s songs can be , beneath the surface lurks a sea of mixed emotions , jumbled motives , and contradictory impulses complicated enough to fill a Carole King record . " According to Greg Kot of the Chicago Tribune , " being taken seriously may be Perry ' s greatest challenge yet . " In 2013 , The New York Times labeled her " the most potent pop star of the day   – her hits are relatable with just a hint of experimentation " . Randall Roberts of the Los Angeles Times criticized her use of idioms and metaphors in her lyrics and for frequent " clich é s " . Throughout her career , Perry has also co - written songs recorded by other artists , including Lesley Roy , Kelly Clarkson , Jessie James Decker , Selena Gomez & the Scene , Britney Spears , Iggy Azalea , Rita Ora , Nicki Minaj , and Ariana Grande .	What did The New York Times label you as in 2013?	In 2013, The New York Times labeled me as "the most potent pop star of the day".
Prism was released on October 18 , 2013 , and has sold 4 million copies as of August 2015 . It received favorable reviews from critics and debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 chart . Four days later , Perry performed the songs from the album at the iHeartRadio Theater in Los Angeles . " Dark Horse " with Juicy J was released as the album ' s third single in December , and became her ninth U . S . number - one single the following month . In 2014 , " Birthday " and " This Is How We Do " respectively followed as the album ' s fourth and fifth singles , and reached the top 25 on the Hot 100 . Prior to ending her relationship with Mayer in February 2014 , she recorded and co - wrote a duet with him titled " Who You Love " for his album Paradise Valley . The song was released on August 12 , 2013 . Perry ' s third headlining tour , the Prismatic World Tour , began in May 2014 and concluded in October 2015 . It sold almost 2 million tickets and grossed $ 204.3   million worldwide and won Perry the award for " Top Package " at the 2014 Billboard Touring Awards . She also performed at the 2015 Rock in Rio festival on September 27 , 2015 .	How many copies of Prism have you sold as of August 2015?	Prism has sold 4 million copies as of August 2015.
In November 2012 , Perry began work on her fourth album , Prism . She told Billboard , " I know exactly the record I want to make next . I know the artwork , the coloring and the tone " and " I even know what type of tour I ' m doing next . I ' ll be very pleased if the vision I have in my head becomes a reality . " After initially telling L ' Uomo Vogue in June 2012 that she planned to have " darker elements " in Prism following the end of her marriage , the singer revealed to MTV during the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards that she changed the album ' s direction after periods of self - reflection . Perry commented " I felt very prismatic " , which inspired the album ' s name . " Roar " was released as the lead single from Prism on August 10 , 2013 . It was promoted at the MTV Video Music Awards and reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100 . " Unconditionally " followed as the second single from Prism on October 16 , 2013 , and peaked at number 14 in the United States .	What did you say about the record you wanted to make?	I said, "I know exactly the record I want to make next. I know the artwork, the coloring and the tone."
Following the release of her single " Never Worn White " in March 2020 , Perry revealed in the accompanying music video that she was expecting her first child with Bloom . " Daisies " , the lead single from her sixth album , was released on May 15 , 2020 . Its second single " Smile " followed two months later . The album , also titled Smile , was released on August 28 , 2020 . Two days before its distribution , she gave birth to a daughter named Daisy Dove Bloom . The album received mixed reviews , and debuted at number five in the United States . Perry further promoted the album with four compilation EPs : Camp Katy , Empowered , Scorpio SZN , and Cosmic Energy . These EPs were followed by the single " Not the End of the World " in December 2020 , which had a music video in which Zooey Deschanel impersonates Perry . Additionally she collaborated with various artists to create two remixes of Smile album tracks . Ti ë sto remix of " Resilient " featuring Aitana was released in November 2020 , while Bruno Martini remix of " Cry About It Later " featuring Lu í sa Sonza was released in April 2021 .	Which EP did you release in December 2020?	"Not the End of the World".
Perry released her first single with Capitol , " I Kissed a Girl " , on April 28 , 2008 , as the lead single from One of the Boys . The first station to pick up the song was WRVW in Nashville , who were inundated with enthusiastic calls the first three days they played it . The track reached number one on the US Billboard Hot 100 . " I Kissed a Girl " created controversy among both religious and LGBT groups . The former criticized its homosexual theme , while the latter accused her of using bi - curiosity to sell records . In response to speculation that her parents opposed her music and career , Perry told MTV that they had no problems with her success . One of the Boys , released on June 17 , 2008 , garnered mixed critical reviews and reached number nine on the US Billboard 200 . The album went on to sell 7 million copies worldwide . " Hot n Cold " was released the following September and became the album ' s second successful single , reaching number three on the Billboard Hot 100 while topping charts in Germany , Canada , the Netherlands and Austria . Later singles " Thinking of You " and " Waking Up in Vegas " were released in 2009 and reached the top 30 of the Hot 100 . The Matrix ' s self - titled debut album , which Perry had recorded with the band in 2004 , was released onto iTunes on January 27 , 2009 , as a result of her solo success .	When did you release your first single with Capitol?	I released my first single with Capitol on April 28, 2008.
On January 5 , 2012 , Perry was named the sixth best - selling digital artist in the United States , with sales of 37.6   million units according to Nielsen SoundScan . That month , she became the first artist to have four songs sell over 5 million digital units when " E . T . " reached that mark along with " Firework " , " California Gurls " , and " Hot N Cold " . On February 13 , Capitol released the lead single from Teenage Dream : The Complete Confection , " Part of Me " , which debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 and became Perry ' s seventh single overall to top the chart . Teenage Dream : The Complete Confection was released on March 23 , and serves as a reissue of Teenage Dream . " Wide Awake " was released on May 22 as the re - release ' s second single , peaking at number two on the Billboard Hot 100 and number one in Canada and New Zealand .	Which of your songs reached the mark of over 5 million digital units along with "E.T."?	"Firework," "California Gurls," and "Hot N Cold" also reached the mark of over 5 million digital units.
Perry had minor success prior to her breakthrough . One of the songs she had recorded for her album with Ballard , " Simple " , was featured on the soundtrack to the 2005 film The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants . She provided backing vocals on Mick Jagger ' s song " Old Habits Die Hard " , which was included on the soundtrack to the 2004 film Alfie . In September 2004 , Blender named Perry " The Next Big Thing " . She recorded background vocals on P . O . D . ' s single " Goodbye for Now " , was featured at the end of its music video in 2006 , and performed it with them on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno . That year , Perry also appeared in the music video for " Learn to Fly " by Carbon Leaf , and played the love interest of her then - boyfriend , Gym Class Heroes lead singer Travie McCoy , in the band ' s music video for " Cupid ' s Chokehold " .	What was one of the songs you recorded for your album with Ballard?	"Simple"
On January 5 , 2012 , Perry was named the sixth best - selling digital artist in the United States , with sales of 37.6   million units according to Nielsen SoundScan . That month , she became the first artist to have four songs sell over 5 million digital units when " E . T . " reached that mark along with " Firework " , " California Gurls " , and " Hot N Cold " . On February 13 , Capitol released the lead single from Teenage Dream : The Complete Confection , " Part of Me " , which debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 and became Perry ' s seventh single overall to top the chart . Teenage Dream : The Complete Confection was released on March 23 , and serves as a reissue of Teenage Dream . " Wide Awake " was released on May 22 as the re - release ' s second single , peaking at number two on the Billboard Hot 100 and number one in Canada and New Zealand .	When were you named the sixth best-selling digital artist in the United States?	On January 5, 2012.
Perry had minor success prior to her breakthrough . One of the songs she had recorded for her album with Ballard , " Simple " , was featured on the soundtrack to the 2005 film The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants . She provided backing vocals on Mick Jagger ' s song " Old Habits Die Hard " , which was included on the soundtrack to the 2004 film Alfie . In September 2004 , Blender named Perry " The Next Big Thing " . She recorded background vocals on P . O . D . ' s single " Goodbye for Now " , was featured at the end of its music video in 2006 , and performed it with them on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno . That year , Perry also appeared in the music video for " Learn to Fly " by Carbon Leaf , and played the love interest of her then - boyfriend , Gym Class Heroes lead singer Travie McCoy , in the band ' s music video for " Cupid ' s Chokehold " .	With which artist did you record the single "Goodbye for Now"?	I recorded background vocals on P.O.D.'s single "Goodbye for Now" in 2006.
Perry has described herself as a " singer - songwriter masquerading as a pop star " and maintains that honest songwriting is very important to her . She told Marie Claire : " I feel like my secret magic trick that separates me from a lot of my peers is the bravery to be vulnerable and truthful and honest . I think you become more relatable when you ' re vulnerable . " Actress and comedian Kristen Wiig commented that " as easy , breezy , and infectious as Perry ' s songs can be , beneath the surface lurks a sea of mixed emotions , jumbled motives , and contradictory impulses complicated enough to fill a Carole King record . " According to Greg Kot of the Chicago Tribune , " being taken seriously may be Perry ' s greatest challenge yet . " In 2013 , The New York Times labeled her " the most potent pop star of the day   – her hits are relatable with just a hint of experimentation " . Randall Roberts of the Los Angeles Times criticized her use of idioms and metaphors in her lyrics and for frequent " clich é s " . Throughout her career , Perry has also co - written songs recorded by other artists , including Lesley Roy , Kelly Clarkson , Jessie James Decker , Selena Gomez & the Scene , Britney Spears , Iggy Azalea , Rita Ora , Nicki Minaj , and Ariana Grande .	What do you believe is important in songwriting?	I believe that honest songwriting is very important.
In June 2019 , Perry appeared in the music video of Taylor Swift ' s " You Need to Calm Down " . In July , a jury in California returned a verdict following a week - long trial that Perry ' s song " Dark Horse " had copied Flame ' s 2008 song " Joyful Noise " after he filed a copyright lawsuit alleging that it used his track ' s beat without permission ; the verdict was later overturned . After the initial verdict , the jury ordered her to pay him $ 550 , 000 . The next month , Josh Kloss , Perry ' s co - star in the " Teenage Dream " music video , accused her of sexual misconduct . In an Instagram post , Kloss alleged that , during a party at a skating rink , Perry pulled on his sweatpants and underwear , exposing his penis to her male friends . He also said her management prevented him from speaking about his time with the singer . However , Johnny Wujek , the creative director of said party defended Perry , saying that she " would never do something like that " and accused Kloss of having an " ongoing obsession " with her . After initially refraining from responding to this , believing it would have detracted from the Me Too movement , Perry has also denied Kloss ' s claims .	What did you allegedly do to Kloss?	Kloss alleged that I pulled on his sweatpants and underwear, exposing his penis to her male friends.
In August 2016 , Perry stated that she aspired to create material " that connects and relates and inspires " and told Ryan Seacrest that she was " not rushing " her fifth album , adding " I ' m just having a lot of fun , but experimenting and trying different producers , and different collaborators , and different styles " . On February 10 , 2017 , Perry released the album ' s lead single " Chained to the Rhythm " featuring Skip Marley . It reached number one in Hungary and number four in the United States . The track was also streamed over three million times on Spotify within 24 hours , breaking the music streaming service ' s record at the time for the highest first - day streaming for a single track by a female artist . The album ' s second single , " Bon App é tit " with Migos , was released that April . Its third single , " Swish Swish " , featured Nicki Minaj and followed the next month . They respectively peaked at numbers 59 and 46 in the United States , and made the top 15 in Canada .	How many times was "Chained to the Rhythm" streamed on Spotify within 24 hours?	It was streamed over three million times on Spotify within 24 hours.
In August 2016 , Perry stated that she aspired to create material " that connects and relates and inspires " and told Ryan Seacrest that she was " not rushing " her fifth album , adding " I ' m just having a lot of fun , but experimenting and trying different producers , and different collaborators , and different styles " . On February 10 , 2017 , Perry released the album ' s lead single " Chained to the Rhythm " featuring Skip Marley . It reached number one in Hungary and number four in the United States . The track was also streamed over three million times on Spotify within 24 hours , breaking the music streaming service ' s record at the time for the highest first - day streaming for a single track by a female artist . The album ' s second single , " Bon App é tit " with Migos , was released that April . Its third single , " Swish Swish " , featured Nicki Minaj and followed the next month . They respectively peaked at numbers 59 and 46 in the United States , and made the top 15 in Canada .	Whose record did your song "Chained to the Rhythm" break on Spotify?	It broke the music streaming service's record at the time for the highest first-day streaming for a single track by a female artist.
Perry had minor success prior to her breakthrough . One of the songs she had recorded for her album with Ballard , " Simple " , was featured on the soundtrack to the 2005 film The Sisterhood of the Traveling Pants . She provided backing vocals on Mick Jagger ' s song " Old Habits Die Hard " , which was included on the soundtrack to the 2004 film Alfie . In September 2004 , Blender named Perry " The Next Big Thing " . She recorded background vocals on P . O . D . ' s single " Goodbye for Now " , was featured at the end of its music video in 2006 , and performed it with them on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno . That year , Perry also appeared in the music video for " Learn to Fly " by Carbon Leaf , and played the love interest of her then - boyfriend , Gym Class Heroes lead singer Travie McCoy , in the band ' s music video for " Cupid ' s Chokehold " .	In which music videos did you appear in 2006?	I appeared in the music video for "Learn to Fly" by Carbon Leaf and in the music video for "Cupid's Chokehold" by Gym Class Heroes, where I played the love interest of my then-boyfriend, Travie McCoy.
Following the release of her single " Never Worn White " in March 2020 , Perry revealed in the accompanying music video that she was expecting her first child with Bloom . " Daisies " , the lead single from her sixth album , was released on May 15 , 2020 . Its second single " Smile " followed two months later . The album , also titled Smile , was released on August 28 , 2020 . Two days before its distribution , she gave birth to a daughter named Daisy Dove Bloom . The album received mixed reviews , and debuted at number five in the United States . Perry further promoted the album with four compilation EPs : Camp Katy , Empowered , Scorpio SZN , and Cosmic Energy . These EPs were followed by the single " Not the End of the World " in December 2020 , which had a music video in which Zooey Deschanel impersonates Perry . Additionally she collaborated with various artists to create two remixes of Smile album tracks . Ti ë sto remix of " Resilient " featuring Aitana was released in November 2020 , while Bruno Martini remix of " Cry About It Later " featuring Lu í sa Sonza was released in April 2021 .	When was your sixth album "Smile" released?	On August 28, 2020.
In August 2016 , Perry stated that she aspired to create material " that connects and relates and inspires " and told Ryan Seacrest that she was " not rushing " her fifth album , adding " I ' m just having a lot of fun , but experimenting and trying different producers , and different collaborators , and different styles " . On February 10 , 2017 , Perry released the album ' s lead single " Chained to the Rhythm " featuring Skip Marley . It reached number one in Hungary and number four in the United States . The track was also streamed over three million times on Spotify within 24 hours , breaking the music streaming service ' s record at the time for the highest first - day streaming for a single track by a female artist . The album ' s second single , " Bon App é tit " with Migos , was released that April . Its third single , " Swish Swish " , featured Nicki Minaj and followed the next month . They respectively peaked at numbers 59 and 46 in the United States , and made the top 15 in Canada .	In which countries did your song "Chained to the Rhythm" reach number one?	It reached number one in Hungary.
Following the release of her single " Never Worn White " in March 2020 , Perry revealed in the accompanying music video that she was expecting her first child with Bloom . " Daisies " , the lead single from her sixth album , was released on May 15 , 2020 . Its second single " Smile " followed two months later . The album , also titled Smile , was released on August 28 , 2020 . Two days before its distribution , she gave birth to a daughter named Daisy Dove Bloom . The album received mixed reviews , and debuted at number five in the United States . Perry further promoted the album with four compilation EPs : Camp Katy , Empowered , Scorpio SZN , and Cosmic Energy . These EPs were followed by the single " Not the End of the World " in December 2020 , which had a music video in which Zooey Deschanel impersonates Perry . Additionally she collaborated with various artists to create two remixes of Smile album tracks . Ti ë sto remix of " Resilient " featuring Aitana was released in November 2020 , while Bruno Martini remix of " Cry About It Later " featuring Lu í sa Sonza was released in April 2021 .	What is the name of your daughter?	Daisy Dove Bloom.
Prism was released on October 18 , 2013 , and has sold 4 million copies as of August 2015 . It received favorable reviews from critics and debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 chart . Four days later , Perry performed the songs from the album at the iHeartRadio Theater in Los Angeles . " Dark Horse " with Juicy J was released as the album ' s third single in December , and became her ninth U . S . number - one single the following month . In 2014 , " Birthday " and " This Is How We Do " respectively followed as the album ' s fourth and fifth singles , and reached the top 25 on the Hot 100 . Prior to ending her relationship with Mayer in February 2014 , she recorded and co - wrote a duet with him titled " Who You Love " for his album Paradise Valley . The song was released on August 12 , 2013 . Perry ' s third headlining tour , the Prismatic World Tour , began in May 2014 and concluded in October 2015 . It sold almost 2 million tickets and grossed $ 204.3   million worldwide and won Perry the award for " Top Package " at the 2014 Billboard Touring Awards . She also performed at the 2015 Rock in Rio festival on September 27 , 2015 .	When did you perform the songs from Prism at the iHeartRadio Theater in Los Angeles?	I performed the songs from Prism at the iHeartRadio Theater in Los Angeles four days after its release.
Perry released her first single with Capitol , " I Kissed a Girl " , on April 28 , 2008 , as the lead single from One of the Boys . The first station to pick up the song was WRVW in Nashville , who were inundated with enthusiastic calls the first three days they played it . The track reached number one on the US Billboard Hot 100 . " I Kissed a Girl " created controversy among both religious and LGBT groups . The former criticized its homosexual theme , while the latter accused her of using bi - curiosity to sell records . In response to speculation that her parents opposed her music and career , Perry told MTV that they had no problems with her success . One of the Boys , released on June 17 , 2008 , garnered mixed critical reviews and reached number nine on the US Billboard 200 . The album went on to sell 7 million copies worldwide . " Hot n Cold " was released the following September and became the album ' s second successful single , reaching number three on the Billboard Hot 100 while topping charts in Germany , Canada , the Netherlands and Austria . Later singles " Thinking of You " and " Waking Up in Vegas " were released in 2009 and reached the top 30 of the Hot 100 . The Matrix ' s self - titled debut album , which Perry had recorded with the band in 2004 , was released onto iTunes on January 27 , 2009 , as a result of her solo success .	What was the name of your first single?	My first single was called "I Kissed a Girl".
In November 2012 , Perry began work on her fourth album , Prism . She told Billboard , " I know exactly the record I want to make next . I know the artwork , the coloring and the tone " and " I even know what type of tour I ' m doing next . I ' ll be very pleased if the vision I have in my head becomes a reality . " After initially telling L ' Uomo Vogue in June 2012 that she planned to have " darker elements " in Prism following the end of her marriage , the singer revealed to MTV during the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards that she changed the album ' s direction after periods of self - reflection . Perry commented " I felt very prismatic " , which inspired the album ' s name . " Roar " was released as the lead single from Prism on August 10 , 2013 . It was promoted at the MTV Video Music Awards and reached number one on the Billboard Hot 100 . " Unconditionally " followed as the second single from Prism on October 16 , 2013 , and peaked at number 14 in the United States .	When did you begin work on your fourth album?	In November 2012.
Perry released her first single with Capitol , " I Kissed a Girl " , on April 28 , 2008 , as the lead single from One of the Boys . The first station to pick up the song was WRVW in Nashville , who were inundated with enthusiastic calls the first three days they played it . The track reached number one on the US Billboard Hot 100 . " I Kissed a Girl " created controversy among both religious and LGBT groups . The former criticized its homosexual theme , while the latter accused her of using bi - curiosity to sell records . In response to speculation that her parents opposed her music and career , Perry told MTV that they had no problems with her success . One of the Boys , released on June 17 , 2008 , garnered mixed critical reviews and reached number nine on the US Billboard 200 . The album went on to sell 7 million copies worldwide . " Hot n Cold " was released the following September and became the album ' s second successful single , reaching number three on the Billboard Hot 100 while topping charts in Germany , Canada , the Netherlands and Austria . Later singles " Thinking of You " and " Waking Up in Vegas " were released in 2009 and reached the top 30 of the Hot 100 . The Matrix ' s self - titled debut album , which Perry had recorded with the band in 2004 , was released onto iTunes on January 27 , 2009 , as a result of her solo success .	What was your track's position on the US Billboard Hot 100?	My track reached number one on the US Billboard Hot 100.
In September 2021 , Variety paid tribute to and honored Perry on their " Power of Women " issue , where she discussed her career , motherhood , and philanthropy . As a nominee , she attended the Variety 2021 " Power of Women " dinner . On her 37th birthday the next month , Perry guest hosted The Ellen DeGeneres Show and starred in a holiday advertisement for Gap Inc . which featured her singing " All You Need Is Love " by the Beatles . A full version of her cover was released on streaming platforms the same day . Two months later , Perry followed this with " When I ' m Gone " , a collaboration with Swedish DJ Alesso that made her the third person to reach number one on Croatia ' s ARC 100 list across three different decades following Lady Gaga and Coldplay . In January 2022 , she and Morgan McLachlan established De Soi , a company which produces and sells non - alcoholic ap é ritifs . Both wanted a beverage that " would mellow the mind , minus the buzz " when creating it .	What event did you attend as a nominee in 2021?	I attended the Variety 2021 "Power of Women" dinner.
Perry has described herself as a " singer - songwriter masquerading as a pop star " and maintains that honest songwriting is very important to her . She told Marie Claire : " I feel like my secret magic trick that separates me from a lot of my peers is the bravery to be vulnerable and truthful and honest . I think you become more relatable when you ' re vulnerable . " Actress and comedian Kristen Wiig commented that " as easy , breezy , and infectious as Perry ' s songs can be , beneath the surface lurks a sea of mixed emotions , jumbled motives , and contradictory impulses complicated enough to fill a Carole King record . " According to Greg Kot of the Chicago Tribune , " being taken seriously may be Perry ' s greatest challenge yet . " In 2013 , The New York Times labeled her " the most potent pop star of the day   – her hits are relatable with just a hint of experimentation " . Randall Roberts of the Los Angeles Times criticized her use of idioms and metaphors in her lyrics and for frequent " clich é s " . Throughout her career , Perry has also co - written songs recorded by other artists , including Lesley Roy , Kelly Clarkson , Jessie James Decker , Selena Gomez & the Scene , Britney Spears , Iggy Azalea , Rita Ora , Nicki Minaj , and Ariana Grande .	Who have you co-written songs for?	I have co-written songs for other artists such as Lesley Roy, Kelly Clarkson, Jessie James Decker, Selena Gomez & the Scene, Britney Spears, Iggy Azalea, Rita Ora, Nicki Minaj, and Ariana Grande.
