The Matrix Revolutions , the third instalment , was met with mixed reception . According to review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes , the consensus was that " characters and ideas take a back seat to the special effects " . Paul Clinton , writing for CNN , praised the special effects but felt Reeves ' s character was unfocused . In contrast , the San Francisco Chronicle ' s Carla Meyer was highly critical of the special effects , writing , " [ The Wachowskis ] computer - generated imagery goes from dazzling to deadening in action scenes that favor heavy , clanking weaponry over the martial - arts moves that thrilled viewers of The Matrix and The Matrix Reloaded . " Nevertheless , the film grossed a healthy $ 427   million worldwide , although less than the two previous films . Something ' s Gotta Give , a romantic comedy , was Reeves ' s last release of 2003 . He co - starred with Jack Nicholson and Diane Keaton , and played Dr . Julian Mercer in the film . Something ' s Gotta Give received generally favourable reviews .	What did you praise about The Matrix Revolutions?	I praised the special effects of The Matrix Revolutions.
The Matrix Revolutions , the third instalment , was met with mixed reception . According to review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes , the consensus was that " characters and ideas take a back seat to the special effects " . Paul Clinton , writing for CNN , praised the special effects but felt Reeves ' s character was unfocused . In contrast , the San Francisco Chronicle ' s Carla Meyer was highly critical of the special effects , writing , " [ The Wachowskis ] computer - generated imagery goes from dazzling to deadening in action scenes that favor heavy , clanking weaponry over the martial - arts moves that thrilled viewers of The Matrix and The Matrix Reloaded . " Nevertheless , the film grossed a healthy $ 427   million worldwide , although less than the two previous films . Something ' s Gotta Give , a romantic comedy , was Reeves ' s last release of 2003 . He co - starred with Jack Nicholson and Diane Keaton , and played Dr . Julian Mercer in the film . Something ' s Gotta Give received generally favourable reviews .	How much did The Matrix Revolutions gross worldwide?	The Matrix Revolutions grossed a healthy $427 million worldwide.
Reeves appeared in five film releases in 2016 . The first was Exposed , a crime thriller about a detective who investigates his partner ' s death and discovers police corruption along the way . The film received negative reviews for its confused plot , and Reeves was criticized for displaying limited facial expressions . His next release , the comedy Keanu , was better received . In it he voiced the eponymous kitten . Reeves then had a minor role in The Neon Demon , a psychological horror directed by Nicolas Winding Refn . He played Hank , a lustful motel owner who appears in Jesse ' s ( played by Elle Fanning ) nightmare . In his fourth release , he played a charismatic leader of a settlement in The Bad Batch . His final release of the year was The Whole Truth , featuring Gabriel Basso , Gugu Mbatha - Raw , Ren é e Zellweger , and Jim Belushi . He played Richard , a defence attorney . Noel Murray of The A . V . Club described it as " moderately clever , reasonably entertaining courtroom drama " , with a skilled cast but overall a " mundane " film . Reeves also appeared in Swedish Dicks , a two - season web television series .	What was the second film released in 2016 that you appeared in?	The second film released in 2016 that I appeared in was the comedy Keanu.
In 1993 , he had a role in Much Ado About Nothing , based on Shakespeare ' s play of the same name . The film received positive reviews , although Reeves was nominated for a Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Supporting Actor . The New Republic magazine thought his casting was " unfortunate " because of his amateur performance . In that same year , he starred in two more drama films , Even Cowgirls Get the Blues and Little Buddha , both of which garnered a mixed - to - negative reception . The Independent critic gave Little Buddha a mixed review but opined that Reeves ' s part as a prince was " credible " . The film also left an impression on Reeves ; he later said , " When I played this innocent prince who starts to suspect something when he has the first revelations about old age , sickness and death , it hit me . [ ... ] That lesson has never left me . "	Apart from Much Ado About Nothing, in which other films did you star in 1993?	In that same year, I starred in two more drama films, Even Cowgirls Get the Blues and Little Buddha.
Returning to the John Wick franchise , Reeves starred in John Wick : Chapter 3 – Parabellum ( 2019 ) , the third feature in the series directed by Stahelski . The film takes place immediately after the events of John Wick : Chapter 2 and features new cast members including Halle Berry . The film was another box office hit , grossing $ 171   million in the United States and more than $ 155   million internationally . The Globe and Mail ' s reviewer gave the film three out of four stars , praising the fight scenes , but felt there was " aesthetic overindulgence " with the cinematography . The Guardian ' s Cath Clarke questioned Reeves ' acting ; she wrote that " he keeps his face statue - still [ ... ] three movies in , franchise bloat is beginning to set in " . Reeves was nominated for Favorite Male Movie Star of 2019 in the People ' s Choice Awards , and the film itself was nominated for Best Contemporary Film in the Art Directors Guild Awards . Reeves then voiced Duke Caboom in 2019 ' s Toy Story 4 , the fourth instalment of Pixar ' s Toy Story franchise . In that same year on April 27 and 28 , a film festival was held in his honour , called KeanuCon , hosted in Glasgow , Scotland . Over two days , nine of his films were screened for guests .	Which film critic praised the fight scenes in your movie John Wick: Chapter 3 - Parabellum?	The Globe and Mail's reviewer did.
Rebecca Miller ' s The Private Lives of Pippa Lee was Reeves ' sole release of 2009 , which premiered at the 59th Berlin International Film Festival . The romantic comedy and its ensemble received an amicable review from The Telegraph ' s David Gritten ; " Miller ' s film is a triumph . Uniformly well acted , it boasts a psychologically knowing script , clearly written by a smart , assertive human " . In 2010 , he starred in another romantic comedy , Henry ' s Crime , about a man who is released from prison for a crime he did not commit , but then targets the same bank with his former cellmate . The film was not a box office hit . Reeves ' only work in 2011 was an adult picture book titled Ode to Happiness , which he wrote , complemented by Alexandra Grant ' s illustrations . Reeves co - produced and appeared in a 2012 documentary , Side by Side . He interviewed filmmakers including James Cameron , Martin Scorsese , and Christopher Nolan ; the feature investigated digital and photochemical film creation . Next , Reeves starred in Generation Um ... ( 2012 ) , an independent drama which was critically panned .	What was the name of the romantic comedy you starred in 2010?	Henry's Crime
In 1991 , Reeves developed an interest in a music career ; he formed an alternative rock band called Dogstar , consisting of members Robert Mailhouse , Gregg Miller and Bret Domrose . Reeves played the bass guitar . A year later , he played Jonathan Harker in Francis Ford Coppola ' s Gothic horror Bram Stoker ' s Dracula , based on Stoker ' s 1897 novel Dracula . Starring alongside Gary Oldman , Winona Ryder and Anthony Hopkins , the film was critically and commercially successful . It grossed $ 215.8   million worldwide . For his role , Reeves was required to speak with an English accent , which drew some ridicule ; " Overly posh and entirely ridiculous , Reeves ' s performance is as painful as it is hilarious " , wrote Limara Salt of Virgin Media . In a retrospective interview in 2015 , director Coppola said , " [ Reeves ] tried so hard   [ ... ] He wanted to do it perfectly and in trying to do it perfectly it came off as stilted " . Bram Stoker ' s Dracula was nominated for four Academy Awards , winning three in Best Costume Design , Best Sound Editing and Best Makeup . The film also received four nominations at the British Academy Film Awards .	In which film did you play Jonathan Harker?	I played Jonathan Harker in Francis Ford Coppola's Gothic horror Bram Stoker's Dracula.
In 1991 , Reeves starred in Bill & Ted ' s Bogus Journey , a sequel to Bill & Ted ' s Excellent Adventure , with his co - star Alex Winter . Michael Wilmington of the Los Angeles Times wrote that the sequel was " more imaginative , more opulent , wilder and freer , more excitingly visualized " , praising the actors for their " fuller " performances . Film critic Roger Ebert thought it was " a riot of visual invention and weird humour that works on its chosen sub - moronic level   [ ... ] It ' s the kind of movie where you start out snickering in spite of yourself , and end up actually admiring the originality that went into creating this hallucinatory slapstick " . The rest of 1991 marked a significant transition for Reeves ' s career as he undertook adult roles . Co - starring with River Phoenix as a street hustler in the adventure My Own Private Idaho , the characters embark on a journey of personal discovery . The story was written by Gus Van Sant , and is loosely based on Shakespeare ' s Henry IV , Part 1 , Henry IV , Part 2 , and Henry V . The film premiered at the 48th Venice International Film Festival , followed by a theatrical release in the United States on September 29 , 1991 . The film earned $ 6.4   million at the box office . My Own Private Idaho was positively received , with Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly describing the film as " a postmodern road movie with a mood of free - floating , trance - like despair   [ ... ] a rich , audacious experience " . The New York Times complimented Reeves and Phoenix for their insightful performances .	Who praised the actors for their "fuller" performances in the sequel?	Michael Wilmington of the Los Angeles Times.
Rebecca Miller ' s The Private Lives of Pippa Lee was Reeves ' sole release of 2009 , which premiered at the 59th Berlin International Film Festival . The romantic comedy and its ensemble received an amicable review from The Telegraph ' s David Gritten ; " Miller ' s film is a triumph . Uniformly well acted , it boasts a psychologically knowing script , clearly written by a smart , assertive human " . In 2010 , he starred in another romantic comedy , Henry ' s Crime , about a man who is released from prison for a crime he did not commit , but then targets the same bank with his former cellmate . The film was not a box office hit . Reeves ' only work in 2011 was an adult picture book titled Ode to Happiness , which he wrote , complemented by Alexandra Grant ' s illustrations . Reeves co - produced and appeared in a 2012 documentary , Side by Side . He interviewed filmmakers including James Cameron , Martin Scorsese , and Christopher Nolan ; the feature investigated digital and photochemical film creation . Next , Reeves starred in Generation Um ... ( 2012 ) , an independent drama which was critically panned .	What was the name of Rebecca Miller's film that was your sole release in 2009?	The Private Lives of Pippa Lee
The Matrix Revolutions , the third instalment , was met with mixed reception . According to review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes , the consensus was that " characters and ideas take a back seat to the special effects " . Paul Clinton , writing for CNN , praised the special effects but felt Reeves ' s character was unfocused . In contrast , the San Francisco Chronicle ' s Carla Meyer was highly critical of the special effects , writing , " [ The Wachowskis ] computer - generated imagery goes from dazzling to deadening in action scenes that favor heavy , clanking weaponry over the martial - arts moves that thrilled viewers of The Matrix and The Matrix Reloaded . " Nevertheless , the film grossed a healthy $ 427   million worldwide , although less than the two previous films . Something ' s Gotta Give , a romantic comedy , was Reeves ' s last release of 2003 . He co - starred with Jack Nicholson and Diane Keaton , and played Dr . Julian Mercer in the film . Something ' s Gotta Give received generally favourable reviews .	Who was critical of the special effects in The Matrix Revolutions?	Carla Meyer of the San Francisco Chronicle was highly critical of the special effects in The Matrix Revolutions.
In 1991 , Reeves starred in Bill & Ted ' s Bogus Journey , a sequel to Bill & Ted ' s Excellent Adventure , with his co - star Alex Winter . Michael Wilmington of the Los Angeles Times wrote that the sequel was " more imaginative , more opulent , wilder and freer , more excitingly visualized " , praising the actors for their " fuller " performances . Film critic Roger Ebert thought it was " a riot of visual invention and weird humour that works on its chosen sub - moronic level   [ ... ] It ' s the kind of movie where you start out snickering in spite of yourself , and end up actually admiring the originality that went into creating this hallucinatory slapstick " . The rest of 1991 marked a significant transition for Reeves ' s career as he undertook adult roles . Co - starring with River Phoenix as a street hustler in the adventure My Own Private Idaho , the characters embark on a journey of personal discovery . The story was written by Gus Van Sant , and is loosely based on Shakespeare ' s Henry IV , Part 1 , Henry IV , Part 2 , and Henry V . The film premiered at the 48th Venice International Film Festival , followed by a theatrical release in the United States on September 29 , 1991 . The film earned $ 6.4   million at the box office . My Own Private Idaho was positively received , with Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly describing the film as " a postmodern road movie with a mood of free - floating , trance - like despair   [ ... ] a rich , audacious experience " . The New York Times complimented Reeves and Phoenix for their insightful performances .	Who was your co-star in "Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey"?	Alex Winter.
After this series of commercial failures , Reeves ' career rebounded in 2014 . He played the titular role in the action thriller John Wick , directed by Chad Stahelski . In the first instalment of the John Wick franchise , Reeves plays a retired hitman seeking vengeance . He worked closely with the screenwriter to develop the story ; " We all agreed on the potential of the project . I love the role , but you want the whole story , the whole ensemble to come to life " , Reeves said . Filmed on location in the New York City area , the film was eventually released on October 24 in the United States . The Hollywood Reporter was impressed by the director ' s " confident , muscular action debut " , and Reeves ' " effortless " performance , which marked his return to the action genre . Jeannette Catsoulis of The New York Times praised Reeves ' fight scenes and wrote he is " always more comfortable in roles that demand cool over hot , attitude over emotion " . John Wick proved to be a box office success , grossing $ 86   million worldwide . Next , Reeves starred in a smaller - scale horror feature , Knock Knock ( 2015 ) , a remake of the 1977 film Death Game . Described as " over - the - top destruction " by the Toronto Star , Reeves plays a father , home alone , when two young women show up and start a game of cat and mouse . His other releases in 2015 were the documentaries Deep Web , about crime on the dark web , and Mifune : The Last Samurai , about the life of a Japanese actor ( Toshiro Mifune ) famous for playing samurai characters . He narrated both films .	What was your career like before 2014?	After a series of commercial failures, my career rebounded in 2014.
In 1993 , he had a role in Much Ado About Nothing , based on Shakespeare ' s play of the same name . The film received positive reviews , although Reeves was nominated for a Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Supporting Actor . The New Republic magazine thought his casting was " unfortunate " because of his amateur performance . In that same year , he starred in two more drama films , Even Cowgirls Get the Blues and Little Buddha , both of which garnered a mixed - to - negative reception . The Independent critic gave Little Buddha a mixed review but opined that Reeves ' s part as a prince was " credible " . The film also left an impression on Reeves ; he later said , " When I played this innocent prince who starts to suspect something when he has the first revelations about old age , sickness and death , it hit me . [ ... ] That lesson has never left me . "	Were you nominated for an award for your performance in Much Ado About Nothing?	Yes, I was nominated for a Golden Raspberry Award for Worst Supporting Actor.
In 1991 , Reeves starred in Bill & Ted ' s Bogus Journey , a sequel to Bill & Ted ' s Excellent Adventure , with his co - star Alex Winter . Michael Wilmington of the Los Angeles Times wrote that the sequel was " more imaginative , more opulent , wilder and freer , more excitingly visualized " , praising the actors for their " fuller " performances . Film critic Roger Ebert thought it was " a riot of visual invention and weird humour that works on its chosen sub - moronic level   [ ... ] It ' s the kind of movie where you start out snickering in spite of yourself , and end up actually admiring the originality that went into creating this hallucinatory slapstick " . The rest of 1991 marked a significant transition for Reeves ' s career as he undertook adult roles . Co - starring with River Phoenix as a street hustler in the adventure My Own Private Idaho , the characters embark on a journey of personal discovery . The story was written by Gus Van Sant , and is loosely based on Shakespeare ' s Henry IV , Part 1 , Henry IV , Part 2 , and Henry V . The film premiered at the 48th Venice International Film Festival , followed by a theatrical release in the United States on September 29 , 1991 . The film earned $ 6.4   million at the box office . My Own Private Idaho was positively received , with Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly describing the film as " a postmodern road movie with a mood of free - floating , trance - like despair   [ ... ] a rich , audacious experience " . The New York Times complimented Reeves and Phoenix for their insightful performances .	What did Roger Ebert think of "Bill & Ted's Bogus Journey"?	He thought it was a riot of visual invention and weird humor that works on its chosen sub-moronic level.
Next in 2008 , Reeves collaborated with director David Ayer on the crime thriller Street Kings . He played an undercover policeman who must clear his name after the death of another officer . Released on April 11 , the film grossed a moderate $ 66   million worldwide . The film ' s plot and Reeves ' performance , however , were met with mostly unenthusiastic reviews . Paul Byrnes of The Sydney Morning Herald stated , " It ' s full of twists and turns , a dead body in every reel , but it ' s not difficult to work out who ' s betraying whom , and that ' s just not good enough " . The Guardian opined that " Reeves is fundamentally blank and uninteresting " . Reeves starred in another science fiction film , The Day the Earth Stood Still , a loose adaptation of the 1951 film of the same name . He portrayed Klaatu , an alien sent from outer space to try to change human behaviour or eradicate humans because of their environmental impact . At the 2009 Razzie Awards , the film was nominated for Worst Prequel , Remake , Rip - off or Sequel . Many critics were unimpressed with the heavy use of special effects ; The Telegraph credited Reeves ' ability to engage the audience , but thought the cinematography was abysmal and the " sub - Al - Gore environment lecture leaves you light - headed with tedium " .	What was the general reception of Street Kings?	The film's plot and my performance received mostly unenthusiastic reviews.
Rebecca Miller ' s The Private Lives of Pippa Lee was Reeves ' sole release of 2009 , which premiered at the 59th Berlin International Film Festival . The romantic comedy and its ensemble received an amicable review from The Telegraph ' s David Gritten ; " Miller ' s film is a triumph . Uniformly well acted , it boasts a psychologically knowing script , clearly written by a smart , assertive human " . In 2010 , he starred in another romantic comedy , Henry ' s Crime , about a man who is released from prison for a crime he did not commit , but then targets the same bank with his former cellmate . The film was not a box office hit . Reeves ' only work in 2011 was an adult picture book titled Ode to Happiness , which he wrote , complemented by Alexandra Grant ' s illustrations . Reeves co - produced and appeared in a 2012 documentary , Side by Side . He interviewed filmmakers including James Cameron , Martin Scorsese , and Christopher Nolan ; the feature investigated digital and photochemical film creation . Next , Reeves starred in Generation Um ... ( 2012 ) , an independent drama which was critically panned .	Where did The Private Lives of Pippa Lee premiere?	The 59th Berlin International Film Festival
Reeves appeared in five film releases in 2016 . The first was Exposed , a crime thriller about a detective who investigates his partner ' s death and discovers police corruption along the way . The film received negative reviews for its confused plot , and Reeves was criticized for displaying limited facial expressions . His next release , the comedy Keanu , was better received . In it he voiced the eponymous kitten . Reeves then had a minor role in The Neon Demon , a psychological horror directed by Nicolas Winding Refn . He played Hank , a lustful motel owner who appears in Jesse ' s ( played by Elle Fanning ) nightmare . In his fourth release , he played a charismatic leader of a settlement in The Bad Batch . His final release of the year was The Whole Truth , featuring Gabriel Basso , Gugu Mbatha - Raw , Ren é e Zellweger , and Jim Belushi . He played Richard , a defence attorney . Noel Murray of The A . V . Club described it as " moderately clever , reasonably entertaining courtroom drama " , with a skilled cast but overall a " mundane " film . Reeves also appeared in Swedish Dicks , a two - season web television series .	Which film did you play a defence attorney in?	I played Richard, a defence attorney, in The Whole Truth.
Next in 2008 , Reeves collaborated with director David Ayer on the crime thriller Street Kings . He played an undercover policeman who must clear his name after the death of another officer . Released on April 11 , the film grossed a moderate $ 66   million worldwide . The film ' s plot and Reeves ' performance , however , were met with mostly unenthusiastic reviews . Paul Byrnes of The Sydney Morning Herald stated , " It ' s full of twists and turns , a dead body in every reel , but it ' s not difficult to work out who ' s betraying whom , and that ' s just not good enough " . The Guardian opined that " Reeves is fundamentally blank and uninteresting " . Reeves starred in another science fiction film , The Day the Earth Stood Still , a loose adaptation of the 1951 film of the same name . He portrayed Klaatu , an alien sent from outer space to try to change human behaviour or eradicate humans because of their environmental impact . At the 2009 Razzie Awards , the film was nominated for Worst Prequel , Remake , Rip - off or Sequel . Many critics were unimpressed with the heavy use of special effects ; The Telegraph credited Reeves ' ability to engage the audience , but thought the cinematography was abysmal and the " sub - Al - Gore environment lecture leaves you light - headed with tedium " .	What was your role in Street Kings?	I played an undercover policeman in Street Kings.
Reeves appeared in five film releases in 2016 . The first was Exposed , a crime thriller about a detective who investigates his partner ' s death and discovers police corruption along the way . The film received negative reviews for its confused plot , and Reeves was criticized for displaying limited facial expressions . His next release , the comedy Keanu , was better received . In it he voiced the eponymous kitten . Reeves then had a minor role in The Neon Demon , a psychological horror directed by Nicolas Winding Refn . He played Hank , a lustful motel owner who appears in Jesse ' s ( played by Elle Fanning ) nightmare . In his fourth release , he played a charismatic leader of a settlement in The Bad Batch . His final release of the year was The Whole Truth , featuring Gabriel Basso , Gugu Mbatha - Raw , Ren é e Zellweger , and Jim Belushi . He played Richard , a defence attorney . Noel Murray of The A . V . Club described it as " moderately clever , reasonably entertaining courtroom drama " , with a skilled cast but overall a " mundane " film . Reeves also appeared in Swedish Dicks , a two - season web television series .	What was your role in The Neon Demon?	I played Hank, a lustful motel owner, in The Neon Demon.
Reeves starred alongside Patrick Swayze , Lori Petty and Gary Busey in the action thriller Point Break ( 1991 ) , directed by Kathryn Bigelow . He plays an undercover FBI agent tasked with investigating the identities of a group of bank robbers . To prepare for the film , Reeves and his co - stars took surfing lessons with professional surfer Dennis Jarvis in Hawaii ; Reeves had never surfed before . Upon its release , Point Break was generally well - received , and a commercial success , earning $ 83.5   million at the box office . Reeves ' s performance was praised by The New York Times for " considerable discipline and range " , adding , " He moves easily between the buttoned - down demeanour that suits a police procedural story and the loose - jointed manner of his comic roles " . Writing for The Washington Post , Hal Hinson called Reeves the " perfect choice " and praised the surfing scenes , but opined that " the filmmakers have their characters make the most ludicrously illogical choices imaginable " . At the 1992 MTV Movie Awards , Reeves won the Most Desirable Male award .	How much money did Point Break earn at the box office?	Point Break earned $83.5 million at the box office.
Next in 2008 , Reeves collaborated with director David Ayer on the crime thriller Street Kings . He played an undercover policeman who must clear his name after the death of another officer . Released on April 11 , the film grossed a moderate $ 66   million worldwide . The film ' s plot and Reeves ' performance , however , were met with mostly unenthusiastic reviews . Paul Byrnes of The Sydney Morning Herald stated , " It ' s full of twists and turns , a dead body in every reel , but it ' s not difficult to work out who ' s betraying whom , and that ' s just not good enough " . The Guardian opined that " Reeves is fundamentally blank and uninteresting " . Reeves starred in another science fiction film , The Day the Earth Stood Still , a loose adaptation of the 1951 film of the same name . He portrayed Klaatu , an alien sent from outer space to try to change human behaviour or eradicate humans because of their environmental impact . At the 2009 Razzie Awards , the film was nominated for Worst Prequel , Remake , Rip - off or Sequel . Many critics were unimpressed with the heavy use of special effects ; The Telegraph credited Reeves ' ability to engage the audience , but thought the cinematography was abysmal and the " sub - Al - Gore environment lecture leaves you light - headed with tedium " .	How much did Street Kings gross worldwide?	Street Kings grossed a moderate $66 million worldwide.
Rebecca Miller ' s The Private Lives of Pippa Lee was Reeves ' sole release of 2009 , which premiered at the 59th Berlin International Film Festival . The romantic comedy and its ensemble received an amicable review from The Telegraph ' s David Gritten ; " Miller ' s film is a triumph . Uniformly well acted , it boasts a psychologically knowing script , clearly written by a smart , assertive human " . In 2010 , he starred in another romantic comedy , Henry ' s Crime , about a man who is released from prison for a crime he did not commit , but then targets the same bank with his former cellmate . The film was not a box office hit . Reeves ' only work in 2011 was an adult picture book titled Ode to Happiness , which he wrote , complemented by Alexandra Grant ' s illustrations . Reeves co - produced and appeared in a 2012 documentary , Side by Side . He interviewed filmmakers including James Cameron , Martin Scorsese , and Christopher Nolan ; the feature investigated digital and photochemical film creation . Next , Reeves starred in Generation Um ... ( 2012 ) , an independent drama which was critically panned .	According to David Gritten, what is his opinion of Miller's film?	"Miller's film is a triumph. Uniformly well acted, it boasts a psychologically knowing script, clearly written by a smart, assertive human."
In 1991 , Reeves developed an interest in a music career ; he formed an alternative rock band called Dogstar , consisting of members Robert Mailhouse , Gregg Miller and Bret Domrose . Reeves played the bass guitar . A year later , he played Jonathan Harker in Francis Ford Coppola ' s Gothic horror Bram Stoker ' s Dracula , based on Stoker ' s 1897 novel Dracula . Starring alongside Gary Oldman , Winona Ryder and Anthony Hopkins , the film was critically and commercially successful . It grossed $ 215.8   million worldwide . For his role , Reeves was required to speak with an English accent , which drew some ridicule ; " Overly posh and entirely ridiculous , Reeves ' s performance is as painful as it is hilarious " , wrote Limara Salt of Virgin Media . In a retrospective interview in 2015 , director Coppola said , " [ Reeves ] tried so hard   [ ... ] He wanted to do it perfectly and in trying to do it perfectly it came off as stilted " . Bram Stoker ' s Dracula was nominated for four Academy Awards , winning three in Best Costume Design , Best Sound Editing and Best Makeup . The film also received four nominations at the British Academy Film Awards .	How much money did the film Bram Stoker's Dracula gross worldwide?	The film Bram Stoker's Dracula grossed $215.8 million worldwide.
After this series of commercial failures , Reeves ' career rebounded in 2014 . He played the titular role in the action thriller John Wick , directed by Chad Stahelski . In the first instalment of the John Wick franchise , Reeves plays a retired hitman seeking vengeance . He worked closely with the screenwriter to develop the story ; " We all agreed on the potential of the project . I love the role , but you want the whole story , the whole ensemble to come to life " , Reeves said . Filmed on location in the New York City area , the film was eventually released on October 24 in the United States . The Hollywood Reporter was impressed by the director ' s " confident , muscular action debut " , and Reeves ' " effortless " performance , which marked his return to the action genre . Jeannette Catsoulis of The New York Times praised Reeves ' fight scenes and wrote he is " always more comfortable in roles that demand cool over hot , attitude over emotion " . John Wick proved to be a box office success , grossing $ 86   million worldwide . Next , Reeves starred in a smaller - scale horror feature , Knock Knock ( 2015 ) , a remake of the 1977 film Death Game . Described as " over - the - top destruction " by the Toronto Star , Reeves plays a father , home alone , when two young women show up and start a game of cat and mouse . His other releases in 2015 were the documentaries Deep Web , about crime on the dark web , and Mifune : The Last Samurai , about the life of a Japanese actor ( Toshiro Mifune ) famous for playing samurai characters . He narrated both films .	Who directed the movie John Wick?	Chad Stahelski directed the movie John Wick.
Returning to the John Wick franchise , Reeves starred in John Wick : Chapter 3 – Parabellum ( 2019 ) , the third feature in the series directed by Stahelski . The film takes place immediately after the events of John Wick : Chapter 2 and features new cast members including Halle Berry . The film was another box office hit , grossing $ 171   million in the United States and more than $ 155   million internationally . The Globe and Mail ' s reviewer gave the film three out of four stars , praising the fight scenes , but felt there was " aesthetic overindulgence " with the cinematography . The Guardian ' s Cath Clarke questioned Reeves ' acting ; she wrote that " he keeps his face statue - still [ ... ] three movies in , franchise bloat is beginning to set in " . Reeves was nominated for Favorite Male Movie Star of 2019 in the People ' s Choice Awards , and the film itself was nominated for Best Contemporary Film in the Art Directors Guild Awards . Reeves then voiced Duke Caboom in 2019 ' s Toy Story 4 , the fourth instalment of Pixar ' s Toy Story franchise . In that same year on April 27 and 28 , a film festival was held in his honour , called KeanuCon , hosted in Glasgow , Scotland . Over two days , nine of his films were screened for guests .	In what city was your film festival held?	Glasgow, Scotland
