In February 2020 , under a retail partnership with Nordstrom , Skims ' products were made available to shop exclusively at the chain ' s stores across the United States . The company has also expanded into lingerie , bodysuits , loungewear , dresses , and winterwear . Since 2021 , Skims has opened various pop - up stores in the United States , Europe and Asia . In June 2021 , Kardashian revealed the brand entered into a partnership with the US Olympics team under which the company would provide undergarments , loungewear and pajamas and other clothing items with American flags and the Olympics rings with a Team USA branding printed on them to the team ' s female athletes at the 2020 Summer Olympics and Paralympics . The athletes also wore Skims ' clothing at the 2022 Winter Olympics , and were featured in the brand ' s campaign for a capsule collection launched ahead of the event , in collaboration with the United States ' Winter Olympics delegation . In November 2021 , luxury fashion house Fendi released a capsule collection in collaboration with Skims , consisting of a range of shapewear , leather dresses , and bodysuits . That month , Kardashian was honored with the Brand Innovator award , for her work on Skims , at the 2021 WSJ . Innovator Awards . In January 2022 , it was reported that her company stood at a valuation of US $ 3.2 billion .	When did you open various pop-up stores in the United States, Europe, and Asia?	Since 2021.
In May 2014 , Kardashian was estimated to be worth US $ 45   million . In 2015 , Forbes reported she had " made more this year than ever as her earnings nearly doubled to $ 53 million from 2014 ' s $ 28 million " , and reported that she " has monetized fame better than any other " . Much of her income includes wholesale earnings of the Sears line , the Kardashian Kollection , which brought in $ 600 million in 2013 and the Kardashian Beauty cosmetics line , Kardashian - branded tanning products , the boutique - line DASH , as well as sponsored social media posts which are collectively worth $ 300 , 000 – 500 , 000 per post . As of July 2018 , Kardashian was worth US $ 350 million . Kardashian does not receive alimony payments from either of her first two marriages . On April 6 , 2021 , Forbes estimated Kardashian ' s net worth at US $ 1 billion .	What was your estimated net worth in April 2021?	Forbes estimated my net worth at US $1 billion in April 2021.
On October 2 , 2016 , while attending Paris Fashion Week , Kardashian was robbed at gunpoint in the apartment where she was staying . Five individuals , dressed as police officers , bound and gagged her , then stole $ 10 million worth of jewelry . The thieves got in her residence by threatening the concierge . Once they accessed Kardashian ' s room , they held a gun to her head , tying her wrists and legs and wrapping duct tape around her mouth as a gag . Kardashian , who was placed in the bathtub , was physically unharmed and reportedly begged for her life . She managed to wriggle her hands free from the plastic ties around her wrists and scream for help . The thieves escaped . On October 6 , 2016 , it was revealed that filming for the next season of Keeping up with the Kardashians had been placed " on hold indefinitely " after the robbery .	How much worth of jewelry was stolen?	$10 million worth of jewelry was stolen.
On October 2 , 2016 , while attending Paris Fashion Week , Kardashian was robbed at gunpoint in the apartment where she was staying . Five individuals , dressed as police officers , bound and gagged her , then stole $ 10 million worth of jewelry . The thieves got in her residence by threatening the concierge . Once they accessed Kardashian ' s room , they held a gun to her head , tying her wrists and legs and wrapping duct tape around her mouth as a gag . Kardashian , who was placed in the bathtub , was physically unharmed and reportedly begged for her life . She managed to wriggle her hands free from the plastic ties around her wrists and scream for help . The thieves escaped . On October 6 , 2016 , it was revealed that filming for the next season of Keeping up with the Kardashians had been placed " on hold indefinitely " after the robbery .	When did the robbery occur and where were you staying?	The robbery occurred on October 2, 2016, while I was staying at an apartment in Paris Fashion Week.
In January 2021 , CNN reported that the couple were discussing divorce and on February 19 , 2021 , Kardashian officially filed for divorce . In April 2021 , they both agreed before court that they would end their marriage due to " irreconcilable differences " and agreed to joint custody of their four children . They also agreed that neither of them need spousal support . In February 2022 , Kardashian filed a complaint to the Los Angeles Superior Court , asking for a quicker proceedings in the divorce from West , saying that West was trying to delay it and saying that " Mr . West , by his actions , has made it clear that he does not accept that the parties ' marital relationship is over . " Kardashian was declared legally single on March 2 , 2022 . This allowed her to drop " West " as her legal last name and ended their marriage . A divorce settlement was finalized on November 29 , 2022 .	Why did you agree to end your marriage?	I agreed to end my marriage due to "irreconcilable differences".
In January 2021 , CNN reported that the couple were discussing divorce and on February 19 , 2021 , Kardashian officially filed for divorce . In April 2021 , they both agreed before court that they would end their marriage due to " irreconcilable differences " and agreed to joint custody of their four children . They also agreed that neither of them need spousal support . In February 2022 , Kardashian filed a complaint to the Los Angeles Superior Court , asking for a quicker proceedings in the divorce from West , saying that West was trying to delay it and saying that " Mr . West , by his actions , has made it clear that he does not accept that the parties ' marital relationship is over . " Kardashian was declared legally single on March 2 , 2022 . This allowed her to drop " West " as her legal last name and ended their marriage . A divorce settlement was finalized on November 29 , 2022 .	Did either of us request spousal support?	No, neither of us requested spousal support.
Kardashian appeared on the cover and in a pictorial in Paper ' s winter 2014 issue , photographed by Jean - Paul Goude . On the cover , her nude buttocks are featured above the caption : " Break the Internet " , which generated considerable comment in both social and traditional media . A Time magazine writer commented that , unlike previous celebrities ' nudes that represented the women ' s rebellion against repressed society and " trying to tear down " barriers , Kardashian ' s exhibition was " just provocation and bluster , repeated images that seem to offer us some sort of truth or insight but are really just self serving . We want there to be something more , some reason or context , some great explanation that tells us what it is like to live in this very day and age , but there is not . Kim Kardashian ' s ass is nothing but an empty promise . " However , the stunt " set a new benchmark " in social media response , and Paper ' s website received 15.9 million views in one day , compared with 25 , 000 views on an average day .	How did your exhibition generate comment in the media?	It generated considerable comment in both social and traditional media.
On October 2 , 2016 , while attending Paris Fashion Week , Kardashian was robbed at gunpoint in the apartment where she was staying . Five individuals , dressed as police officers , bound and gagged her , then stole $ 10 million worth of jewelry . The thieves got in her residence by threatening the concierge . Once they accessed Kardashian ' s room , they held a gun to her head , tying her wrists and legs and wrapping duct tape around her mouth as a gag . Kardashian , who was placed in the bathtub , was physically unharmed and reportedly begged for her life . She managed to wriggle her hands free from the plastic ties around her wrists and scream for help . The thieves escaped . On October 6 , 2016 , it was revealed that filming for the next season of Keeping up with the Kardashians had been placed " on hold indefinitely " after the robbery .	Were you physically harmed during the robbery?	No, I was physically unharmed during the robbery.
In May 2011 , Kardashian became engaged to NBA player Kris Humphries , then of the New Jersey Nets , whom she had been dating since October 2010 . They were married in a wedding ceremony on August 20 in Montecito , California . Earlier that month , she had released her " wedding fragrance " called " Kim Kardashian Love " which coincided with her own wedding . A two - part TV special showing the preparations and the wedding itself aired on E ! in early October 2011 , amidst what The Washington Post called a " media blitz " related to the wedding . After 72 days of marriage , she filed for divorce from Humphries on October 31 , citing irreconcilable differences . Several news outlets surmised that Kardashian ' s marriage to Humphries was merely a publicity stunt to promote the Kardashian family ' s brand and their subsequent television ventures . A man professing to be her former publicist , Jonathan Jaxson , also claimed that her short - lived marriage was indeed staged and a ploy to generate money . Kardashian filed a suit against Jaxson , saying his claims were untrue , and subsequently settled the case that included an apology from Jaxson . A widely circulated petition asking to remove all Kardashian - related programming from the air followed the split . The divorce was subject to widespread media attention .	How long did your marriage with Kris Humphries last?	My marriage lasted for 72 days.
In January 2021 , CNN reported that the couple were discussing divorce and on February 19 , 2021 , Kardashian officially filed for divorce . In April 2021 , they both agreed before court that they would end their marriage due to " irreconcilable differences " and agreed to joint custody of their four children . They also agreed that neither of them need spousal support . In February 2022 , Kardashian filed a complaint to the Los Angeles Superior Court , asking for a quicker proceedings in the divorce from West , saying that West was trying to delay it and saying that " Mr . West , by his actions , has made it clear that he does not accept that the parties ' marital relationship is over . " Kardashian was declared legally single on March 2 , 2022 . This allowed her to drop " West " as her legal last name and ended their marriage . A divorce settlement was finalized on November 29 , 2022 .	When did you officially file for divorce?	I officially filed for divorce on February 19, 2021.
Kardashian appeared on the cover and in a pictorial in Paper ' s winter 2014 issue , photographed by Jean - Paul Goude . On the cover , her nude buttocks are featured above the caption : " Break the Internet " , which generated considerable comment in both social and traditional media . A Time magazine writer commented that , unlike previous celebrities ' nudes that represented the women ' s rebellion against repressed society and " trying to tear down " barriers , Kardashian ' s exhibition was " just provocation and bluster , repeated images that seem to offer us some sort of truth or insight but are really just self serving . We want there to be something more , some reason or context , some great explanation that tells us what it is like to live in this very day and age , but there is not . Kim Kardashian ' s ass is nothing but an empty promise . " However , the stunt " set a new benchmark " in social media response , and Paper ' s website received 15.9 million views in one day , compared with 25 , 000 views on an average day .	What did a Time magazine writer comment about your exhibition?	The writer commented that my exhibition was just provocation and bluster, repeated images that seem to offer some sort of truth or insight but are really just self-serving.
In January 2021 , CNN reported that the couple were discussing divorce and on February 19 , 2021 , Kardashian officially filed for divorce . In April 2021 , they both agreed before court that they would end their marriage due to " irreconcilable differences " and agreed to joint custody of their four children . They also agreed that neither of them need spousal support . In February 2022 , Kardashian filed a complaint to the Los Angeles Superior Court , asking for a quicker proceedings in the divorce from West , saying that West was trying to delay it and saying that " Mr . West , by his actions , has made it clear that he does not accept that the parties ' marital relationship is over . " Kardashian was declared legally single on March 2 , 2022 . This allowed her to drop " West " as her legal last name and ended their marriage . A divorce settlement was finalized on November 29 , 2022 .	When were you declared legally single?	I was declared legally single on March 2, 2022.
After announcing a new range of shapewear called Kimono in June 2019 , Kardashian was heavily criticized over the name of the brand , which critics argued disrespected Japanese culture and ignored the significance behind the traditional outfit . Following the launch of the range , the hashtag # KimOhNo began trending on Twitter and the mayor of Kyoto wrote to Kardashian to ask her to reconsider the trademark on Kimono . In response to public pressure , she announced that she would change the name . However , Japanese trade minister Hiroshige Seko stated that he would still be dispatching patent officials for a meeting at the U . S . Patent and Trademark Office , and that Japan would keep an eye on the situation . In August 2019 , she changed and rebranded the shapewear company to the name Skims , officially launching the following month on its own digital store and later made available on various other websites ( such as online stores of SSENSE , David Jones , Net - a - Porter , Ounass ) .	What was the name of the shapewear range that you announced in June 2019?	Kimono.
Kardashian began dating rapper and longtime friend Kanye West in April 2012 , while still legally married to Humphries . Her divorce was finalized on June 3 , 2013 , Kardashian and West became engaged on October 21 , Kardashian ' s 33rd birthday , and married on May 24 , 2014 , at Forte di Belvedere in Florence , Italy . Her wedding dress was designed by Riccardo Tisci of Givenchy with some guests ' dresses designed by designer Michael Costello . The couple ' s high status and respective careers have resulted in their relationship becoming subject to heavy media coverage ; The New York Times referred to their marriage as " a historic blizzard of celebrity " . West said Kardashian was his muse .	When did you and West get married?	We got married on May 24, 2014.
Kardashian appeared on the cover and in a pictorial in Paper ' s winter 2014 issue , photographed by Jean - Paul Goude . On the cover , her nude buttocks are featured above the caption : " Break the Internet " , which generated considerable comment in both social and traditional media . A Time magazine writer commented that , unlike previous celebrities ' nudes that represented the women ' s rebellion against repressed society and " trying to tear down " barriers , Kardashian ' s exhibition was " just provocation and bluster , repeated images that seem to offer us some sort of truth or insight but are really just self serving . We want there to be something more , some reason or context , some great explanation that tells us what it is like to live in this very day and age , but there is not . Kim Kardashian ' s ass is nothing but an empty promise . " However , the stunt " set a new benchmark " in social media response , and Paper ' s website received 15.9 million views in one day , compared with 25 , 000 views on an average day .	What caption is featured above your nude buttocks on the cover?	"Break the Internet."
In February 2020 , under a retail partnership with Nordstrom , Skims ' products were made available to shop exclusively at the chain ' s stores across the United States . The company has also expanded into lingerie , bodysuits , loungewear , dresses , and winterwear . Since 2021 , Skims has opened various pop - up stores in the United States , Europe and Asia . In June 2021 , Kardashian revealed the brand entered into a partnership with the US Olympics team under which the company would provide undergarments , loungewear and pajamas and other clothing items with American flags and the Olympics rings with a Team USA branding printed on them to the team ' s female athletes at the 2020 Summer Olympics and Paralympics . The athletes also wore Skims ' clothing at the 2022 Winter Olympics , and were featured in the brand ' s campaign for a capsule collection launched ahead of the event , in collaboration with the United States ' Winter Olympics delegation . In November 2021 , luxury fashion house Fendi released a capsule collection in collaboration with Skims , consisting of a range of shapewear , leather dresses , and bodysuits . That month , Kardashian was honored with the Brand Innovator award , for her work on Skims , at the 2021 WSJ . Innovator Awards . In January 2022 , it was reported that her company stood at a valuation of US $ 3.2 billion .	Besides lingerie and bodysuits, what other clothing items have you expanded Skims into?	I have expanded Skims into loungewear, dresses, and winterwear.
After announcing a new range of shapewear called Kimono in June 2019 , Kardashian was heavily criticized over the name of the brand , which critics argued disrespected Japanese culture and ignored the significance behind the traditional outfit . Following the launch of the range , the hashtag # KimOhNo began trending on Twitter and the mayor of Kyoto wrote to Kardashian to ask her to reconsider the trademark on Kimono . In response to public pressure , she announced that she would change the name . However , Japanese trade minister Hiroshige Seko stated that he would still be dispatching patent officials for a meeting at the U . S . Patent and Trademark Office , and that Japan would keep an eye on the situation . In August 2019 , she changed and rebranded the shapewear company to the name Skims , officially launching the following month on its own digital store and later made available on various other websites ( such as online stores of SSENSE , David Jones , Net - a - Porter , Ounass ) .	What did you change the name of your shapewear company to?	Skims.
After announcing a new range of shapewear called Kimono in June 2019 , Kardashian was heavily criticized over the name of the brand , which critics argued disrespected Japanese culture and ignored the significance behind the traditional outfit . Following the launch of the range , the hashtag # KimOhNo began trending on Twitter and the mayor of Kyoto wrote to Kardashian to ask her to reconsider the trademark on Kimono . In response to public pressure , she announced that she would change the name . However , Japanese trade minister Hiroshige Seko stated that he would still be dispatching patent officials for a meeting at the U . S . Patent and Trademark Office , and that Japan would keep an eye on the situation . In August 2019 , she changed and rebranded the shapewear company to the name Skims , officially launching the following month on its own digital store and later made available on various other websites ( such as online stores of SSENSE , David Jones , Net - a - Porter , Ounass ) .	What was the response to the launch of your Kimono range on Twitter?	The hashtag #KimOhNo began trending.
After announcing a new range of shapewear called Kimono in June 2019 , Kardashian was heavily criticized over the name of the brand , which critics argued disrespected Japanese culture and ignored the significance behind the traditional outfit . Following the launch of the range , the hashtag # KimOhNo began trending on Twitter and the mayor of Kyoto wrote to Kardashian to ask her to reconsider the trademark on Kimono . In response to public pressure , she announced that she would change the name . However , Japanese trade minister Hiroshige Seko stated that he would still be dispatching patent officials for a meeting at the U . S . Patent and Trademark Office , and that Japan would keep an eye on the situation . In August 2019 , she changed and rebranded the shapewear company to the name Skims , officially launching the following month on its own digital store and later made available on various other websites ( such as online stores of SSENSE , David Jones , Net - a - Porter , Ounass ) .	Why was I heavily criticized for the name of my shapewear brand?	Critics argued that the name disrespected Japanese culture and ignored the significance behind the traditional outfit.
In May 2011 , Kardashian became engaged to NBA player Kris Humphries , then of the New Jersey Nets , whom she had been dating since October 2010 . They were married in a wedding ceremony on August 20 in Montecito , California . Earlier that month , she had released her " wedding fragrance " called " Kim Kardashian Love " which coincided with her own wedding . A two - part TV special showing the preparations and the wedding itself aired on E ! in early October 2011 , amidst what The Washington Post called a " media blitz " related to the wedding . After 72 days of marriage , she filed for divorce from Humphries on October 31 , citing irreconcilable differences . Several news outlets surmised that Kardashian ' s marriage to Humphries was merely a publicity stunt to promote the Kardashian family ' s brand and their subsequent television ventures . A man professing to be her former publicist , Jonathan Jaxson , also claimed that her short - lived marriage was indeed staged and a ploy to generate money . Kardashian filed a suit against Jaxson , saying his claims were untrue , and subsequently settled the case that included an apology from Jaxson . A widely circulated petition asking to remove all Kardashian - related programming from the air followed the split . The divorce was subject to widespread media attention .	What reason did you give for filing for divorce from Kris Humphries?	I cited irreconcilable differences as the reason for filing for divorce.
In May 2011 , Kardashian became engaged to NBA player Kris Humphries , then of the New Jersey Nets , whom she had been dating since October 2010 . They were married in a wedding ceremony on August 20 in Montecito , California . Earlier that month , she had released her " wedding fragrance " called " Kim Kardashian Love " which coincided with her own wedding . A two - part TV special showing the preparations and the wedding itself aired on E ! in early October 2011 , amidst what The Washington Post called a " media blitz " related to the wedding . After 72 days of marriage , she filed for divorce from Humphries on October 31 , citing irreconcilable differences . Several news outlets surmised that Kardashian ' s marriage to Humphries was merely a publicity stunt to promote the Kardashian family ' s brand and their subsequent television ventures . A man professing to be her former publicist , Jonathan Jaxson , also claimed that her short - lived marriage was indeed staged and a ploy to generate money . Kardashian filed a suit against Jaxson , saying his claims were untrue , and subsequently settled the case that included an apology from Jaxson . A widely circulated petition asking to remove all Kardashian - related programming from the air followed the split . The divorce was subject to widespread media attention .	Who were you married to?	I was married to Kris Humphries.
In May 2011 , Kardashian became engaged to NBA player Kris Humphries , then of the New Jersey Nets , whom she had been dating since October 2010 . They were married in a wedding ceremony on August 20 in Montecito , California . Earlier that month , she had released her " wedding fragrance " called " Kim Kardashian Love " which coincided with her own wedding . A two - part TV special showing the preparations and the wedding itself aired on E ! in early October 2011 , amidst what The Washington Post called a " media blitz " related to the wedding . After 72 days of marriage , she filed for divorce from Humphries on October 31 , citing irreconcilable differences . Several news outlets surmised that Kardashian ' s marriage to Humphries was merely a publicity stunt to promote the Kardashian family ' s brand and their subsequent television ventures . A man professing to be her former publicist , Jonathan Jaxson , also claimed that her short - lived marriage was indeed staged and a ploy to generate money . Kardashian filed a suit against Jaxson , saying his claims were untrue , and subsequently settled the case that included an apology from Jaxson . A widely circulated petition asking to remove all Kardashian - related programming from the air followed the split . The divorce was subject to widespread media attention .	When did you become engaged to Kris Humphries?	In May 2011.
In January 2021 , CNN reported that the couple were discussing divorce and on February 19 , 2021 , Kardashian officially filed for divorce . In April 2021 , they both agreed before court that they would end their marriage due to " irreconcilable differences " and agreed to joint custody of their four children . They also agreed that neither of them need spousal support . In February 2022 , Kardashian filed a complaint to the Los Angeles Superior Court , asking for a quicker proceedings in the divorce from West , saying that West was trying to delay it and saying that " Mr . West , by his actions , has made it clear that he does not accept that the parties ' marital relationship is over . " Kardashian was declared legally single on March 2 , 2022 . This allowed her to drop " West " as her legal last name and ended their marriage . A divorce settlement was finalized on November 29 , 2022 .	What did we agree on regarding our children?	We agreed to joint custody of our four children.
Kardashian appeared on the cover and in a pictorial in Paper ' s winter 2014 issue , photographed by Jean - Paul Goude . On the cover , her nude buttocks are featured above the caption : " Break the Internet " , which generated considerable comment in both social and traditional media . A Time magazine writer commented that , unlike previous celebrities ' nudes that represented the women ' s rebellion against repressed society and " trying to tear down " barriers , Kardashian ' s exhibition was " just provocation and bluster , repeated images that seem to offer us some sort of truth or insight but are really just self serving . We want there to be something more , some reason or context , some great explanation that tells us what it is like to live in this very day and age , but there is not . Kim Kardashian ' s ass is nothing but an empty promise . " However , the stunt " set a new benchmark " in social media response , and Paper ' s website received 15.9 million views in one day , compared with 25 , 000 views on an average day .	Who photographed you for the cover and pictorial in Paper's winter 2014 issue?	Jean-Paul Goude.
In May 2014 , Kardashian was estimated to be worth US $ 45   million . In 2015 , Forbes reported she had " made more this year than ever as her earnings nearly doubled to $ 53 million from 2014 ' s $ 28 million " , and reported that she " has monetized fame better than any other " . Much of her income includes wholesale earnings of the Sears line , the Kardashian Kollection , which brought in $ 600 million in 2013 and the Kardashian Beauty cosmetics line , Kardashian - branded tanning products , the boutique - line DASH , as well as sponsored social media posts which are collectively worth $ 300 , 000 – 500 , 000 per post . As of July 2018 , Kardashian was worth US $ 350 million . Kardashian does not receive alimony payments from either of her first two marriages . On April 6 , 2021 , Forbes estimated Kardashian ' s net worth at US $ 1 billion .	What are some of my income sources?	Some of my income sources include the Kardashian Beauty cosmetics line, Kardashian-branded tanning products, the boutique-line DASH, as well as sponsored social media posts which are collectively worth $300,000 - $500,000 per post.
