Stewart appeared in Tim Blake Nelson ' s Anesthesia , an indie drama about a group of New Yorkers , which was released on January 8 , 2016 , by IFC Films . She co - starred with Jesse Eisenberg again in American Ultra ( 2015 ) . That same year , she starred in Once and Forever , which was directed by Karl Lagerfeld . Stewart co - starred along with Nicholas Hoult in Drake Doremus ' futuristic love story Equals which was released on July 15 , 2016 . Stewart was confirmed to join Kelly Reichardt ' s film Certain Women in 2015 ; the film was released on October 14 , 2016 . She starred in the Woody Allen film Caf é Society , opposite Steve Carell and Jesse Eisenberg , marking her third collaboration with the latter . Gaining mixed reviews upon its premiere , the film was released in July 2016 . Stewart also reunited with Clouds of Sils Maria director Olivier Assayas to headline his film Personal Shopper , a ghost story that takes place in the fashion industry . She also co - starred in Ang Lee ' s war drama Billy Lynn ' s Long Halftime Walk , which was released on November 11 , 2016 . In December 2016 , Stewart appeared in the official music video for the Rolling Stones ' single " Ride ' Em on Down " . In 2016 , Stewart became the youngest actress to be an honoree at the New York Film Festival . In the same year , Stewart was also an honoree at Elle ' s Women in Hollywood Awards alongside Amy Adams , Felicity Jones , Anna Kendrick , Aja Naomi King , Helen Mirren , and Lupita Nyong ' o .	Who directed the film "Once and Forever" and when was it released?	"Once and Forever" was directed by Karl Lagerfeld. Its release date is not mentioned in the given information.
On December 6 , 2011 , Stewart was named number one on Forbes magazine ' s list of " Hollywood ' s Best Actors for the Buck " . On January 13 , 2012 , she became the face of a new unnamed Balenciaga perfume ; in June , its name was promoted as " Florabotanica " . Stewart starred as Snow White in the film Snow White and the Huntsman ( 2012 ) . Stewart appears as Mary Lou in On the Road , the film adaptation of Jack Kerouac ' s novel of the same name . She concluded the role of Bella Swan in Breaking Dawn – Part 2 , released in November 2012 . The film attracted a mixed critical response but found success during its box office run , grossing $ 830 million worldwide and becoming the 81st highest - grossing film . The Twilight film series , dubbed The Twilight Saga , generated $ 3.32   billion worldwide , making it one of the highest - grossing film franchises . According to Forbes , Stewart was the world ' s highest - paid actress in 2012 , with total earnings of $ 34.5 million . She earned $ 12.5 million each for the last two installments in the Twilight series , including royalties .	In which film did you star as Snow White?	I starred as Snow White in the film "Snow White and the Huntsman".
Stewart next starred alongside Juliette Binoche and Chlo ë Grace Moretz in Olivier Assayas ' Clouds of Sils Maria . The film premiered at the 2014 Cannes Film Festival . Her performance in the film was critically acclaimed . Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter said that " Stewart ' s habitual low - keyed style , which can border on the monotone , functions as effectively underplayed contrast . " Peter Debruge of Variety praised Stewart ' s " spontaneous , agitated energy that makes her the most compellingly watchable American actress of her generation . " Robbie Collin of The Daily Telegraph described her portrayal as " sharp and subtle , knowable and then suddenly distant " and highlighted the " brilliant lightness of touch " in her approach to the film ' s twist . For the performance , Stewart won the C é sar Award for Best Supporting Actress , becoming the first American actress to receive a nomination in thirty years . She is the second American winner after Adrien Brody , who won the C é sar Award for Best Actor in 2003 . That same year , Stewart appeared alongside Julianne Moore in Still Alice , a drama film that premiered at the 2014 Toronto International Film Festival . Critics commended her performance in the film . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone called her " wonderfully vibrant and contentious " and said : " Even when Still Alice sometimes slips into sentiment , Moore and Stewart are funny , fierce and glorious .	Who praised your performance in "Clouds of Sils Maria"?	Peter Debruge of Variety praised my performance.
In 2018 , Stewart appeared opposite Chlo ë Sevigny in Lizzie , about Lizzie Borden , directed by Craig William Macneill , which had its world premiere at the 2018 Sundance Film Festival . It was released on September 14 , 2018 , by Saban Films and Roadside Attractions . The film received mixed reviews from critics . She also starred in JT LeRoy , a biopic about Laura Albert , alongside Laura Dern and Diane Kruger . She also appeared in the music video for Interpol ' s " If You Really Love Nothing " . She also served as a member of the jury for the official competition of the 2018 Cannes Film Festival .	When was the film "Lizzie" released?	September 14, 2018.
Stewart appeared in Tim Blake Nelson ' s Anesthesia , an indie drama about a group of New Yorkers , which was released on January 8 , 2016 , by IFC Films . She co - starred with Jesse Eisenberg again in American Ultra ( 2015 ) . That same year , she starred in Once and Forever , which was directed by Karl Lagerfeld . Stewart co - starred along with Nicholas Hoult in Drake Doremus ' futuristic love story Equals which was released on July 15 , 2016 . Stewart was confirmed to join Kelly Reichardt ' s film Certain Women in 2015 ; the film was released on October 14 , 2016 . She starred in the Woody Allen film Caf é Society , opposite Steve Carell and Jesse Eisenberg , marking her third collaboration with the latter . Gaining mixed reviews upon its premiere , the film was released in July 2016 . Stewart also reunited with Clouds of Sils Maria director Olivier Assayas to headline his film Personal Shopper , a ghost story that takes place in the fashion industry . She also co - starred in Ang Lee ' s war drama Billy Lynn ' s Long Halftime Walk , which was released on November 11 , 2016 . In December 2016 , Stewart appeared in the official music video for the Rolling Stones ' single " Ride ' Em on Down " . In 2016 , Stewart became the youngest actress to be an honoree at the New York Film Festival . In the same year , Stewart was also an honoree at Elle ' s Women in Hollywood Awards alongside Amy Adams , Felicity Jones , Anna Kendrick , Aja Naomi King , Helen Mirren , and Lupita Nyong ' o .	Who did you co-star with in the film "Equals" and when was it released?	I co-starred with Nicholas Hoult in the film "Equals" which was released on July 15, 2016.
Stewart starred as actress Jean Seberg in Seberg , directed by Benedict Andrews . It premiered at the 76th Venice International Film Festival in August 2019 . While the film received mixed reviews , Stewart ' s performance received praise . Time magazine declared her performance the 10th best performance of 2019 . Stewart returned to mainstream Hollywood with starring roles in the action comedy film Charlie ' s Angels ( 2019 ) and the science fiction film Underwater ( 2020 ) . Critics were mixed in their reviews of both films , but Stewart ' s performance in the former was well received . Stewart wrote and directed a short film titled Crickets , as part of the anthology series Homemade which follows stories from 18 filmmakers from around the world during the COVID - 19 pandemic isolation . It was co - produced by Pablo Larra í n ' s production company , Fabula . The series was released on Netflix on June 30 , 2020 . Stewart later starred opposite Mackenzie Davis in Happiest Season , an LGBT holiday romance film directed by Clea DuVall , which was released on November 25 , 2020 .	When did Seberg premiere at the Venice International Film Festival?	In August 2019.
Stewart starred as actress Jean Seberg in Seberg , directed by Benedict Andrews . It premiered at the 76th Venice International Film Festival in August 2019 . While the film received mixed reviews , Stewart ' s performance received praise . Time magazine declared her performance the 10th best performance of 2019 . Stewart returned to mainstream Hollywood with starring roles in the action comedy film Charlie ' s Angels ( 2019 ) and the science fiction film Underwater ( 2020 ) . Critics were mixed in their reviews of both films , but Stewart ' s performance in the former was well received . Stewart wrote and directed a short film titled Crickets , as part of the anthology series Homemade which follows stories from 18 filmmakers from around the world during the COVID - 19 pandemic isolation . It was co - produced by Pablo Larra í n ' s production company , Fabula . The series was released on Netflix on June 30 , 2020 . Stewart later starred opposite Mackenzie Davis in Happiest Season , an LGBT holiday romance film directed by Clea DuVall , which was released on November 25 , 2020 .	Who directed the film Seberg?	Benedict Andrews.
On December 6 , 2011 , Stewart was named number one on Forbes magazine ' s list of " Hollywood ' s Best Actors for the Buck " . On January 13 , 2012 , she became the face of a new unnamed Balenciaga perfume ; in June , its name was promoted as " Florabotanica " . Stewart starred as Snow White in the film Snow White and the Huntsman ( 2012 ) . Stewart appears as Mary Lou in On the Road , the film adaptation of Jack Kerouac ' s novel of the same name . She concluded the role of Bella Swan in Breaking Dawn – Part 2 , released in November 2012 . The film attracted a mixed critical response but found success during its box office run , grossing $ 830 million worldwide and becoming the 81st highest - grossing film . The Twilight film series , dubbed The Twilight Saga , generated $ 3.32   billion worldwide , making it one of the highest - grossing film franchises . According to Forbes , Stewart was the world ' s highest - paid actress in 2012 , with total earnings of $ 34.5 million . She earned $ 12.5 million each for the last two installments in the Twilight series , including royalties .	When did you become the face of an unnamed Balenciaga perfume?	On January 13, 2012.
Stewart starred in The Yellow Handkerchief , which debuted at the 2009 Sundance Film Festival and was released in theaters in 2010 . She also starred alongside James Gandolfini in Welcome to the Rileys , which premiered at the 2010 Sundance Film Festival . That same year , Stewart portrayed rock star Joan Jett in The Runaways , a biographical film of the titular band from writer - director Floria Sigismondi . Stewart met with Jett to prepare for the role and prerecorded songs in a studio for the film . Praising Stewart ' s performance , the Metro Times ' Bill Holdship wrote , " It turns out that Stewart is actually really good at capturing Jett ' s icy , tough - but - cool girl swagger , adding the needed touches of vulnerability that transform it into a pretty terrific performance ... Stewart is a genuine rock star here . " Also , A . O . Scott of The New York Times noted a " watchful and unassuming " Stewart " gives the movie its spine and soul . " At the 63rd British Academy Film Awards in February 2010 , Stewart won the BAFTA Rising Star Award .	In which films did you star alongside James Gandolfini?	I starred alongside James Gandolfini in Welcome to the Rileys.
On December 6 , 2011 , Stewart was named number one on Forbes magazine ' s list of " Hollywood ' s Best Actors for the Buck " . On January 13 , 2012 , she became the face of a new unnamed Balenciaga perfume ; in June , its name was promoted as " Florabotanica " . Stewart starred as Snow White in the film Snow White and the Huntsman ( 2012 ) . Stewart appears as Mary Lou in On the Road , the film adaptation of Jack Kerouac ' s novel of the same name . She concluded the role of Bella Swan in Breaking Dawn – Part 2 , released in November 2012 . The film attracted a mixed critical response but found success during its box office run , grossing $ 830 million worldwide and becoming the 81st highest - grossing film . The Twilight film series , dubbed The Twilight Saga , generated $ 3.32   billion worldwide , making it one of the highest - grossing film franchises . According to Forbes , Stewart was the world ' s highest - paid actress in 2012 , with total earnings of $ 34.5 million . She earned $ 12.5 million each for the last two installments in the Twilight series , including royalties .	What is the name of the Balenciaga perfume that you promoted?	The name of the Balenciaga perfume that I promoted is "Florabotanica".
Stewart starred in The Yellow Handkerchief , which debuted at the 2009 Sundance Film Festival and was released in theaters in 2010 . She also starred alongside James Gandolfini in Welcome to the Rileys , which premiered at the 2010 Sundance Film Festival . That same year , Stewart portrayed rock star Joan Jett in The Runaways , a biographical film of the titular band from writer - director Floria Sigismondi . Stewart met with Jett to prepare for the role and prerecorded songs in a studio for the film . Praising Stewart ' s performance , the Metro Times ' Bill Holdship wrote , " It turns out that Stewart is actually really good at capturing Jett ' s icy , tough - but - cool girl swagger , adding the needed touches of vulnerability that transform it into a pretty terrific performance ... Stewart is a genuine rock star here . " Also , A . O . Scott of The New York Times noted a " watchful and unassuming " Stewart " gives the movie its spine and soul . " At the 63rd British Academy Film Awards in February 2010 , Stewart won the BAFTA Rising Star Award .	Who praised your performance as Joan Jett in The Runaways?	The Metro Times' Bill Holdship praised my performance as Joan Jett.
In June 2020 , Stewart was announced as having been cast as Diana , Princess of Wales in Pablo Larra í n ' s biographical drama film Spencer , which chronicles Diana ' s decision to divorce Charles , Prince of Wales . She worked with a dialect coach and studied Diana ' s posture for the part . Describing Diana as someone who " sticks out as a sparkly house on fire " , Stewart said she " felt more free and alive and able to move " in the role than she did in any of her previous projects . The film premiered at the 78th Venice International Film Festival in September 2021 and released in November that same year . Critics lauded Stewart ' s portrayal of Diana , with Jonathan Romney of Screen Daily describing it as " brittle , tender , sometimes playful and not a little uncanny " and Kyle Buchanan of The New York Times deeming her casting " a meta stroke of genius " . Stewart received nominations for the Academy Award for Best Actress and Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama for her performance .	When were you announced as cast for the role of Diana, Princess of Wales?	In June 2020.
In June 2020 , Stewart was announced as having been cast as Diana , Princess of Wales in Pablo Larra í n ' s biographical drama film Spencer , which chronicles Diana ' s decision to divorce Charles , Prince of Wales . She worked with a dialect coach and studied Diana ' s posture for the part . Describing Diana as someone who " sticks out as a sparkly house on fire " , Stewart said she " felt more free and alive and able to move " in the role than she did in any of her previous projects . The film premiered at the 78th Venice International Film Festival in September 2021 and released in November that same year . Critics lauded Stewart ' s portrayal of Diana , with Jonathan Romney of Screen Daily describing it as " brittle , tender , sometimes playful and not a little uncanny " and Kyle Buchanan of The New York Times deeming her casting " a meta stroke of genius " . Stewart received nominations for the Academy Award for Best Actress and Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama for her performance .	How did you prepare for the role of Diana?	I worked with a dialect coach and studied Diana's posture for the part.
Stewart dated the late Anton Yelchin when they were filming Fierce People ; she described him as her " first heartbreak " . After their split , Stewart dated her Speak co - star Michael Angarano from 2005 to early 2009 . In mid - 2009 , Stewart became romantically linked to her Twilight co - star Robert Pattinson . In July 2012 , Stewart was photographed with her Snow White and the Huntsman director Rupert Sanders , revealing an affair ; the day the photos were released , Sanders , who was 19 years her senior and married at the time , issued a public apology for the affair , as did Stewart . Pattinson and Stewart split , but reconciled in October 2012 . The pair eventually broke up in May 2013 . In mid 2013 , Stewart started dating visual effects producer Alicia Cargile . She briefly dated French singer Soko in the spring of 2016 , before she resumed dating Cargile in mid 2016 . In fall 2016 , she briefly dated musician St . Vincent . From late 2016 , she was in a relationship with New Zealand model Stella Maxwell until their breakup in late 2018 . Stewart dated stylist Sara Dinkin from late 2018 until she resumed dating Maxwell again in mid 2019 . Stewart has been in a relationship with screenwriter Dylan Meyer since August 2019 , and stated in November 2021 that she and Meyer were engaged .	Who did you date when you were filming Fierce People?	I dated the late Anton Yelchin.
Stewart resides in Los Angeles . In 2017 , she stated that she is bisexual , saying , " You ' re not confused if you ' re bisexual . It ' s not confusing at all . For me , it ' s quite the opposite . " In 2019 , Stewart stated that she had been advised not to be affectionate with her girlfriend in public , in order to land mainstream roles . She said : " I don ' t want to work with people like that . " Stewart identifies as a feminist . She suffers from equinophobia , the fear of horses .	What fear do you suffer from?	I suffer from equinophobia, the fear of horses.
In 2018 , Stewart appeared opposite Chlo ë Sevigny in Lizzie , about Lizzie Borden , directed by Craig William Macneill , which had its world premiere at the 2018 Sundance Film Festival . It was released on September 14 , 2018 , by Saban Films and Roadside Attractions . The film received mixed reviews from critics . She also starred in JT LeRoy , a biopic about Laura Albert , alongside Laura Dern and Diane Kruger . She also appeared in the music video for Interpol ' s " If You Really Love Nothing " . She also served as a member of the jury for the official competition of the 2018 Cannes Film Festival .	What were the reviews like for the film "Lizzie"?	The film received mixed reviews from critics.
On December 6 , 2011 , Stewart was named number one on Forbes magazine ' s list of " Hollywood ' s Best Actors for the Buck " . On January 13 , 2012 , she became the face of a new unnamed Balenciaga perfume ; in June , its name was promoted as " Florabotanica " . Stewart starred as Snow White in the film Snow White and the Huntsman ( 2012 ) . Stewart appears as Mary Lou in On the Road , the film adaptation of Jack Kerouac ' s novel of the same name . She concluded the role of Bella Swan in Breaking Dawn – Part 2 , released in November 2012 . The film attracted a mixed critical response but found success during its box office run , grossing $ 830 million worldwide and becoming the 81st highest - grossing film . The Twilight film series , dubbed The Twilight Saga , generated $ 3.32   billion worldwide , making it one of the highest - grossing film franchises . According to Forbes , Stewart was the world ' s highest - paid actress in 2012 , with total earnings of $ 34.5 million . She earned $ 12.5 million each for the last two installments in the Twilight series , including royalties .	When were you named number one on Forbes magazine's list of "Hollywood's Best Actors for the Buck"?	On December 6, 2011.
Stewart appeared in Tim Blake Nelson ' s Anesthesia , an indie drama about a group of New Yorkers , which was released on January 8 , 2016 , by IFC Films . She co - starred with Jesse Eisenberg again in American Ultra ( 2015 ) . That same year , she starred in Once and Forever , which was directed by Karl Lagerfeld . Stewart co - starred along with Nicholas Hoult in Drake Doremus ' futuristic love story Equals which was released on July 15 , 2016 . Stewart was confirmed to join Kelly Reichardt ' s film Certain Women in 2015 ; the film was released on October 14 , 2016 . She starred in the Woody Allen film Caf é Society , opposite Steve Carell and Jesse Eisenberg , marking her third collaboration with the latter . Gaining mixed reviews upon its premiere , the film was released in July 2016 . Stewart also reunited with Clouds of Sils Maria director Olivier Assayas to headline his film Personal Shopper , a ghost story that takes place in the fashion industry . She also co - starred in Ang Lee ' s war drama Billy Lynn ' s Long Halftime Walk , which was released on November 11 , 2016 . In December 2016 , Stewart appeared in the official music video for the Rolling Stones ' single " Ride ' Em on Down " . In 2016 , Stewart became the youngest actress to be an honoree at the New York Film Festival . In the same year , Stewart was also an honoree at Elle ' s Women in Hollywood Awards alongside Amy Adams , Felicity Jones , Anna Kendrick , Aja Naomi King , Helen Mirren , and Lupita Nyong ' o .	Who directed the film "Certain Women" and when was it released?	"Certain Women" was directed by Kelly Reichardt and it was released on October 14, 2016.
In June 2020 , Stewart was announced as having been cast as Diana , Princess of Wales in Pablo Larra í n ' s biographical drama film Spencer , which chronicles Diana ' s decision to divorce Charles , Prince of Wales . She worked with a dialect coach and studied Diana ' s posture for the part . Describing Diana as someone who " sticks out as a sparkly house on fire " , Stewart said she " felt more free and alive and able to move " in the role than she did in any of her previous projects . The film premiered at the 78th Venice International Film Festival in September 2021 and released in November that same year . Critics lauded Stewart ' s portrayal of Diana , with Jonathan Romney of Screen Daily describing it as " brittle , tender , sometimes playful and not a little uncanny " and Kyle Buchanan of The New York Times deeming her casting " a meta stroke of genius " . Stewart received nominations for the Academy Award for Best Actress and Golden Globe Award for Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama for her performance .	What were some of the reviews of your portrayal of Diana?	Critics praised my portrayal, with one describing it as "brittle, tender, sometimes playful and not a little uncanny."
Stewart starred in The Yellow Handkerchief , which debuted at the 2009 Sundance Film Festival and was released in theaters in 2010 . She also starred alongside James Gandolfini in Welcome to the Rileys , which premiered at the 2010 Sundance Film Festival . That same year , Stewart portrayed rock star Joan Jett in The Runaways , a biographical film of the titular band from writer - director Floria Sigismondi . Stewart met with Jett to prepare for the role and prerecorded songs in a studio for the film . Praising Stewart ' s performance , the Metro Times ' Bill Holdship wrote , " It turns out that Stewart is actually really good at capturing Jett ' s icy , tough - but - cool girl swagger , adding the needed touches of vulnerability that transform it into a pretty terrific performance ... Stewart is a genuine rock star here . " Also , A . O . Scott of The New York Times noted a " watchful and unassuming " Stewart " gives the movie its spine and soul . " At the 63rd British Academy Film Awards in February 2010 , Stewart won the BAFTA Rising Star Award .	What award did you win at the 63rd British Academy Film Awards?	I won the BAFTA Rising Star Award at the 63rd British Academy Film Awards.
In 2018 , Stewart appeared opposite Chlo ë Sevigny in Lizzie , about Lizzie Borden , directed by Craig William Macneill , which had its world premiere at the 2018 Sundance Film Festival . It was released on September 14 , 2018 , by Saban Films and Roadside Attractions . The film received mixed reviews from critics . She also starred in JT LeRoy , a biopic about Laura Albert , alongside Laura Dern and Diane Kruger . She also appeared in the music video for Interpol ' s " If You Really Love Nothing " . She also served as a member of the jury for the official competition of the 2018 Cannes Film Festival .	Who did you appear opposite in the film "Lizzie"?	Chloë Sevigny.
On December 11 , 2013 , Chanel announced Stewart as their " new face " for a Western - inspired fashion collection . The campaign was shot by Karl Lagerfeld and released online in May 2014 . In 2014 , Balenciaga released a new fragrance , Rosabotanica , with Stewart remaining the face of the brand . She was ranked No . 3 on Forbes ' highest - paid actress in 2013 , with a total earning of $ 22 million , # 10 in 2014 with $ 12 million , and # 9 in 2015 with $ 12 million . Camp X - Ray , her first film of 2014 , premiered at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival on January 17 . While it generated mixed reviews from critics , Stewart ' s performance as a young soldier stationed at Guantanamo Bay detention camp received praise . David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter called it " her best screen work to date [ playing the role of ] an inexperienced military guard " , while Xan Brooks of The Guardian said , " It ' s a role that reminds us what a fine performer she was in the likes of Into the Wild and Adventureland . " . In 2014 , she appeared in the music video for Jenny Lewis ' " Just One of The Guys " , and in The New York Times short movie 9 Kisses .	Which fragrance did Balenciaga release in 2014 with you as the brand's face?	Rosabotanica.
On December 11 , 2013 , Chanel announced Stewart as their " new face " for a Western - inspired fashion collection . The campaign was shot by Karl Lagerfeld and released online in May 2014 . In 2014 , Balenciaga released a new fragrance , Rosabotanica , with Stewart remaining the face of the brand . She was ranked No . 3 on Forbes ' highest - paid actress in 2013 , with a total earning of $ 22 million , # 10 in 2014 with $ 12 million , and # 9 in 2015 with $ 12 million . Camp X - Ray , her first film of 2014 , premiered at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival on January 17 . While it generated mixed reviews from critics , Stewart ' s performance as a young soldier stationed at Guantanamo Bay detention camp received praise . David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter called it " her best screen work to date [ playing the role of ] an inexperienced military guard " , while Xan Brooks of The Guardian said , " It ' s a role that reminds us what a fine performer she was in the likes of Into the Wild and Adventureland . " . In 2014 , she appeared in the music video for Jenny Lewis ' " Just One of The Guys " , and in The New York Times short movie 9 Kisses .	When were you announced as the "new face" for Chanel?	On December 11, 2013.
Stewart next starred alongside Juliette Binoche and Chlo ë Grace Moretz in Olivier Assayas ' Clouds of Sils Maria . The film premiered at the 2014 Cannes Film Festival . Her performance in the film was critically acclaimed . Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter said that " Stewart ' s habitual low - keyed style , which can border on the monotone , functions as effectively underplayed contrast . " Peter Debruge of Variety praised Stewart ' s " spontaneous , agitated energy that makes her the most compellingly watchable American actress of her generation . " Robbie Collin of The Daily Telegraph described her portrayal as " sharp and subtle , knowable and then suddenly distant " and highlighted the " brilliant lightness of touch " in her approach to the film ' s twist . For the performance , Stewart won the C é sar Award for Best Supporting Actress , becoming the first American actress to receive a nomination in thirty years . She is the second American winner after Adrien Brody , who won the C é sar Award for Best Actor in 2003 . That same year , Stewart appeared alongside Julianne Moore in Still Alice , a drama film that premiered at the 2014 Toronto International Film Festival . Critics commended her performance in the film . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone called her " wonderfully vibrant and contentious " and said : " Even when Still Alice sometimes slips into sentiment , Moore and Stewart are funny , fierce and glorious .	Where did your film "Clouds of Sils Maria" premiere?	My film premiered at the 2014 Cannes Film Festival.
On December 11 , 2013 , Chanel announced Stewart as their " new face " for a Western - inspired fashion collection . The campaign was shot by Karl Lagerfeld and released online in May 2014 . In 2014 , Balenciaga released a new fragrance , Rosabotanica , with Stewart remaining the face of the brand . She was ranked No . 3 on Forbes ' highest - paid actress in 2013 , with a total earning of $ 22 million , # 10 in 2014 with $ 12 million , and # 9 in 2015 with $ 12 million . Camp X - Ray , her first film of 2014 , premiered at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival on January 17 . While it generated mixed reviews from critics , Stewart ' s performance as a young soldier stationed at Guantanamo Bay detention camp received praise . David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter called it " her best screen work to date [ playing the role of ] an inexperienced military guard " , while Xan Brooks of The Guardian said , " It ' s a role that reminds us what a fine performer she was in the likes of Into the Wild and Adventureland . " . In 2014 , she appeared in the music video for Jenny Lewis ' " Just One of The Guys " , and in The New York Times short movie 9 Kisses .	When was the campaign released online?	In May 2014.
