Gaga played a witch named Scathach in American Horror Story : Roanoke , the series ' sixth season , which ran from September to November 2016 . Her role in the fifth season of the show ultimately influenced her future music , prompting her to feature " the art of darkness " . In September 2016 , she released her fifth album ' s lead single , " Perfect Illusion " , which topped the charts in France and reached number 15 in the US . The album , titled Joanne , was named after Gaga ' s late aunt , who was an inspiration for the music . It was released on October 21 , 2016 , and became Gaga ' s fourth number one album on the Billboard 200 , making her the first woman to reach the US chart ' s summit four times in the 2010s . The album ' s second single , " Million Reasons " , followed the next month and reached number four in the US . She later released a piano version of the album ' s title track in 2018 , which won a Grammy for Best Pop Solo Performance . To promote the album , Gaga embarked on the three - date Dive Bar Tour .	What Grammy did the piano version of your album's title track win?	The piano version of my album's title track won a Grammy for Best Pop Solo Performance.
By 2008 , Gaga had relocated to Los Angeles to work extensively with her record label to complete her debut album , The Fame , and to set up her own creative team called the Haus of Gaga , modeled on Andy Warhol ' s The Factory . The Fame was released on August 19 , 2008 , and reached number one in Austria , Canada , Germany , Ireland , Switzerland and the UK , as well as the top five in Australia and the US . Its first two singles , " Just Dance " and " Poker Face " , reached number one in the United States , Australia , Canada and the UK . The latter was also the world ' s best - selling single of 2009 , with 9.8   million copies sold that year , and spent a record 83 weeks on Billboard magazine ' s Digital Songs chart . Three other singles , " Eh , Eh ( Nothing Else I Can Say ) " , " LoveGame " and " Paparazzi " , were released from the album ; the lattermost reached number one in Germany . Remixed versions of the singles from The Fame , except " Eh , Eh ( Nothing Else I Can Say ) " , were included on Hitmixes in August 2009 . At the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards , The Fame and " Poker Face " won Best Dance / Electronica Album and Best Dance Recording , respectively .	In which countries did your album The Fame reach number one?	My album The Fame reached number one in Austria, Canada, Germany, Ireland, Switzerland, and the UK.
In February 2020 , Gaga began a relationship with entrepreneur Michael Polansky . Her sixth studio album , Chromatica , was released on May 29 , 2020 , to positive reviews . It debuted atop the US charts , becoming her sixth consecutive number - one album in the country , and reached the top spot in more than a dozen other territories including Australia , Canada , France , Italy and the UK . Chromatica was preceded by two singles , " Stupid Love " , on February 28 , 2020 , and " Rain on Me " , with Ariana Grande , on May 22 . The latter won the Best Pop Duo / Group Performance at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards , and debuted at number one in the US , making Gaga the third person to top the country ' s chart in the 2000s , 2010s and 2020s . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , Gaga won five awards , including the inaugural Tricon Award recognizing artists accomplished in different areas of the entertainment industry . In September 2020 , she appeared in the video campaign for Valentino ' s Voce Viva fragrance , singing a stripped - down version of Chromatica track " Sine from Above " , along with a group of models .	When was your sixth studio album, Chromatica, released?	My sixth studio album, Chromatica, was released on May 29, 2020.
After an appearance in the television special Friends : The Reunion , in which Gaga sang " Smelly Cat " with Lisa Kudrow , she portrayed Patrizia Reggiani , who was convicted of hiring a hitman to murder her ex - husband and former head of the Gucci fashion house Maurizio Gucci ( played by Adam Driver ) , in Ridley Scott ' s biographical crime film titled House of Gucci . For the part , Gaga learned to speak with an Italian accent . She also stayed in character for 18 months , speaking with an accent for nine months during that period . Her method acting approach took a toll on her mental wellbeing , and towards the end of filming she had to be accompanied on - set by a psychiatric nurse . The film was released on November 24 , 2021 , to mixed reviews , though critics praised Gaga ' s performance as " note - perfect " . She earned the New York Film Critics Circle Award , and nominations for the BAFTA Award , Critics ' Choice Award , Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actress . Gaga co - wrote the song " Hold My Hand " for the 2022 film Top Gun : Maverick , and also composed the score alongside Hans Zimmer and Harold Faltermeyer . She performed " Hold My Hand " live at the 95th Academy Awards , where it was nominated for Best Original Song . The track also earned Gaga her third win for Best Original Song at the Satellite Awards . In July 2022 , she embarked on The Chromatica Ball stadium tour , which had twenty dates and grossed $ 112.4 million from 834 , 000 tickets sold . By the end of the year , she became the highest grossing female artist touring in 2022 . In April 2023 , Gaga was appointed as co - chair of the President ' s Committee on the Arts and Humanities by President Joe Biden . Gaga is set to star with Joaquin Phoenix in Joker : Folie à Deux , which will be released in 2024 .	Who played Maurizio Gucci in the film House of Gucci?	Adam Driver played Maurizio Gucci.
Gaga and Cooper co - wrote and produced most of the songs on the soundtrack for A Star Is Born , which she insisted they perform live in the film . Its lead single , " Shallow " , performed by the two , was released on September 27 , 2018 and topped the charts in various countries including Australia , the UK and the US . The soundtrack contains 34 tracks , including 17 original songs , and received generally positive reviews ; Mark Kennedy of The Washington Post called it a " five - star marvel " and Ben Beaumont - Thomas of The Guardian termed it an " instant classics full of Gaga ' s emotional might " . Commercially , the soundtrack debuted at number one in the US , making Gaga the first woman with five US number - one albums in the 2010s , and breaking her tie with Taylor Swift as the most for any female artist this decade ; Swift tied with her again in 2019 . It additionally topped the charts in Australia , Canada , Ireland , New Zealand , Switzerland and the UK . As of June 2019 , the soundtrack had sold over six million copies worldwide . The album won Gaga four Grammy Awards — Best Compilation Soundtrack for Visual Media and Best Pop Duo / Group Performance and Best Song Written for Visual Media for " Shallow " , as well as the latter category for " I ' ll Never Love Again " — and a BAFTA Award for Best Film Music . " Shallow " also won her the Academy Award , Golden Globe Award , Critics ' Choice Award , and Satellite Award for Best Original Song . Gaga gave live performances of the song at the 61st Annual Grammy Awards and the 91st Academy Awards .	When was "Shallow" released?	September 27, 2018.
Gaga played a witch named Scathach in American Horror Story : Roanoke , the series ' sixth season , which ran from September to November 2016 . Her role in the fifth season of the show ultimately influenced her future music , prompting her to feature " the art of darkness " . In September 2016 , she released her fifth album ' s lead single , " Perfect Illusion " , which topped the charts in France and reached number 15 in the US . The album , titled Joanne , was named after Gaga ' s late aunt , who was an inspiration for the music . It was released on October 21 , 2016 , and became Gaga ' s fourth number one album on the Billboard 200 , making her the first woman to reach the US chart ' s summit four times in the 2010s . The album ' s second single , " Million Reasons " , followed the next month and reached number four in the US . She later released a piano version of the album ' s title track in 2018 , which won a Grammy for Best Pop Solo Performance . To promote the album , Gaga embarked on the three - date Dive Bar Tour .	When did the fifth season of American Horror Story air?	The fifth season of American Horror Story aired in 2016.
The themes in Artpop revolve around Gaga ' s personal views of fame , love , sex , feminism , self - empowerment , overcoming addiction , and reactions to media scrutiny . Billboard describes Artpop as " coherently channeling R & B , techno , disco and rock music " . With Cheek to Cheek , Gaga dabbled in the jazz genre . Joanne , exploring the genres of country , funk , pop , dance , rock , electronic music and folk , was influenced by her personal life . The A Star Is Born soundtrack contains elements of blues rock , country and bubblegum pop . Billboard says its lyrics are about wanting change , its struggle , love , romance , and bonding , describing the music as " timeless , emotional , gritty and earnest . They sound like songs written by artists who , quite frankly , are supremely messed up but hit to the core of the listener . " On Chromatica , Gaga returned to her dance - pop roots , and discussed her struggles with mental health . Her second album with Tony Bennett , Love for Sale , consists of a tribute to Cole Porter .	How do you describe the musical style of Artpop?	I describe Artpop as "coherently channeling R&B, techno, disco, and rock music".
A new genus of ferns , Gaga , and three species , G . germanotta , G . monstraparva and Kaikaia gaga , have been named in her honor . The name monstraparva alluded to Gaga ' s fans , known as Little Monsters , since their symbol is the outstretched " monster claw " hand , which resembles a tightly rolled young fern leaf prior to unfurling . Gaga also has an extinct mammal , Gagadon minimonstrum , and a parasitic wasp , Aleiodes gaga , named for her .	What are the names of the three species?	The names of the three species are G. germanotta, G. monstraparva, and Kaikaia gaga.
After an appearance in the television special Friends : The Reunion , in which Gaga sang " Smelly Cat " with Lisa Kudrow , she portrayed Patrizia Reggiani , who was convicted of hiring a hitman to murder her ex - husband and former head of the Gucci fashion house Maurizio Gucci ( played by Adam Driver ) , in Ridley Scott ' s biographical crime film titled House of Gucci . For the part , Gaga learned to speak with an Italian accent . She also stayed in character for 18 months , speaking with an accent for nine months during that period . Her method acting approach took a toll on her mental wellbeing , and towards the end of filming she had to be accompanied on - set by a psychiatric nurse . The film was released on November 24 , 2021 , to mixed reviews , though critics praised Gaga ' s performance as " note - perfect " . She earned the New York Film Critics Circle Award , and nominations for the BAFTA Award , Critics ' Choice Award , Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actress . Gaga co - wrote the song " Hold My Hand " for the 2022 film Top Gun : Maverick , and also composed the score alongside Hans Zimmer and Harold Faltermeyer . She performed " Hold My Hand " live at the 95th Academy Awards , where it was nominated for Best Original Song . The track also earned Gaga her third win for Best Original Song at the Satellite Awards . In July 2022 , she embarked on The Chromatica Ball stadium tour , which had twenty dates and grossed $ 112.4 million from 834 , 000 tickets sold . By the end of the year , she became the highest grossing female artist touring in 2022 . In April 2023 , Gaga was appointed as co - chair of the President ' s Committee on the Arts and Humanities by President Joe Biden . Gaga is set to star with Joaquin Phoenix in Joker : Folie à Deux , which will be released in 2024 .	Who did you portray in the biographical crime film House of Gucci?	I portrayed Patrizia Reggiani.
According to Kelefa Sanneh of The New Yorker , " Lady Gaga blazed a trail for truculent pop stars by treating her own celebrity as an evolving art project . " Including Born This Way as one of the 50 best female albums of all time , Rolling Stone ' s Rob Sheffield considers it " hard to remember a world where we didn ' t have Gaga , although we ' re pretty sure it was a lot more boring " . In 2015 , Time also noted that Gaga had " practically invented the current era of pop music as spectacle " . A 2017 journal published by Psychology of Aesthetics , Creativity , and the Arts studying structural patterns in melodies of earworm songs compiled lists of catchiest tracks from 3 , 000 participants , in which Gaga ' s " Bad Romance " , " Alejandro " , and " Poker Face " ranked number one , eight , and nine , respectively . In 2018 , NPR named her the second most influential female artist of the 21st century , noting her as " one of the first big artists of the ' Internet age ' " . Gaga and her work have influenced various artists including Miley Cyrus , Nicki Minaj , Ellie Goulding , Halsey , Jennifer Lopez , Beyonc é , Nick Jonas , Sam Smith , Noah Cyrus , Katherine Langford , MGMT , Allie X , Greyson Chance , Cardi B , Rina Sawayama , Blackpink , Madison Beer , Ren , Slayyyter , Bebe Rexha , Bree Runway , Celeste , Kim Petras , Jojo Siwa , Pabllo Vittar , Ava Max , Doja Cat , Chaeyoung of Twice , Kanye West , Rachel Zegler , SZA , Raye , and Grace Gaustad .	According to Time, what did you practically invent in the current era of pop music?	According to Time, I practically invented the current era of pop music as a spectacle.
Gaga began work on her third studio album , Artpop , in early 2012 , during the Born This Way Ball tour ; she crafted the album to mirror " a night at the club " . In August 2013 , Gaga released the album ' s lead single " Applause " , which reached number one in Hungary , number four in the US , and number five in the UK . A lyric video for Artpop track " Aura " followed in October to accompany Robert Rodriguez ' s Machete Kills , where she plays an assassin named La Chameleon . The film received generally mixed reviews and earned less than half of its $ 33   million budget . The second Artpop single , " Do What U Want " , featured singer R . Kelly and was released later that month , topping the charts in Hungary and reaching number 13 in the US . Artpop was released on November 6 , 2013 , to mixed reviews . Helen Brown in The Daily Telegraph criticized Gaga for making another album about her fame and doubted the record ' s originality , but found it " great for dancing " . The album debuted atop the Billboard 200 chart , and sold more than 2.5   million copies worldwide as of July 2014 . " G . U . Y . " was released as the third single in March 2014 and peaked at number 76 in the US .	What was the name of the film that had a lyric video for your Artpop track "Aura"?	The film that had a lyric video for my Artpop track "Aura" was "Machete Kills".
A new genus of ferns , Gaga , and three species , G . germanotta , G . monstraparva and Kaikaia gaga , have been named in her honor . The name monstraparva alluded to Gaga ' s fans , known as Little Monsters , since their symbol is the outstretched " monster claw " hand , which resembles a tightly rolled young fern leaf prior to unfurling . Gaga also has an extinct mammal , Gagadon minimonstrum , and a parasitic wasp , Aleiodes gaga , named for her .	What is the reason behind naming the species "monstraparva"?	The species "monstraparva" is named after my fans because their symbol is the outstretched "monster claw" hand, resembling a tightly rolled young fern leaf before unfurling.
In March 2018 , Gaga supported the March for Our Lives gun - control rally in Washington , D . C . , and released a cover of Elton John ' s " Your Song " for his tribute album Revamp . Later that year , she starred as struggling singer Ally in Bradley Cooper ' s musical romantic drama A Star Is Born , a remake of the 1937 film of the same name . The film follows Ally ' s relationship with singer Jackson Maine ( played by Cooper ) , which becomes strained after her career begins to overshadow his . It received acclaim from critics , with a consensus that the movie had " appealing leads , deft direction , and an affecting love story " . Cooper approached Gaga after seeing her perform at a cancer research fundraiser . An admirer of Cooper ' s work , Gaga agreed to the project due to its portrayal of addiction and depression . A Star Is Born premiered at the 2018 Venice Film Festival , and was released worldwide that October . Gaga ' s performance was acclaimed by film critics , with Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian labeling the film " outrageously watchable " and stating that " Gaga ' s ability to be part ordinary person , part extraterrestrial celebrity empress functions at the highest level " ; Stephanie Zacharek of Time magazine similarly highlighted her " knockout performance " and found her to be " charismatic " without her usual makeup , wigs and costumes . For the role , Gaga won the National Board of Review and Critics ' Choice awards for Best Actress , in addition to receiving nominations for the Academy Award , Golden Globe Award , Screen Actors Guild Award and BAFTA Award for Best Actress .	Who approached you for the project of "A Star Is Born"?	Bradley Cooper approached me for the project of "A Star Is Born" after seeing me perform at a cancer research fundraiser.
The themes in Artpop revolve around Gaga ' s personal views of fame , love , sex , feminism , self - empowerment , overcoming addiction , and reactions to media scrutiny . Billboard describes Artpop as " coherently channeling R & B , techno , disco and rock music " . With Cheek to Cheek , Gaga dabbled in the jazz genre . Joanne , exploring the genres of country , funk , pop , dance , rock , electronic music and folk , was influenced by her personal life . The A Star Is Born soundtrack contains elements of blues rock , country and bubblegum pop . Billboard says its lyrics are about wanting change , its struggle , love , romance , and bonding , describing the music as " timeless , emotional , gritty and earnest . They sound like songs written by artists who , quite frankly , are supremely messed up but hit to the core of the listener . " On Chromatica , Gaga returned to her dance - pop roots , and discussed her struggles with mental health . Her second album with Tony Bennett , Love for Sale , consists of a tribute to Cole Porter .	What are some of the themes explored in your album Artpop?	The themes in Artpop revolve around my personal views of fame, love, sex, feminism, self-empowerment, overcoming addiction, and reactions to media scrutiny.
The themes in Artpop revolve around Gaga ' s personal views of fame , love , sex , feminism , self - empowerment , overcoming addiction , and reactions to media scrutiny . Billboard describes Artpop as " coherently channeling R & B , techno , disco and rock music " . With Cheek to Cheek , Gaga dabbled in the jazz genre . Joanne , exploring the genres of country , funk , pop , dance , rock , electronic music and folk , was influenced by her personal life . The A Star Is Born soundtrack contains elements of blues rock , country and bubblegum pop . Billboard says its lyrics are about wanting change , its struggle , love , romance , and bonding , describing the music as " timeless , emotional , gritty and earnest . They sound like songs written by artists who , quite frankly , are supremely messed up but hit to the core of the listener . " On Chromatica , Gaga returned to her dance - pop roots , and discussed her struggles with mental health . Her second album with Tony Bennett , Love for Sale , consists of a tribute to Cole Porter .	What genres did you explore in your album Joanne?	In my album Joanne, I explored the genres of country, funk, pop, dance, rock, electronic music, and folk, taking influence from my personal life.
According to Kelefa Sanneh of The New Yorker , " Lady Gaga blazed a trail for truculent pop stars by treating her own celebrity as an evolving art project . " Including Born This Way as one of the 50 best female albums of all time , Rolling Stone ' s Rob Sheffield considers it " hard to remember a world where we didn ' t have Gaga , although we ' re pretty sure it was a lot more boring " . In 2015 , Time also noted that Gaga had " practically invented the current era of pop music as spectacle " . A 2017 journal published by Psychology of Aesthetics , Creativity , and the Arts studying structural patterns in melodies of earworm songs compiled lists of catchiest tracks from 3 , 000 participants , in which Gaga ' s " Bad Romance " , " Alejandro " , and " Poker Face " ranked number one , eight , and nine , respectively . In 2018 , NPR named her the second most influential female artist of the 21st century , noting her as " one of the first big artists of the ' Internet age ' " . Gaga and her work have influenced various artists including Miley Cyrus , Nicki Minaj , Ellie Goulding , Halsey , Jennifer Lopez , Beyonc é , Nick Jonas , Sam Smith , Noah Cyrus , Katherine Langford , MGMT , Allie X , Greyson Chance , Cardi B , Rina Sawayama , Blackpink , Madison Beer , Ren , Slayyyter , Bebe Rexha , Bree Runway , Celeste , Kim Petras , Jojo Siwa , Pabllo Vittar , Ava Max , Doja Cat , Chaeyoung of Twice , Kanye West , Rachel Zegler , SZA , Raye , and Grace Gaustad .	Who did NPR name you as in 2018?	NPR named me as the second most influential female artist of the 21st century in 2018.
Gaga and Cooper co - wrote and produced most of the songs on the soundtrack for A Star Is Born , which she insisted they perform live in the film . Its lead single , " Shallow " , performed by the two , was released on September 27 , 2018 and topped the charts in various countries including Australia , the UK and the US . The soundtrack contains 34 tracks , including 17 original songs , and received generally positive reviews ; Mark Kennedy of The Washington Post called it a " five - star marvel " and Ben Beaumont - Thomas of The Guardian termed it an " instant classics full of Gaga ' s emotional might " . Commercially , the soundtrack debuted at number one in the US , making Gaga the first woman with five US number - one albums in the 2010s , and breaking her tie with Taylor Swift as the most for any female artist this decade ; Swift tied with her again in 2019 . It additionally topped the charts in Australia , Canada , Ireland , New Zealand , Switzerland and the UK . As of June 2019 , the soundtrack had sold over six million copies worldwide . The album won Gaga four Grammy Awards — Best Compilation Soundtrack for Visual Media and Best Pop Duo / Group Performance and Best Song Written for Visual Media for " Shallow " , as well as the latter category for " I ' ll Never Love Again " — and a BAFTA Award for Best Film Music . " Shallow " also won her the Academy Award , Golden Globe Award , Critics ' Choice Award , and Satellite Award for Best Original Song . Gaga gave live performances of the song at the 61st Annual Grammy Awards and the 91st Academy Awards .	Who co-wrote and produced most of the songs on the soundtrack for A Star Is Born?	You and Cooper.
A new genus of ferns , Gaga , and three species , G . germanotta , G . monstraparva and Kaikaia gaga , have been named in her honor . The name monstraparva alluded to Gaga ' s fans , known as Little Monsters , since their symbol is the outstretched " monster claw " hand , which resembles a tightly rolled young fern leaf prior to unfurling . Gaga also has an extinct mammal , Gagadon minimonstrum , and a parasitic wasp , Aleiodes gaga , named for her .	How many species have been named in your honor?	Three species have been named in my honor.
The themes in Artpop revolve around Gaga ' s personal views of fame , love , sex , feminism , self - empowerment , overcoming addiction , and reactions to media scrutiny . Billboard describes Artpop as " coherently channeling R & B , techno , disco and rock music " . With Cheek to Cheek , Gaga dabbled in the jazz genre . Joanne , exploring the genres of country , funk , pop , dance , rock , electronic music and folk , was influenced by her personal life . The A Star Is Born soundtrack contains elements of blues rock , country and bubblegum pop . Billboard says its lyrics are about wanting change , its struggle , love , romance , and bonding , describing the music as " timeless , emotional , gritty and earnest . They sound like songs written by artists who , quite frankly , are supremely messed up but hit to the core of the listener . " On Chromatica , Gaga returned to her dance - pop roots , and discussed her struggles with mental health . Her second album with Tony Bennett , Love for Sale , consists of a tribute to Cole Porter .	Which genre did you experiment with in your album Cheek to Cheek?	I dabbled in the jazz genre in my album Cheek to Cheek.
In March 2018 , Gaga supported the March for Our Lives gun - control rally in Washington , D . C . , and released a cover of Elton John ' s " Your Song " for his tribute album Revamp . Later that year , she starred as struggling singer Ally in Bradley Cooper ' s musical romantic drama A Star Is Born , a remake of the 1937 film of the same name . The film follows Ally ' s relationship with singer Jackson Maine ( played by Cooper ) , which becomes strained after her career begins to overshadow his . It received acclaim from critics , with a consensus that the movie had " appealing leads , deft direction , and an affecting love story " . Cooper approached Gaga after seeing her perform at a cancer research fundraiser . An admirer of Cooper ' s work , Gaga agreed to the project due to its portrayal of addiction and depression . A Star Is Born premiered at the 2018 Venice Film Festival , and was released worldwide that October . Gaga ' s performance was acclaimed by film critics , with Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian labeling the film " outrageously watchable " and stating that " Gaga ' s ability to be part ordinary person , part extraterrestrial celebrity empress functions at the highest level " ; Stephanie Zacharek of Time magazine similarly highlighted her " knockout performance " and found her to be " charismatic " without her usual makeup , wigs and costumes . For the role , Gaga won the National Board of Review and Critics ' Choice awards for Best Actress , in addition to receiving nominations for the Academy Award , Golden Globe Award , Screen Actors Guild Award and BAFTA Award for Best Actress .	Which film festival did "A Star Is Born" premiere at?	"A Star Is Born" premiered at the 2018 Venice Film Festival.
Gaga began work on her third studio album , Artpop , in early 2012 , during the Born This Way Ball tour ; she crafted the album to mirror " a night at the club " . In August 2013 , Gaga released the album ' s lead single " Applause " , which reached number one in Hungary , number four in the US , and number five in the UK . A lyric video for Artpop track " Aura " followed in October to accompany Robert Rodriguez ' s Machete Kills , where she plays an assassin named La Chameleon . The film received generally mixed reviews and earned less than half of its $ 33   million budget . The second Artpop single , " Do What U Want " , featured singer R . Kelly and was released later that month , topping the charts in Hungary and reaching number 13 in the US . Artpop was released on November 6 , 2013 , to mixed reviews . Helen Brown in The Daily Telegraph criticized Gaga for making another album about her fame and doubted the record ' s originality , but found it " great for dancing " . The album debuted atop the Billboard 200 chart , and sold more than 2.5   million copies worldwide as of July 2014 . " G . U . Y . " was released as the third single in March 2014 and peaked at number 76 in the US .	What was the highest chart position "Applause" reached?	"Applause" reached number four in the US.
In March 2018 , Gaga supported the March for Our Lives gun - control rally in Washington , D . C . , and released a cover of Elton John ' s " Your Song " for his tribute album Revamp . Later that year , she starred as struggling singer Ally in Bradley Cooper ' s musical romantic drama A Star Is Born , a remake of the 1937 film of the same name . The film follows Ally ' s relationship with singer Jackson Maine ( played by Cooper ) , which becomes strained after her career begins to overshadow his . It received acclaim from critics , with a consensus that the movie had " appealing leads , deft direction , and an affecting love story " . Cooper approached Gaga after seeing her perform at a cancer research fundraiser . An admirer of Cooper ' s work , Gaga agreed to the project due to its portrayal of addiction and depression . A Star Is Born premiered at the 2018 Venice Film Festival , and was released worldwide that October . Gaga ' s performance was acclaimed by film critics , with Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian labeling the film " outrageously watchable " and stating that " Gaga ' s ability to be part ordinary person , part extraterrestrial celebrity empress functions at the highest level " ; Stephanie Zacharek of Time magazine similarly highlighted her " knockout performance " and found her to be " charismatic " without her usual makeup , wigs and costumes . For the role , Gaga won the National Board of Review and Critics ' Choice awards for Best Actress , in addition to receiving nominations for the Academy Award , Golden Globe Award , Screen Actors Guild Award and BAFTA Award for Best Actress .	What event did you support in March 2018?	I supported the March for Our Lives gun-control rally in Washington, D.C.
The themes in Artpop revolve around Gaga ' s personal views of fame , love , sex , feminism , self - empowerment , overcoming addiction , and reactions to media scrutiny . Billboard describes Artpop as " coherently channeling R & B , techno , disco and rock music " . With Cheek to Cheek , Gaga dabbled in the jazz genre . Joanne , exploring the genres of country , funk , pop , dance , rock , electronic music and folk , was influenced by her personal life . The A Star Is Born soundtrack contains elements of blues rock , country and bubblegum pop . Billboard says its lyrics are about wanting change , its struggle , love , romance , and bonding , describing the music as " timeless , emotional , gritty and earnest . They sound like songs written by artists who , quite frankly , are supremely messed up but hit to the core of the listener . " On Chromatica , Gaga returned to her dance - pop roots , and discussed her struggles with mental health . Her second album with Tony Bennett , Love for Sale , consists of a tribute to Cole Porter .	What musical elements can be found in the A Star Is Born soundtrack?	The A Star Is Born soundtrack contains elements of blues rock, country, and bubblegum pop.
According to Kelefa Sanneh of The New Yorker , " Lady Gaga blazed a trail for truculent pop stars by treating her own celebrity as an evolving art project . " Including Born This Way as one of the 50 best female albums of all time , Rolling Stone ' s Rob Sheffield considers it " hard to remember a world where we didn ' t have Gaga , although we ' re pretty sure it was a lot more boring " . In 2015 , Time also noted that Gaga had " practically invented the current era of pop music as spectacle " . A 2017 journal published by Psychology of Aesthetics , Creativity , and the Arts studying structural patterns in melodies of earworm songs compiled lists of catchiest tracks from 3 , 000 participants , in which Gaga ' s " Bad Romance " , " Alejandro " , and " Poker Face " ranked number one , eight , and nine , respectively . In 2018 , NPR named her the second most influential female artist of the 21st century , noting her as " one of the first big artists of the ' Internet age ' " . Gaga and her work have influenced various artists including Miley Cyrus , Nicki Minaj , Ellie Goulding , Halsey , Jennifer Lopez , Beyonc é , Nick Jonas , Sam Smith , Noah Cyrus , Katherine Langford , MGMT , Allie X , Greyson Chance , Cardi B , Rina Sawayama , Blackpink , Madison Beer , Ren , Slayyyter , Bebe Rexha , Bree Runway , Celeste , Kim Petras , Jojo Siwa , Pabllo Vittar , Ava Max , Doja Cat , Chaeyoung of Twice , Kanye West , Rachel Zegler , SZA , Raye , and Grace Gaustad .	In the journal published by Psychology of Aesthetics, Creativity, and the Arts, which of your songs ranked number one, eight, and nine in terms of catchiness?	In the journal, my "Bad Romance" ranked number one, "Alejandro" ranked number eight, and "Poker Face" ranked number nine in terms of catchiness.
In February 2020 , Gaga began a relationship with entrepreneur Michael Polansky . Her sixth studio album , Chromatica , was released on May 29 , 2020 , to positive reviews . It debuted atop the US charts , becoming her sixth consecutive number - one album in the country , and reached the top spot in more than a dozen other territories including Australia , Canada , France , Italy and the UK . Chromatica was preceded by two singles , " Stupid Love " , on February 28 , 2020 , and " Rain on Me " , with Ariana Grande , on May 22 . The latter won the Best Pop Duo / Group Performance at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards , and debuted at number one in the US , making Gaga the third person to top the country ' s chart in the 2000s , 2010s and 2020s . At the 2020 MTV Video Music Awards , Gaga won five awards , including the inaugural Tricon Award recognizing artists accomplished in different areas of the entertainment industry . In September 2020 , she appeared in the video campaign for Valentino ' s Voce Viva fragrance , singing a stripped - down version of Chromatica track " Sine from Above " , along with a group of models .	When did you begin a relationship with Michael Polansky?	I began a relationship with entrepreneur Michael Polansky in February 2020.
