Esp ó sito released her second studio album Soy on 20 May 2016 , with El Pa í s newspaper writing that " she takes one more step with this album , she experiments , shows herself as she is , and that is always valuable " . In an interview with Intrusos , the singer referred to the album ' s title ( Soy , English : I Am ) saying that " it is called Soy because I am sharing the truth about what I think and feel . It is super personal " . It sold more than 20 , 000 copies in Argentina in just three hours , being certified gold by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers ( CAPIF ) . The album debuted at No . 1 in Argentina , Uruguay and Israel , and at No . 5 and No . 6 in Italy and Spain , respectively . Its lead single , " Soy " , was released on 5 May and peaked at No . 5 on the Monitor Latino Argentina Top 20 chart and at No . 15 on the Ecuador Pop Songs chart . The second single , " Boomerang " , was released on 5 September 2016 . As of June 2017 , its music video has been viewed more than 17 million times . Soy was listed as one of the best albums of 2016 by Billboard Brasil along with Beyonc é ' s Lemonade , Lady Gaga ' s Joanne , J Balvin ' s Energ í a and others . In the same year , Esp ó sito was featured on Abraham Mateo ' s remix of the song " Mueve " from the re - issue of his album Are You Ready ? , on Brian Cross song " Firestarter " from his second studio album Darkness to Life and on Baby K ' s Spanish version of the international hit " Roma - Bangkok " .	How many copies of Soy were sold in Argentina in just three hours?	More than 20,000 copies of Soy were sold in Argentina in just three hours.
In support of the album , Esp ó sito embarked on the A Bailar Tour of Argentina , with several later stops in Uruguay , Chile , Spain , Italy and Israel . The tour earned million in the first five shows at Teatro Opera Allianz and was later named the highest - grossing tour of 2015 in Argentina . Following the tour ' s success , more dates were added , and the tour concluded on 25 April 2016 at Menora Mivtachim Arena , Tel Aviv , after a total of 74 dates .	Where did you embark on the A Bailar Tour?	I embarked on the A Bailar Tour in Argentina.
Lali started off 2019 performing in Times Square , New York City , for Univision ' s Countdown Feliz 2019 . Early that year , the music video for " Lindo Pero Bruto " , her collaboration with Thal í a , was released . The singer received notable nominations for the Premio Lo Nuestro and the Billboard Latin Music Awards . During the first months of the year , Lali continued touring with Brava , which was certified four times platinum in Argentina . For the 21st Annual Gardel Awards , Lali won three awards , the most of the night , in the categories for Best Female Pop Album and Best Cover Design for Brava , and Song of the Year for " Sin Querer Queriendo " .	Where did you perform to start off 2019?	I performed in Times Square, New York City for Univision's Countdown Feliz 2019.
In the last months of 2019 , Lali took her Brava Tour to Europe , the United States and the Rock in Rio music festival in Brazil , where she also received a gold certification for " Caliente . " It was in these months that Lali officially kicked off her fourth music era : in October , she released her fourth studio album ' s lead single , " Laligera " , which peaked at number 24 on the Billboard Argentina Hot 100 ; in November , she released " Como As í " , which features boy band CNCO , with whom she co - hosted the 2019 Premios Juventud ceremony back in July .	What did you receive a gold certification for?	I received a gold certification for my song "Caliente".
In support of the album , Esp ó sito embarked on the A Bailar Tour of Argentina , with several later stops in Uruguay , Chile , Spain , Italy and Israel . The tour earned million in the first five shows at Teatro Opera Allianz and was later named the highest - grossing tour of 2015 in Argentina . Following the tour ' s success , more dates were added , and the tour concluded on 25 April 2016 at Menora Mivtachim Arena , Tel Aviv , after a total of 74 dates .	When did your tour conclude?	My tour concluded on 25 April 2016.
In 2013 , Esp ó sito announced she would release her first album as a solo artist , titled A Bailar . When asked about the album ' s genre , she described it as mainly dance with hip hop influences . The album ' s lead single , " A Bailar " , was released for digital download on her website on 5 August , causing the website to crash because of a spike in traffic . On 2 September , Esp ó sito presented the music video for " A Bailar " at the prominent La Trastienda Club . " A Bailar " received 100 , 000 YouTube views on its release day , and the single entered the top 20 on iTunes Latin and iTunes Israel . It also was popular in music charts and radio channels in Latin America , Italy and Israel .	Where was the music video for your lead single premiered?	The music video was premiered at La Trastienda Club.
Esp ó sito released her second studio album Soy on 20 May 2016 , with El Pa í s newspaper writing that " she takes one more step with this album , she experiments , shows herself as she is , and that is always valuable " . In an interview with Intrusos , the singer referred to the album ' s title ( Soy , English : I Am ) saying that " it is called Soy because I am sharing the truth about what I think and feel . It is super personal " . It sold more than 20 , 000 copies in Argentina in just three hours , being certified gold by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers ( CAPIF ) . The album debuted at No . 1 in Argentina , Uruguay and Israel , and at No . 5 and No . 6 in Italy and Spain , respectively . Its lead single , " Soy " , was released on 5 May and peaked at No . 5 on the Monitor Latino Argentina Top 20 chart and at No . 15 on the Ecuador Pop Songs chart . The second single , " Boomerang " , was released on 5 September 2016 . As of June 2017 , its music video has been viewed more than 17 million times . Soy was listed as one of the best albums of 2016 by Billboard Brasil along with Beyonc é ' s Lemonade , Lady Gaga ' s Joanne , J Balvin ' s Energ í a and others . In the same year , Esp ó sito was featured on Abraham Mateo ' s remix of the song " Mueve " from the re - issue of his album Are You Ready ? , on Brian Cross song " Firestarter " from his second studio album Darkness to Life and on Baby K ' s Spanish version of the international hit " Roma - Bangkok " .	How were you described by El Pa í s newspaper in relation to your album Soy?	El Pa í s newspaper described me as someone who takes one more step with this album, experiments, shows myself as I am, and that is always valuable.
In July and November , respectively , Esp ó sito released " Una Na " and " Tu Novia " as the first two singles from her upcoming third studio album . The former one rapidly reached the top of the Argentine National Songs chart . In November , the singer kicked off her second concert tour in support of Soy , titled Lali en Vivo , with two sold - out shows at the Luna Park Arena .	What were the first two singles you released?	"Una Na" and "Tu Novia" were the first two singles I released.
In the last months of 2019 , Lali took her Brava Tour to Europe , the United States and the Rock in Rio music festival in Brazil , where she also received a gold certification for " Caliente . " It was in these months that Lali officially kicked off her fourth music era : in October , she released her fourth studio album ' s lead single , " Laligera " , which peaked at number 24 on the Billboard Argentina Hot 100 ; in November , she released " Como As í " , which features boy band CNCO , with whom she co - hosted the 2019 Premios Juventud ceremony back in July .	Who did you co-host the 2019 Premios Juventud ceremony with?	I co-hosted the 2019 Premios Juventud ceremony with the boy band CNCO.
Lali started off 2019 performing in Times Square , New York City , for Univision ' s Countdown Feliz 2019 . Early that year , the music video for " Lindo Pero Bruto " , her collaboration with Thal í a , was released . The singer received notable nominations for the Premio Lo Nuestro and the Billboard Latin Music Awards . During the first months of the year , Lali continued touring with Brava , which was certified four times platinum in Argentina . For the 21st Annual Gardel Awards , Lali won three awards , the most of the night , in the categories for Best Female Pop Album and Best Cover Design for Brava , and Song of the Year for " Sin Querer Queriendo " .	Who did you collaborate with for the music video "Lindo Pero Bruto"?	I collaborated with Thalía for the music video "Lindo Pero Bruto".
Lali started off 2019 performing in Times Square , New York City , for Univision ' s Countdown Feliz 2019 . Early that year , the music video for " Lindo Pero Bruto " , her collaboration with Thal í a , was released . The singer received notable nominations for the Premio Lo Nuestro and the Billboard Latin Music Awards . During the first months of the year , Lali continued touring with Brava , which was certified four times platinum in Argentina . For the 21st Annual Gardel Awards , Lali won three awards , the most of the night , in the categories for Best Female Pop Album and Best Cover Design for Brava , and Song of the Year for " Sin Querer Queriendo " .	What notable nominations did you receive in 2019?	I received notable nominations for the Premios Lo Nuestro and the Billboard Latin Music Awards.
Esp ó sito has been the cover model for magazines such as Billboard , Galore , Vogue Latin America , Caras , OnMag , Las Rosas , Twees , Seventeen , Cosmopolitan , Luz , Viva , Watt , Nueva , Upss and Fack , among others .	Which magazines have you been the cover model for?	I have been the cover model for magazines such as Billboard, Galore, Vogue Latin America, Caras, OnMag, Las Rosas, Twees, Seventeen, Cosmopolitan, Luz, Viva, Watt, Nueva, Upss and Fack, among others.
In later 2014 , the singer signed an exclusive publishing contract with Sony Music Entertainment Argentina and released " Mil A ñ os Luz " as the third single from A Bailar . To celebrate her incorporation to Sony Music , Esp ó sito released a deluxe edition of A Bailar , which contained unpublished material including a new song , a remix , several video clips and a documentary of the tour . The album peaked at No . 3 in Uruguay and at No . 5 in Argentina , where it was certified gold a few days after its release .	What was the third single you released from A Bailar after you signed the contract?	"Mil Años Luz".
In later 2014 , the singer signed an exclusive publishing contract with Sony Music Entertainment Argentina and released " Mil A ñ os Luz " as the third single from A Bailar . To celebrate her incorporation to Sony Music , Esp ó sito released a deluxe edition of A Bailar , which contained unpublished material including a new song , a remix , several video clips and a documentary of the tour . The album peaked at No . 3 in Uruguay and at No . 5 in Argentina , where it was certified gold a few days after its release .	When did you sign an exclusive publishing contract with Sony Music Entertainment Argentina?	In later 2014.
Lali started off 2019 performing in Times Square , New York City , for Univision ' s Countdown Feliz 2019 . Early that year , the music video for " Lindo Pero Bruto " , her collaboration with Thal í a , was released . The singer received notable nominations for the Premio Lo Nuestro and the Billboard Latin Music Awards . During the first months of the year , Lali continued touring with Brava , which was certified four times platinum in Argentina . For the 21st Annual Gardel Awards , Lali won three awards , the most of the night , in the categories for Best Female Pop Album and Best Cover Design for Brava , and Song of the Year for " Sin Querer Queriendo " .	How many times was your album "Brava" certified platinum in Argentina?	My album "Brava" was certified four times platinum in Argentina.
In the last months of 2019 , Lali took her Brava Tour to Europe , the United States and the Rock in Rio music festival in Brazil , where she also received a gold certification for " Caliente . " It was in these months that Lali officially kicked off her fourth music era : in October , she released her fourth studio album ' s lead single , " Laligera " , which peaked at number 24 on the Billboard Argentina Hot 100 ; in November , she released " Como As í " , which features boy band CNCO , with whom she co - hosted the 2019 Premios Juventud ceremony back in July .	When did you officially kick off your fourth music era?	I officially kicked off my fourth music era in the last months of 2019.
From January to July , the singer continued with her Lali en Vivo tour , which visited Peru , Spain , Italy , Israel and the United States . In February , Esp ó sito was featured on Mau y Ricky and Karol G ' s remix of " Mi Mala " , with Becky G and Leslie Grace , and , in May , she teamed up with CD9 and Ana Mena for the remix of " Prohibido " . Preceded by the release of " 100 Grados " , in April , and " Besarte Mucho " , in July , the singer released her third studio album , Brava , in August 2018 . One week after , the album received a gold certification by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers for having sold ten thousand copies . Esp ó sito embarked on the Brava Tour immediately after the album release , on 23 August , with two sold - out shows at the Luna Park Arena . The album was succeeded by the release of the singles " Sin Querer Queriendo " with Mau y Ricky , and " Caliente " , with Brazilian drag queen Pabllo Vittar . The singles peaked at number 14 and 51 on the Billboard Argentina Hot 100 , respectively .	What was the name of your third studio album?	My third studio album was called "Brava".
From January to July , the singer continued with her Lali en Vivo tour , which visited Peru , Spain , Italy , Israel and the United States . In February , Esp ó sito was featured on Mau y Ricky and Karol G ' s remix of " Mi Mala " , with Becky G and Leslie Grace , and , in May , she teamed up with CD9 and Ana Mena for the remix of " Prohibido " . Preceded by the release of " 100 Grados " , in April , and " Besarte Mucho " , in July , the singer released her third studio album , Brava , in August 2018 . One week after , the album received a gold certification by the Argentine Chamber of Phonograms and Videograms Producers for having sold ten thousand copies . Esp ó sito embarked on the Brava Tour immediately after the album release , on 23 August , with two sold - out shows at the Luna Park Arena . The album was succeeded by the release of the singles " Sin Querer Queriendo " with Mau y Ricky , and " Caliente " , with Brazilian drag queen Pabllo Vittar . The singles peaked at number 14 and 51 on the Billboard Argentina Hot 100 , respectively .	Which countries did your Lali en Vivo tour visit from January to July?	My Lali en Vivo tour visited Peru, Spain, Italy, Israel, and the United States.
In 2013 , Esp ó sito announced she would release her first album as a solo artist , titled A Bailar . When asked about the album ' s genre , she described it as mainly dance with hip hop influences . The album ' s lead single , " A Bailar " , was released for digital download on her website on 5 August , causing the website to crash because of a spike in traffic . On 2 September , Esp ó sito presented the music video for " A Bailar " at the prominent La Trastienda Club . " A Bailar " received 100 , 000 YouTube views on its release day , and the single entered the top 20 on iTunes Latin and iTunes Israel . It also was popular in music charts and radio channels in Latin America , Italy and Israel .	How would you describe the genre of your album?	I would describe it as mainly dance with hip hop influences.
In support of the album , Esp ó sito embarked on the A Bailar Tour of Argentina , with several later stops in Uruguay , Chile , Spain , Italy and Israel . The tour earned million in the first five shows at Teatro Opera Allianz and was later named the highest - grossing tour of 2015 in Argentina . Following the tour ' s success , more dates were added , and the tour concluded on 25 April 2016 at Menora Mivtachim Arena , Tel Aviv , after a total of 74 dates .	In which countries did you have later stops during the tour?	I had later stops in Uruguay, Chile, Spain, Italy, and Israel.
In support of the album , Esp ó sito embarked on the A Bailar Tour of Argentina , with several later stops in Uruguay , Chile , Spain , Italy and Israel . The tour earned million in the first five shows at Teatro Opera Allianz and was later named the highest - grossing tour of 2015 in Argentina . Following the tour ' s success , more dates were added , and the tour concluded on 25 April 2016 at Menora Mivtachim Arena , Tel Aviv , after a total of 74 dates .	How much did you earn in the first five shows at Teatro Opera Allianz?	I earned million in the first five shows at Teatro Opera Allianz.
Esp ó sito is part of a feminist group of Argentine actresses and singers , such as Jimena Bar ó n , Griselda Siciliani , Carla Peterson , Florencia Pe ñ a and Florencia de la V , among others . Esp ó sito has declared herself in favor of the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill in Argentina , where abortion was still illegal at the moment . The bill proposed that an abortion may be performed during the first 14 weeks of pregnancy , with no requirements other than the woman ' s desire . The bill was approved in 2020 .	When was the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill approved?	The Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill was approved in 2020.
Esp ó sito is part of a feminist group of Argentine actresses and singers , such as Jimena Bar ó n , Griselda Siciliani , Carla Peterson , Florencia Pe ñ a and Florencia de la V , among others . Esp ó sito has declared herself in favor of the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill in Argentina , where abortion was still illegal at the moment . The bill proposed that an abortion may be performed during the first 14 weeks of pregnancy , with no requirements other than the woman ' s desire . The bill was approved in 2020 .	What is your stance on the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill in Argentina?	I am in favor of the Voluntary Interruption of Pregnancy Bill.
