During his lifetime , Leonardo was also valued as an engineer . With the same rational and analytical approach that moved him to represent the human body and to investigate anatomy , Leonardo studied and designed many machines and devices . He drew their " anatomy " with unparalleled mastery , producing the first form of the modern technical drawing , including a perfected " exploded view " technique , to represent internal components . Those studies and projects collected in his codices fill more than 5 , 000 pages . In a letter of 1482 to the lord of Milan Ludovico il Moro , he wrote that he could create all sorts of machines both for the protection of a city and for siege . When he fled from Milan to Venice in 1499 , he found employment as an engineer and devised a system of moveable barricades to protect the city from attack . In 1502 , he created a scheme for diverting the flow of the Arno river , a project on which Niccol ò Machiavelli also worked . He continued to contemplate the canalization of Lombardy ' s plains while in Louis XII ' s company and of the Loire and its tributaries in the company of Francis I . Leonardo ' s journals include a vast number of inventions , both practical and impractical . They include musical instruments , a mechanical knight , hydraulic pumps , reversible crank mechanisms , finned mortar shells , and a steam cannon .	What did your drawings of machines and devices include?	My drawings of machines and devices included their "anatomy" with unparalleled mastery, including a perfected "exploded view" technique to represent internal components.
Beyond friendship , Leonardo kept his private life secret . His sexuality has been the subject of satire , analysis , and speculation . This trend began in the mid - 16th century and was revived in the 19th and 20th centuries , most notably by Sigmund Freud in his Leonardo da Vinci , A Memory of His Childhood . Leonardo ' s most intimate relationships were perhaps with his pupils Sala ì and Melzi . Melzi , writing to inform Leonardo ' s brothers of his death , described Leonardo ' s feelings for his pupils as both loving and passionate . It has been claimed since the 16th century that these relationships were of a sexual or erotic nature . Court records of 1476 , when he was aged twenty - four , show that Leonardo and three other young men were charged with sodomy in an incident involving a well - known male prostitute . The charges were dismissed for lack of evidence , and there is speculation that since one of the accused , Lionardo de Tornabuoni , was related to Lorenzo de ' Medici , the family exerted its influence to secure the dismissal . Since that date much has been written about his presumed homosexuality and its role in his art , particularly in the androgyny and eroticism manifested in Saint John the Baptist and Bacchus and more explicitly in a number of erotic drawings .	Who were your most intimate relationships with?	My most intimate relationships were perhaps with my pupils Salaì and Melzi.
In October 1515 , King Francis I of France recaptured Milan . Leonardo was present at the 19 December meeting of Francis I and Leo X , which took place in Bologna . In 1516 , Leonardo entered Francis ' service , being given the use of the manor house Clos Luc é , near the king ' s residence at the royal Ch â teau d ' Amboise . Being frequently visited by Francis , he drew plans for an immense castle town the king intended to erect at Romorantin , and made a mechanical lion , which during a pageant walked toward the king and — upon being struck by a wand — opened its chest to reveal a cluster of lilies . [ ‡ 3 ] [ p ] Leonardo was accompanied during this time by his friend and apprentice Francesco Melzi , and supported by a pension totalling 10 , 000   scudi . At some point , Melzi drew a portrait of Leonardo ; the only others known from his lifetime were a sketch by an unknown assistant on the back of one of Leonardo ' s studies ( c .   1517 ) and a drawing by Giovanni Ambrogio Figino depicting an elderly Leonardo with his right arm wrapped in clothing . [ q ] The latter , in addition to the record of an October 1517 visit by Louis d ' Aragon , [ r ] confirms an account of Leonardo ' s right hand being paralytic when he was 65 , which may indicate why he left works such as the Mona Lisa unfinished . He continued to work at some capacity until eventually becoming ill and bedridden for several months .	In what year did you enter Francis' service?	I entered Francis' service in 1516.
Leonardo died at Clos Luc é on 2 May 1519 at the age of 67 , possibly of a stroke . Francis I had become a close friend . Vasari describes Leonardo as lamenting on his deathbed , full of repentance , that " he had offended against God and men by failing to practice his art as he should have done . " Vasari states that in his last days , Leonardo sent for a priest to make his confession and to receive the Holy Sacrament . [ ‡ 4 ] Vasari also records that the king held Leonardo ' s head in his arms as he died , although this story may be legend rather than fact . [ s ] [ t ] In accordance with his will , sixty beggars carrying tapers followed Leonardo ' s casket . [ u ] Melzi was the principal heir and executor , receiving , as well as money , Leonardo ' s paintings , tools , library and personal effects . Leonardo ' s other long - time pupil and companion , Sala ì , and his servant Baptista de Vilanis , each received half of Leonardo ' s vineyards . His brothers received land , and his serving woman received a fur - lined cloak . On 12 August 1519 , Leonardo ' s remains were interred in the Collegiate Church of Saint Florentin at the Ch â teau d ' Amboise .	How old were you when you died?	I died at the age of 67.
In October 1515 , King Francis I of France recaptured Milan . Leonardo was present at the 19 December meeting of Francis I and Leo X , which took place in Bologna . In 1516 , Leonardo entered Francis ' service , being given the use of the manor house Clos Luc é , near the king ' s residence at the royal Ch â teau d ' Amboise . Being frequently visited by Francis , he drew plans for an immense castle town the king intended to erect at Romorantin , and made a mechanical lion , which during a pageant walked toward the king and — upon being struck by a wand — opened its chest to reveal a cluster of lilies . [ ‡ 3 ] [ p ] Leonardo was accompanied during this time by his friend and apprentice Francesco Melzi , and supported by a pension totalling 10 , 000   scudi . At some point , Melzi drew a portrait of Leonardo ; the only others known from his lifetime were a sketch by an unknown assistant on the back of one of Leonardo ' s studies ( c .   1517 ) and a drawing by Giovanni Ambrogio Figino depicting an elderly Leonardo with his right arm wrapped in clothing . [ q ] The latter , in addition to the record of an October 1517 visit by Louis d ' Aragon , [ r ] confirms an account of Leonardo ' s right hand being paralytic when he was 65 , which may indicate why he left works such as the Mona Lisa unfinished . He continued to work at some capacity until eventually becoming ill and bedridden for several months .	When did King Francis I of France recapture Milan?	In October 1515.
The interest in Leonardo ' s genius has continued unabated ; experts study and translate his writings , analyse his paintings using scientific techniques , argue over attributions and search for works which have been recorded but never found . Liana Bortolon , writing in 1967 , said : " Because of the multiplicity of interests that spurred him to pursue every field of knowledge ... Leonardo can be considered , quite rightly , to have been the universal genius par excellence , and with all the disquieting overtones inherent in that term . Man is as uncomfortable today , faced with a genius , as he was in the 16th century . Five centuries have passed , yet we still view Leonardo with awe . " The Elmer Belt Library of Vinciana is a special collection at the University of California , Los Angeles .	What are you searching for?	I am searching for works by me that have been recorded but never found.
In 1506 , Leonardo was summoned to Milan by Charles II d ' Amboise , the acting French governor of the city . There , Leonardo took on another pupil , Count Francesco Melzi , the son of a Lombard aristocrat , who is considered to have been his favourite student . The Council of Florence wished Leonardo to return promptly to finish The Battle of Anghiari , but he was given leave at the behest of Louis XII , who considered commissioning the artist to make some portraits . Leonardo may have commenced a project for an equestrian figure of d ' Amboise ; a wax model survives and , if genuine , is the only extant example of Leonardo ' s sculpture . Leonardo was otherwise free to pursue his scientific interests . Many of Leonardo ' s most prominent pupils either knew or worked with him in Milan , including Bernardino Luini , Giovanni Antonio Boltraffio , and Marco d ' Oggiono . In 1507 , Leonardo was in Florence sorting out a dispute with his brothers over the estate of his father , who had died in 1504 .	Who granted you leave to work on portrait commissions?	Louis XII granted me leave to work on portrait commissions.
Renaissance humanism recognised no mutually exclusive polarities between the sciences and the arts , and Leonardo ' s studies in science and engineering are sometimes considered as impressive and innovative as his artistic work . These studies were recorded in 13 , 000 pages of notes and drawings , which fuse art and natural philosophy ( the forerunner of modern science ) . They were made and maintained daily throughout Leonardo ' s life and travels , as he made continual observations of the world around him . Leonardo ' s notes and drawings display an enormous range of interests and preoccupations , some as mundane as lists of groceries and people who owed him money and some as intriguing as designs for wings and shoes for walking on water . There are compositions for paintings , studies of details and drapery , studies of faces and emotions , of animals , babies , dissections , plant studies , rock formations , whirlpools , war machines , flying machines and architecture .	How many pages of notes and drawings did you make?	I made 13,000 pages of notes and drawings.
In March 1513 , Lorenzo de ' Medici ' s son Giovanni assumed the papacy ( as Leo X ) ; Leonardo went to Rome that September , where he was received by the pope ' s brother Giuliano . From September 1513 to 1516 , Leonardo spent much of his time living in the Belvedere Courtyard in the Apostolic Palace , where Michelangelo and Raphael were both active . Leonardo was given an allowance of 33 ducats a month , and according to Vasari , decorated a lizard with scales dipped in quicksilver . The pope gave him a painting commission of unknown subject matter , but cancelled it when the artist set about developing a new kind of varnish . [ o ] Leonardo became ill , in what may have been the first of multiple strokes leading to his death . He practiced botany in the Gardens of Vatican City , and was commissioned to make plans for the pope ' s proposed draining of the Pontine Marshes . He also dissected cadavers , making notes for a treatise on vocal cords ; these he gave to an official in hopes of regaining the pope ' s favor , but was unsuccessful .	Where did you go in September 1513?	I went to Rome.
In October 1515 , King Francis I of France recaptured Milan . Leonardo was present at the 19 December meeting of Francis I and Leo X , which took place in Bologna . In 1516 , Leonardo entered Francis ' service , being given the use of the manor house Clos Luc é , near the king ' s residence at the royal Ch â teau d ' Amboise . Being frequently visited by Francis , he drew plans for an immense castle town the king intended to erect at Romorantin , and made a mechanical lion , which during a pageant walked toward the king and — upon being struck by a wand — opened its chest to reveal a cluster of lilies . [ ‡ 3 ] [ p ] Leonardo was accompanied during this time by his friend and apprentice Francesco Melzi , and supported by a pension totalling 10 , 000   scudi . At some point , Melzi drew a portrait of Leonardo ; the only others known from his lifetime were a sketch by an unknown assistant on the back of one of Leonardo ' s studies ( c .   1517 ) and a drawing by Giovanni Ambrogio Figino depicting an elderly Leonardo with his right arm wrapped in clothing . [ q ] The latter , in addition to the record of an October 1517 visit by Louis d ' Aragon , [ r ] confirms an account of Leonardo ' s right hand being paralytic when he was 65 , which may indicate why he left works such as the Mona Lisa unfinished . He continued to work at some capacity until eventually becoming ill and bedridden for several months .	Where was the meeting between Francis I and you held?	The meeting took place in Bologna.
Sala ì , or Il Salaino ( " The Little Unclean One " , i . e . , the devil ) , entered Leonardo ' s household in 1490 as an assistant . After only a year , Leonardo made a list of his misdemeanours , calling him " a thief , a liar , stubborn , and a glutton , " after he had made off with money and valuables on at least five occasions and spent a fortune on clothes . Nevertheless , Leonardo treated him with great indulgence , and he remained in Leonardo ' s household for the next thirty years . Sala ì executed a number of paintings under the name of Andrea Sala ì , but although Vasari claims that Leonardo " taught him many things about painting , " [ ‡ 3 ] his work is generally considered to be of less artistic merit than others among Leonardo ' s pupils , such as Marco d ' Oggiono and Boltraffio .	Who are you also known as?	I am also known as Il Salaino, which means "The Little Unclean One", referring to the devil.
Beyond friendship , Leonardo kept his private life secret . His sexuality has been the subject of satire , analysis , and speculation . This trend began in the mid - 16th century and was revived in the 19th and 20th centuries , most notably by Sigmund Freud in his Leonardo da Vinci , A Memory of His Childhood . Leonardo ' s most intimate relationships were perhaps with his pupils Sala ì and Melzi . Melzi , writing to inform Leonardo ' s brothers of his death , described Leonardo ' s feelings for his pupils as both loving and passionate . It has been claimed since the 16th century that these relationships were of a sexual or erotic nature . Court records of 1476 , when he was aged twenty - four , show that Leonardo and three other young men were charged with sodomy in an incident involving a well - known male prostitute . The charges were dismissed for lack of evidence , and there is speculation that since one of the accused , Lionardo de Tornabuoni , was related to Lorenzo de ' Medici , the family exerted its influence to secure the dismissal . Since that date much has been written about his presumed homosexuality and its role in his art , particularly in the androgyny and eroticism manifested in Saint John the Baptist and Bacchus and more explicitly in a number of erotic drawings .	What happened in the court records of 1476 involving you?	In the court records of 1476, I and three other young men were charged with sodomy in an incident involving a well-known male prostitute.
Beyond friendship , Leonardo kept his private life secret . His sexuality has been the subject of satire , analysis , and speculation . This trend began in the mid - 16th century and was revived in the 19th and 20th centuries , most notably by Sigmund Freud in his Leonardo da Vinci , A Memory of His Childhood . Leonardo ' s most intimate relationships were perhaps with his pupils Sala ì and Melzi . Melzi , writing to inform Leonardo ' s brothers of his death , described Leonardo ' s feelings for his pupils as both loving and passionate . It has been claimed since the 16th century that these relationships were of a sexual or erotic nature . Court records of 1476 , when he was aged twenty - four , show that Leonardo and three other young men were charged with sodomy in an incident involving a well - known male prostitute . The charges were dismissed for lack of evidence , and there is speculation that since one of the accused , Lionardo de Tornabuoni , was related to Lorenzo de ' Medici , the family exerted its influence to secure the dismissal . Since that date much has been written about his presumed homosexuality and its role in his art , particularly in the androgyny and eroticism manifested in Saint John the Baptist and Bacchus and more explicitly in a number of erotic drawings .	What were the charges against you and the other young men dismissed for?	The charges against me and the other young men were dismissed for lack of evidence.
Other drawings of interest include numerous studies generally referred to as " caricatures " because , although exaggerated , they appear to be based upon observation of live models . Vasari relates that Leonardo would look for interesting faces in public to use as models for some of his work . [ ‡ 7 ] There are numerous studies of beautiful young men , often associated with Sala ì , with the rare and much admired facial feature , the so - called " Grecian profile " . [ y ] These faces are often contrasted with that of a warrior . Sala ì is often depicted in fancy - dress costume . Leonardo is known to have designed sets for pageants with which these may be associated . Other , often meticulous , drawings show studies of drapery . A marked development in Leonardo ' s ability to draw drapery occurred in his early works . Another often - reproduced drawing is a macabre sketch that was done by Leonardo in Florence in 1479 showing the body of Bernardo Baroncelli , hanged in connection with the murder of Giuliano , brother of Lorenzo de ' Medici , in the Pazzi conspiracy . In his notes , Leonardo recorded the colours of the robes that Baroncelli was wearing when he died .	How are you often depicted in my drawings?	I am often depicted in fancy-dress costume.
Leonardo died at Clos Luc é on 2 May 1519 at the age of 67 , possibly of a stroke . Francis I had become a close friend . Vasari describes Leonardo as lamenting on his deathbed , full of repentance , that " he had offended against God and men by failing to practice his art as he should have done . " Vasari states that in his last days , Leonardo sent for a priest to make his confession and to receive the Holy Sacrament . [ ‡ 4 ] Vasari also records that the king held Leonardo ' s head in his arms as he died , although this story may be legend rather than fact . [ s ] [ t ] In accordance with his will , sixty beggars carrying tapers followed Leonardo ' s casket . [ u ] Melzi was the principal heir and executor , receiving , as well as money , Leonardo ' s paintings , tools , library and personal effects . Leonardo ' s other long - time pupil and companion , Sala ì , and his servant Baptista de Vilanis , each received half of Leonardo ' s vineyards . His brothers received land , and his serving woman received a fur - lined cloak . On 12 August 1519 , Leonardo ' s remains were interred in the Collegiate Church of Saint Florentin at the Ch â teau d ' Amboise .	Who did you send for in your last days?	I sent for a priest to make my confession and to receive the Holy Sacrament.
In March 1513 , Lorenzo de ' Medici ' s son Giovanni assumed the papacy ( as Leo X ) ; Leonardo went to Rome that September , where he was received by the pope ' s brother Giuliano . From September 1513 to 1516 , Leonardo spent much of his time living in the Belvedere Courtyard in the Apostolic Palace , where Michelangelo and Raphael were both active . Leonardo was given an allowance of 33 ducats a month , and according to Vasari , decorated a lizard with scales dipped in quicksilver . The pope gave him a painting commission of unknown subject matter , but cancelled it when the artist set about developing a new kind of varnish . [ o ] Leonardo became ill , in what may have been the first of multiple strokes leading to his death . He practiced botany in the Gardens of Vatican City , and was commissioned to make plans for the pope ' s proposed draining of the Pontine Marshes . He also dissected cadavers , making notes for a treatise on vocal cords ; these he gave to an official in hopes of regaining the pope ' s favor , but was unsuccessful .	Who received you in Rome in September 1513?	The pope ' s brother Giuliano received me.
The interest in Leonardo ' s genius has continued unabated ; experts study and translate his writings , analyse his paintings using scientific techniques , argue over attributions and search for works which have been recorded but never found . Liana Bortolon , writing in 1967 , said : " Because of the multiplicity of interests that spurred him to pursue every field of knowledge ... Leonardo can be considered , quite rightly , to have been the universal genius par excellence , and with all the disquieting overtones inherent in that term . Man is as uncomfortable today , faced with a genius , as he was in the 16th century . Five centuries have passed , yet we still view Leonardo with awe . " The Elmer Belt Library of Vinciana is a special collection at the University of California , Los Angeles .	What are experts arguing over?	Experts are arguing over attributions of my works.
Sala ì , or Il Salaino ( " The Little Unclean One " , i . e . , the devil ) , entered Leonardo ' s household in 1490 as an assistant . After only a year , Leonardo made a list of his misdemeanours , calling him " a thief , a liar , stubborn , and a glutton , " after he had made off with money and valuables on at least five occasions and spent a fortune on clothes . Nevertheless , Leonardo treated him with great indulgence , and he remained in Leonardo ' s household for the next thirty years . Sala ì executed a number of paintings under the name of Andrea Sala ì , but although Vasari claims that Leonardo " taught him many things about painting , " [ ‡ 3 ] his work is generally considered to be of less artistic merit than others among Leonardo ' s pupils , such as Marco d ' Oggiono and Boltraffio .	What did Vasari claim about your influence on Sala ì's painting?	Vasari claimed that I taught Sala ì many things about painting.
Leonardo died at Clos Luc é on 2 May 1519 at the age of 67 , possibly of a stroke . Francis I had become a close friend . Vasari describes Leonardo as lamenting on his deathbed , full of repentance , that " he had offended against God and men by failing to practice his art as he should have done . " Vasari states that in his last days , Leonardo sent for a priest to make his confession and to receive the Holy Sacrament . [ ‡ 4 ] Vasari also records that the king held Leonardo ' s head in his arms as he died , although this story may be legend rather than fact . [ s ] [ t ] In accordance with his will , sixty beggars carrying tapers followed Leonardo ' s casket . [ u ] Melzi was the principal heir and executor , receiving , as well as money , Leonardo ' s paintings , tools , library and personal effects . Leonardo ' s other long - time pupil and companion , Sala ì , and his servant Baptista de Vilanis , each received half of Leonardo ' s vineyards . His brothers received land , and his serving woman received a fur - lined cloak . On 12 August 1519 , Leonardo ' s remains were interred in the Collegiate Church of Saint Florentin at the Ch â teau d ' Amboise .	Where were your remains interred?	My remains were interred in the Collegiate Church of Saint Florentin at the Château d'Amboise.
Renaissance humanism recognised no mutually exclusive polarities between the sciences and the arts , and Leonardo ' s studies in science and engineering are sometimes considered as impressive and innovative as his artistic work . These studies were recorded in 13 , 000 pages of notes and drawings , which fuse art and natural philosophy ( the forerunner of modern science ) . They were made and maintained daily throughout Leonardo ' s life and travels , as he made continual observations of the world around him . Leonardo ' s notes and drawings display an enormous range of interests and preoccupations , some as mundane as lists of groceries and people who owed him money and some as intriguing as designs for wings and shoes for walking on water . There are compositions for paintings , studies of details and drapery , studies of faces and emotions , of animals , babies , dissections , plant studies , rock formations , whirlpools , war machines , flying machines and architecture .	What did you continually observe as you made your notes and drawings?	I made continual observations of the world around me.
In March 1513 , Lorenzo de ' Medici ' s son Giovanni assumed the papacy ( as Leo X ) ; Leonardo went to Rome that September , where he was received by the pope ' s brother Giuliano . From September 1513 to 1516 , Leonardo spent much of his time living in the Belvedere Courtyard in the Apostolic Palace , where Michelangelo and Raphael were both active . Leonardo was given an allowance of 33 ducats a month , and according to Vasari , decorated a lizard with scales dipped in quicksilver . The pope gave him a painting commission of unknown subject matter , but cancelled it when the artist set about developing a new kind of varnish . [ o ] Leonardo became ill , in what may have been the first of multiple strokes leading to his death . He practiced botany in the Gardens of Vatican City , and was commissioned to make plans for the pope ' s proposed draining of the Pontine Marshes . He also dissected cadavers , making notes for a treatise on vocal cords ; these he gave to an official in hopes of regaining the pope ' s favor , but was unsuccessful .	Who assumed the papacy as Leo X in March 1513?	Lorenzo de ' Medici ' s son Giovanni.
During his lifetime , Leonardo was also valued as an engineer . With the same rational and analytical approach that moved him to represent the human body and to investigate anatomy , Leonardo studied and designed many machines and devices . He drew their " anatomy " with unparalleled mastery , producing the first form of the modern technical drawing , including a perfected " exploded view " technique , to represent internal components . Those studies and projects collected in his codices fill more than 5 , 000 pages . In a letter of 1482 to the lord of Milan Ludovico il Moro , he wrote that he could create all sorts of machines both for the protection of a city and for siege . When he fled from Milan to Venice in 1499 , he found employment as an engineer and devised a system of moveable barricades to protect the city from attack . In 1502 , he created a scheme for diverting the flow of the Arno river , a project on which Niccol ò Machiavelli also worked . He continued to contemplate the canalization of Lombardy ' s plains while in Louis XII ' s company and of the Loire and its tributaries in the company of Francis I . Leonardo ' s journals include a vast number of inventions , both practical and impractical . They include musical instruments , a mechanical knight , hydraulic pumps , reversible crank mechanisms , finned mortar shells , and a steam cannon .	What did you write in a letter to the lord of Milan Ludovico il Moro in 1482?	In a letter to the lord of Milan Ludovico il Moro in 1482, I wrote that I could create all sorts of machines both for the protection of a city and for siege.
Sala ì , or Il Salaino ( " The Little Unclean One " , i . e . , the devil ) , entered Leonardo ' s household in 1490 as an assistant . After only a year , Leonardo made a list of his misdemeanours , calling him " a thief , a liar , stubborn , and a glutton , " after he had made off with money and valuables on at least five occasions and spent a fortune on clothes . Nevertheless , Leonardo treated him with great indulgence , and he remained in Leonardo ' s household for the next thirty years . Sala ì executed a number of paintings under the name of Andrea Sala ì , but although Vasari claims that Leonardo " taught him many things about painting , " [ ‡ 3 ] his work is generally considered to be of less artistic merit than others among Leonardo ' s pupils , such as Marco d ' Oggiono and Boltraffio .	When did Sala ì join your household?	Sala ì joined my household in 1490.
Sala ì , or Il Salaino ( " The Little Unclean One " , i . e . , the devil ) , entered Leonardo ' s household in 1490 as an assistant . After only a year , Leonardo made a list of his misdemeanours , calling him " a thief , a liar , stubborn , and a glutton , " after he had made off with money and valuables on at least five occasions and spent a fortune on clothes . Nevertheless , Leonardo treated him with great indulgence , and he remained in Leonardo ' s household for the next thirty years . Sala ì executed a number of paintings under the name of Andrea Sala ì , but although Vasari claims that Leonardo " taught him many things about painting , " [ ‡ 3 ] his work is generally considered to be of less artistic merit than others among Leonardo ' s pupils , such as Marco d ' Oggiono and Boltraffio .	How long did Sala ì remain in your household?	Sala ì remained in my household for the next thirty years.
Renaissance humanism recognised no mutually exclusive polarities between the sciences and the arts , and Leonardo ' s studies in science and engineering are sometimes considered as impressive and innovative as his artistic work . These studies were recorded in 13 , 000 pages of notes and drawings , which fuse art and natural philosophy ( the forerunner of modern science ) . They were made and maintained daily throughout Leonardo ' s life and travels , as he made continual observations of the world around him . Leonardo ' s notes and drawings display an enormous range of interests and preoccupations , some as mundane as lists of groceries and people who owed him money and some as intriguing as designs for wings and shoes for walking on water . There are compositions for paintings , studies of details and drapery , studies of faces and emotions , of animals , babies , dissections , plant studies , rock formations , whirlpools , war machines , flying machines and architecture .	What were your notes and drawings a fusion of?	My notes and drawings fuse art and natural philosophy, which is the forerunner of modern science.
