Early in his career , DiCaprio gained a reputation for his reckless behavior and intense partying with a group of male celebrities dubbed " the Pussy Posse " in the 1990s . In an infamous article published by New York Magazine in 1998 , journalist Nancy Jo Sales criticized the group as men whose pursuit was to " chase girls , pick fights and not tip the waitress " . During an unknown activity , DiCaprio got himself and friend Justin Herwick almost killed when his parachute failed to open , after which his instructor released an emergency core . In response , DiCaprio said he is fond of doing things that scare him . John McCain , who was a United States Senator for Arizona , called him " an androgynous wimp " . DiCaprio found people ' s perception of him exaggerated , adding , " They want you miserable , just like them . They don ' t want heroes ; what they want is to see you fall . " Steven Spielberg , who directed him in Catch Me If You Can , defended DiCaprio ' s reputation as a " party boy " , believing it is a common behavior for young people and describing him as a family - oriented person during the film ' s production . Considering DiCaprio to be conscious of his public reputation , The New York Times ' Caryn James credited him as one of the few actors to use his stardom to further social causes . Carole Cadwalladr of The Guardian said DiCaprio is " polite , charming , makes jokes , engages eye contact . And manages   [ ... ] to give almost no hint whatsoever of his actual personality . "	How did you respond to people's perception of you?	I responded by saying that people's perception of me is exaggerated and that they want me to be miserable.
After producing and narrating the 2019 global warming documentary Ice on Fire , DiCaprio returned to acting following a four - year break in Quentin Tarantino ' s comedy - drama Once Upon a Time in Hollywood , which traces the relationship between Rick Dalton ( DiCaprio ) , an aging television actor and his stuntman , Cliff Booth ( Brad Pitt ) . To help the film ' s financing , DiCaprio and Pitt agreed to take a pay cut , and they each received $ 10   million . DiCaprio liked working with Pitt , and Tarantino described the pair as the most exciting since Robert Redford and Paul Newman . DiCaprio was fascinated with the film ' s homage to Hollywood and focus on the friendship between his and Pitt ' s characters . He drew from real - life experience of witnessing the struggles and rejections of his actor friends in the industry . The film premiered at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival , where critics praised his and Pitt ' s performances . A writer for Business Insider called it one of the best performances of DiCaprio ' s career , and Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy particularly liked the duo ' s chemistry , believing their scenes together to be some of the film ' s strongest parts . DiCaprio received nominations for an Oscar , a Golden Globe , a BAFTA Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actor . The film earned $ 374   million against a budget of $ 90   million .	What nominations did you receive for your performance in Once Upon a Time in Hollywood?	I received an Oscar, Golden Globe, BAFTA Award, and Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actor.
In 2006 , DiCaprio starred in the crime film The Departed and the political war thriller Blood Diamond . In Scorsese ' s The Departed , DiCaprio played the role of Billy Costigan , a state trooper working undercover in the Irish Mob in Boston , someone he characterizes as in a " constant 24 - hour panic attack " . DiCaprio especially liked the experience of working with co - star Jack Nicholson , describing a scene with him as " one of the most memorable moments " of his life as an actor . In preparation , he visited Boston to interact with people associated with the Irish Mob and gained 15 pounds ( 6.8   kg ) of muscle . Critically acclaimed , the film grossed $ 291   million against a budget of $ 90   million , becoming DiCaprio and Scorsese ' s highest - grossing collaboration to that point . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised DiCaprio ' s and co - star Matt Damon ' s performances as " explosive , emotionally complex " , but felt that Nicholson overshadowed the two . Despite DiCaprio ' s leading role in The Departed , the film ' s distributor Warner Bros . Pictures submitted his performance for a Best Supporting Actor nomination at the AMPAS to avoid internal conflict with his part in Blood Diamond . Instead , his co - star Mark Wahlberg was nominated , though DiCaprio earned other accolades for The Departed , including a Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actor and Best Actor nominations at the Golden Globes and BAFTA Awards .	Who did you enjoy working with in The Departed?	I particularly enjoyed working with co-star Jack Nicholson in The Departed.
DiCaprio played the developmentally disabled brother of Johnny Depp ' s character in What ' s Eating Gilbert Grape ( 1993 ) , a comedy - drama about a dysfunctional Iowa family . Caton - Jones recommended DiCaprio to director Lasse Hallstr ö m , but he was initially skeptical , as he considered DiCaprio too good - looking for the part . Hallstr ö m cast DiCaprio after he emerged as " the most observant " auditionee . To ensure authenticity in his portrayal , DiCaprio studied similarly impaired children and their mannerisms , and Hallstr ö m allowed him to create the character using his own researched attributes . The film became a critical success . At 19 , DiCaprio earned a National Board of Review Award , as well as nominations for a Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor , making him the seventh - youngest Oscar nominee in the category . " The film ' s real show - stopping turn comes from Mr . DiCaprio , " wrote New York Times critic Janet Maslin , " who makes Arnie ' s many tics so startling and vivid that at first he is difficult to watch . The performance has a sharp , desperate intensity from beginning to end . " Caryn James , also writing for The New York Times , said of his performances in This Boy ' s Life and What ' s Eating Gilbert Grape : " He made the raw , emotional neediness of those boys completely natural and powerful . "	What awards did you earn for your performance in "What's Eating Gilbert Grape"?	I earned a National Board of Review Award, as well as nominations for a Golden Globe Award and an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.
In January   2013 , DiCaprio said he would take a long break from acting to " fly around the world doing good for the environment " . That year , he had four releases as an actor and a producer . His first was in the role of millionaire Jay Gatsby in Baz Luhrmann ' s The Great Gatsby , an adaptation of F . Scott Fitzgerald ' s 1925 novel of the same name , co - starring Carey Mulligan and Tobey Maguire . DiCaprio liked the idea of playing a man who realizes his imaginations , someone he characterized as " a hopeless romantic , a completely obsessed wacko or a dangerous gangster , clinging to wealth " . The film received mixed reviews from critics , but DiCaprio ' s performance was praised and earned him the AACTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role . Critic Rafer Guzman of Newsday wrote that DiCaprio was not only " tough   [ ... ] but also vulnerable , touching , funny , a faker , a human . It ' s a tremendous , hard - won performance . " Matt Zoller Seitz of Roger Ebert ' s website described his performance as " the movie ' s greatest and simplest special effect , " and " iconic — maybe his career best " . The film grossed $ 353   million worldwide , more than three times its budget . Three films were produced by DiCaprio under Appian Way in 2013 — the ensemble crime thriller Runner Runner , which The Guardian ' s Xan Brooks described as " a lazy , trashy film that barely goes through the motions " ; the commercially failed thriller Out of the Furnace ; and the black comedy - drama The Wolf of Wall Street .	How much money did The Great Gatsby gross worldwide?	The film grossed $353 million worldwide.
In 2007 , DiCaprio produced the comedy drama Gardener of Eden , which according to The Hollywood Reporter ' s Frank Scheck " lack [ ed ] the necessary dramatic urgency or black humor to connect with audiences " . Later that year , he produced , co - wrote and narrated The 11th Hour , a documentary on the state of the natural environment that won the Earthwatch Environmental Film Award in 2008 . DiCaprio ' s Appian Way produced Planet Green ' s Greensburg ( 2008 – 2010 ) , which ran for three seasons . Set in Greensburg , Kansas , it is about rebuilding the town in a sustainable way after being hit by the May 2007 EF5 tornado . Also in 2008 , DiCaprio starred in Body of Lies , a spy film based on the novel of the same name . He played one of three agents battling a terrorist organization in the Middle East . Considering the film to be a throwback to political features of the 1970s like The Parallax View ( 1974 ) and Three Days of the Condor ( 1975 ) , DiCaprio dyed his hair brown and wore brown contacts for the role . The film received mixed reviews from critics , and grossed $ 118   million against a budget of $ 67.5   million .	Where is "Greensburg" set?	It is set in Greensburg, Kansas.
In 2006 , DiCaprio starred in the crime film The Departed and the political war thriller Blood Diamond . In Scorsese ' s The Departed , DiCaprio played the role of Billy Costigan , a state trooper working undercover in the Irish Mob in Boston , someone he characterizes as in a " constant 24 - hour panic attack " . DiCaprio especially liked the experience of working with co - star Jack Nicholson , describing a scene with him as " one of the most memorable moments " of his life as an actor . In preparation , he visited Boston to interact with people associated with the Irish Mob and gained 15 pounds ( 6.8   kg ) of muscle . Critically acclaimed , the film grossed $ 291   million against a budget of $ 90   million , becoming DiCaprio and Scorsese ' s highest - grossing collaboration to that point . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised DiCaprio ' s and co - star Matt Damon ' s performances as " explosive , emotionally complex " , but felt that Nicholson overshadowed the two . Despite DiCaprio ' s leading role in The Departed , the film ' s distributor Warner Bros . Pictures submitted his performance for a Best Supporting Actor nomination at the AMPAS to avoid internal conflict with his part in Blood Diamond . Instead , his co - star Mark Wahlberg was nominated , though DiCaprio earned other accolades for The Departed , including a Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actor and Best Actor nominations at the Golden Globes and BAFTA Awards .	What was your role in The Departed?	In The Departed, I played the role of Billy Costigan, a state trooper working undercover in the Irish Mob in Boston.
Early in his career , DiCaprio gained a reputation for his reckless behavior and intense partying with a group of male celebrities dubbed " the Pussy Posse " in the 1990s . In an infamous article published by New York Magazine in 1998 , journalist Nancy Jo Sales criticized the group as men whose pursuit was to " chase girls , pick fights and not tip the waitress " . During an unknown activity , DiCaprio got himself and friend Justin Herwick almost killed when his parachute failed to open , after which his instructor released an emergency core . In response , DiCaprio said he is fond of doing things that scare him . John McCain , who was a United States Senator for Arizona , called him " an androgynous wimp " . DiCaprio found people ' s perception of him exaggerated , adding , " They want you miserable , just like them . They don ' t want heroes ; what they want is to see you fall . " Steven Spielberg , who directed him in Catch Me If You Can , defended DiCaprio ' s reputation as a " party boy " , believing it is a common behavior for young people and describing him as a family - oriented person during the film ' s production . Considering DiCaprio to be conscious of his public reputation , The New York Times ' Caryn James credited him as one of the few actors to use his stardom to further social causes . Carole Cadwalladr of The Guardian said DiCaprio is " polite , charming , makes jokes , engages eye contact . And manages   [ ... ] to give almost no hint whatsoever of his actual personality . "	What did Nancy Jo Sales criticize the group for?	Nancy Jo Sales criticized the group for being men whose pursuit was to "chase girls, pick fights and not tip the waitress".
Later in 2008 , DiCaprio collaborated with Kate Winslet for the drama Revolutionary Road , directed by her then - husband Sam Mendes . As both actors had been reluctant to make romantic films similar to Titanic , it was Winslet who suggested that they both work with her on a film adaptation of the 1961 eponymous novel by Richard Yates . As she had read the script by Justin Haythe , she found that the plot had little in common with the 1997 blockbuster . Playing a couple in a failing marriage in the 1950s , DiCaprio and Winslet spent some time together in preparation , and DiCaprio felt claustrophobic on the small set they used . He saw his character as " unheroic " , " slightly cowardly " and someone " willing to be just a product of his environment " . Peter Travers liked DiCaprio ' s pairing with Winslet and his multi - layered portrayal of an overwhelmed character , and Marshall Sella of GQ called it the " most mature and memorable performance of his lifetime " . DiCaprio earned his seventh Golden Globes nomination for the film . Revolutionary Road grossed $ 75.9   million against its budget of $ 35   million . He ended the 2000s by producing director Jaume Collet - Serra ' s psychological horror thriller film Orphan ( 2009 ) , starring Vera Farmiga ( his co - star in The Departed ) , Peter Sarsgaard and Isabelle Fuhrman . Although the film received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success .	How did you feel during the filming of Revolutionary Road?	I felt claustrophobic on the small set they used while filming Revolutionary Road.
DiCaprio turned down the role of Anakin Skywalker in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones ( 2002 ) , feeling unprepared to " to take that dive " at the time . His first film that year was the biopic Catch Me If You Can , based on the life of Frank Abagnale Jr . , who before his 19th birthday committed check fraud to make   millions in the 1960s . Directed by Steven Spielberg , the film was shot across 147   different locations in 52   days , making it " the most adventurous , super - charged movie - making " DiCaprio had experienced yet . The film received critical acclaim and with a worldwide gross of $ 355   million against a budget of $ 52   million , it became his second highest - grossing release after Titanic . Roger Ebert praised his departure from dark and troubled characters , and two Entertainment Weekly critics in 2018 called it DiCaprio ' s best role , labeling him " delightfully persuasive , deceptive , flirtatious , and sometimes tragic — and we dare you to find a better role , if you can " . DiCaprio received his third Golden Globe nomination for his performance in the film .	How many locations were used in shooting Catch Me If You Can?	147 different locations.
In January   2013 , DiCaprio said he would take a long break from acting to " fly around the world doing good for the environment " . That year , he had four releases as an actor and a producer . His first was in the role of millionaire Jay Gatsby in Baz Luhrmann ' s The Great Gatsby , an adaptation of F . Scott Fitzgerald ' s 1925 novel of the same name , co - starring Carey Mulligan and Tobey Maguire . DiCaprio liked the idea of playing a man who realizes his imaginations , someone he characterized as " a hopeless romantic , a completely obsessed wacko or a dangerous gangster , clinging to wealth " . The film received mixed reviews from critics , but DiCaprio ' s performance was praised and earned him the AACTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role . Critic Rafer Guzman of Newsday wrote that DiCaprio was not only " tough   [ ... ] but also vulnerable , touching , funny , a faker , a human . It ' s a tremendous , hard - won performance . " Matt Zoller Seitz of Roger Ebert ' s website described his performance as " the movie ' s greatest and simplest special effect , " and " iconic — maybe his career best " . The film grossed $ 353   million worldwide , more than three times its budget . Three films were produced by DiCaprio under Appian Way in 2013 — the ensemble crime thriller Runner Runner , which The Guardian ' s Xan Brooks described as " a lazy , trashy film that barely goes through the motions " ; the commercially failed thriller Out of the Furnace ; and the black comedy - drama The Wolf of Wall Street .	What award did you win for your performance in The Great Gatsby?	I won the AACTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role.
After producing and narrating the 2019 global warming documentary Ice on Fire , DiCaprio returned to acting following a four - year break in Quentin Tarantino ' s comedy - drama Once Upon a Time in Hollywood , which traces the relationship between Rick Dalton ( DiCaprio ) , an aging television actor and his stuntman , Cliff Booth ( Brad Pitt ) . To help the film ' s financing , DiCaprio and Pitt agreed to take a pay cut , and they each received $ 10   million . DiCaprio liked working with Pitt , and Tarantino described the pair as the most exciting since Robert Redford and Paul Newman . DiCaprio was fascinated with the film ' s homage to Hollywood and focus on the friendship between his and Pitt ' s characters . He drew from real - life experience of witnessing the struggles and rejections of his actor friends in the industry . The film premiered at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival , where critics praised his and Pitt ' s performances . A writer for Business Insider called it one of the best performances of DiCaprio ' s career , and Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy particularly liked the duo ' s chemistry , believing their scenes together to be some of the film ' s strongest parts . DiCaprio received nominations for an Oscar , a Golden Globe , a BAFTA Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actor . The film earned $ 374   million against a budget of $ 90   million .	In which movie did you return to acting after a four-year break?	Once Upon a Time in Hollywood
In 2015 , DiCaprio produced and played fur trapper Hugh Glass in Alejandro G . I ñ á rritu ' s survival drama The Revenant . DiCaprio found his role in the film difficult ; he had to eat a raw slab of bison ' s liver and sleep in animal carcasses . He also learned to shoot a musket , build a fire , speak two Native American languages ( Pawnee and Arikara ) and apply ancient healing techniques . Built on a budget of $ 135   million , the film earned $ 533   million worldwide . The film received positive reviews with particular praise for DiCaprio ' s acting . Mark Kermode of The Guardian wrote that DiCaprio shone with a performance that prioritizes physicality over speech , and Nick De Semlyen of Empire noted that he uplifted the film . The film earned him numerous awards , including an Academy Award , a Golden Globe , a BAFTA , a Screen Actors Guild Award and a Critic ' s Choice Award for Best Actor . For the next three years , DiCaprio narrated documentaries and served as a producer for films . In 2016 , he was an executive producer for The Ivory Game and Catching the Sun ; and produced , hosted and narrated the documentary Before the Flood about climate change . He produced the crime drama Live by Night ( 2016 ) , which received unenthusiastic reviews and failed to recoup its $ 65   million production budget . His next production ventures were in 2018 — the psychological horror Delirium and the commercially failed action – adventure Robin Hood .	How much was the budget of "The Revenant"?	The budget of "The Revenant" was $135 million.
In 2006 , DiCaprio starred in the crime film The Departed and the political war thriller Blood Diamond . In Scorsese ' s The Departed , DiCaprio played the role of Billy Costigan , a state trooper working undercover in the Irish Mob in Boston , someone he characterizes as in a " constant 24 - hour panic attack " . DiCaprio especially liked the experience of working with co - star Jack Nicholson , describing a scene with him as " one of the most memorable moments " of his life as an actor . In preparation , he visited Boston to interact with people associated with the Irish Mob and gained 15 pounds ( 6.8   kg ) of muscle . Critically acclaimed , the film grossed $ 291   million against a budget of $ 90   million , becoming DiCaprio and Scorsese ' s highest - grossing collaboration to that point . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised DiCaprio ' s and co - star Matt Damon ' s performances as " explosive , emotionally complex " , but felt that Nicholson overshadowed the two . Despite DiCaprio ' s leading role in The Departed , the film ' s distributor Warner Bros . Pictures submitted his performance for a Best Supporting Actor nomination at the AMPAS to avoid internal conflict with his part in Blood Diamond . Instead , his co - star Mark Wahlberg was nominated , though DiCaprio earned other accolades for The Departed , including a Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actor and Best Actor nominations at the Golden Globes and BAFTA Awards .	How did you prepare for your role in The Departed?	I visited Boston to interact with people associated with the Irish Mob and gained 15 pounds of muscle in preparation for my role in The Departed.
In 2006 , DiCaprio starred in the crime film The Departed and the political war thriller Blood Diamond . In Scorsese ' s The Departed , DiCaprio played the role of Billy Costigan , a state trooper working undercover in the Irish Mob in Boston , someone he characterizes as in a " constant 24 - hour panic attack " . DiCaprio especially liked the experience of working with co - star Jack Nicholson , describing a scene with him as " one of the most memorable moments " of his life as an actor . In preparation , he visited Boston to interact with people associated with the Irish Mob and gained 15 pounds ( 6.8   kg ) of muscle . Critically acclaimed , the film grossed $ 291   million against a budget of $ 90   million , becoming DiCaprio and Scorsese ' s highest - grossing collaboration to that point . Peter Travers of Rolling Stone praised DiCaprio ' s and co - star Matt Damon ' s performances as " explosive , emotionally complex " , but felt that Nicholson overshadowed the two . Despite DiCaprio ' s leading role in The Departed , the film ' s distributor Warner Bros . Pictures submitted his performance for a Best Supporting Actor nomination at the AMPAS to avoid internal conflict with his part in Blood Diamond . Instead , his co - star Mark Wahlberg was nominated , though DiCaprio earned other accolades for The Departed , including a Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actor and Best Actor nominations at the Golden Globes and BAFTA Awards .	What accolades did you earn for The Departed?	I earned a Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actor and received Best Actor nominations at the Golden Globes and BAFTA Awards for my performance in The Departed.
In 2015 , DiCaprio produced and played fur trapper Hugh Glass in Alejandro G . I ñ á rritu ' s survival drama The Revenant . DiCaprio found his role in the film difficult ; he had to eat a raw slab of bison ' s liver and sleep in animal carcasses . He also learned to shoot a musket , build a fire , speak two Native American languages ( Pawnee and Arikara ) and apply ancient healing techniques . Built on a budget of $ 135   million , the film earned $ 533   million worldwide . The film received positive reviews with particular praise for DiCaprio ' s acting . Mark Kermode of The Guardian wrote that DiCaprio shone with a performance that prioritizes physicality over speech , and Nick De Semlyen of Empire noted that he uplifted the film . The film earned him numerous awards , including an Academy Award , a Golden Globe , a BAFTA , a Screen Actors Guild Award and a Critic ' s Choice Award for Best Actor . For the next three years , DiCaprio narrated documentaries and served as a producer for films . In 2016 , he was an executive producer for The Ivory Game and Catching the Sun ; and produced , hosted and narrated the documentary Before the Flood about climate change . He produced the crime drama Live by Night ( 2016 ) , which received unenthusiastic reviews and failed to recoup its $ 65   million production budget . His next production ventures were in 2018 — the psychological horror Delirium and the commercially failed action – adventure Robin Hood .	How much did "The Revenant" earn worldwide?	"The Revenant" earned $533 million worldwide.
Several media publications , such as People , Empire and Harper ' s Bazaar , have included DiCaprio in their listings of the most attractive actors . In 1998 , he sued Playgirl magazine over plans to publish a fully nude picture of him . He has said he does not believe in focusing on appearance — as this is only temporary and can negatively affect one ' s profession in the industry — and looks for career longevity instead . In 2005 , DiCaprio was made a commander of the Ordre des Arts et des Lettres by the French Minister of Culture for his contributions to the arts . In 2016 , he was named one of the 100   most influential people in the world by Time magazine . He was included on Forbes ' annual list of the world ' s highest - paid actors in 2008 and from 2010 to 2016 with respective earnings of $ 45   million , $ 28   million , $ 77   million , $ 37   million , $ 39   million , $ 29   million and $ 27   million , topping the list in 2011 . The magazine has commended DiCaprio ' s ability to star in risky , R - rated films that become box office successes . The Hollywood Reporter listed him as one of the 100 most powerful people in entertainment from 2016 to 2019 . A writer for the same magazine credits DiCaprio as the rare actor to have a successful career " without ever having made a comic book movie , family film or pre - branded franchise . Leo is the franchise . " Stacey Wilson Hunt , analyzing his career in New York Magazine in 2016 , noted DiCaprio , unlike most of his contemporaries , had not starred in a failed film in the previous ten years . Of his success , DiCaprio says , " My attitude is the same as when I started . I feel very connected to that fifteen - year - old kid who got his first movie . "	According to Forbes, which year did you top the list of highest-paid actors?	2011.
Later in 2008 , DiCaprio collaborated with Kate Winslet for the drama Revolutionary Road , directed by her then - husband Sam Mendes . As both actors had been reluctant to make romantic films similar to Titanic , it was Winslet who suggested that they both work with her on a film adaptation of the 1961 eponymous novel by Richard Yates . As she had read the script by Justin Haythe , she found that the plot had little in common with the 1997 blockbuster . Playing a couple in a failing marriage in the 1950s , DiCaprio and Winslet spent some time together in preparation , and DiCaprio felt claustrophobic on the small set they used . He saw his character as " unheroic " , " slightly cowardly " and someone " willing to be just a product of his environment " . Peter Travers liked DiCaprio ' s pairing with Winslet and his multi - layered portrayal of an overwhelmed character , and Marshall Sella of GQ called it the " most mature and memorable performance of his lifetime " . DiCaprio earned his seventh Golden Globes nomination for the film . Revolutionary Road grossed $ 75.9   million against its budget of $ 35   million . He ended the 2000s by producing director Jaume Collet - Serra ' s psychological horror thriller film Orphan ( 2009 ) , starring Vera Farmiga ( his co - star in The Departed ) , Peter Sarsgaard and Isabelle Fuhrman . Although the film received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success .	Who did you collaborate with in the drama Revolutionary Road?	I collaborated with Kate Winslet.
Early in his career , DiCaprio gained a reputation for his reckless behavior and intense partying with a group of male celebrities dubbed " the Pussy Posse " in the 1990s . In an infamous article published by New York Magazine in 1998 , journalist Nancy Jo Sales criticized the group as men whose pursuit was to " chase girls , pick fights and not tip the waitress " . During an unknown activity , DiCaprio got himself and friend Justin Herwick almost killed when his parachute failed to open , after which his instructor released an emergency core . In response , DiCaprio said he is fond of doing things that scare him . John McCain , who was a United States Senator for Arizona , called him " an androgynous wimp " . DiCaprio found people ' s perception of him exaggerated , adding , " They want you miserable , just like them . They don ' t want heroes ; what they want is to see you fall . " Steven Spielberg , who directed him in Catch Me If You Can , defended DiCaprio ' s reputation as a " party boy " , believing it is a common behavior for young people and describing him as a family - oriented person during the film ' s production . Considering DiCaprio to be conscious of his public reputation , The New York Times ' Caryn James credited him as one of the few actors to use his stardom to further social causes . Carole Cadwalladr of The Guardian said DiCaprio is " polite , charming , makes jokes , engages eye contact . And manages   [ ... ] to give almost no hint whatsoever of his actual personality . "	How did The Guardian describe your personality?	The Guardian described me as polite, charming, someone who makes jokes and engages in eye contact, but without giving any hint of my actual personality.
In January   2013 , DiCaprio said he would take a long break from acting to " fly around the world doing good for the environment " . That year , he had four releases as an actor and a producer . His first was in the role of millionaire Jay Gatsby in Baz Luhrmann ' s The Great Gatsby , an adaptation of F . Scott Fitzgerald ' s 1925 novel of the same name , co - starring Carey Mulligan and Tobey Maguire . DiCaprio liked the idea of playing a man who realizes his imaginations , someone he characterized as " a hopeless romantic , a completely obsessed wacko or a dangerous gangster , clinging to wealth " . The film received mixed reviews from critics , but DiCaprio ' s performance was praised and earned him the AACTA Award for Best Actor in a Leading Role . Critic Rafer Guzman of Newsday wrote that DiCaprio was not only " tough   [ ... ] but also vulnerable , touching , funny , a faker , a human . It ' s a tremendous , hard - won performance . " Matt Zoller Seitz of Roger Ebert ' s website described his performance as " the movie ' s greatest and simplest special effect , " and " iconic — maybe his career best " . The film grossed $ 353   million worldwide , more than three times its budget . Three films were produced by DiCaprio under Appian Way in 2013 — the ensemble crime thriller Runner Runner , which The Guardian ' s Xan Brooks described as " a lazy , trashy film that barely goes through the motions " ; the commercially failed thriller Out of the Furnace ; and the black comedy - drama The Wolf of Wall Street .	How many releases did you have in 2013?	I had four releases as an actor and a producer.
DiCaprio turned down the role of Anakin Skywalker in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones ( 2002 ) , feeling unprepared to " to take that dive " at the time . His first film that year was the biopic Catch Me If You Can , based on the life of Frank Abagnale Jr . , who before his 19th birthday committed check fraud to make   millions in the 1960s . Directed by Steven Spielberg , the film was shot across 147   different locations in 52   days , making it " the most adventurous , super - charged movie - making " DiCaprio had experienced yet . The film received critical acclaim and with a worldwide gross of $ 355   million against a budget of $ 52   million , it became his second highest - grossing release after Titanic . Roger Ebert praised his departure from dark and troubled characters , and two Entertainment Weekly critics in 2018 called it DiCaprio ' s best role , labeling him " delightfully persuasive , deceptive , flirtatious , and sometimes tragic — and we dare you to find a better role , if you can " . DiCaprio received his third Golden Globe nomination for his performance in the film .	Who directed Catch Me If You Can?	Steven Spielberg.
In 2007 , DiCaprio produced the comedy drama Gardener of Eden , which according to The Hollywood Reporter ' s Frank Scheck " lack [ ed ] the necessary dramatic urgency or black humor to connect with audiences " . Later that year , he produced , co - wrote and narrated The 11th Hour , a documentary on the state of the natural environment that won the Earthwatch Environmental Film Award in 2008 . DiCaprio ' s Appian Way produced Planet Green ' s Greensburg ( 2008 – 2010 ) , which ran for three seasons . Set in Greensburg , Kansas , it is about rebuilding the town in a sustainable way after being hit by the May 2007 EF5 tornado . Also in 2008 , DiCaprio starred in Body of Lies , a spy film based on the novel of the same name . He played one of three agents battling a terrorist organization in the Middle East . Considering the film to be a throwback to political features of the 1970s like The Parallax View ( 1974 ) and Three Days of the Condor ( 1975 ) , DiCaprio dyed his hair brown and wore brown contacts for the role . The film received mixed reviews from critics , and grossed $ 118   million against a budget of $ 67.5   million .	What award did "The 11th Hour" win?	The Earthwatch Environmental Film Award.
After producing and narrating the 2019 global warming documentary Ice on Fire , DiCaprio returned to acting following a four - year break in Quentin Tarantino ' s comedy - drama Once Upon a Time in Hollywood , which traces the relationship between Rick Dalton ( DiCaprio ) , an aging television actor and his stuntman , Cliff Booth ( Brad Pitt ) . To help the film ' s financing , DiCaprio and Pitt agreed to take a pay cut , and they each received $ 10   million . DiCaprio liked working with Pitt , and Tarantino described the pair as the most exciting since Robert Redford and Paul Newman . DiCaprio was fascinated with the film ' s homage to Hollywood and focus on the friendship between his and Pitt ' s characters . He drew from real - life experience of witnessing the struggles and rejections of his actor friends in the industry . The film premiered at the 2019 Cannes Film Festival , where critics praised his and Pitt ' s performances . A writer for Business Insider called it one of the best performances of DiCaprio ' s career , and Ian Sandwell of Digital Spy particularly liked the duo ' s chemistry , believing their scenes together to be some of the film ' s strongest parts . DiCaprio received nominations for an Oscar , a Golden Globe , a BAFTA Award and a Screen Actors Guild Award for Best Actor . The film earned $ 374   million against a budget of $ 90   million .	What was the budget and earnings of the movie Once Upon a Time in Hollywood?	Budget: $90 million
Later in 2008 , DiCaprio collaborated with Kate Winslet for the drama Revolutionary Road , directed by her then - husband Sam Mendes . As both actors had been reluctant to make romantic films similar to Titanic , it was Winslet who suggested that they both work with her on a film adaptation of the 1961 eponymous novel by Richard Yates . As she had read the script by Justin Haythe , she found that the plot had little in common with the 1997 blockbuster . Playing a couple in a failing marriage in the 1950s , DiCaprio and Winslet spent some time together in preparation , and DiCaprio felt claustrophobic on the small set they used . He saw his character as " unheroic " , " slightly cowardly " and someone " willing to be just a product of his environment " . Peter Travers liked DiCaprio ' s pairing with Winslet and his multi - layered portrayal of an overwhelmed character , and Marshall Sella of GQ called it the " most mature and memorable performance of his lifetime " . DiCaprio earned his seventh Golden Globes nomination for the film . Revolutionary Road grossed $ 75.9   million against its budget of $ 35   million . He ended the 2000s by producing director Jaume Collet - Serra ' s psychological horror thriller film Orphan ( 2009 ) , starring Vera Farmiga ( his co - star in The Departed ) , Peter Sarsgaard and Isabelle Fuhrman . Although the film received mixed reviews , it was a commercial success .	What was the suggestion you made regarding the film adaptation?	I suggested that both Kate Winslet and I work on a film adaptation of the novel by Richard Yates.
DiCaprio turned down the role of Anakin Skywalker in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones ( 2002 ) , feeling unprepared to " to take that dive " at the time . His first film that year was the biopic Catch Me If You Can , based on the life of Frank Abagnale Jr . , who before his 19th birthday committed check fraud to make   millions in the 1960s . Directed by Steven Spielberg , the film was shot across 147   different locations in 52   days , making it " the most adventurous , super - charged movie - making " DiCaprio had experienced yet . The film received critical acclaim and with a worldwide gross of $ 355   million against a budget of $ 52   million , it became his second highest - grossing release after Titanic . Roger Ebert praised his departure from dark and troubled characters , and two Entertainment Weekly critics in 2018 called it DiCaprio ' s best role , labeling him " delightfully persuasive , deceptive , flirtatious , and sometimes tragic — and we dare you to find a better role , if you can " . DiCaprio received his third Golden Globe nomination for his performance in the film .	What was your first film in 2002?	Catch Me If You Can.
