Possessing a mezzo - soprano vocal range , Madonna has always been self - conscious about her voice . Mark Bego , author of Madonna : Blonde Ambition , called her " the perfect vocalist for lighter - than - air songs " , despite not being a " heavyweight talent " . According to Tony Sclafani from MSNBC , " Madonna ' s vocals are the key to her rock roots . Pop vocalists usually sing songs ' straight ' , but Madonna employs subtext , irony , aggression and all sorts of vocal idiosyncrasies in the ways John Lennon and Bob Dylan did . " Madonna used a bright , girlish vocal timbre in her early albums which became pass é in her later works . The change was deliberate since she was constantly reminded of how the critics had once labeled her as " Minnie Mouse on helium " . During the filming of Evita ( 1996 ) , Madonna had to take vocal lessons , which increased her range further . Of this experience she commented , " I studied with a vocal coach for Evita and I realized there was a whole piece of my voice I wasn ' t using . Before , I just believed I had a really limited range and was going to make the most of it . "	What is your vocal range?	I possess a mezzo-soprano vocal range.
Madonna has built a legacy that transcends music and has been studied by sociologists , historians , and other scholars , contributing to the rise of Madonna studies , a subfield of American cultural studies . According to Rodrigo Fres á n , " saying that Madonna is just a pop star is as inappropriate as saying that Coca - Cola is just a soda . Madonna is one of the classic symbols of Made in USA . " Rolling Stone Spain wrote , " She became the first master of viral pop in history , years before the internet was massively used . Madonna was everywhere ; in the almighty music television channels , ' radio formulas ' , magazine covers and even in bookstores . A pop dialectic , never seen since the Beatles ' s reign , which allowed her to keep on the edge of trend and commerciality . " William Langley from The Daily Telegraph felt that " Madonna has changed the world ' s social history , has done more things as more different people than anyone else is ever likely to . " Professor Diane Pecknold noted that " nearly any poll of the biggest , greatest , or best in popular culture includes [ Madonna ' s ] name " . In 2012 , VH1 ranked Madonna as the greatest woman in music .	What is your impact beyond music?	My legacy has been studied by sociologists, historians, and scholars in the field of American cultural studies.
Madonna released her eighth studio album , Music , in September 2000 . It featured elements from the electronica - inspired Ray of Light era , and like its predecessor , received acclaim from critics . Collaborating with French producer Mirwais Ahmadza ï , Madonna commented : " I love to work with the weirdos that no one knows about — the people who have raw talent and who are making music unlike anyone else out there . Music is the future of sound . " Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic felt that " Music blows by in a kaleidoscopic rush of color , technique , style and substance . It has so many depth and layers that it ' s easily as self - aware and earnest as Ray of Light . " The album took the number - one position in more than 20 countries worldwide and sold four million copies in the first ten days . In the U . S . , Music debuted at the top , and became her first number - one album in eleven years since Like a Prayer . It produced three singles : the Hot 100 number - one " Music " , " Don ' t Tell Me " , and " What It Feels Like for a Girl " . The music video of " What It Feels Like for a Girl " depicted Madonna committing acts of crime and vandalism , and was banned by MTV and VH1 .	Which three songs were you release as singles from the album?	The three singles I released from the album were "Music", "Don't Tell Me", and "What It Feels Like for a Girl".
Biographer J . Randy Taraborrelli described her ballad " I ' ll Remember " ( 1994 ) as an attempt to tone down her provocative image . The song was recorded for Alek Keshishian ' s 1994 film With Honors . She made a subdued appearance with Letterman at an awards show and appeared on The Tonight Show with Jay Leno after realizing that she needed to change her musical direction in order to sustain her popularity . With her sixth studio album , Bedtime Stories ( 1994 ) , Madonna employed a softer image to try to improve the public perception . The album debuted at number three on the Billboard 200 and generated two U . S . top - five hits , " Secret " and " Take a Bow " , the latter topping the Hot 100 for seven weeks , the longest period of any Madonna single . Something to Remember , a collection of ballads , was released in November 1995 . The album featured three new songs : " You ' ll See " , " One More Chance " , and a cover of Marvin Gaye ' s " I Want You " . An enthusiastic collector of modern art , Madonna sponsored the first major retrospective of Tina Modotti ' s work at the Philadelphia Museum of Art in 1995 . The following year , she sponsored an exhibition of Basquiat ' s paintings at the Serpentine Gallery in London . The following year , she sponsored artist Cindy Sherman ' s retrospective at the MoMA in New York .	How did your album "Bedtime Stories" perform on the Billboard 200?	The album debuted at number three on the Billboard 200.
In October 1992 , Madonna simultaneously released her fifth studio album , Erotica , and her coffee table book , Sex . Consisting of sexually provocative and explicit images , photographed by Steven Meisel , the book received strong negative reaction from the media and the general public , but sold 1.5   million copies at $ 50 each in a matter of days . The widespread backlash overshadowed Erotica , which ended up as her lowest selling album at the time . Despite positive reviews , it became her first studio album since her debut album not to score any chart - topper in the U . S . The album entered the Billboard 200 at number two and yielded the Hot 100 top - ten hits " Erotica " and " Deeper and Deeper " . Madonna continued her provocative imagery in the 1993 erotic thriller , Body of Evidence , a film which contained scenes of sadomasochism and bondage . It was poorly received by critics . She also starred in the film Dangerous Game , which was released straight to video in North America . The New York Times described the film as " angry and painful , and the pain feels real . "	What kind of images did your coffee table book, "Sex", contain?	Sexually provocative and explicit images.
Following the success of the singles , Warner hired Reggie Lucas to produce her self - titled debut album , Madonna . However , Madonna was dissatisfied with the completed tracks and disagreed with Lucas ' production techniques , so she decided to seek additional help . She asked John " Jellybean " Benitez , the resident DJ at Fun House , to help finish the album ' s production and a romance ensued . Benitez remixed most of the tracks and produced " Holiday " , which was her first international top - ten song . The album was released in July 1983 , and peaked at number eight on the Billboard 200 . It yielded two top - ten singles on the Billboard Hot 100 , " Borderline " and " Lucky Star " . In the fall of 1983 , Madonna ' s new manager , Freddy DeMann , secured a meeting for her with film producer Jon Peters , who asked her to play the part of a club singer in the romantic drama Vision Quest .	Who did you hire to produce your self-titled debut album?	Reggie Lucas
While living in Lisbon , Madonna met Dino D ' Santiago , who introduced her to many local musicians playing fado , morna , and samba music . They regularly invited her to their " living room sessions " , thus she was inspired to make her 14th studio album , Madame X . Madonna produced the album with several musicians , primarily her longtime collaborator Mirwais and Mike Dean . The album was critically well received , with NME deeming it " bold , bizarre , self - referential and unlike anything Madonna has ever done before . " Released in June 2019 , Madame X debuted atop the Billboard 200 , becoming her ninth number - one album there . All four of its singles — " Medell í n " , " Crave " , " I Rise " , and " I Don ' t Search I Find " — topped the Billboard Dance Club Songs chart , extending her record for most number - one entries on the chart .	Who introduced you to local musicians playing fado, morna, and samba music in Lisbon?	Dino D' Santiago introduced me.
Possessing a mezzo - soprano vocal range , Madonna has always been self - conscious about her voice . Mark Bego , author of Madonna : Blonde Ambition , called her " the perfect vocalist for lighter - than - air songs " , despite not being a " heavyweight talent " . According to Tony Sclafani from MSNBC , " Madonna ' s vocals are the key to her rock roots . Pop vocalists usually sing songs ' straight ' , but Madonna employs subtext , irony , aggression and all sorts of vocal idiosyncrasies in the ways John Lennon and Bob Dylan did . " Madonna used a bright , girlish vocal timbre in her early albums which became pass é in her later works . The change was deliberate since she was constantly reminded of how the critics had once labeled her as " Minnie Mouse on helium " . During the filming of Evita ( 1996 ) , Madonna had to take vocal lessons , which increased her range further . Of this experience she commented , " I studied with a vocal coach for Evita and I realized there was a whole piece of my voice I wasn ' t using . Before , I just believed I had a really limited range and was going to make the most of it . "	How is your vocal ability described by Mark Bego?	Mark Bego describes me as the perfect vocalist for lighter-than-air songs, but not a heavyweight talent.
Madonna released her eighth studio album , Music , in September 2000 . It featured elements from the electronica - inspired Ray of Light era , and like its predecessor , received acclaim from critics . Collaborating with French producer Mirwais Ahmadza ï , Madonna commented : " I love to work with the weirdos that no one knows about — the people who have raw talent and who are making music unlike anyone else out there . Music is the future of sound . " Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic felt that " Music blows by in a kaleidoscopic rush of color , technique , style and substance . It has so many depth and layers that it ' s easily as self - aware and earnest as Ray of Light . " The album took the number - one position in more than 20 countries worldwide and sold four million copies in the first ten days . In the U . S . , Music debuted at the top , and became her first number - one album in eleven years since Like a Prayer . It produced three singles : the Hot 100 number - one " Music " , " Don ' t Tell Me " , and " What It Feels Like for a Girl " . The music video of " What It Feels Like for a Girl " depicted Madonna committing acts of crime and vandalism , and was banned by MTV and VH1 .	Who did you collaborate with on the album?	I collaborated with French producer Mirwais Ahmadzaï on the album.
In October 1992 , Madonna simultaneously released her fifth studio album , Erotica , and her coffee table book , Sex . Consisting of sexually provocative and explicit images , photographed by Steven Meisel , the book received strong negative reaction from the media and the general public , but sold 1.5   million copies at $ 50 each in a matter of days . The widespread backlash overshadowed Erotica , which ended up as her lowest selling album at the time . Despite positive reviews , it became her first studio album since her debut album not to score any chart - topper in the U . S . The album entered the Billboard 200 at number two and yielded the Hot 100 top - ten hits " Erotica " and " Deeper and Deeper " . Madonna continued her provocative imagery in the 1993 erotic thriller , Body of Evidence , a film which contained scenes of sadomasochism and bondage . It was poorly received by critics . She also starred in the film Dangerous Game , which was released straight to video in North America . The New York Times described the film as " angry and painful , and the pain feels real . "	How did the negative reaction towards your book "Sex" affect your album "Erotica"?	The widespread backlash overshadowed "Erotica", which ended up as my lowest selling album at the time.
The Immaculate Collection , Madonna ' s first greatest - hits compilation album , was released in November 1990 . It included two new songs , " Justify My Love " and " Rescue Me " . The album was certified diamond by RIAA and sold over 30   million copies worldwide , becoming the best - selling compilation album by a solo artist in history . " Justify My Love " reached number one in the U . S . becoming her ninth number - one on the Hot 100 . Her then - boyfriend model Tony Ward co - starred in the music video , which featured scenes of sadomasochism , bondage , same - sex kissing , and brief nudity . The video was deemed too sexually explicit for MTV and was banned from the network . Her first documentary film , Truth or Dare ( known as In Bed with Madonna outside North America ) , was released in May 1991 . Chronicling her Blond Ambition World Tour , it became the highest - grossing documentary of all time ( surpassed eleven years later by Michael Moore ' s Bowling for Columbine ) .	When was your first greatest-hits compilation album, The Immaculate Collection, released?	The Immaculate Collection was released in November 1990.
During her childhood , Madonna was inspired by actors , later saying , " I loved Carole Lombard and Judy Holliday and Marilyn Monroe . They were all incredibly funny , and they were silly and sweet and they were girls and   they were feminine and sexy . I just saw myself in them , my funniness and my need to boss people around and at the same time be taken care of . My girlishness . My knowingness and my innocence . Both . " Her " Material Girl " music video recreated Monroe ' s look in the song " Diamonds Are a Girl ' s Best Friend " , from the film Gentlemen Prefer Blondes ( 1953 ) . She studied the screwball comedies of the 1930s , particularly those of Lombard , in preparation for the film Who ' s That Girl . The video for " Express Yourself " ( 1989 ) was inspired by Fritz Lang ' s silent film Metropolis ( 1927 ) . The video for " Vogue " recreated the style of Hollywood glamour photographs , in particular those by Horst P . Horst , and imitated the poses of Marlene Dietrich , Carole Lombard , and Rita Hayworth , while the lyrics referred to many of the stars who had inspired her , including Bette Davis , described by Madonna as an idol .	Whose style and poses did you imitate in the music video for "Vogue"?	Marlene Dietrich, Carole Lombard, and Rita Hayworth
Madonna released her eighth studio album , Music , in September 2000 . It featured elements from the electronica - inspired Ray of Light era , and like its predecessor , received acclaim from critics . Collaborating with French producer Mirwais Ahmadza ï , Madonna commented : " I love to work with the weirdos that no one knows about — the people who have raw talent and who are making music unlike anyone else out there . Music is the future of sound . " Stephen Thomas Erlewine from AllMusic felt that " Music blows by in a kaleidoscopic rush of color , technique , style and substance . It has so many depth and layers that it ' s easily as self - aware and earnest as Ray of Light . " The album took the number - one position in more than 20 countries worldwide and sold four million copies in the first ten days . In the U . S . , Music debuted at the top , and became her first number - one album in eleven years since Like a Prayer . It produced three singles : the Hot 100 number - one " Music " , " Don ' t Tell Me " , and " What It Feels Like for a Girl " . The music video of " What It Feels Like for a Girl " depicted Madonna committing acts of crime and vandalism , and was banned by MTV and VH1 .	How many copies of Music were sold in the first ten days?	Four million copies of Music were sold in the first ten days.
During her childhood , Madonna was inspired by actors , later saying , " I loved Carole Lombard and Judy Holliday and Marilyn Monroe . They were all incredibly funny , and they were silly and sweet and they were girls and   they were feminine and sexy . I just saw myself in them , my funniness and my need to boss people around and at the same time be taken care of . My girlishness . My knowingness and my innocence . Both . " Her " Material Girl " music video recreated Monroe ' s look in the song " Diamonds Are a Girl ' s Best Friend " , from the film Gentlemen Prefer Blondes ( 1953 ) . She studied the screwball comedies of the 1930s , particularly those of Lombard , in preparation for the film Who ' s That Girl . The video for " Express Yourself " ( 1989 ) was inspired by Fritz Lang ' s silent film Metropolis ( 1927 ) . The video for " Vogue " recreated the style of Hollywood glamour photographs , in particular those by Horst P . Horst , and imitated the poses of Marlene Dietrich , Carole Lombard , and Rita Hayworth , while the lyrics referred to many of the stars who had inspired her , including Bette Davis , described by Madonna as an idol .	Which song's music video recreated Marilyn Monroe's look from the film "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes"?	"Material Girl"
Possessing a mezzo - soprano vocal range , Madonna has always been self - conscious about her voice . Mark Bego , author of Madonna : Blonde Ambition , called her " the perfect vocalist for lighter - than - air songs " , despite not being a " heavyweight talent " . According to Tony Sclafani from MSNBC , " Madonna ' s vocals are the key to her rock roots . Pop vocalists usually sing songs ' straight ' , but Madonna employs subtext , irony , aggression and all sorts of vocal idiosyncrasies in the ways John Lennon and Bob Dylan did . " Madonna used a bright , girlish vocal timbre in her early albums which became pass é in her later works . The change was deliberate since she was constantly reminded of how the critics had once labeled her as " Minnie Mouse on helium " . During the filming of Evita ( 1996 ) , Madonna had to take vocal lessons , which increased her range further . Of this experience she commented , " I studied with a vocal coach for Evita and I realized there was a whole piece of my voice I wasn ' t using . Before , I just believed I had a really limited range and was going to make the most of it . "	How do you use your vocals compared to other pop vocalists?	I employ subtext, irony, aggression, and vocal idiosyncrasies in the ways John Lennon and Bob Dylan did, unlike most pop vocalists who sing songs straight.
While living in Lisbon , Madonna met Dino D ' Santiago , who introduced her to many local musicians playing fado , morna , and samba music . They regularly invited her to their " living room sessions " , thus she was inspired to make her 14th studio album , Madame X . Madonna produced the album with several musicians , primarily her longtime collaborator Mirwais and Mike Dean . The album was critically well received , with NME deeming it " bold , bizarre , self - referential and unlike anything Madonna has ever done before . " Released in June 2019 , Madame X debuted atop the Billboard 200 , becoming her ninth number - one album there . All four of its singles — " Medell í n " , " Crave " , " I Rise " , and " I Don ' t Search I Find " — topped the Billboard Dance Club Songs chart , extending her record for most number - one entries on the chart .	When was Madame X released?	June 2019
During her childhood , Madonna was inspired by actors , later saying , " I loved Carole Lombard and Judy Holliday and Marilyn Monroe . They were all incredibly funny , and they were silly and sweet and they were girls and   they were feminine and sexy . I just saw myself in them , my funniness and my need to boss people around and at the same time be taken care of . My girlishness . My knowingness and my innocence . Both . " Her " Material Girl " music video recreated Monroe ' s look in the song " Diamonds Are a Girl ' s Best Friend " , from the film Gentlemen Prefer Blondes ( 1953 ) . She studied the screwball comedies of the 1930s , particularly those of Lombard , in preparation for the film Who ' s That Girl . The video for " Express Yourself " ( 1989 ) was inspired by Fritz Lang ' s silent film Metropolis ( 1927 ) . The video for " Vogue " recreated the style of Hollywood glamour photographs , in particular those by Horst P . Horst , and imitated the poses of Marlene Dietrich , Carole Lombard , and Rita Hayworth , while the lyrics referred to many of the stars who had inspired her , including Bette Davis , described by Madonna as an idol .	Which silent film inspired your "Express Yourself" music video?	"Metropolis" by Fritz Lang
Beginning in April 1985 , Madonna embarked on her first concert tour in North America , the Virgin Tour , with the Beastie Boys as her opening act . The tour saw the peak of Madonna wannabe phenomenon , with many female attendees dressing like her . At that time , she released two more hits , " Angel " and " Dress You Up " , making all four singles from the album peak inside the top five on the Hot 100 chart . In July , Penthouse and Playboy magazines published a number of nude photos of Madonna , taken when she moonlighted as an art model in 1978 . She had posed for the photographs because she needed money at the time , and was paid as little as $ 25 a session . The publication of the photos caused a media uproar , but Madonna remained " unapologetic and defiant " . The photographs were ultimately sold for up to $ 100 , 000 . She referred to these events at the 1985 outdoor Live Aid charity concert , saying that she would not take her jacket off because " [ the media ] might hold it against me ten years from now . "	Why did you pose for nude photos in 1978?	I posed for nude photos in 1978 because I needed money at the time and was paid as little as $25 a session.
Following the success of the singles , Warner hired Reggie Lucas to produce her self - titled debut album , Madonna . However , Madonna was dissatisfied with the completed tracks and disagreed with Lucas ' production techniques , so she decided to seek additional help . She asked John " Jellybean " Benitez , the resident DJ at Fun House , to help finish the album ' s production and a romance ensued . Benitez remixed most of the tracks and produced " Holiday " , which was her first international top - ten song . The album was released in July 1983 , and peaked at number eight on the Billboard 200 . It yielded two top - ten singles on the Billboard Hot 100 , " Borderline " and " Lucky Star " . In the fall of 1983 , Madonna ' s new manager , Freddy DeMann , secured a meeting for her with film producer Jon Peters , who asked her to play the part of a club singer in the romantic drama Vision Quest .	Who did you ask to help finish the album's production?	John "Jellybean" Benitez
Madonna has built a legacy that transcends music and has been studied by sociologists , historians , and other scholars , contributing to the rise of Madonna studies , a subfield of American cultural studies . According to Rodrigo Fres á n , " saying that Madonna is just a pop star is as inappropriate as saying that Coca - Cola is just a soda . Madonna is one of the classic symbols of Made in USA . " Rolling Stone Spain wrote , " She became the first master of viral pop in history , years before the internet was massively used . Madonna was everywhere ; in the almighty music television channels , ' radio formulas ' , magazine covers and even in bookstores . A pop dialectic , never seen since the Beatles ' s reign , which allowed her to keep on the edge of trend and commerciality . " William Langley from The Daily Telegraph felt that " Madonna has changed the world ' s social history , has done more things as more different people than anyone else is ever likely to . " Professor Diane Pecknold noted that " nearly any poll of the biggest , greatest , or best in popular culture includes [ Madonna ' s ] name " . In 2012 , VH1 ranked Madonna as the greatest woman in music .	How have you been described in comparison to Coca-Cola?	I have been described as one of the classic symbols of Made in USA, similar to how Coca-Cola is not just seen as a soda but a cultural icon.
In October 1992 , Madonna simultaneously released her fifth studio album , Erotica , and her coffee table book , Sex . Consisting of sexually provocative and explicit images , photographed by Steven Meisel , the book received strong negative reaction from the media and the general public , but sold 1.5   million copies at $ 50 each in a matter of days . The widespread backlash overshadowed Erotica , which ended up as her lowest selling album at the time . Despite positive reviews , it became her first studio album since her debut album not to score any chart - topper in the U . S . The album entered the Billboard 200 at number two and yielded the Hot 100 top - ten hits " Erotica " and " Deeper and Deeper " . Madonna continued her provocative imagery in the 1993 erotic thriller , Body of Evidence , a film which contained scenes of sadomasochism and bondage . It was poorly received by critics . She also starred in the film Dangerous Game , which was released straight to video in North America . The New York Times described the film as " angry and painful , and the pain feels real . "	What was the reaction from the media and general public towards your book "Sex"?	The book received strong negative reaction.
During her childhood , Madonna was inspired by actors , later saying , " I loved Carole Lombard and Judy Holliday and Marilyn Monroe . They were all incredibly funny , and they were silly and sweet and they were girls and   they were feminine and sexy . I just saw myself in them , my funniness and my need to boss people around and at the same time be taken care of . My girlishness . My knowingness and my innocence . Both . " Her " Material Girl " music video recreated Monroe ' s look in the song " Diamonds Are a Girl ' s Best Friend " , from the film Gentlemen Prefer Blondes ( 1953 ) . She studied the screwball comedies of the 1930s , particularly those of Lombard , in preparation for the film Who ' s That Girl . The video for " Express Yourself " ( 1989 ) was inspired by Fritz Lang ' s silent film Metropolis ( 1927 ) . The video for " Vogue " recreated the style of Hollywood glamour photographs , in particular those by Horst P . Horst , and imitated the poses of Marlene Dietrich , Carole Lombard , and Rita Hayworth , while the lyrics referred to many of the stars who had inspired her , including Bette Davis , described by Madonna as an idol .	Who were your childhood inspirations?	Carole Lombard, Judy Holliday, Marilyn Monroe
Madonna has built a legacy that transcends music and has been studied by sociologists , historians , and other scholars , contributing to the rise of Madonna studies , a subfield of American cultural studies . According to Rodrigo Fres á n , " saying that Madonna is just a pop star is as inappropriate as saying that Coca - Cola is just a soda . Madonna is one of the classic symbols of Made in USA . " Rolling Stone Spain wrote , " She became the first master of viral pop in history , years before the internet was massively used . Madonna was everywhere ; in the almighty music television channels , ' radio formulas ' , magazine covers and even in bookstores . A pop dialectic , never seen since the Beatles ' s reign , which allowed her to keep on the edge of trend and commerciality . " William Langley from The Daily Telegraph felt that " Madonna has changed the world ' s social history , has done more things as more different people than anyone else is ever likely to . " Professor Diane Pecknold noted that " nearly any poll of the biggest , greatest , or best in popular culture includes [ Madonna ' s ] name " . In 2012 , VH1 ranked Madonna as the greatest woman in music .	How have you been recognized in popular culture rankings?	My name consistently appears in polls that determine the biggest, greatest, or best in popular culture. In fact, VH1 ranked me as the greatest woman in music in 2012.
The Immaculate Collection , Madonna ' s first greatest - hits compilation album , was released in November 1990 . It included two new songs , " Justify My Love " and " Rescue Me " . The album was certified diamond by RIAA and sold over 30   million copies worldwide , becoming the best - selling compilation album by a solo artist in history . " Justify My Love " reached number one in the U . S . becoming her ninth number - one on the Hot 100 . Her then - boyfriend model Tony Ward co - starred in the music video , which featured scenes of sadomasochism , bondage , same - sex kissing , and brief nudity . The video was deemed too sexually explicit for MTV and was banned from the network . Her first documentary film , Truth or Dare ( known as In Bed with Madonna outside North America ) , was released in May 1991 . Chronicling her Blond Ambition World Tour , it became the highest - grossing documentary of all time ( surpassed eleven years later by Michael Moore ' s Bowling for Columbine ) .	Which song from The Immaculate Collection reached number one in the U.S.?	"Justify My Love" reached number one in the U.S., becoming my ninth number-one on the Hot 100.
The Immaculate Collection , Madonna ' s first greatest - hits compilation album , was released in November 1990 . It included two new songs , " Justify My Love " and " Rescue Me " . The album was certified diamond by RIAA and sold over 30   million copies worldwide , becoming the best - selling compilation album by a solo artist in history . " Justify My Love " reached number one in the U . S . becoming her ninth number - one on the Hot 100 . Her then - boyfriend model Tony Ward co - starred in the music video , which featured scenes of sadomasochism , bondage , same - sex kissing , and brief nudity . The video was deemed too sexually explicit for MTV and was banned from the network . Her first documentary film , Truth or Dare ( known as In Bed with Madonna outside North America ) , was released in May 1991 . Chronicling her Blond Ambition World Tour , it became the highest - grossing documentary of all time ( surpassed eleven years later by Michael Moore ' s Bowling for Columbine ) .	How many copies of The Immaculate Collection did you sell worldwide?	The Immaculate Collection sold over 30 million copies worldwide.
