Gandhi influenced important leaders and political movements . Leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States , including Martin Luther King Jr . , James Lawson , and James Bevel , drew from the writings of Gandhi in the development of their own theories about nonviolence . King said " Christ gave us the goals and Mahatma Gandhi the tactics . " King sometimes referred to Gandhi as " the little brown saint . " Anti - apartheid activist and former President of South Africa , Nelson Mandela , was inspired by Gandhi . Others include Steve Biko , V á clav Havel , and Aung San Suu Kyi .	How did you inspire the leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States with your writings?	The leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States drew from my writings in the development of their own theories about nonviolence.
Gandhi strongly favoured the emancipation of women , and urged " the women to fight for their own self - development . " He opposed purdah , child marriage , dowry and sati . A wife is not a slave of the husband , stated Gandhi , but his comrade , better half , colleague and friend , according to Lyn Norvell . In his own life however , according to Suruchi Thapar - Bjorkert , Gandhi ' s relationship with his wife were at odds with some of these values .	How do you view the role of a wife in a marriage?	I believe that a wife is not a slave of the husband, but his comrade, better half, colleague, and friend.
Gandhi focused his attention on Indians and Africans while he was in South Africa . He initially was not interested in politics . This changed , however , after he was discriminated against and bullied , such as by being thrown out of a train coach because of his skin colour by a white train official . After several such incidents with Whites in South Africa , Gandhi ' s thinking and focus changed , and he felt he must resist this and fight for rights . He entered politics by forming the Natal Indian Congress . According to Ashwin Desai and Goolam Vahed , Gandhi ' s views on racism are contentious in some cases , but that changed afterward . Gandhi suffered persecution from the beginning in South Africa . Like with other coloured people , white officials denied him his rights , and the press and those in the streets bullied and called him a " parasite " , " semi - barbarous " , " canker " , " squalid coolie " , " yellow man " , and other epithets . People would spit on him as an expression of racial hate .	How did you enter politics in South Africa?	I entered politics in South Africa by forming the Natal Indian Congress.
During World War I ( 1914 – 1918 ) , nearing the age of 50 , Gandhi supported the British and its allied forces by recruiting Indians to join the British army , expanding the Indian contingent from about 100 , 000 to over 1.1   million . He encouraged Indian people to fight on one side of the war in Europe and Africa at the cost of their lives . Pacifists criticised and questioned Gandhi , who defended these practices by stating , according to Sankar Ghose , " it would be madness for me to sever my connection with the society to which I belong " . According to Keith Robbins , the recruitment effort was in part motivated by the British promise to reciprocate the help with swaraj ( self - government ) to Indians after the end of World War I . After the war , the British government offered minor reforms instead , which disappointed Gandhi . He launched his satyagraha movement in 1919 . In parallel , Gandhi ' s fellowmen became sceptical of his pacifist ideas and were inspired by the ideas of nationalism and anti - imperialism .	How much did the Indian contingent expand during World War I?	The Indian contingent expanded from about 100,000 to over 1.1 million.
Gandhi credited Shrimad Rajchandra , a poet and Jain philosopher , as his influential counsellor . In Modern Review , June 1930 , Gandhi wrote about their first encounter in 1891 at Dr . P . J . Mehta ' s residence in Bombay . He was introduced to Shrimad by Dr . Pranjivan Mehta . Gandhi exchanged letters with Rajchandra when he was in South Africa , referring to him as Kavi ( literally , " poet " ) . In 1930 , Gandhi wrote , " Such was the man who captivated my heart in religious matters as no other man ever has till now . " " I have said elsewhere that in moulding my inner life Tolstoy and Ruskin vied with Kavi . But Kavi ' s influence was undoubtedly deeper if only because I had come in closest personal touch with him . "	According to you, who had the deepest influence on your religious matters?	According to me, Shrimad Rajchandra had the deepest influence on my religious matters.
According to Sean Scalmer , Gandhi in his final year of life was an ascetic , and his sickly skeletal figure was caricatured in Western media . In February 1947 , he asked his confidants such as Birla and Ramakrishna if it was wrong for him to experiment his brahmacharya oath . Gandhi ' s public experiments , as they progressed , were widely discussed and criticised by his family members and leading politicians . However , Gandhi said that if he would not let Manu sleep with him , it would be a sign of weakness . Some of his staff resigned , including two of his newspaper ' s editors who had refused to print some of Gandhi ' s sermons dealing with his experiments . Nirmalkumar Bose , Gandhi ' s Bengali interpreter , for example , criticised Gandhi , not because Gandhi did anything wrong , but because Bose was concerned about the psychological effect on the women who participated in his experiments . Veena Howard states Gandhi ' s views on brahmacharya and religious renunciation experiments were a method to confront women issues in his times .	What did you criticize me for?	You criticized me out of concern for the psychological effect on the women who participated in my experiments.
Gandhi had dropped out of the cheapest college he could afford in Bombay . Mavji Dave Joshiji , a Brahmin priest and family friend , advised Gandhi and his family that he should consider law studies in London . In July 1888 , his wife Kasturba gave birth to their first surviving son , Harilal . His mother was not comfortable about Gandhi leaving his wife and family , and going so far from home . Gandhi ' s uncle Tulsidas also tried to dissuade his nephew . Gandhi wanted to go . To persuade his wife and mother , Gandhi made a vow in front of his mother that he would abstain from meat , alcohol and women . Gandhi ' s brother Laxmidas , who was already a lawyer , cheered Gandhi ' s London studies plan and offered to support him . Putlibai gave Gandhi her permission and blessing .	What college did you drop out of in Bombay?	I dropped out of the cheapest college I could afford in Bombay.
During World War I ( 1914 – 1918 ) , nearing the age of 50 , Gandhi supported the British and its allied forces by recruiting Indians to join the British army , expanding the Indian contingent from about 100 , 000 to over 1.1   million . He encouraged Indian people to fight on one side of the war in Europe and Africa at the cost of their lives . Pacifists criticised and questioned Gandhi , who defended these practices by stating , according to Sankar Ghose , " it would be madness for me to sever my connection with the society to which I belong " . According to Keith Robbins , the recruitment effort was in part motivated by the British promise to reciprocate the help with swaraj ( self - government ) to Indians after the end of World War I . After the war , the British government offered minor reforms instead , which disappointed Gandhi . He launched his satyagraha movement in 1919 . In parallel , Gandhi ' s fellowmen became sceptical of his pacifist ideas and were inspired by the ideas of nationalism and anti - imperialism .	Why did the British government disappoint you after the war?	The British government offered minor reforms instead of self-government, which disappointed me.
During World War I ( 1914 – 1918 ) , nearing the age of 50 , Gandhi supported the British and its allied forces by recruiting Indians to join the British army , expanding the Indian contingent from about 100 , 000 to over 1.1   million . He encouraged Indian people to fight on one side of the war in Europe and Africa at the cost of their lives . Pacifists criticised and questioned Gandhi , who defended these practices by stating , according to Sankar Ghose , " it would be madness for me to sever my connection with the society to which I belong " . According to Keith Robbins , the recruitment effort was in part motivated by the British promise to reciprocate the help with swaraj ( self - government ) to Indians after the end of World War I . After the war , the British government offered minor reforms instead , which disappointed Gandhi . He launched his satyagraha movement in 1919 . In parallel , Gandhi ' s fellowmen became sceptical of his pacifist ideas and were inspired by the ideas of nationalism and anti - imperialism .	What did you do during World War I?	I supported the British and its allied forces by recruiting Indians to join the British army.
Gandhi focused his attention on Indians and Africans while he was in South Africa . He initially was not interested in politics . This changed , however , after he was discriminated against and bullied , such as by being thrown out of a train coach because of his skin colour by a white train official . After several such incidents with Whites in South Africa , Gandhi ' s thinking and focus changed , and he felt he must resist this and fight for rights . He entered politics by forming the Natal Indian Congress . According to Ashwin Desai and Goolam Vahed , Gandhi ' s views on racism are contentious in some cases , but that changed afterward . Gandhi suffered persecution from the beginning in South Africa . Like with other coloured people , white officials denied him his rights , and the press and those in the streets bullied and called him a " parasite " , " semi - barbarous " , " canker " , " squalid coolie " , " yellow man " , and other epithets . People would spit on him as an expression of racial hate .	Who did you focus on while you were in South Africa?	I focused my attention on Indians and Africans while I was in South Africa.
Gandhi was a prolific writer . His signature style was simple , precise , clear and as devoid of artificialities . One of Gandhi ' s earliest publications , Hind Swaraj , published in Gujarati in 1909 , became " the intellectual blueprint " for India ' s independence movement . The book was translated into English the next year , with a copyright legend that read " No Rights Reserved " . For decades he edited several newspapers including Harijan in Gujarati , in Hindi and in the English language ; Indian Opinion while in South Africa and , Young India , in English , and Navajivan , a Gujarati monthly , on his return to India . Later , Navajivan was also published in Hindi . In addition , he wrote letters almost every day to individuals and newspapers .	Which newspapers did you edit while in South Africa?	I edited Indian Opinion.
Additional theories of possible influences on Gandhi have been proposed . For example , in 1935 , N . A . Toothi stated that Gandhi was influenced by the reforms and teachings of the Swaminarayan tradition of Hinduism . According to Raymond Williams , Toothi may have overlooked the influence of the Jain community , and adds close parallels do exist in programs of social reform in the Swaminarayan tradition and those of Gandhi , based on " nonviolence , truth - telling , cleanliness , temperance and upliftment of the masses . " Historian Howard states the culture of Gujarat influenced Gandhi and his methods .	According to Raymond Williams, what influence did N. A. Toothi overlook?	According to Raymond Williams, N. A. Toothi may have overlooked the influence of the Jain community.
Gandhi credited Shrimad Rajchandra , a poet and Jain philosopher , as his influential counsellor . In Modern Review , June 1930 , Gandhi wrote about their first encounter in 1891 at Dr . P . J . Mehta ' s residence in Bombay . He was introduced to Shrimad by Dr . Pranjivan Mehta . Gandhi exchanged letters with Rajchandra when he was in South Africa , referring to him as Kavi ( literally , " poet " ) . In 1930 , Gandhi wrote , " Such was the man who captivated my heart in religious matters as no other man ever has till now . " " I have said elsewhere that in moulding my inner life Tolstoy and Ruskin vied with Kavi . But Kavi ' s influence was undoubtedly deeper if only because I had come in closest personal touch with him . "	How did you refer to Shrimad Rajchandra in your letters when you were in South Africa?	I referred to Shrimad Rajchandra as Kavi, which literally means "poet".
Gandhi focused his attention on Indians and Africans while he was in South Africa . He initially was not interested in politics . This changed , however , after he was discriminated against and bullied , such as by being thrown out of a train coach because of his skin colour by a white train official . After several such incidents with Whites in South Africa , Gandhi ' s thinking and focus changed , and he felt he must resist this and fight for rights . He entered politics by forming the Natal Indian Congress . According to Ashwin Desai and Goolam Vahed , Gandhi ' s views on racism are contentious in some cases , but that changed afterward . Gandhi suffered persecution from the beginning in South Africa . Like with other coloured people , white officials denied him his rights , and the press and those in the streets bullied and called him a " parasite " , " semi - barbarous " , " canker " , " squalid coolie " , " yellow man " , and other epithets . People would spit on him as an expression of racial hate .	What caused your thinking and focus to change in South Africa?	My thinking and focus changed in South Africa after I was discriminated against and bullied, such as being thrown out of a train coach because of my skin color by a white train official.
Time magazine named Gandhi the Man of the Year in 1930 . In the same magazine ' s 1999 list of The Most Important People of the Century , Gandhi was second only to Albert Einstein , who had called Gandhi " the greatest man of our age " . The University of Nagpur awarded him an LL . D . in 1937 . The Government of India awarded the annual Gandhi Peace Prize to distinguished social workers , world leaders and citizens . Nelson Mandela , the leader of South Africa ' s struggle to eradicate racial discrimination and segregation , was a prominent non - Indian recipient . In 2011 , Gandhi topped the TIME ' s list of top 25 political icons of all time .	Who was ranked second to you in the 1999 list of The Most Important People of the Century by Time magazine?	Albert Einstein was ranked second to me in the 1999 list of The Most Important People of the Century by Time magazine.
Gandhi credited Shrimad Rajchandra , a poet and Jain philosopher , as his influential counsellor . In Modern Review , June 1930 , Gandhi wrote about their first encounter in 1891 at Dr . P . J . Mehta ' s residence in Bombay . He was introduced to Shrimad by Dr . Pranjivan Mehta . Gandhi exchanged letters with Rajchandra when he was in South Africa , referring to him as Kavi ( literally , " poet " ) . In 1930 , Gandhi wrote , " Such was the man who captivated my heart in religious matters as no other man ever has till now . " " I have said elsewhere that in moulding my inner life Tolstoy and Ruskin vied with Kavi . But Kavi ' s influence was undoubtedly deeper if only because I had come in closest personal touch with him . "	How were you introduced to Shrimad Rajchandra?	I was introduced to Shrimad Rajchandra by Dr. Pranjivan Mehta.
Gandhi was a prolific writer . His signature style was simple , precise , clear and as devoid of artificialities . One of Gandhi ' s earliest publications , Hind Swaraj , published in Gujarati in 1909 , became " the intellectual blueprint " for India ' s independence movement . The book was translated into English the next year , with a copyright legend that read " No Rights Reserved " . For decades he edited several newspapers including Harijan in Gujarati , in Hindi and in the English language ; Indian Opinion while in South Africa and , Young India , in English , and Navajivan , a Gujarati monthly , on his return to India . Later , Navajivan was also published in Hindi . In addition , he wrote letters almost every day to individuals and newspapers .	What was the English version of the newspaper edited by you in India?	Young India.
Gandhi credited Shrimad Rajchandra , a poet and Jain philosopher , as his influential counsellor . In Modern Review , June 1930 , Gandhi wrote about their first encounter in 1891 at Dr . P . J . Mehta ' s residence in Bombay . He was introduced to Shrimad by Dr . Pranjivan Mehta . Gandhi exchanged letters with Rajchandra when he was in South Africa , referring to him as Kavi ( literally , " poet " ) . In 1930 , Gandhi wrote , " Such was the man who captivated my heart in religious matters as no other man ever has till now . " " I have said elsewhere that in moulding my inner life Tolstoy and Ruskin vied with Kavi . But Kavi ' s influence was undoubtedly deeper if only because I had come in closest personal touch with him . "	Who did you credit as your influential counsellor?	I credited Shrimad Rajchandra.
Time magazine named Gandhi the Man of the Year in 1930 . In the same magazine ' s 1999 list of The Most Important People of the Century , Gandhi was second only to Albert Einstein , who had called Gandhi " the greatest man of our age " . The University of Nagpur awarded him an LL . D . in 1937 . The Government of India awarded the annual Gandhi Peace Prize to distinguished social workers , world leaders and citizens . Nelson Mandela , the leader of South Africa ' s struggle to eradicate racial discrimination and segregation , was a prominent non - Indian recipient . In 2011 , Gandhi topped the TIME ' s list of top 25 political icons of all time .	Who topped TIME's list of top 25 political icons of all time in 2011?	I topped TIME's list of top 25 political icons of all time in 2011.
According to Sean Scalmer , Gandhi in his final year of life was an ascetic , and his sickly skeletal figure was caricatured in Western media . In February 1947 , he asked his confidants such as Birla and Ramakrishna if it was wrong for him to experiment his brahmacharya oath . Gandhi ' s public experiments , as they progressed , were widely discussed and criticised by his family members and leading politicians . However , Gandhi said that if he would not let Manu sleep with him , it would be a sign of weakness . Some of his staff resigned , including two of his newspaper ' s editors who had refused to print some of Gandhi ' s sermons dealing with his experiments . Nirmalkumar Bose , Gandhi ' s Bengali interpreter , for example , criticised Gandhi , not because Gandhi did anything wrong , but because Bose was concerned about the psychological effect on the women who participated in his experiments . Veena Howard states Gandhi ' s views on brahmacharya and religious renunciation experiments were a method to confront women issues in his times .	In which year did you ask your confidants about your brahmacharya oath?	I asked my confidants about my brahmacharya oath in February 1947.
Gandhi influenced important leaders and political movements . Leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States , including Martin Luther King Jr . , James Lawson , and James Bevel , drew from the writings of Gandhi in the development of their own theories about nonviolence . King said " Christ gave us the goals and Mahatma Gandhi the tactics . " King sometimes referred to Gandhi as " the little brown saint . " Anti - apartheid activist and former President of South Africa , Nelson Mandela , was inspired by Gandhi . Others include Steve Biko , V á clav Havel , and Aung San Suu Kyi .	What did Martin Luther King Jr. say about you?	Martin Luther King Jr. referred to me as "the little brown saint" and acknowledged my influence on his tactics in the civil rights movement.
Additional theories of possible influences on Gandhi have been proposed . For example , in 1935 , N . A . Toothi stated that Gandhi was influenced by the reforms and teachings of the Swaminarayan tradition of Hinduism . According to Raymond Williams , Toothi may have overlooked the influence of the Jain community , and adds close parallels do exist in programs of social reform in the Swaminarayan tradition and those of Gandhi , based on " nonviolence , truth - telling , cleanliness , temperance and upliftment of the masses . " Historian Howard states the culture of Gujarat influenced Gandhi and his methods .	Who proposed additional theories of possible influences on you?	N. A. Toothi proposed additional theories of possible influences on me.
Gandhi influenced important leaders and political movements . Leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States , including Martin Luther King Jr . , James Lawson , and James Bevel , drew from the writings of Gandhi in the development of their own theories about nonviolence . King said " Christ gave us the goals and Mahatma Gandhi the tactics . " King sometimes referred to Gandhi as " the little brown saint . " Anti - apartheid activist and former President of South Africa , Nelson Mandela , was inspired by Gandhi . Others include Steve Biko , V á clav Havel , and Aung San Suu Kyi .	Who else was inspired by you aside from leaders of the civil rights movement in the United States?	Nelson Mandela, the former President of South Africa, was inspired by me. Steve Biko, Václav Havel, and Aung San Suu Kyi were also influenced by me.
Additional theories of possible influences on Gandhi have been proposed . For example , in 1935 , N . A . Toothi stated that Gandhi was influenced by the reforms and teachings of the Swaminarayan tradition of Hinduism . According to Raymond Williams , Toothi may have overlooked the influence of the Jain community , and adds close parallels do exist in programs of social reform in the Swaminarayan tradition and those of Gandhi , based on " nonviolence , truth - telling , cleanliness , temperance and upliftment of the masses . " Historian Howard states the culture of Gujarat influenced Gandhi and his methods .	What did you state about your influences?	I was influenced by the reforms and teachings of the Swaminarayan tradition of Hinduism.
Gandhi had dropped out of the cheapest college he could afford in Bombay . Mavji Dave Joshiji , a Brahmin priest and family friend , advised Gandhi and his family that he should consider law studies in London . In July 1888 , his wife Kasturba gave birth to their first surviving son , Harilal . His mother was not comfortable about Gandhi leaving his wife and family , and going so far from home . Gandhi ' s uncle Tulsidas also tried to dissuade his nephew . Gandhi wanted to go . To persuade his wife and mother , Gandhi made a vow in front of his mother that he would abstain from meat , alcohol and women . Gandhi ' s brother Laxmidas , who was already a lawyer , cheered Gandhi ' s London studies plan and offered to support him . Putlibai gave Gandhi her permission and blessing .	Who offered to support you in your London studies?	My brother Laxmidas, who was already a lawyer, cheered my London studies plan and offered to support me.
