Monroe ' s enduring popularity is tied to her conflicted public image . On the one hand , she remains a sex symbol , beauty icon and one of the most famous stars of classical Hollywood cinema . On the other , she is also remembered for her troubled private life , unstable childhood , struggle for professional respect , as well as her death and the conspiracy theories that surrounded it . She has been written about by scholars and journalists who are interested in gender and feminism ; these writers include Gloria Steinem , Jacqueline Rose , Molly Haskell , Sarah Churchwell , and Lois Banner . Some , such as Steinem , have viewed her as a victim of the studio system . Others , such as Haskell , Rose , and Churchwell , have instead stressed Monroe ' s proactive role in her career and her participation in the creation of her public persona .	How are you also remembered?	I am also remembered for my troubled private life, unstable childhood, struggle for professional respect, as well as my death and the conspiracy theories that surrounded it.
This was front - page news , and Monroe immediately took action to counter negative publicity . On January 14 , she and Joe DiMaggio were married at the San Francisco City Hall . They then traveled by car to San Luis Obispo , then honeymooned outside Idyllwild , California , in the mountain lodge of Monroe ' s lawyer Lloyd Wright . On January 29 , 1954 , fifteen days later , they flew to Japan , combining a " honeymoon " with his commitment to his former San Francisco Seals coach Lefty O ' Doul , to help train Japanese baseball teams . From Tokyo , she traveled with Jean O ' Doul , Lefty ' s wife , to Korea , where she participated in a USO show , singing songs from her films for over 60 , 000 U . S . Marines over a four - day period . After returning to the U . S . , she was awarded Photoplay ' s " Most Popular Female Star " prize . Monroe settled with Fox in March , with the promise of a new contract , a bonus of $ 100 , 000 , and a starring role in the film adaptation of the Broadway success The Seven Year Itch .	Where did you and Joe DiMaggio go for your honeymoon?	We honeymooned outside Idyllwild, California, in the mountain lodge of my lawyer Lloyd Wright.
In her films , Monroe usually played " the girl " , who is defined solely by her gender . Her roles were almost always chorus girls , secretaries , or models : occupations where " the woman is on show , there for the pleasure of men . " Monroe began her career as a pin - up model , and was noted for her hourglass figure . She was often positioned in film scenes so that her curvy silhouette was on display , and frequently posed like a pin - up in publicity photos . Her distinctive , hip - swinging walk also drew attention to her body and earned her the nickname " the girl with the horizontal walk " .	What are you noted for in terms of your physical appearance?	I am noted for my hourglass figure.
Monroe ' s three other films in 1952 continued with her typecasting in comedic roles that highlighted her sex appeal . In We ' re Not Married ! , her role as a beauty pageant contestant was created solely to " present Marilyn in two bathing suits " , according to its writer Nunnally Johnson . In Howard Hawks ' s Monkey Business , in which she acted opposite Cary Grant , she played a secretary who is a " dumb , childish blonde , innocently unaware of the havoc her sexiness causes around her " . In O . Henry ' s Full House , with Charles Laughton she appeared in a passing vignette as a nineteenth - century street walker . Monroe added to her reputation as a new sex symbol with publicity stunts that year : she wore a revealing dress when acting as Grand Marshal at the Miss America Pageant parade , and told gossip columnist Earl Wilson that she usually wore no underwear . By the end of the year , gossip columnist Florabel Muir named Monroe the " it girl " of 1952 .	How was your character described in "Monkey Business"?	My character in "Monkey Business" was described as a "dumb, childish blonde, innocently unaware of the havoc my sexiness causes around me".
This was front - page news , and Monroe immediately took action to counter negative publicity . On January 14 , she and Joe DiMaggio were married at the San Francisco City Hall . They then traveled by car to San Luis Obispo , then honeymooned outside Idyllwild , California , in the mountain lodge of Monroe ' s lawyer Lloyd Wright . On January 29 , 1954 , fifteen days later , they flew to Japan , combining a " honeymoon " with his commitment to his former San Francisco Seals coach Lefty O ' Doul , to help train Japanese baseball teams . From Tokyo , she traveled with Jean O ' Doul , Lefty ' s wife , to Korea , where she participated in a USO show , singing songs from her films for over 60 , 000 U . S . Marines over a four - day period . After returning to the U . S . , she was awarded Photoplay ' s " Most Popular Female Star " prize . Monroe settled with Fox in March , with the promise of a new contract , a bonus of $ 100 , 000 , and a starring role in the film adaptation of the Broadway success The Seven Year Itch .	What action did you take to counter negative publicity?	I immediately took action to counter negative publicity.
This was front - page news , and Monroe immediately took action to counter negative publicity . On January 14 , she and Joe DiMaggio were married at the San Francisco City Hall . They then traveled by car to San Luis Obispo , then honeymooned outside Idyllwild , California , in the mountain lodge of Monroe ' s lawyer Lloyd Wright . On January 29 , 1954 , fifteen days later , they flew to Japan , combining a " honeymoon " with his commitment to his former San Francisco Seals coach Lefty O ' Doul , to help train Japanese baseball teams . From Tokyo , she traveled with Jean O ' Doul , Lefty ' s wife , to Korea , where she participated in a USO show , singing songs from her films for over 60 , 000 U . S . Marines over a four - day period . After returning to the U . S . , she was awarded Photoplay ' s " Most Popular Female Star " prize . Monroe settled with Fox in March , with the promise of a new contract , a bonus of $ 100 , 000 , and a starring role in the film adaptation of the Broadway success The Seven Year Itch .	What prize were you awarded after returning to the U.S.?	I was awarded Photoplay's "Most Popular Female Star" prize.
According to Dyer , Monroe became " virtually a household name for sex " in the 1950s and " her image has to be situated in the flux of ideas about morality and sexuality that characterised the Fifties in America " , such as Freudian ideas about sex , the Kinsey report ( 1953 ) , and Betty Friedan ' s The Feminine Mystique ( 1963 ) . By appearing vulnerable and unaware of her sex appeal , Monroe was the first sex symbol to present sex as natural and without danger , in contrast to the 1940s femme fatales . Spoto likewise describes her as the embodiment of " the postwar ideal of the American girl , soft , transparently needy , worshipful of men , na ï ve , offering sex without demands " , which is echoed in Molly Haskell ' s statement that " she was the Fifties fiction , the lie that a woman had no sexual needs , that she is there to cater to , or enhance , a man ' s needs . " Monroe ' s contemporary Norman Mailer wrote that " Marilyn suggested sex might be difficult and dangerous with others , but ice cream with her " , while Groucho Marx characterized her as " Mae West , Theda Bara , and Bo Peep all rolled into one " . According to Haskell , due to her sex symbol status , Monroe was less popular with women than with men , as they " couldn ' t identify with her and didn ' t support her " , although this would change after her death .	How do you present sex as a sex symbol?	I present sex as natural and without danger by appearing vulnerable and unaware of my sex appeal.
In August , Monroe also began filming MMP ' s first independent production , The Prince and the Showgirl , at Pinewood Studios in England . Based on a 1953 stage play by Terence Rattigan , it was to be directed and co - produced by , and to co - star , Laurence Olivier . The production was complicated by conflicts between him and Monroe . Olivier , who had also directed and starred in the stage play , angered her with the patronizing statement " All you have to do is be sexy " , and with his demand she replicate Vivien Leigh ' s stage interpretation of the character . He also disliked the constant presence of Paula Strasberg , Monroe ' s acting coach , on set . In retaliation , Monroe became uncooperative and began to deliberately arrive late , later saying , " if you don ' t respect your artists , they can ' t work well . "	Where did you film The Prince and the Showgirl?	I filmed it at Pinewood Studios in England.
Biographer Lois Banner writes that Monroe often subtly parodied her sex symbol status in her films and public appearances , and that " the ' Marilyn Monroe ' character she created was a brilliant archetype , who stands between Mae West and Madonna in the tradition of twentieth - century gender tricksters . " Monroe herself stated that she was influenced by West , learning " a few tricks from her — that impression of laughing at , or mocking , her own sexuality " . She studied comedy in classes by mime and dancer Lotte Goslar , famous for her comic stage performances , and Goslar also instructed her on film sets . In Gentlemen Prefer Blondes , one of the films in which she played an archetypal dumb blonde , Monroe had the sentence " I can be smart when it ' s important , but most men don ' t like it " added to her character ' s lines .	Who instructed you on film sets?	Mime and dancer Lotte Goslar instructed me on film sets.
In her films , Monroe usually played " the girl " , who is defined solely by her gender . Her roles were almost always chorus girls , secretaries , or models : occupations where " the woman is on show , there for the pleasure of men . " Monroe began her career as a pin - up model , and was noted for her hourglass figure . She was often positioned in film scenes so that her curvy silhouette was on display , and frequently posed like a pin - up in publicity photos . Her distinctive , hip - swinging walk also drew attention to her body and earned her the nickname " the girl with the horizontal walk " .	What types of characters do you typically portray in your films?	I usually play "the girl", who is defined solely by her gender, and my roles are almost always chorus girls, secretaries, or models.
The agency deemed Monroe ' s figure more suitable for pin - up than high fashion modeling , and she was featured mostly in advertisements and men ' s magazines . To make herself more employable , she straightened her hair and dyed it blonde . According to Emmeline Snively , the agency ' s owner , Monroe quickly became one of its most ambitious and hard - working models ; by early 1946 , she had appeared on 33 magazine covers for publications such as Pageant , U . S . Camera , Laff , and Peek . As a model , Monroe occasionally used the pseudonym Jean Norman .	How many magazine covers had you appeared on by early 1946?	By early 1946, I had appeared on 33 magazine covers for publications such as Pageant, U.S. Camera, Laff, and Peek.
In her films , Monroe usually played " the girl " , who is defined solely by her gender . Her roles were almost always chorus girls , secretaries , or models : occupations where " the woman is on show , there for the pleasure of men . " Monroe began her career as a pin - up model , and was noted for her hourglass figure . She was often positioned in film scenes so that her curvy silhouette was on display , and frequently posed like a pin - up in publicity photos . Her distinctive , hip - swinging walk also drew attention to her body and earned her the nickname " the girl with the horizontal walk " .	What occupation did you begin your career in?	I began my career as a pin-up model.
Monroe ' s three other films in 1952 continued with her typecasting in comedic roles that highlighted her sex appeal . In We ' re Not Married ! , her role as a beauty pageant contestant was created solely to " present Marilyn in two bathing suits " , according to its writer Nunnally Johnson . In Howard Hawks ' s Monkey Business , in which she acted opposite Cary Grant , she played a secretary who is a " dumb , childish blonde , innocently unaware of the havoc her sexiness causes around her " . In O . Henry ' s Full House , with Charles Laughton she appeared in a passing vignette as a nineteenth - century street walker . Monroe added to her reputation as a new sex symbol with publicity stunts that year : she wore a revealing dress when acting as Grand Marshal at the Miss America Pageant parade , and told gossip columnist Earl Wilson that she usually wore no underwear . By the end of the year , gossip columnist Florabel Muir named Monroe the " it girl " of 1952 .	According to Nunnally Johnson, why was your role as a beauty pageant contestant created?	According to Nunnally Johnson, my role as a beauty pageant contestant was created solely to "present me in two bathing suits".
Monroe starred in three movies that were released in 1953 and emerged as a major sex symbol and one of Hollywood ' s most bankable performers . The first was the Technicolor film noir Niagara , in which she played a femme fatale scheming to murder her husband , played by Joseph Cotten . By then , Monroe and her make - up artist Allan " Whitey " Snyder had developed her " trademark " make - up look : dark arched brows , pale skin , " glistening " red lips and a beauty mark . According to Sarah Churchwell , Niagara was one of the most overtly sexual films of Monroe ' s career . In some scenes , Monroe ' s body was covered only by a sheet or a towel , considered shocking by contemporary audiences . Niagara ' s most famous scene is a 30 - second long shot behind Monroe where she is seen walking with her hips swaying , which was used heavily in the film ' s marketing .	Who played your husband in the film "Niagara"?	Joseph Cotten played my husband in the film "Niagara".
Monroe starred in three movies that were released in 1953 and emerged as a major sex symbol and one of Hollywood ' s most bankable performers . The first was the Technicolor film noir Niagara , in which she played a femme fatale scheming to murder her husband , played by Joseph Cotten . By then , Monroe and her make - up artist Allan " Whitey " Snyder had developed her " trademark " make - up look : dark arched brows , pale skin , " glistening " red lips and a beauty mark . According to Sarah Churchwell , Niagara was one of the most overtly sexual films of Monroe ' s career . In some scenes , Monroe ' s body was covered only by a sheet or a towel , considered shocking by contemporary audiences . Niagara ' s most famous scene is a 30 - second long shot behind Monroe where she is seen walking with her hips swaying , which was used heavily in the film ' s marketing .	What type of character did you play in the film "Niagara"?	I played a femme fatale scheming to murder my husband in the film "Niagara".
In her films , Monroe usually played " the girl " , who is defined solely by her gender . Her roles were almost always chorus girls , secretaries , or models : occupations where " the woman is on show , there for the pleasure of men . " Monroe began her career as a pin - up model , and was noted for her hourglass figure . She was often positioned in film scenes so that her curvy silhouette was on display , and frequently posed like a pin - up in publicity photos . Her distinctive , hip - swinging walk also drew attention to her body and earned her the nickname " the girl with the horizontal walk " .	What nickname did you earn due to your distinctive walk?	I earned the nickname "the girl with the horizontal walk" due to my hip-swinging walk.
Monroe ' s three other films in 1952 continued with her typecasting in comedic roles that highlighted her sex appeal . In We ' re Not Married ! , her role as a beauty pageant contestant was created solely to " present Marilyn in two bathing suits " , according to its writer Nunnally Johnson . In Howard Hawks ' s Monkey Business , in which she acted opposite Cary Grant , she played a secretary who is a " dumb , childish blonde , innocently unaware of the havoc her sexiness causes around her " . In O . Henry ' s Full House , with Charles Laughton she appeared in a passing vignette as a nineteenth - century street walker . Monroe added to her reputation as a new sex symbol with publicity stunts that year : she wore a revealing dress when acting as Grand Marshal at the Miss America Pageant parade , and told gossip columnist Earl Wilson that she usually wore no underwear . By the end of the year , gossip columnist Florabel Muir named Monroe the " it girl " of 1952 .	What were your three films in 1952?	My three films in 1952 were "We're Not Married!", "Monkey Business", and "O. Henry's Full House".
The agency deemed Monroe ' s figure more suitable for pin - up than high fashion modeling , and she was featured mostly in advertisements and men ' s magazines . To make herself more employable , she straightened her hair and dyed it blonde . According to Emmeline Snively , the agency ' s owner , Monroe quickly became one of its most ambitious and hard - working models ; by early 1946 , she had appeared on 33 magazine covers for publications such as Pageant , U . S . Camera , Laff , and Peek . As a model , Monroe occasionally used the pseudonym Jean Norman .	According to Emmeline Snively, what were you known for at the agency?	According to Emmeline Snively, I quickly became one of the agency's most ambitious and hard-working models.
The agency deemed Monroe ' s figure more suitable for pin - up than high fashion modeling , and she was featured mostly in advertisements and men ' s magazines . To make herself more employable , she straightened her hair and dyed it blonde . According to Emmeline Snively , the agency ' s owner , Monroe quickly became one of its most ambitious and hard - working models ; by early 1946 , she had appeared on 33 magazine covers for publications such as Pageant , U . S . Camera , Laff , and Peek . As a model , Monroe occasionally used the pseudonym Jean Norman .	What did you do to make yourself more employable?	I straightened my hair and dyed it blonde to make myself more employable.
Monroe ' s three other films in 1952 continued with her typecasting in comedic roles that highlighted her sex appeal . In We ' re Not Married ! , her role as a beauty pageant contestant was created solely to " present Marilyn in two bathing suits " , according to its writer Nunnally Johnson . In Howard Hawks ' s Monkey Business , in which she acted opposite Cary Grant , she played a secretary who is a " dumb , childish blonde , innocently unaware of the havoc her sexiness causes around her " . In O . Henry ' s Full House , with Charles Laughton she appeared in a passing vignette as a nineteenth - century street walker . Monroe added to her reputation as a new sex symbol with publicity stunts that year : she wore a revealing dress when acting as Grand Marshal at the Miss America Pageant parade , and told gossip columnist Earl Wilson that she usually wore no underwear . By the end of the year , gossip columnist Florabel Muir named Monroe the " it girl " of 1952 .	In "Monkey Business", who did you act opposite to?	In "Monkey Business", I acted opposite Cary Grant.
According to Dyer , Monroe became " virtually a household name for sex " in the 1950s and " her image has to be situated in the flux of ideas about morality and sexuality that characterised the Fifties in America " , such as Freudian ideas about sex , the Kinsey report ( 1953 ) , and Betty Friedan ' s The Feminine Mystique ( 1963 ) . By appearing vulnerable and unaware of her sex appeal , Monroe was the first sex symbol to present sex as natural and without danger , in contrast to the 1940s femme fatales . Spoto likewise describes her as the embodiment of " the postwar ideal of the American girl , soft , transparently needy , worshipful of men , na ï ve , offering sex without demands " , which is echoed in Molly Haskell ' s statement that " she was the Fifties fiction , the lie that a woman had no sexual needs , that she is there to cater to , or enhance , a man ' s needs . " Monroe ' s contemporary Norman Mailer wrote that " Marilyn suggested sex might be difficult and dangerous with others , but ice cream with her " , while Groucho Marx characterized her as " Mae West , Theda Bara , and Bo Peep all rolled into one " . According to Haskell , due to her sex symbol status , Monroe was less popular with women than with men , as they " couldn ' t identify with her and didn ' t support her " , although this would change after her death .	What ideas characterized the Fifties in America regarding morality and sexuality?	Ideas about morality and sexuality in the Fifties in America included Freudian ideas about sex, the Kinsey report, and Betty Friedan's The Feminine Mystique.
Monroe ' s enduring popularity is tied to her conflicted public image . On the one hand , she remains a sex symbol , beauty icon and one of the most famous stars of classical Hollywood cinema . On the other , she is also remembered for her troubled private life , unstable childhood , struggle for professional respect , as well as her death and the conspiracy theories that surrounded it . She has been written about by scholars and journalists who are interested in gender and feminism ; these writers include Gloria Steinem , Jacqueline Rose , Molly Haskell , Sarah Churchwell , and Lois Banner . Some , such as Steinem , have viewed her as a victim of the studio system . Others , such as Haskell , Rose , and Churchwell , have instead stressed Monroe ' s proactive role in her career and her participation in the creation of her public persona .	What are some reasons for your enduring popularity?	My enduring popularity is tied to my conflicted public image, being seen as a sex symbol, beauty icon, and one of the most famous stars of classical Hollywood cinema.
The agency deemed Monroe ' s figure more suitable for pin - up than high fashion modeling , and she was featured mostly in advertisements and men ' s magazines . To make herself more employable , she straightened her hair and dyed it blonde . According to Emmeline Snively , the agency ' s owner , Monroe quickly became one of its most ambitious and hard - working models ; by early 1946 , she had appeared on 33 magazine covers for publications such as Pageant , U . S . Camera , Laff , and Peek . As a model , Monroe occasionally used the pseudonym Jean Norman .	What did the agency deem your figure suitable for?	The agency deemed my figure suitable for pin-up modeling rather than high fashion modeling.
During this period , Monroe gained a reputation for being difficult to work with , which would worsen as her career progressed . She was often late or did not show up at all , did not remember her lines , and would demand several re - takes before she was satisfied with her performance . Her dependence on her acting coaches — Natasha Lytess and then Paula Strasberg — also irritated directors . Monroe ' s problems have been attributed to a combination of perfectionism , low self - esteem , and stage fright . She disliked her lack of control on film sets and never experienced similar problems during photo shoots , in which she had more say over her performance and could be more spontaneous instead of following a script . To alleviate her anxiety and chronic insomnia , she began to use barbiturates , amphetamines , and alcohol , which also exacerbated her problems , although she did not become severely addicted until 1956 . According to Sarah Churchwell , some of Monroe ' s behavior , especially later in her career , was also in response to the condescension and sexism of her male co - stars and directors . Biographer Lois Banner said that she was bullied by many of her directors .	Who were your acting coaches?	My acting coaches were Natasha Lytess and then Paula Strasberg.
During this period , Monroe gained a reputation for being difficult to work with , which would worsen as her career progressed . She was often late or did not show up at all , did not remember her lines , and would demand several re - takes before she was satisfied with her performance . Her dependence on her acting coaches — Natasha Lytess and then Paula Strasberg — also irritated directors . Monroe ' s problems have been attributed to a combination of perfectionism , low self - esteem , and stage fright . She disliked her lack of control on film sets and never experienced similar problems during photo shoots , in which she had more say over her performance and could be more spontaneous instead of following a script . To alleviate her anxiety and chronic insomnia , she began to use barbiturates , amphetamines , and alcohol , which also exacerbated her problems , although she did not become severely addicted until 1956 . According to Sarah Churchwell , some of Monroe ' s behavior , especially later in her career , was also in response to the condescension and sexism of her male co - stars and directors . Biographer Lois Banner said that she was bullied by many of her directors .	What were some factors attributed to your problems?	My problems have been attributed to a combination of perfectionism, low self-esteem, and stage fright.
