On February 3 , 2017 , Carey released the single " I Don ' t " featuring YG . Later that month , she voiced the Mayor of Gotham City in the animated film The Lego Batman Movie . In July 2017 , Carey made a cameo in the comedy film Girls Trip , starring Queen Latifah , Jada Pinkett Smith , Regina Hall , and Tiffany Haddish . The same month , Carey embarked on a tour with Lionel Richie , titled , All the Hits Tour . Carey was also featured in the official remix for French Montana ' s single " Unforgettable " , alongside Swae Lee . In October 2017 , she released a new soundtrack single , " The Star " , for the movie of the same name . The song was nominated for the Best Original Song at the 75th Golden Globe Awards . Carey also developed an animated Christmas film , Mariah Carey ' s All I Want For Christmas Is You , for which she recorded an original song called " Lil ' Snowman . " The film was released direct - to - video on November 14 , 2017 . On December 31 , 2017 , Carey returned to perform on Dick Clark ' s New Year ' s Rockin ' Eve after the technical difficulties that hindered her previous performance , in what The New York Times described as a " made - for - television act of pop culture redemption " .	What was the name of the soundtrack single you released in October 2017?	"The Star".
Carey ' s enduring popularity as a musician has received extensive recognition , with Anne Branigin from The Root commenting : " There ' s longevity , then there ' s Mariah Carey " . When reviewing her fifteenth studio album , Caution , Eddino Hadi wrote , " In the last three decades since she made her debut , many female pop stars have scaled the heights that Carey has reached but very , very few have matched her longevity " . She is the first artist to reach number - one on the Billboard Hot 100 in the physical , digital and streaming eras . Carey ' s music has been recorded , performed or sampled by a variety of artists such as Aretha Franklin , Patti LaBelle , Dolly Parton , Luciano Pavarotti , Red Hot Chili Peppers , Shania Twain , Michael Ball , Ariana Grande , Bryson Tiller , Drake , Fifth Harmony , and Sigala . The 2019 film Always Be My Maybe was a play - on - words of Carey ' s 1996 single " Always Be My Baby " , which was used as the movie ' s theme song .	Which artists have recorded, performed, or sampled your music?	Artists such as Aretha Franklin, Patti LaBelle, Dolly Parton, Luciano Pavarotti, Red Hot Chili Peppers, Shania Twain, Michael Ball, Ariana Grande, Bryson Tiller, Drake, Fifth Harmony, and Sigala have recorded, performed, or sampled my music.
Carey ' s enduring popularity as a musician has received extensive recognition , with Anne Branigin from The Root commenting : " There ' s longevity , then there ' s Mariah Carey " . When reviewing her fifteenth studio album , Caution , Eddino Hadi wrote , " In the last three decades since she made her debut , many female pop stars have scaled the heights that Carey has reached but very , very few have matched her longevity " . She is the first artist to reach number - one on the Billboard Hot 100 in the physical , digital and streaming eras . Carey ' s music has been recorded , performed or sampled by a variety of artists such as Aretha Franklin , Patti LaBelle , Dolly Parton , Luciano Pavarotti , Red Hot Chili Peppers , Shania Twain , Michael Ball , Ariana Grande , Bryson Tiller , Drake , Fifth Harmony , and Sigala . The 2019 film Always Be My Maybe was a play - on - words of Carey ' s 1996 single " Always Be My Baby " , which was used as the movie ' s theme song .	Which 1996 single of yours was used as the theme song for the 2019 film Always Be My Maybe?	My 1996 single "Always Be My Baby" was used as the theme song for the 2019 film Always Be My Maybe.
Carey ' s enduring popularity as a musician has received extensive recognition , with Anne Branigin from The Root commenting : " There ' s longevity , then there ' s Mariah Carey " . When reviewing her fifteenth studio album , Caution , Eddino Hadi wrote , " In the last three decades since she made her debut , many female pop stars have scaled the heights that Carey has reached but very , very few have matched her longevity " . She is the first artist to reach number - one on the Billboard Hot 100 in the physical , digital and streaming eras . Carey ' s music has been recorded , performed or sampled by a variety of artists such as Aretha Franklin , Patti LaBelle , Dolly Parton , Luciano Pavarotti , Red Hot Chili Peppers , Shania Twain , Michael Ball , Ariana Grande , Bryson Tiller , Drake , Fifth Harmony , and Sigala . The 2019 film Always Be My Maybe was a play - on - words of Carey ' s 1996 single " Always Be My Baby " , which was used as the movie ' s theme song .	What did Eddino Hadi write about your longevity?	Eddino Hadi wrote that many female pop stars have reached the heights that I have, but very few have matched my longevity.
On February 3 , 2017 , Carey released the single " I Don ' t " featuring YG . Later that month , she voiced the Mayor of Gotham City in the animated film The Lego Batman Movie . In July 2017 , Carey made a cameo in the comedy film Girls Trip , starring Queen Latifah , Jada Pinkett Smith , Regina Hall , and Tiffany Haddish . The same month , Carey embarked on a tour with Lionel Richie , titled , All the Hits Tour . Carey was also featured in the official remix for French Montana ' s single " Unforgettable " , alongside Swae Lee . In October 2017 , she released a new soundtrack single , " The Star " , for the movie of the same name . The song was nominated for the Best Original Song at the 75th Golden Globe Awards . Carey also developed an animated Christmas film , Mariah Carey ' s All I Want For Christmas Is You , for which she recorded an original song called " Lil ' Snowman . " The film was released direct - to - video on November 14 , 2017 . On December 31 , 2017 , Carey returned to perform on Dick Clark ' s New Year ' s Rockin ' Eve after the technical difficulties that hindered her previous performance , in what The New York Times described as a " made - for - television act of pop culture redemption " .	When was your single "I Don't" featuring YG released?	On February 3, 2017.
Love is the subject of the majority of Carey ' s lyrics , although she has written about themes such as loss , sex , race , abuse and spirituality . She has said that much of her work is partly autobiographical , but Time magazine ' s Christopher John Farley wrote : " If only Mariah Carey ' s music had the drama of her life . Her songs are often sugary and artificial — NutraSweet soul . But her life has passion and conflict , " applying it to the first stages of her career . He commented that as her albums progressed , so too her songwriting and music blossomed into more mature and meaningful material . Jim Faber of the New York Daily News , made similar comments , " For Carey , vocalizing is all about the performance , not the emotions that inspired it . Singing , to her , represents a physical challenge , not an emotional unburdening . " While reviewing Music Box , Stephen Holden from Rolling Stone commented that Carey sang with " sustained passion , " while Arion Berger of Entertainment Weekly wrote that during some vocal moments , Carey becomes " too overwhelmed to put her passion into words . " In 2001 , The Village Voice wrote that " Carey ' s Strawberry Shortcake soul still provides the template with which teen - pop cuties draw curlicues around those centerless [ Diane ] Warren ballads . "	How do you describe your work?	I have described much of my work as partly autobiographical.
Carey ' s subsequent musical releases followed the trend that began with Daydream . Her music began relying less on pop and adult contemporary - tinged balladry and instead incorporating heavy elements of hip - hop and R & B . On Butterfly , Carey collaborated with a bevy of producers other than Afanasieff , such as Sean Combs , Q - Tip , Missy Elliott and Jean Claude Oliver and Samuel Barnes from Trackmasters . In mid - 1997 , after four years of marriage , Carey and Mottola separated . Carey described Mottola as increasingly controlling , and viewed her newfound independence as a new lease on life . In the booklet of her twelfth studio album , Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel ( 2009 ) , Carey wrote that she considers Butterfly her magnum opus and a turning point in both her life and career . Butterfly introduced a more subdued style of singing , with critics noting Carey ' s incorporation of breathy vocals . Some viewed her lack of propensity to use her upper range as a sign of maturity , while others questioned whether it forebode waning vocal prowess . The music video for the album ' s lead single , " Honey " , her first since separating from Mottola , introduced a more overtly sexual image . Butterfly became Carey ' s best - reviewed album , with attention placed on the album ' s exploration of more mature lyrical themes . In their review of the album , Rolling Stone wrote " [ It ' s ] not as if Carey has totally dispensed with her old saccharine , Houston - style balladry ... but the predominant mood of ' Butterfly ' is one of coolly erotic reverie . " AllMusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine described Carey ' s vocals as " sultrier and more controlled than ever , " and felt the album " illustrates that Carey continues to improve and refine her music , which makes her a rarity among her ' 90s peers . ' " " Honey " and " My All " , the album ' s fifth single , both topped the Hot 100 , making Carey a female artist with the most number - one singles in the chart ' s history . Though a commercial success , Butterfly failed to reach the commercial heights of her previous albums , Music Box and Daydream .	When did you and Mottola separate?	We separated in mid-1997.
Carey ' s subsequent musical releases followed the trend that began with Daydream . Her music began relying less on pop and adult contemporary - tinged balladry and instead incorporating heavy elements of hip - hop and R & B . On Butterfly , Carey collaborated with a bevy of producers other than Afanasieff , such as Sean Combs , Q - Tip , Missy Elliott and Jean Claude Oliver and Samuel Barnes from Trackmasters . In mid - 1997 , after four years of marriage , Carey and Mottola separated . Carey described Mottola as increasingly controlling , and viewed her newfound independence as a new lease on life . In the booklet of her twelfth studio album , Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel ( 2009 ) , Carey wrote that she considers Butterfly her magnum opus and a turning point in both her life and career . Butterfly introduced a more subdued style of singing , with critics noting Carey ' s incorporation of breathy vocals . Some viewed her lack of propensity to use her upper range as a sign of maturity , while others questioned whether it forebode waning vocal prowess . The music video for the album ' s lead single , " Honey " , her first since separating from Mottola , introduced a more overtly sexual image . Butterfly became Carey ' s best - reviewed album , with attention placed on the album ' s exploration of more mature lyrical themes . In their review of the album , Rolling Stone wrote " [ It ' s ] not as if Carey has totally dispensed with her old saccharine , Houston - style balladry ... but the predominant mood of ' Butterfly ' is one of coolly erotic reverie . " AllMusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine described Carey ' s vocals as " sultrier and more controlled than ever , " and felt the album " illustrates that Carey continues to improve and refine her music , which makes her a rarity among her ' 90s peers . ' " " Honey " and " My All " , the album ' s fifth single , both topped the Hot 100 , making Carey a female artist with the most number - one singles in the chart ' s history . Though a commercial success , Butterfly failed to reach the commercial heights of her previous albums , Music Box and Daydream .	Who were some of the producers you collaborated with on Butterfly?	I collaborated with producers such as Sean Combs, Q-Tip, Missy Elliott, and Jean Claude Oliver and Samuel Barnes from Trackmasters on Butterfly.
After Emotions failed to achieve the commercial heights of her debut album , Carey ' s subsequent release was to be marketed as adult contemporary and pop - friendly . Music Box was produced by Carey and Afanasieff , and began a songwriting partnership that would extend until 1997 ' s Butterfly . The album was released on August 31 , 1993 , to mixed reviews from music critics . Carey ' s songwriting was derided as clich é d and her vocal performances were described as less emotive and lazier in their delivery . In his review of the album , AllMusic ' s Ron Wynn concluded : " sometimes excessive spirit is preferable to an absence of passion . " In promotion of the album , Carey embarked on her debut tour , a six - date concert series , the Music Box Tour . Music Box ' s first and second singles , " Dreamlover " and " Hero " , became Carey ' s seventh and eighth chart - toppers in the United States , while her cover of Badfinger ' s " Without You " was a commercial breakthrough in Europe , becoming her first number - one single in Germany , Sweden and the United Kingdom . Music Box remains Carey ' s best - seller and one of the best - selling albums of all time , with worldwide sales of over 28 million copies .	What was your subsequent release after your debut album?	My subsequent release after my debut album was the album Music Box.
On February 3 , 2017 , Carey released the single " I Don ' t " featuring YG . Later that month , she voiced the Mayor of Gotham City in the animated film The Lego Batman Movie . In July 2017 , Carey made a cameo in the comedy film Girls Trip , starring Queen Latifah , Jada Pinkett Smith , Regina Hall , and Tiffany Haddish . The same month , Carey embarked on a tour with Lionel Richie , titled , All the Hits Tour . Carey was also featured in the official remix for French Montana ' s single " Unforgettable " , alongside Swae Lee . In October 2017 , she released a new soundtrack single , " The Star " , for the movie of the same name . The song was nominated for the Best Original Song at the 75th Golden Globe Awards . Carey also developed an animated Christmas film , Mariah Carey ' s All I Want For Christmas Is You , for which she recorded an original song called " Lil ' Snowman . " The film was released direct - to - video on November 14 , 2017 . On December 31 , 2017 , Carey returned to perform on Dick Clark ' s New Year ' s Rockin ' Eve after the technical difficulties that hindered her previous performance , in what The New York Times described as a " made - for - television act of pop culture redemption " .	In which film did you voice the Mayor of Gotham City?	The Lego Batman Movie.
Carey ' s subsequent musical releases followed the trend that began with Daydream . Her music began relying less on pop and adult contemporary - tinged balladry and instead incorporating heavy elements of hip - hop and R & B . On Butterfly , Carey collaborated with a bevy of producers other than Afanasieff , such as Sean Combs , Q - Tip , Missy Elliott and Jean Claude Oliver and Samuel Barnes from Trackmasters . In mid - 1997 , after four years of marriage , Carey and Mottola separated . Carey described Mottola as increasingly controlling , and viewed her newfound independence as a new lease on life . In the booklet of her twelfth studio album , Memoirs of an Imperfect Angel ( 2009 ) , Carey wrote that she considers Butterfly her magnum opus and a turning point in both her life and career . Butterfly introduced a more subdued style of singing , with critics noting Carey ' s incorporation of breathy vocals . Some viewed her lack of propensity to use her upper range as a sign of maturity , while others questioned whether it forebode waning vocal prowess . The music video for the album ' s lead single , " Honey " , her first since separating from Mottola , introduced a more overtly sexual image . Butterfly became Carey ' s best - reviewed album , with attention placed on the album ' s exploration of more mature lyrical themes . In their review of the album , Rolling Stone wrote " [ It ' s ] not as if Carey has totally dispensed with her old saccharine , Houston - style balladry ... but the predominant mood of ' Butterfly ' is one of coolly erotic reverie . " AllMusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine described Carey ' s vocals as " sultrier and more controlled than ever , " and felt the album " illustrates that Carey continues to improve and refine her music , which makes her a rarity among her ' 90s peers . ' " " Honey " and " My All " , the album ' s fifth single , both topped the Hot 100 , making Carey a female artist with the most number - one singles in the chart ' s history . Though a commercial success , Butterfly failed to reach the commercial heights of her previous albums , Music Box and Daydream .	What trend did your subsequent musical releases follow?	My subsequent musical releases followed the trend that began with Daydream.
Multiple media sources referred to Carey as the " Queen of Melisma " . According to Rolling Stone , " Her mastery of melisma , the fluttering strings of notes that decorate songs like " Vision of Love " , inspired the entire American Idol vocal school , for better or worse , and virtually every other female R & B singer since the Nineties . " Chart historian Tom Breihan chose " Vision of Love " as one of the chapters in his book The Number Ones : Twenty Chart - Topping Hits That Reveal the History of Pop Music , stating that the song " set the stage for a whole decade of showy , pyrotechnic ' 90s R & B vocals . Carey created an environment where her disciples could flourish , and she did it by constructing " Vision Of Love " as a showcase for her voice " . In 2008 , Jody Rosen of Slate wrote of Carey ' s influence in modern music , calling her the most influential vocal stylist of the last two decades , the person who made rococo melismatic singing . Rosen further exemplified Carey ' s influence by drawing a parallel with American Idol , which to her , " often played out as a clash of melisma - mad Mariah wannabes . And , today , nearly 20 years after Carey ' s debut , major labels continue to bet the farm on young stars such as the winner of Britain ' s X Factor show , Leona Lewis , with her Generation Next gloss on Mariah ' s big voice and big hair . " New York Magazine ' s editor Roger Deckker further commented that " Whitney Houston may have introduced melisma ( the vocally acrobatic style of lending a word an extra syllable or twenty ) to the charts , but it was Mariah — with her jaw - dropping range — who made it into America ' s default sound . " Deckker also added that " Every time you turn on American Idol , you are watching her children . " As Professor Katherine L . Meizel said in her book , The Mediation of Identity Politics in American Idol , " Carey ' s influence ( is ) in the emulation of melisma or her singing amongst the wannabe ' s , it ' s also her persona , her diva , her stardom which inspires them ... a pre - fame conic look . " With her ability to do runs , scats , and incredible control using whistle register , Mariah Carey is credited for popularizing this technique in mainstream music , making her name synonymous with the term .	According to Jody Rosen, who am I, the most influential vocal stylist of the last two decades?	I am.
In December 2002 , Carey released her ninth studio album , Charmbracelet , which she said marked " a new lease on life " for her . Sales of Charmbracelet were moderate and the quality of Carey ' s vocals came under criticism . Joan Anderson from The Boston Globe declared the album " the worst of her career , and revealed a voice [ that is ] no longer capable of either gravity - defying gymnastics or soft coos " , while AllMusic editor Stephen Thomas Erlewine wrote , " Mariah ' s voice is shot , sounding in tatters throughout the record . She can no longer coo or softly croon nor can she perform her trademark gravity - defying vocal runs . " To support the album , Carey embarked on the Charmbracelet World Tour , spanning North America and East Asia over three months . The United States shows were booked in theaters . She described the show as " much more intimate so you ' ll feel like you had an experience . You experience a night with me . " While smaller venues were booked throughout the tour ' s stateside leg , Carey performed in stadiums in Asia and Europe , playing for a crowd of over 35 , 000 in Manila , 50 , 000 in Malaysia , and to over 70 , 000 people in China . In the United Kingdom , it was her first tour to feature shows outside London , booking arena stops in Glasgow , Birmingham and Manchester . The tour garnered generally positive reviews , with many praising the production and the quality of Carey ' s vocals .	When did you release your ninth studio album Charmbracelet?	In December 2002.
Love is the subject of the majority of Carey ' s lyrics , although she has written about themes such as loss , sex , race , abuse and spirituality . She has said that much of her work is partly autobiographical , but Time magazine ' s Christopher John Farley wrote : " If only Mariah Carey ' s music had the drama of her life . Her songs are often sugary and artificial — NutraSweet soul . But her life has passion and conflict , " applying it to the first stages of her career . He commented that as her albums progressed , so too her songwriting and music blossomed into more mature and meaningful material . Jim Faber of the New York Daily News , made similar comments , " For Carey , vocalizing is all about the performance , not the emotions that inspired it . Singing , to her , represents a physical challenge , not an emotional unburdening . " While reviewing Music Box , Stephen Holden from Rolling Stone commented that Carey sang with " sustained passion , " while Arion Berger of Entertainment Weekly wrote that during some vocal moments , Carey becomes " too overwhelmed to put her passion into words . " In 2001 , The Village Voice wrote that " Carey ' s Strawberry Shortcake soul still provides the template with which teen - pop cuties draw curlicues around those centerless [ Diane ] Warren ballads . "	What is the subject of the majority of your lyrics?	Love is the subject of the majority of my lyrics.
On February 3 , 2017 , Carey released the single " I Don ' t " featuring YG . Later that month , she voiced the Mayor of Gotham City in the animated film The Lego Batman Movie . In July 2017 , Carey made a cameo in the comedy film Girls Trip , starring Queen Latifah , Jada Pinkett Smith , Regina Hall , and Tiffany Haddish . The same month , Carey embarked on a tour with Lionel Richie , titled , All the Hits Tour . Carey was also featured in the official remix for French Montana ' s single " Unforgettable " , alongside Swae Lee . In October 2017 , she released a new soundtrack single , " The Star " , for the movie of the same name . The song was nominated for the Best Original Song at the 75th Golden Globe Awards . Carey also developed an animated Christmas film , Mariah Carey ' s All I Want For Christmas Is You , for which she recorded an original song called " Lil ' Snowman . " The film was released direct - to - video on November 14 , 2017 . On December 31 , 2017 , Carey returned to perform on Dick Clark ' s New Year ' s Rockin ' Eve after the technical difficulties that hindered her previous performance , in what The New York Times described as a " made - for - television act of pop culture redemption " .	Who did you go on a tour with in July 2017?	Lionel Richie.
After Emotions failed to achieve the commercial heights of her debut album , Carey ' s subsequent release was to be marketed as adult contemporary and pop - friendly . Music Box was produced by Carey and Afanasieff , and began a songwriting partnership that would extend until 1997 ' s Butterfly . The album was released on August 31 , 1993 , to mixed reviews from music critics . Carey ' s songwriting was derided as clich é d and her vocal performances were described as less emotive and lazier in their delivery . In his review of the album , AllMusic ' s Ron Wynn concluded : " sometimes excessive spirit is preferable to an absence of passion . " In promotion of the album , Carey embarked on her debut tour , a six - date concert series , the Music Box Tour . Music Box ' s first and second singles , " Dreamlover " and " Hero " , became Carey ' s seventh and eighth chart - toppers in the United States , while her cover of Badfinger ' s " Without You " was a commercial breakthrough in Europe , becoming her first number - one single in Germany , Sweden and the United Kingdom . Music Box remains Carey ' s best - seller and one of the best - selling albums of all time , with worldwide sales of over 28 million copies .	How were your songwriting and vocal performances described by music critics?	My songwriting was derided as clichéd and my vocal performances were described as less emotive and lazier in their delivery.
The impact of Carey ' s artistry has helped popularize rappers as a featured act in pop music through her post - 1995 songs . She has been called the " Queen of Remixes " by multiple media sources , with MTV writer , Princess Gabbara , noting that it is " no secret that [ Carey ] goes to great lengths to deliver a spectacular remix , often re - recording vocals , penning new lyrics , shooting new music videos , and recording different versions to satisfy pop , R & B , hip - hop , and EDM audiences " . Speaking to Billboard in 2019 for a profile of Carey ' s career , David Morales , who first collaborated with Carey on the Def Club Mix of her 1993 single " Dreamlover " , commented on Carey ' s revolutionary role in the popularization of remixes : " Mariah opened up a whole other door , and not many people at that time were capable of that . When other big artists saw what I did with Mariah , they wanted that . She ' s how I got into the studio with Toni Braxton , Aretha Franklin , Seal and Donna Summer . "	What have you done to deliver a spectacular remix?	I go to great lengths to deliver a spectacular remix by often re-recording vocals, penning new lyrics, shooting new music videos, and recording different versions.
Multiple media sources referred to Carey as the " Queen of Melisma " . According to Rolling Stone , " Her mastery of melisma , the fluttering strings of notes that decorate songs like " Vision of Love " , inspired the entire American Idol vocal school , for better or worse , and virtually every other female R & B singer since the Nineties . " Chart historian Tom Breihan chose " Vision of Love " as one of the chapters in his book The Number Ones : Twenty Chart - Topping Hits That Reveal the History of Pop Music , stating that the song " set the stage for a whole decade of showy , pyrotechnic ' 90s R & B vocals . Carey created an environment where her disciples could flourish , and she did it by constructing " Vision Of Love " as a showcase for her voice " . In 2008 , Jody Rosen of Slate wrote of Carey ' s influence in modern music , calling her the most influential vocal stylist of the last two decades , the person who made rococo melismatic singing . Rosen further exemplified Carey ' s influence by drawing a parallel with American Idol , which to her , " often played out as a clash of melisma - mad Mariah wannabes . And , today , nearly 20 years after Carey ' s debut , major labels continue to bet the farm on young stars such as the winner of Britain ' s X Factor show , Leona Lewis , with her Generation Next gloss on Mariah ' s big voice and big hair . " New York Magazine ' s editor Roger Deckker further commented that " Whitney Houston may have introduced melisma ( the vocally acrobatic style of lending a word an extra syllable or twenty ) to the charts , but it was Mariah — with her jaw - dropping range — who made it into America ' s default sound . " Deckker also added that " Every time you turn on American Idol , you are watching her children . " As Professor Katherine L . Meizel said in her book , The Mediation of Identity Politics in American Idol , " Carey ' s influence ( is ) in the emulation of melisma or her singing amongst the wannabe ' s , it ' s also her persona , her diva , her stardom which inspires them ... a pre - fame conic look . " With her ability to do runs , scats , and incredible control using whistle register , Mariah Carey is credited for popularizing this technique in mainstream music , making her name synonymous with the term .	Which song did you choose as one of the chapters in your book?	"Vision of Love".
The impact of Carey ' s artistry has helped popularize rappers as a featured act in pop music through her post - 1995 songs . She has been called the " Queen of Remixes " by multiple media sources , with MTV writer , Princess Gabbara , noting that it is " no secret that [ Carey ] goes to great lengths to deliver a spectacular remix , often re - recording vocals , penning new lyrics , shooting new music videos , and recording different versions to satisfy pop , R & B , hip - hop , and EDM audiences " . Speaking to Billboard in 2019 for a profile of Carey ' s career , David Morales , who first collaborated with Carey on the Def Club Mix of her 1993 single " Dreamlover " , commented on Carey ' s revolutionary role in the popularization of remixes : " Mariah opened up a whole other door , and not many people at that time were capable of that . When other big artists saw what I did with Mariah , they wanted that . She ' s how I got into the studio with Toni Braxton , Aretha Franklin , Seal and Donna Summer . "	Who did you collaborate with on the Def Club Mix of your 1993 single "Dreamlover"?	I collaborated with David Morales on the Def Club Mix of my 1993 single "Dreamlover".
On February 3 , 2017 , Carey released the single " I Don ' t " featuring YG . Later that month , she voiced the Mayor of Gotham City in the animated film The Lego Batman Movie . In July 2017 , Carey made a cameo in the comedy film Girls Trip , starring Queen Latifah , Jada Pinkett Smith , Regina Hall , and Tiffany Haddish . The same month , Carey embarked on a tour with Lionel Richie , titled , All the Hits Tour . Carey was also featured in the official remix for French Montana ' s single " Unforgettable " , alongside Swae Lee . In October 2017 , she released a new soundtrack single , " The Star " , for the movie of the same name . The song was nominated for the Best Original Song at the 75th Golden Globe Awards . Carey also developed an animated Christmas film , Mariah Carey ' s All I Want For Christmas Is You , for which she recorded an original song called " Lil ' Snowman . " The film was released direct - to - video on November 14 , 2017 . On December 31 , 2017 , Carey returned to perform on Dick Clark ' s New Year ' s Rockin ' Eve after the technical difficulties that hindered her previous performance , in what The New York Times described as a " made - for - television act of pop culture redemption " .	In which comedy film did you make a cameo appearance?	Girls Trip.
The impact of Carey ' s artistry has helped popularize rappers as a featured act in pop music through her post - 1995 songs . She has been called the " Queen of Remixes " by multiple media sources , with MTV writer , Princess Gabbara , noting that it is " no secret that [ Carey ] goes to great lengths to deliver a spectacular remix , often re - recording vocals , penning new lyrics , shooting new music videos , and recording different versions to satisfy pop , R & B , hip - hop , and EDM audiences " . Speaking to Billboard in 2019 for a profile of Carey ' s career , David Morales , who first collaborated with Carey on the Def Club Mix of her 1993 single " Dreamlover " , commented on Carey ' s revolutionary role in the popularization of remixes : " Mariah opened up a whole other door , and not many people at that time were capable of that . When other big artists saw what I did with Mariah , they wanted that . She ' s how I got into the studio with Toni Braxton , Aretha Franklin , Seal and Donna Summer . "	According to Princess Gabbara, why do you go to great lengths to deliver a spectacular remix?	According to Princess Gabbara, I go to great lengths to deliver a spectacular remix to satisfy pop, R&B, hip-hop, and EDM audiences.
Love is the subject of the majority of Carey ' s lyrics , although she has written about themes such as loss , sex , race , abuse and spirituality . She has said that much of her work is partly autobiographical , but Time magazine ' s Christopher John Farley wrote : " If only Mariah Carey ' s music had the drama of her life . Her songs are often sugary and artificial — NutraSweet soul . But her life has passion and conflict , " applying it to the first stages of her career . He commented that as her albums progressed , so too her songwriting and music blossomed into more mature and meaningful material . Jim Faber of the New York Daily News , made similar comments , " For Carey , vocalizing is all about the performance , not the emotions that inspired it . Singing , to her , represents a physical challenge , not an emotional unburdening . " While reviewing Music Box , Stephen Holden from Rolling Stone commented that Carey sang with " sustained passion , " while Arion Berger of Entertainment Weekly wrote that during some vocal moments , Carey becomes " too overwhelmed to put her passion into words . " In 2001 , The Village Voice wrote that " Carey ' s Strawberry Shortcake soul still provides the template with which teen - pop cuties draw curlicues around those centerless [ Diane ] Warren ballads . "	What did Christopher John Farley of Time magazine say about your music?	Christopher John Farley wrote that my music lacks the drama of my life and is often sugary and artificial.
Carey ' s tenth studio album , The Emancipation of Mimi , was produced with the Neptunes , Kanye West and Carey ' s longtime collaborator , Jermaine Dupri . She described the album as " very much like a party record ... the process of putting on makeup and getting ready to go out ... I wanted to make a record that was reflective of that . " The Emancipation of Mimi topped the charts in the United States , becoming Carey ' s fifth number - one album and first since Butterfly ( 1997 ) , and was warmly accepted by critics . Caroline Sullivan of The Guardian defined it as " cool , focused and urban [ ... some of ] the first Mariah Carey tunes in years which I wouldn ' t have to be paid to listen to again , " while USA Today ' s Elysa Gardner wrote , " The [ songs ] truly reflect the renewed confidence of a songbird who has taken her shots and kept on flying . " The album ' s second single , " We Belong Together " , became a " career re - defining " song for Carey , after a relatively unsuccessful period and a point when many critics had considered her career over . Music critics heralded the song as her " return to form , " as well as the " return of The Voice , " while many felt it would revive " faith " in Carey ' s potential as a balladeer . " We Belong Together " broke several records in the United States and became Carey ' s sixteenth chart topper on the Billboard Hot 100 . After staying at number one for fourteen non - consecutive weeks , the song became the second longest running number one song in US chart history , behind Carey ' s 1996 collaboration with Boyz II Men , " One Sweet Day " . Billboard listed it as the " song of the decade " and the ninth most popular song of all time . The song broke several airplay records , and according to Nielsen BDS , and gathered both the largest one - day and one - week audiences in history .	Which album did The Emancipation of Mimi top the charts in your country?	It topped the charts in my country, becoming my fifth number-one album and first since Butterfly (1997).
Multiple media sources referred to Carey as the " Queen of Melisma " . According to Rolling Stone , " Her mastery of melisma , the fluttering strings of notes that decorate songs like " Vision of Love " , inspired the entire American Idol vocal school , for better or worse , and virtually every other female R & B singer since the Nineties . " Chart historian Tom Breihan chose " Vision of Love " as one of the chapters in his book The Number Ones : Twenty Chart - Topping Hits That Reveal the History of Pop Music , stating that the song " set the stage for a whole decade of showy , pyrotechnic ' 90s R & B vocals . Carey created an environment where her disciples could flourish , and she did it by constructing " Vision Of Love " as a showcase for her voice " . In 2008 , Jody Rosen of Slate wrote of Carey ' s influence in modern music , calling her the most influential vocal stylist of the last two decades , the person who made rococo melismatic singing . Rosen further exemplified Carey ' s influence by drawing a parallel with American Idol , which to her , " often played out as a clash of melisma - mad Mariah wannabes . And , today , nearly 20 years after Carey ' s debut , major labels continue to bet the farm on young stars such as the winner of Britain ' s X Factor show , Leona Lewis , with her Generation Next gloss on Mariah ' s big voice and big hair . " New York Magazine ' s editor Roger Deckker further commented that " Whitney Houston may have introduced melisma ( the vocally acrobatic style of lending a word an extra syllable or twenty ) to the charts , but it was Mariah — with her jaw - dropping range — who made it into America ' s default sound . " Deckker also added that " Every time you turn on American Idol , you are watching her children . " As Professor Katherine L . Meizel said in her book , The Mediation of Identity Politics in American Idol , " Carey ' s influence ( is ) in the emulation of melisma or her singing amongst the wannabe ' s , it ' s also her persona , her diva , her stardom which inspires them ... a pre - fame conic look . " With her ability to do runs , scats , and incredible control using whistle register , Mariah Carey is credited for popularizing this technique in mainstream music , making her name synonymous with the term .	Who did your mastery of melisma inspire?	The entire American Idol vocal school and virtually every other female R&B singer since the Nineties.
The impact of Carey ' s artistry has helped popularize rappers as a featured act in pop music through her post - 1995 songs . She has been called the " Queen of Remixes " by multiple media sources , with MTV writer , Princess Gabbara , noting that it is " no secret that [ Carey ] goes to great lengths to deliver a spectacular remix , often re - recording vocals , penning new lyrics , shooting new music videos , and recording different versions to satisfy pop , R & B , hip - hop , and EDM audiences " . Speaking to Billboard in 2019 for a profile of Carey ' s career , David Morales , who first collaborated with Carey on the Def Club Mix of her 1993 single " Dreamlover " , commented on Carey ' s revolutionary role in the popularization of remixes : " Mariah opened up a whole other door , and not many people at that time were capable of that . When other big artists saw what I did with Mariah , they wanted that . She ' s how I got into the studio with Toni Braxton , Aretha Franklin , Seal and Donna Summer . "	Who have they called the "Queen of Remixes"?	I have been called the "Queen of Remixes".
