In December 1992 , while performing on the British TV show The Word , Wahlberg praised Shabba Ranks , who had stated gay people should be crucified . GLAAD condemned him and berated Calvin Klein for using him to promote their products . A self - titled autobiographical picture book , Marky Mark , with images taken by Lynn Goldsmith and statements mostly by him , was also released . Trying to resuscitate his music career , he had shifted to Hamburg , where he was produced under the label of East West Records by Frank Peterson and Alex Christensen .	Who condemned you for praising Shabba Ranks?	GLAAD condemned me for praising Shabba Ranks.
Despite his felony conviction , which legally prohibits him from handling firearms , Wahlberg prepared for his role in Shooter by attending long - range shooting training at Front Sight Firearms Training Institute near Pahrump , Nevada . He was able to hit a target at 1 , 100 yards on his second day , a feat which usually takes weeks to achieve . He had said in a number of interviews that he would retire at the age of 40 to concentrate on parenthood and professional golf . However , in early 2007 , he indicated that the latter was no longer the plan as " his golf game is horrible " . He played Jack Salmon , the father of the protagonist , Susie , in Peter Jackson ' s The Lovely Bones , a film adaptation of the Alice Sebold book of the same name . In 2007 , he starred opposite Joaquin Phoenix in We Own the Night , a movie about a family of police officers in New York City .	Why did you change your plans about professional golf?	I changed my plans about professional golf because I considered my golf game to be horrible.
In 1995 , he released a single titled " No Mercy " , in support of his friend Dariusz Michalczewski , whom he had befriended earlier in the 1990s . Michalczewski also appears in the music video of the song . Wahlberg and Prince Ital Joe released another album in 1995 for Ultraphonic Records . Titled The Remix Album , it featured remixes from the duo ' s previous album , Life in the Streets , as well as Mark ' s solo track , " No Mercy " .	When did you release a single titled "No Mercy"?	In 1995.
In 1995 , he released a single titled " No Mercy " , in support of his friend Dariusz Michalczewski , whom he had befriended earlier in the 1990s . Michalczewski also appears in the music video of the song . Wahlberg and Prince Ital Joe released another album in 1995 for Ultraphonic Records . Titled The Remix Album , it featured remixes from the duo ' s previous album , Life in the Streets , as well as Mark ' s solo track , " No Mercy " .	What was the title of the album released in 1995 for Ultraphonic Records?	The Remix Album.
In 1990 , Wahlberg began recording with dancers / rappers Scott Ross ( Scottie Gee ) , Hector Barros ( Hector the Booty Inspector ) , Anthony Thomas ( Ashley Ace ) , and Terry Yancey ( DJ - T ) as Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch , earning a hit with " Good Vibrations " from their debut album Music for the People . The record , produced by brother Donnie , hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , later becoming certified as a platinum single . The second single , " Wildside " , peaked at number five on Billboard ' s Hot Singles Sales chart and at number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 . [ citation needed ] It was certified as a gold single . Marky Mark opened for the New Kids on the Block during their last tour . Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch also had their own video game , titled Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch : Make My Video , which despite the band ' s success , was a huge flop . The second Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch LP , You Gotta Believe , was not as successful as the first , yielding only a minor hit single in the title track .	What was the name of Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch's debut album?	The debut album of Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch was called "Music for the People".
In 1990 , Wahlberg began recording with dancers / rappers Scott Ross ( Scottie Gee ) , Hector Barros ( Hector the Booty Inspector ) , Anthony Thomas ( Ashley Ace ) , and Terry Yancey ( DJ - T ) as Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch , earning a hit with " Good Vibrations " from their debut album Music for the People . The record , produced by brother Donnie , hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , later becoming certified as a platinum single . The second single , " Wildside " , peaked at number five on Billboard ' s Hot Singles Sales chart and at number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 . [ citation needed ] It was certified as a gold single . Marky Mark opened for the New Kids on the Block during their last tour . Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch also had their own video game , titled Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch : Make My Video , which despite the band ' s success , was a huge flop . The second Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch LP , You Gotta Believe , was not as successful as the first , yielding only a minor hit single in the title track .	Who produced your debut album?	My brother Donnie produced our debut album.
On July 20 , 2018 , Wahlberg and his business partner , Jay Feldman , announced the purchase of Bobby Layman Chevrolet in Columbus , Ohio . The dealership was renamed Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet . Due to the success of the dealership , local ABC affiliate WSYX reported in March 2020 that Haydocy Buick - GMC , right across the street from Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet , had filed paperwork with Ohio Secretary of State Frank LaRose to rename itself Mark Wahlberg Buick - GMC ; Feldman later confirmed that he and Wahlberg were purchasing their second General Motors dealership in the city . The deal became official on June 29 , 2020 , and also included Haydocy ' s Airstream and RV dealership , located next door at the car dealership ' s former Oldsmobile showroom . Shortly afterward , Wahlberg and Feldman announced they were purchasing Jack Maxton Chevrolet in nearby Worthington , Ohio , their fourth Columbus - area dealership , with plans to rename it Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet of Worthington . A fifth dealership , Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet of Avon , was added in Avon , Ohio in July 2021 ; unlike the other dealerships , the Avon location is in Greater Cleveland , marking Wahlberg and Feldman ' s entry into Northeast Ohio .	Which dealership filed paperwork to rename itself Mark Wahlberg Buick - GMC?	Haydocy Buick - GMC filed paperwork to rename itself Mark Wahlberg Buick - GMC.
In 2012 , Wahlberg starred in Seth MacFarlane ' s hit comedy Ted , reprising the same role in its 2015 sequel . Wahlberg later starred as Navy SEAL Marcus Luttrell in the war film Lone Survivor ( 2013 ) , based on Luttrell ' s 2007 book of the same name . The film received commercial success and mostly positive reviews , and Wahlberg ' s performance was highly praised . In 2014 , Wahlberg starred in the remake of The Gambler , the 1974 James Caan film that was loosely inspired by the Dostoyevsky novella . In 2014 , Wahlberg was the producer of the reality show Breaking Boston , which was pulled off the air after its premiere had 311 , 000 viewers . He executive - produced one episode of Wahlburgers , while co - starring in it . In 2015 , he starred opposite Will Ferrell in the comedy Daddy ' s Home . In 2016 , he starred in two Peter Berg films , Deepwater Horizon , a film about the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill , and Patriots Day , a film about the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing .	What happened to the reality show Breaking Boston?	The reality show Breaking Boston was pulled off the air after its premiere had 311,000 viewers.
In 1990 , Wahlberg began recording with dancers / rappers Scott Ross ( Scottie Gee ) , Hector Barros ( Hector the Booty Inspector ) , Anthony Thomas ( Ashley Ace ) , and Terry Yancey ( DJ - T ) as Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch , earning a hit with " Good Vibrations " from their debut album Music for the People . The record , produced by brother Donnie , hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , later becoming certified as a platinum single . The second single , " Wildside " , peaked at number five on Billboard ' s Hot Singles Sales chart and at number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 . [ citation needed ] It was certified as a gold single . Marky Mark opened for the New Kids on the Block during their last tour . Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch also had their own video game , titled Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch : Make My Video , which despite the band ' s success , was a huge flop . The second Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch LP , You Gotta Believe , was not as successful as the first , yielding only a minor hit single in the title track .	Who were the members of Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch?	The members of Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch were Scott Ross, Hector Barros, Anthony Thomas, and Terry Yancey.
In 2012 , Wahlberg starred in Seth MacFarlane ' s hit comedy Ted , reprising the same role in its 2015 sequel . Wahlberg later starred as Navy SEAL Marcus Luttrell in the war film Lone Survivor ( 2013 ) , based on Luttrell ' s 2007 book of the same name . The film received commercial success and mostly positive reviews , and Wahlberg ' s performance was highly praised . In 2014 , Wahlberg starred in the remake of The Gambler , the 1974 James Caan film that was loosely inspired by the Dostoyevsky novella . In 2014 , Wahlberg was the producer of the reality show Breaking Boston , which was pulled off the air after its premiere had 311 , 000 viewers . He executive - produced one episode of Wahlburgers , while co - starring in it . In 2015 , he starred opposite Will Ferrell in the comedy Daddy ' s Home . In 2016 , he starred in two Peter Berg films , Deepwater Horizon , a film about the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill , and Patriots Day , a film about the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing .	What was your role in the film Ted?	I reprised the same role in the film Ted and its 2015 sequel.
In 2012 , Wahlberg starred in Seth MacFarlane ' s hit comedy Ted , reprising the same role in its 2015 sequel . Wahlberg later starred as Navy SEAL Marcus Luttrell in the war film Lone Survivor ( 2013 ) , based on Luttrell ' s 2007 book of the same name . The film received commercial success and mostly positive reviews , and Wahlberg ' s performance was highly praised . In 2014 , Wahlberg starred in the remake of The Gambler , the 1974 James Caan film that was loosely inspired by the Dostoyevsky novella . In 2014 , Wahlberg was the producer of the reality show Breaking Boston , which was pulled off the air after its premiere had 311 , 000 viewers . He executive - produced one episode of Wahlburgers , while co - starring in it . In 2015 , he starred opposite Will Ferrell in the comedy Daddy ' s Home . In 2016 , he starred in two Peter Berg films , Deepwater Horizon , a film about the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill , and Patriots Day , a film about the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing .	Who did you star opposite in the film Daddy's Home?	I starred opposite Will Ferrell in the comedy Daddy's Home.
In 2012 , Wahlberg starred in Seth MacFarlane ' s hit comedy Ted , reprising the same role in its 2015 sequel . Wahlberg later starred as Navy SEAL Marcus Luttrell in the war film Lone Survivor ( 2013 ) , based on Luttrell ' s 2007 book of the same name . The film received commercial success and mostly positive reviews , and Wahlberg ' s performance was highly praised . In 2014 , Wahlberg starred in the remake of The Gambler , the 1974 James Caan film that was loosely inspired by the Dostoyevsky novella . In 2014 , Wahlberg was the producer of the reality show Breaking Boston , which was pulled off the air after its premiere had 311 , 000 viewers . He executive - produced one episode of Wahlburgers , while co - starring in it . In 2015 , he starred opposite Will Ferrell in the comedy Daddy ' s Home . In 2016 , he starred in two Peter Berg films , Deepwater Horizon , a film about the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill , and Patriots Day , a film about the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing .	When did you star in the film Lone Survivor?	I starred in Lone Survivor in 2013.
In 2012 , Wahlberg starred in Seth MacFarlane ' s hit comedy Ted , reprising the same role in its 2015 sequel . Wahlberg later starred as Navy SEAL Marcus Luttrell in the war film Lone Survivor ( 2013 ) , based on Luttrell ' s 2007 book of the same name . The film received commercial success and mostly positive reviews , and Wahlberg ' s performance was highly praised . In 2014 , Wahlberg starred in the remake of The Gambler , the 1974 James Caan film that was loosely inspired by the Dostoyevsky novella . In 2014 , Wahlberg was the producer of the reality show Breaking Boston , which was pulled off the air after its premiere had 311 , 000 viewers . He executive - produced one episode of Wahlburgers , while co - starring in it . In 2015 , he starred opposite Will Ferrell in the comedy Daddy ' s Home . In 2016 , he starred in two Peter Berg films , Deepwater Horizon , a film about the 2010 Deepwater Horizon oil spill , and Patriots Day , a film about the 2013 Boston Marathon bombing .	What type of book was Lone Survivor based on?	Lone Survivor was based on Marcus Luttrell's 2007 book of the same name.
In 1990 , Wahlberg began recording with dancers / rappers Scott Ross ( Scottie Gee ) , Hector Barros ( Hector the Booty Inspector ) , Anthony Thomas ( Ashley Ace ) , and Terry Yancey ( DJ - T ) as Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch , earning a hit with " Good Vibrations " from their debut album Music for the People . The record , produced by brother Donnie , hit number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , later becoming certified as a platinum single . The second single , " Wildside " , peaked at number five on Billboard ' s Hot Singles Sales chart and at number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100 . [ citation needed ] It was certified as a gold single . Marky Mark opened for the New Kids on the Block during their last tour . Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch also had their own video game , titled Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch : Make My Video , which despite the band ' s success , was a huge flop . The second Marky Mark and the Funky Bunch LP , You Gotta Believe , was not as successful as the first , yielding only a minor hit single in the title track .	Which song from their debut album became a hit?	The song "Good Vibrations" from their debut album became a hit.
He starred in M . Night Shyamalan ' s The Happening as Eliot Moore , which premiered in movie theaters on June 13 , 2008 . The same year , he played the title role in Max Payne , based on the video game of the same name . While promoting Max Payne , Wahlberg became involved in a playful feud with The Lonely Island ' s Andy Samberg . Samberg had done an impression of Wahlberg in a Saturday Night Live sketch titled " Mark Wahlberg Talks to Animals " . Wahlberg later appeared in a follow - up sketch parodying the original one , Samberg ' s impression of Wahlberg , and his own threats to Samberg .	When did The Happening premiere in movie theaters?	The Happening premiered in movie theaters on June 13 , 2008 .
Despite his felony conviction , which legally prohibits him from handling firearms , Wahlberg prepared for his role in Shooter by attending long - range shooting training at Front Sight Firearms Training Institute near Pahrump , Nevada . He was able to hit a target at 1 , 100 yards on his second day , a feat which usually takes weeks to achieve . He had said in a number of interviews that he would retire at the age of 40 to concentrate on parenthood and professional golf . However , in early 2007 , he indicated that the latter was no longer the plan as " his golf game is horrible " . He played Jack Salmon , the father of the protagonist , Susie , in Peter Jackson ' s The Lovely Bones , a film adaptation of the Alice Sebold book of the same name . In 2007 , he starred opposite Joaquin Phoenix in We Own the Night , a movie about a family of police officers in New York City .	Where did you receive long-range shooting training?	I received long-range shooting training at Front Sight Firearms Training Institute near Pahrump, Nevada.
He starred in M . Night Shyamalan ' s The Happening as Eliot Moore , which premiered in movie theaters on June 13 , 2008 . The same year , he played the title role in Max Payne , based on the video game of the same name . While promoting Max Payne , Wahlberg became involved in a playful feud with The Lonely Island ' s Andy Samberg . Samberg had done an impression of Wahlberg in a Saturday Night Live sketch titled " Mark Wahlberg Talks to Animals " . Wahlberg later appeared in a follow - up sketch parodying the original one , Samberg ' s impression of Wahlberg , and his own threats to Samberg .	What movie did you star in as Eliot Moore?	I starred in M . Night Shyamalan ' s The Happening as Eliot Moore.
He starred in M . Night Shyamalan ' s The Happening as Eliot Moore , which premiered in movie theaters on June 13 , 2008 . The same year , he played the title role in Max Payne , based on the video game of the same name . While promoting Max Payne , Wahlberg became involved in a playful feud with The Lonely Island ' s Andy Samberg . Samberg had done an impression of Wahlberg in a Saturday Night Live sketch titled " Mark Wahlberg Talks to Animals " . Wahlberg later appeared in a follow - up sketch parodying the original one , Samberg ' s impression of Wahlberg , and his own threats to Samberg .	What video game was Max Payne based on?	Max Payne was based on the video game of the same name.
Wahlberg was booked to fly on American Airlines Flight 11 on September 11 , 2001 , but his plans changed the day before and he canceled his reservation . He received backlash for stating in a 2012 interview , " If I was on that plane with my kids , it wouldn ' t have went down like it did " . He added that " there would have been a lot of blood in that first - class cabin and then me saying , ' OK , we ' re going to land somewhere safely , don ' t worry . ' " He issued an apology after family members of those killed on the flight expressed outrage .	How did you suggest you would have reacted if you were on the plane?	I suggested that there would have been a lot of blood in the first-class cabin, but then I would have assured everyone that we would land safely.
He earned positive reviews after films such as Boogie Nights , Three Kings , The Perfect Storm , and Four Brothers . During the early 2000s , Wahlberg appeared in remakes of 1960s films such as Planet of the Apes , The Truth About Charlie ( a remake of the 1963 film Charade ) , and The Italian Job . His performance in I Heart Huckabees was voted the best supporting performance of the year in the 2004 The Village Voice Critics Poll . Wahlberg was originally cast as Linus Caldwell in Ocean ' s Eleven , but Matt Damon played the role instead . The two later worked together in The Departed . Wahlberg was also considered for a role in the film Brokeback Mountain . It was originally intended to star Wahlberg and Joaquin Phoenix ( with whom he appeared in the 2000 film The Yards ) as Ennis Del Mar and Jack Twist , respectively , but both actors were uncomfortable with the film ' s sex scenes . The roles ultimately went to Heath Ledger and Jake Gyllenhaal , both of whom were nominated for Academy Awards for their performances .	Which film was your performance voted as the best supporting performance in?	I Heart Huckabees.
In 2015 , Wahlberg recruited rapper Sean Combs and billionaire Ronald Burkle to join him in investing in Aquahydrate , a bottled water brand Wahlberg discovered . Together , the three men own a majority stake in the company . Wahlberg , together with former GNC executive Tom Dowd , co - founded Performance Inspired , a sports nutrition company launched in 2016 . In February 2017 , Wahlberg was one of the investors who took part in a $ 6 million funding round for StockX , a sneaker resale marketplace . In March 2019 , Wahlberg bought a stake in the F45 fitness franchise .	What did you buy a stake in in March 2019?	I bought a stake in the F45 fitness franchise in March 2019.
In 2015 , Wahlberg recruited rapper Sean Combs and billionaire Ronald Burkle to join him in investing in Aquahydrate , a bottled water brand Wahlberg discovered . Together , the three men own a majority stake in the company . Wahlberg , together with former GNC executive Tom Dowd , co - founded Performance Inspired , a sports nutrition company launched in 2016 . In February 2017 , Wahlberg was one of the investors who took part in a $ 6 million funding round for StockX , a sneaker resale marketplace . In March 2019 , Wahlberg bought a stake in the F45 fitness franchise .	What kind of company did you co-found in 2016?	I co-founded Performance Inspired, a sports nutrition company, in 2016.
On July 20 , 2018 , Wahlberg and his business partner , Jay Feldman , announced the purchase of Bobby Layman Chevrolet in Columbus , Ohio . The dealership was renamed Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet . Due to the success of the dealership , local ABC affiliate WSYX reported in March 2020 that Haydocy Buick - GMC , right across the street from Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet , had filed paperwork with Ohio Secretary of State Frank LaRose to rename itself Mark Wahlberg Buick - GMC ; Feldman later confirmed that he and Wahlberg were purchasing their second General Motors dealership in the city . The deal became official on June 29 , 2020 , and also included Haydocy ' s Airstream and RV dealership , located next door at the car dealership ' s former Oldsmobile showroom . Shortly afterward , Wahlberg and Feldman announced they were purchasing Jack Maxton Chevrolet in nearby Worthington , Ohio , their fourth Columbus - area dealership , with plans to rename it Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet of Worthington . A fifth dealership , Mark Wahlberg Chevrolet of Avon , was added in Avon , Ohio in July 2021 ; unlike the other dealerships , the Avon location is in Greater Cleveland , marking Wahlberg and Feldman ' s entry into Northeast Ohio .	When did you and your business partner announce the purchase of Bobby Layman Chevrolet in Columbus, Ohio?	On July 20, 2018.
He starred in M . Night Shyamalan ' s The Happening as Eliot Moore , which premiered in movie theaters on June 13 , 2008 . The same year , he played the title role in Max Payne , based on the video game of the same name . While promoting Max Payne , Wahlberg became involved in a playful feud with The Lonely Island ' s Andy Samberg . Samberg had done an impression of Wahlberg in a Saturday Night Live sketch titled " Mark Wahlberg Talks to Animals " . Wahlberg later appeared in a follow - up sketch parodying the original one , Samberg ' s impression of Wahlberg , and his own threats to Samberg .	Who did you have a playful feud with while promoting Max Payne?	I had a playful feud with The Lonely Island ' s Andy Samberg.
Wahlberg was booked to fly on American Airlines Flight 11 on September 11 , 2001 , but his plans changed the day before and he canceled his reservation . He received backlash for stating in a 2012 interview , " If I was on that plane with my kids , it wouldn ' t have went down like it did " . He added that " there would have been a lot of blood in that first - class cabin and then me saying , ' OK , we ' re going to land somewhere safely , don ' t worry . ' " He issued an apology after family members of those killed on the flight expressed outrage .	What did Wahlbeyourg say in a 2012 interview about the events of September 11, 2001?	I stated, "If I was on that plane with my kids, it wouldn't have went down like it did."
