Zuckerberg met his future wife , fellow Harvard student Priscilla Chan , at a frat party during his sophomore year there . They began dating in 2003 . In September 2010 , Chan , who was by then a medical student at the University of California , San Francisco , moved into Zuckerberg ' s rented house in Palo Alto , California . On May 19 , 2012 , they married in the grounds of his mansion in an event that also celebrated her graduation from medical school . On July 31 , 2015 , Zuckerberg revealed they were expecting a baby girl and that Chan had previously experienced three miscarriages . Their daughter , Maxima Chan Zuckerberg , was born on December 1 , 2015 . They announced in a Chinese New Year video that their daughter ' s Chinese name is Chen Mingyu ( Chinese : 陈明宇 ) . Their second daughter , August , was born in August 2017 . Zuckerberg and his wife welcomed their third daughter Aurelia on March 24 , 2023 , and announced the news across his social media pages .	When did you and Chan begin dating?	I and Chan began dating in 2003.
In 2010 , Steven Levy , who wrote the 1984 book Hackers : Heroes of the Computer Revolution , wrote that Zuckerberg " clearly thinks of himself as a hacker " . Zuckerberg said that " it ' s OK to break things " " to make them better " . Facebook instituted " hackathons " held every six to eight weeks where participants would have one night to conceive of and complete a project . The company provided music , food , and beer at the hackathons , and many Facebook staff members , including Zuckerberg , regularly attended . " The idea is that you can build something really good in a night " , Zuckerberg told Levy . " And that ' s part of the personality of Facebook now   ... It ' s definitely very core to my personality . "	What do you say about breaking things?	"It's OK to break things" "to make them better"
A movie based on Zuckerberg and the founding years of Facebook , The Social Network was released on October 1 , 2010 , starring Jesse Eisenberg as Zuckerberg . After Zuckerberg was told about the film , he responded , " I just wished that nobody made a movie of me while I was still alive . " Also , after the film ' s script was leaked on the Internet and it was apparent that the film would not portray Zuckerberg in a wholly positive light , he stated that he wanted to establish himself as a " good guy " . The film is based on the book The Accidental Billionaires by Ben Mezrich , which the book ' s publicist once described as " big juicy fun " rather than " reportage " . The film ' s screenwriter Aaron Sorkin told New York magazine , " I don ' t want my fidelity to be the truth ; I want it to be storytelling " , adding , " What is the big deal about accuracy purely for accuracy ' s sake , and can we not have the true be the enemy of the good ? "	What did you state after the film's script was leaked?	I stated that I wanted to establish myself as a "good guy" after it was apparent that the film would not portray me in a wholly positive light.
Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard in his sophomore year in order to complete the project . Zuckerberg , Moskovitz and the other co - founders moved to Palo Alto , California , where they leased a small house that served as an office . Over the summer , Zuckerberg met Peter Thiel , who invested in the company . They got their first office in mid - 2004 . According to Zuckerberg , the group planned to return to Harvard , but they eventually decided to remain in California , where Zuckerberg appreciated the " mythical place " of Silicon Valley , the center of computer technology in California . They had already turned down offers by major corporations to buy the company . In an interview in 2007 , Zuckerberg explained his reasoning : " It ' s not because of the amount of money . For me and my colleagues , the most important thing is that we create an open information flow for people . Having media corporations owned by conglomerates is just not an attractive idea to me . " The same year , speaking at Y Combinator ' s Startup School course at Stanford University , Zuckerberg made a controversial assertion that " young people are just smarter " and that other entrepreneurs should bias towards hiring young people .	Who invested in the company after you met him?	Peter Thiel invested in the company after meeting me.
On April 11 , 2013 , Zuckerberg led the launch of a 501 ( c ) ( 4 ) lobbying group called FWD . us . The founders and contributors to the group were primarily Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and investors , and its president was Joe Green , a close friend of Zuckerberg . The goals of the group include immigration reform , improving the state of education in the United States , and enabling more technological breakthroughs that benefit the public , yet it has also been criticized for financing ads advocating a variety of oil and gas development initiatives , including drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the Keystone XL pipeline . In 2013 , numerous liberal and progressive groups , such as The League of Conservation Voters , MoveOn . org , the Sierra Club , Democracy for America , CREDO , Daily Kos , 350 . org , and Presente and Progressives United agreed to either pull their Facebook ad buys or not buy Facebook ads for at least two weeks , in protest of Zuckerberg ads funded by FWD . us that were in support of oil drilling and the Keystone XL pipeline , and in opposition to Obamacare among Republican United States senators who back immigration reform . [ clarification needed ]	Who led the launch of FWD.us?	I led the launch of FWD.us.
On December 1 , 2015 , Zuckerberg and Chan pledged to transfer 99% of their Facebook shares , then valued at US $ 45   billion , to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative . The funds would not be transferred immediately , but over the course of their lives . Instead of forming a charitable corporation to donate the value of the stock to , as Bill Gates , Warren Buffett , Larry Page , Sergey Brin and other billionaires have done , Zuckerberg and Chan chose to use the structure of a limited liability company ( LLC ) . Some journalists and academics have said the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative conducts philanthrocapitalism .	To which initiative did you and Chan pledge to transfer your shares?	I pledged to transfer my shares to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative.
Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard in his sophomore year in order to complete the project . Zuckerberg , Moskovitz and the other co - founders moved to Palo Alto , California , where they leased a small house that served as an office . Over the summer , Zuckerberg met Peter Thiel , who invested in the company . They got their first office in mid - 2004 . According to Zuckerberg , the group planned to return to Harvard , but they eventually decided to remain in California , where Zuckerberg appreciated the " mythical place " of Silicon Valley , the center of computer technology in California . They had already turned down offers by major corporations to buy the company . In an interview in 2007 , Zuckerberg explained his reasoning : " It ' s not because of the amount of money . For me and my colleagues , the most important thing is that we create an open information flow for people . Having media corporations owned by conglomerates is just not an attractive idea to me . " The same year , speaking at Y Combinator ' s Startup School course at Stanford University , Zuckerberg made a controversial assertion that " young people are just smarter " and that other entrepreneurs should bias towards hiring young people .	Why did you and your team decide to remain in California?	We decided to remain in California because I appreciated the "mythical place" of Silicon Valley, the center of computer technology in California.
Zuckerberg ' s Facebook started off as just a " Harvard thing " until he decided to spread it to other schools , enlisting the help of roommate Dustin Moskovitz . They began with Columbia , New York University , Stanford , Dartmouth , Cornell , University of Pennsylvania , Brown , and Yale .	What was the initial scope of your Facebook?	My Facebook started off as just a "Harvard thing".
Zuckerberg ' s Facebook started off as just a " Harvard thing " until he decided to spread it to other schools , enlisting the help of roommate Dustin Moskovitz . They began with Columbia , New York University , Stanford , Dartmouth , Cornell , University of Pennsylvania , Brown , and Yale .	How did your expansion to other schools start?	My expansion to other schools started when I and Moskovitz decided to spread it beyond Harvard.
In 2010 , Steven Levy , who wrote the 1984 book Hackers : Heroes of the Computer Revolution , wrote that Zuckerberg " clearly thinks of himself as a hacker " . Zuckerberg said that " it ' s OK to break things " " to make them better " . Facebook instituted " hackathons " held every six to eight weeks where participants would have one night to conceive of and complete a project . The company provided music , food , and beer at the hackathons , and many Facebook staff members , including Zuckerberg , regularly attended . " The idea is that you can build something really good in a night " , Zuckerberg told Levy . " And that ' s part of the personality of Facebook now   ... It ' s definitely very core to my personality . "	How often were the "hackathons" held by your company?	Every six to eight weeks
Zuckerberg founded the Start - up : Education foundation . On September 22 , 2010 , it was reported that Zuckerberg had donated $ 100   million to Newark Public Schools , the public school system of Newark , New Jersey . Critics noted the timing of the donation as being close to the release of The Social Network , which painted a somewhat negative portrait of Zuckerberg . Zuckerberg responded to the criticism , saying , " The thing that I was most sensitive about with the movie timing was , I didn ' t want the press about The Social Network movie to get conflated with the Newark project . I was thinking about doing this anonymously just so that the two things could be kept separate . " Newark Mayor Cory Booker stated that he and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie had to convince Zuckerberg ' s team not to make the donation anonymously . The money was largely wasted , according to journalist Dale Russakoff .	Where is Newark Public Schools located?	Newark Public Schools is located in Newark, New Jersey.
On January 29 , 2011 , Zuckerberg made a surprise guest appearance on Saturday Night Live , which was hosted by Jesse Eisenberg . They both said it was the first time they had met . Eisenberg asked Zuckerberg , who had been critical of his portrayal by the film , what he thought of the movie . Zuckerberg replied , " It was interesting . " In a subsequent interview about their meeting , Eisenberg explained that he was " nervous to meet him , because I had spent now , a year and a half thinking about him   ... " He added , " Mark has been so gracious about something that ' s really so uncomfortable   ... The fact that he would do SNL and make fun of the situation is so sweet and so generous . It ' s the best possible way to handle something that , I think , could otherwise be very uncomfortable . "	What did you ask me during our meeting on Saturday Night Live?	I asked you what you thought of the movie that portrayed you.
Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard in his sophomore year in order to complete the project . Zuckerberg , Moskovitz and the other co - founders moved to Palo Alto , California , where they leased a small house that served as an office . Over the summer , Zuckerberg met Peter Thiel , who invested in the company . They got their first office in mid - 2004 . According to Zuckerberg , the group planned to return to Harvard , but they eventually decided to remain in California , where Zuckerberg appreciated the " mythical place " of Silicon Valley , the center of computer technology in California . They had already turned down offers by major corporations to buy the company . In an interview in 2007 , Zuckerberg explained his reasoning : " It ' s not because of the amount of money . For me and my colleagues , the most important thing is that we create an open information flow for people . Having media corporations owned by conglomerates is just not an attractive idea to me . " The same year , speaking at Y Combinator ' s Startup School course at Stanford University , Zuckerberg made a controversial assertion that " young people are just smarter " and that other entrepreneurs should bias towards hiring young people .	Where did you and your co-founders move to after leaving Harvard?	I, Moskovitz, and the other co-founders moved to Palo Alto, California.
A movie based on Zuckerberg and the founding years of Facebook , The Social Network was released on October 1 , 2010 , starring Jesse Eisenberg as Zuckerberg . After Zuckerberg was told about the film , he responded , " I just wished that nobody made a movie of me while I was still alive . " Also , after the film ' s script was leaked on the Internet and it was apparent that the film would not portray Zuckerberg in a wholly positive light , he stated that he wanted to establish himself as a " good guy " . The film is based on the book The Accidental Billionaires by Ben Mezrich , which the book ' s publicist once described as " big juicy fun " rather than " reportage " . The film ' s screenwriter Aaron Sorkin told New York magazine , " I don ' t want my fidelity to be the truth ; I want it to be storytelling " , adding , " What is the big deal about accuracy purely for accuracy ' s sake , and can we not have the true be the enemy of the good ? "	How did you respond when you were told about the film?	I responded by saying, "I just wished that nobody made a movie of me while I was still alive."
A movie based on Zuckerberg and the founding years of Facebook , The Social Network was released on October 1 , 2010 , starring Jesse Eisenberg as Zuckerberg . After Zuckerberg was told about the film , he responded , " I just wished that nobody made a movie of me while I was still alive . " Also , after the film ' s script was leaked on the Internet and it was apparent that the film would not portray Zuckerberg in a wholly positive light , he stated that he wanted to establish himself as a " good guy " . The film is based on the book The Accidental Billionaires by Ben Mezrich , which the book ' s publicist once described as " big juicy fun " rather than " reportage " . The film ' s screenwriter Aaron Sorkin told New York magazine , " I don ' t want my fidelity to be the truth ; I want it to be storytelling " , adding , " What is the big deal about accuracy purely for accuracy ' s sake , and can we not have the true be the enemy of the good ? "	When was The Social Network released and who played you?	The Social Network was released on October 1, 2010, and Jesse Eisenberg played me.
On December 1 , 2015 , Zuckerberg and Chan pledged to transfer 99% of their Facebook shares , then valued at US $ 45   billion , to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative . The funds would not be transferred immediately , but over the course of their lives . Instead of forming a charitable corporation to donate the value of the stock to , as Bill Gates , Warren Buffett , Larry Page , Sergey Brin and other billionaires have done , Zuckerberg and Chan chose to use the structure of a limited liability company ( LLC ) . Some journalists and academics have said the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative conducts philanthrocapitalism .	When did you and Chan pledge to transfer your Facebook shares?	On December 1, 2015.
On December 1 , 2015 , Zuckerberg and Chan pledged to transfer 99% of their Facebook shares , then valued at US $ 45   billion , to the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative . The funds would not be transferred immediately , but over the course of their lives . Instead of forming a charitable corporation to donate the value of the stock to , as Bill Gates , Warren Buffett , Larry Page , Sergey Brin and other billionaires have done , Zuckerberg and Chan chose to use the structure of a limited liability company ( LLC ) . Some journalists and academics have said the Chan Zuckerberg Initiative conducts philanthrocapitalism .	What have some journalists and academics said about our Initiative?	Some journalists and academics have said that our Initiative conducts philanthrocapitalism.
In June 2010 , Paul Ceglia , the owner of a wood pellet fuel company in Allegany County , upstate New York , filed suit against Zuckerberg , claiming 84 percent ownership of Facebook and seeking monetary damages . According to Ceglia , he and Zuckerberg signed a contract on April 28 , 2003 , that an initial fee of $ 1 , 000 entitled Ceglia to 50% of the website ' s revenue , as well as an additional 1% interest in the business per day after January 1 , 2004 , until website completion . Zuckerberg was developing other projects at the time , among which was Facemash , the predecessor of Facebook , but did not register the domain name thefacebook . com until January 1 , 2004 . Facebook management dismissed the lawsuit as " completely frivolous " . Facebook spokesman Barry Schnitt told a reporter that Ceglia ' s counsel had unsuccessfully sought an out - of - court settlement .	What did your spokesperson say about the lawsuit?	The lawsuit was dismissed as "completely frivolous".
In 2010 , Steven Levy , who wrote the 1984 book Hackers : Heroes of the Computer Revolution , wrote that Zuckerberg " clearly thinks of himself as a hacker " . Zuckerberg said that " it ' s OK to break things " " to make them better " . Facebook instituted " hackathons " held every six to eight weeks where participants would have one night to conceive of and complete a project . The company provided music , food , and beer at the hackathons , and many Facebook staff members , including Zuckerberg , regularly attended . " The idea is that you can build something really good in a night " , Zuckerberg told Levy . " And that ' s part of the personality of Facebook now   ... It ' s definitely very core to my personality . "	According to Steven Levy, how do you think of yourself?	As a hacker
On January 29 , 2011 , Zuckerberg made a surprise guest appearance on Saturday Night Live , which was hosted by Jesse Eisenberg . They both said it was the first time they had met . Eisenberg asked Zuckerberg , who had been critical of his portrayal by the film , what he thought of the movie . Zuckerberg replied , " It was interesting . " In a subsequent interview about their meeting , Eisenberg explained that he was " nervous to meet him , because I had spent now , a year and a half thinking about him   ... " He added , " Mark has been so gracious about something that ' s really so uncomfortable   ... The fact that he would do SNL and make fun of the situation is so sweet and so generous . It ' s the best possible way to handle something that , I think , could otherwise be very uncomfortable . "	When did you make a surprise guest appearance on Saturday Night Live?	On January 29, 2011.
Zuckerberg dropped out of Harvard in his sophomore year in order to complete the project . Zuckerberg , Moskovitz and the other co - founders moved to Palo Alto , California , where they leased a small house that served as an office . Over the summer , Zuckerberg met Peter Thiel , who invested in the company . They got their first office in mid - 2004 . According to Zuckerberg , the group planned to return to Harvard , but they eventually decided to remain in California , where Zuckerberg appreciated the " mythical place " of Silicon Valley , the center of computer technology in California . They had already turned down offers by major corporations to buy the company . In an interview in 2007 , Zuckerberg explained his reasoning : " It ' s not because of the amount of money . For me and my colleagues , the most important thing is that we create an open information flow for people . Having media corporations owned by conglomerates is just not an attractive idea to me . " The same year , speaking at Y Combinator ' s Startup School course at Stanford University , Zuckerberg made a controversial assertion that " young people are just smarter " and that other entrepreneurs should bias towards hiring young people .	Did you and your team plan to return to Harvard?	Yes, we initially planned to return to Harvard.
On April 11 , 2013 , Zuckerberg led the launch of a 501 ( c ) ( 4 ) lobbying group called FWD . us . The founders and contributors to the group were primarily Silicon Valley entrepreneurs and investors , and its president was Joe Green , a close friend of Zuckerberg . The goals of the group include immigration reform , improving the state of education in the United States , and enabling more technological breakthroughs that benefit the public , yet it has also been criticized for financing ads advocating a variety of oil and gas development initiatives , including drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge and the Keystone XL pipeline . In 2013 , numerous liberal and progressive groups , such as The League of Conservation Voters , MoveOn . org , the Sierra Club , Democracy for America , CREDO , Daily Kos , 350 . org , and Presente and Progressives United agreed to either pull their Facebook ad buys or not buy Facebook ads for at least two weeks , in protest of Zuckerberg ads funded by FWD . us that were in support of oil drilling and the Keystone XL pipeline , and in opposition to Obamacare among Republican United States senators who back immigration reform . [ clarification needed ]	Who was the president of FWD.us?	Joe Green was the president of FWD.us.
Zuckerberg founded the Start - up : Education foundation . On September 22 , 2010 , it was reported that Zuckerberg had donated $ 100   million to Newark Public Schools , the public school system of Newark , New Jersey . Critics noted the timing of the donation as being close to the release of The Social Network , which painted a somewhat negative portrait of Zuckerberg . Zuckerberg responded to the criticism , saying , " The thing that I was most sensitive about with the movie timing was , I didn ' t want the press about The Social Network movie to get conflated with the Newark project . I was thinking about doing this anonymously just so that the two things could be kept separate . " Newark Mayor Cory Booker stated that he and New Jersey Governor Chris Christie had to convince Zuckerberg ' s team not to make the donation anonymously . The money was largely wasted , according to journalist Dale Russakoff .	Who founded the Start-up: Education foundation?	I founded the Start-up: Education foundation.
Zuckerberg ' s Facebook started off as just a " Harvard thing " until he decided to spread it to other schools , enlisting the help of roommate Dustin Moskovitz . They began with Columbia , New York University , Stanford , Dartmouth , Cornell , University of Pennsylvania , Brown , and Yale .	Can you list the universities that you and Moskovitz enlisted for Facebook?	The universities I enlisted for Facebook were Columbia, New York University, Stanford, Dartmouth, Cornell, University of Pennsylvania, Brown, and Yale.
In June 2010 , Paul Ceglia , the owner of a wood pellet fuel company in Allegany County , upstate New York , filed suit against Zuckerberg , claiming 84 percent ownership of Facebook and seeking monetary damages . According to Ceglia , he and Zuckerberg signed a contract on April 28 , 2003 , that an initial fee of $ 1 , 000 entitled Ceglia to 50% of the website ' s revenue , as well as an additional 1% interest in the business per day after January 1 , 2004 , until website completion . Zuckerberg was developing other projects at the time , among which was Facemash , the predecessor of Facebook , but did not register the domain name thefacebook . com until January 1 , 2004 . Facebook management dismissed the lawsuit as " completely frivolous " . Facebook spokesman Barry Schnitt told a reporter that Ceglia ' s counsel had unsuccessfully sought an out - of - court settlement .	What percentage of ownership of Facebook do you claim?	84 percent ownership.
