Fox ' s overexposure in the media led several men ' s websites , such as AskMen , to boycott her on August 4 , 2009 , although some refused to do so , feeling that the boycott was a publicity stunt and therefore hypocritical . In response to the media attention , Fox told magazine Nylon , in September of that year , that " [ the studio ] wanted to make sure [ the film ] would make $ 700   million , so they oversaturated the media with their stars " and that she did not " want to have people get completely sick of [ her ] before [ she ' s ] ever even done something legitimate . " She became much less prominent in the media by 2010 , after starring in the less commercially successful films Jonah Hex and Passion Play . That same year , Fox said , " My biggest regret is that I ' ve assisted the media in making me into a cartoon character . I don ' t regret what has happened to me , but I regret the way I have dealt with it . " Dixon and Foster stated , " The problem [ Fox ] faces is that the [ image ] construct has replaced the real in the minds of the public ; and once established , a media persona is hard to recalibrate . "	When did the boycott of you take place?	The boycott occurred on August 4, 2009.
In 2019 , Fox starred in the mystery - fantasy film Above the Shadows opposite Olivia Thirlby and Alan Ritchson , directed by Claudia Myers . It was released on July 19 , 2019 , by Gravitas Ventures . That same year , Fox appeared in Zeroville directed by James Franco , which was previously shot in 2014 . The film was panned by critics and performed poorly at the box office .	How did the film Zeroville perform at the box office?	It performed poorly.
In 2009 , Fox had her first lead role since the Transformers series ; she portrayed the title character in Jennifer ' s Body , written by Academy Award – winning screenwriter Diablo Cody . The film initially earned mixed to average reviews upon its release , with Fox ' s performance earning praise . However , the film grew a cult following over time and was critically reassessed as a " forgotten feminist classic " . According to Cody , the film was marketed incorrectly by executives who focused their efforts on the young male audience .	When did you have your first lead role since the Transformers series?	In 2009.
In 2009 , Fox ' s public image came under scrutiny when an unsigned letter from three crew members of Transformers defended director Michael Bay against accusations made by Fox about his on - set behavior , including a comparison with Adolf Hitler . In response to the letter alleging that Fox ' s on - set behavior is unpleasant and contrasts her public persona , Bay stated he does not condone the letter or Fox ' s " outlandish quotes " , but " her crazy quips are part of her crazy charm " , and that they still work well together . A production assistant who worked on Transformers also stated that he never saw Fox act inappropriately on set . Fox said the letter ' s claims were false , and that she had privately spoken with the parties involved . She said she was " very fortunate " to be a part of the franchise , and was looking forward to continuing her work . DiPaolo concluded that Fox ' s criticism of the media sexually objectifying girls and women was in stark contrast to her sex symbol status and that " her defiance of director Michael Bay and frequent outspoken comments " stifled her career .	How did you respond to the letter about my on-set behavior?	I stated I do not condone the letter or your "outlandish quotes", but I mentioned that your crazy quips are part of your crazy charm and that we still work well together.
In 2015 , Fox was cast in the role of Amelia Delthanis in the Plarium video game , Stormfall : Rise of Balur . In October 2015 , it was confirmed that Fox would be temporarily replacing Zooey Deschanel in the television sitcom New Girl , following Deschanel ' s maternity leave . She starred as Reagan Lucas , appearing in the fifth and sixth seasons of the series . Her performance earned positive reviews from critics . In 2016 , Fox reprised her role of April O ' Neil in the sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles : Out of the Shadows .	Which role did you reprise in the sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles: Out of the Shadows?	I reprised my role of April O'Neil in the sequel.
In 2015 , Fox was cast in the role of Amelia Delthanis in the Plarium video game , Stormfall : Rise of Balur . In October 2015 , it was confirmed that Fox would be temporarily replacing Zooey Deschanel in the television sitcom New Girl , following Deschanel ' s maternity leave . She starred as Reagan Lucas , appearing in the fifth and sixth seasons of the series . Her performance earned positive reviews from critics . In 2016 , Fox reprised her role of April O ' Neil in the sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles : Out of the Shadows .	In which seasons of New Girl did you appear as Reagan Lucas?	I appeared in the fifth and sixth seasons of New Girl as Reagan Lucas.
Fox will feature as a voice role in Naya Legend of the Golden Dolphins , a 3D documentary film . The story is told by an ensemble cast , including Kate Winslet , Elliot Page , Gerard Butler , James Franco , Julian Lennon , Diego Luna , Cheech Marin , Whoopi Goldberg , Isabella Rossellini , and Daryl Hannah . Fox will play crime boss Alana in thriller film Johnny & Clyde with Tyson Ritter . Fox will play a role in the film Taurus , a musical drama , alongside Machine Gun Kelly , Naomi Wild , and Lil Tjay .	Who will be your co-stars in the film Taurus?	Machine Gun Kelly, Naomi Wild, and Lil Tjay
In June 2020 , she and singer Machine Gun Kelly went public about their relationship , several weeks after the release of Machine Gun Kelly ' s song " Bloody Valentine " , whose music video features Fox . On January 12 , 2022 , Fox announced that the two were engaged .	When did you announce that you and Machine Gun Kelly were engaged?	On January 12, 2022.
In 2009 , Fox had her first lead role since the Transformers series ; she portrayed the title character in Jennifer ' s Body , written by Academy Award – winning screenwriter Diablo Cody . The film initially earned mixed to average reviews upon its release , with Fox ' s performance earning praise . However , the film grew a cult following over time and was critically reassessed as a " forgotten feminist classic " . According to Cody , the film was marketed incorrectly by executives who focused their efforts on the young male audience .	How was the film Jennifer's Body initially received?	It earned mixed to average reviews upon its release.
In 2009 , Fox ' s public image came under scrutiny when an unsigned letter from three crew members of Transformers defended director Michael Bay against accusations made by Fox about his on - set behavior , including a comparison with Adolf Hitler . In response to the letter alleging that Fox ' s on - set behavior is unpleasant and contrasts her public persona , Bay stated he does not condone the letter or Fox ' s " outlandish quotes " , but " her crazy quips are part of her crazy charm " , and that they still work well together . A production assistant who worked on Transformers also stated that he never saw Fox act inappropriately on set . Fox said the letter ' s claims were false , and that she had privately spoken with the parties involved . She said she was " very fortunate " to be a part of the franchise , and was looking forward to continuing her work . DiPaolo concluded that Fox ' s criticism of the media sexually objectifying girls and women was in stark contrast to her sex symbol status and that " her defiance of director Michael Bay and frequent outspoken comments " stifled her career .	When did your public image come under scrutiny?	In 2009.
In April 2009 , she began filming the western superhero film Jonah Hex , in which she portrayed Tallulah Black / Leila , a gun - wielding beauty and Jonah Hex ' s ( Josh Brolin ) love interest . The film was released on June 18 , 2010 . Despite receiving top billing , Fox described her role in the film as being a cameo . Jonah Hex was a critical and commercial failure in the U . S . , with its international distribution cancelled after its poor performance . The film was named the " worst picture of the year " by the Houston Film Critics Society .	What character did you portray in the film Jonah Hex?	I portrayed Tallulah Black / Leila.
Fox ' s overexposure in the media led several men ' s websites , such as AskMen , to boycott her on August 4 , 2009 , although some refused to do so , feeling that the boycott was a publicity stunt and therefore hypocritical . In response to the media attention , Fox told magazine Nylon , in September of that year , that " [ the studio ] wanted to make sure [ the film ] would make $ 700   million , so they oversaturated the media with their stars " and that she did not " want to have people get completely sick of [ her ] before [ she ' s ] ever even done something legitimate . " She became much less prominent in the media by 2010 , after starring in the less commercially successful films Jonah Hex and Passion Play . That same year , Fox said , " My biggest regret is that I ' ve assisted the media in making me into a cartoon character . I don ' t regret what has happened to me , but I regret the way I have dealt with it . " Dixon and Foster stated , " The problem [ Fox ] faces is that the [ image ] construct has replaced the real in the minds of the public ; and once established , a media persona is hard to recalibrate . "	How did you respond to the media attention?	I told magazine Nylon in September of that year that the studio wanted to ensure the film's success by oversaturating the media with their stars.
Fox will feature as a voice role in Naya Legend of the Golden Dolphins , a 3D documentary film . The story is told by an ensemble cast , including Kate Winslet , Elliot Page , Gerard Butler , James Franco , Julian Lennon , Diego Luna , Cheech Marin , Whoopi Goldberg , Isabella Rossellini , and Daryl Hannah . Fox will play crime boss Alana in thriller film Johnny & Clyde with Tyson Ritter . Fox will play a role in the film Taurus , a musical drama , alongside Machine Gun Kelly , Naomi Wild , and Lil Tjay .	In which film will you play the role of crime boss Alana?	Johnny & Clyde
In April 2009 , she began filming the western superhero film Jonah Hex , in which she portrayed Tallulah Black / Leila , a gun - wielding beauty and Jonah Hex ' s ( Josh Brolin ) love interest . The film was released on June 18 , 2010 . Despite receiving top billing , Fox described her role in the film as being a cameo . Jonah Hex was a critical and commercial failure in the U . S . , with its international distribution cancelled after its poor performance . The film was named the " worst picture of the year " by the Houston Film Critics Society .	What film did you begin filming in April 2009?	I began filming the western superhero film Jonah Hex.
In 2015 , Fox was cast in the role of Amelia Delthanis in the Plarium video game , Stormfall : Rise of Balur . In October 2015 , it was confirmed that Fox would be temporarily replacing Zooey Deschanel in the television sitcom New Girl , following Deschanel ' s maternity leave . She starred as Reagan Lucas , appearing in the fifth and sixth seasons of the series . Her performance earned positive reviews from critics . In 2016 , Fox reprised her role of April O ' Neil in the sequel Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles : Out of the Shadows .	Who did you temporarily replace in the television sitcom New Girl?	I temporarily replaced Zooey Deschanel in the show.
Fox ' s overexposure in the media led several men ' s websites , such as AskMen , to boycott her on August 4 , 2009 , although some refused to do so , feeling that the boycott was a publicity stunt and therefore hypocritical . In response to the media attention , Fox told magazine Nylon , in September of that year , that " [ the studio ] wanted to make sure [ the film ] would make $ 700   million , so they oversaturated the media with their stars " and that she did not " want to have people get completely sick of [ her ] before [ she ' s ] ever even done something legitimate . " She became much less prominent in the media by 2010 , after starring in the less commercially successful films Jonah Hex and Passion Play . That same year , Fox said , " My biggest regret is that I ' ve assisted the media in making me into a cartoon character . I don ' t regret what has happened to me , but I regret the way I have dealt with it . " Dixon and Foster stated , " The problem [ Fox ] faces is that the [ image ] construct has replaced the real in the minds of the public ; and once established , a media persona is hard to recalibrate . "	What films did you star in after becoming less prominent in the media?	I starred in the films Jonah Hex and Passion Play.
In April 2009 , she began filming the western superhero film Jonah Hex , in which she portrayed Tallulah Black / Leila , a gun - wielding beauty and Jonah Hex ' s ( Josh Brolin ) love interest . The film was released on June 18 , 2010 . Despite receiving top billing , Fox described her role in the film as being a cameo . Jonah Hex was a critical and commercial failure in the U . S . , with its international distribution cancelled after its poor performance . The film was named the " worst picture of the year " by the Houston Film Critics Society .	Who is Jonah Hex's love interest in the film?	Jonah Hex's love interest in the film is Tallulah Black / Leila.
Fox and Green married on June 24 , 2010 , in a private ceremony at the Four Seasons Resort on Maui . Together , they have three sons , born in 2012 , 2014 , and 2016 . Fox was also a stepmother to Green ' s son from a previous relationship . Fox filed for divorce on August 21 , 2015 , a few days after she and Green announced their separation . By early 2016 , they were back together and expecting their third child . On April 25 , 2019 , Fox filed to dismiss the divorce in Los Angeles , California .	Where did you and Green have your wedding ceremony?	We had our wedding ceremony at the Four Seasons Resort on Maui.
Fox ' s overexposure in the media led several men ' s websites , such as AskMen , to boycott her on August 4 , 2009 , although some refused to do so , feeling that the boycott was a publicity stunt and therefore hypocritical . In response to the media attention , Fox told magazine Nylon , in September of that year , that " [ the studio ] wanted to make sure [ the film ] would make $ 700   million , so they oversaturated the media with their stars " and that she did not " want to have people get completely sick of [ her ] before [ she ' s ] ever even done something legitimate . " She became much less prominent in the media by 2010 , after starring in the less commercially successful films Jonah Hex and Passion Play . That same year , Fox said , " My biggest regret is that I ' ve assisted the media in making me into a cartoon character . I don ' t regret what has happened to me , but I regret the way I have dealt with it . " Dixon and Foster stated , " The problem [ Fox ] faces is that the [ image ] construct has replaced the real in the minds of the public ; and once established , a media persona is hard to recalibrate . "	What led to your boycott by men's websites?	My overexposure in the media.
In 2009 , Fox ' s public image came under scrutiny when an unsigned letter from three crew members of Transformers defended director Michael Bay against accusations made by Fox about his on - set behavior , including a comparison with Adolf Hitler . In response to the letter alleging that Fox ' s on - set behavior is unpleasant and contrasts her public persona , Bay stated he does not condone the letter or Fox ' s " outlandish quotes " , but " her crazy quips are part of her crazy charm " , and that they still work well together . A production assistant who worked on Transformers also stated that he never saw Fox act inappropriately on set . Fox said the letter ' s claims were false , and that she had privately spoken with the parties involved . She said she was " very fortunate " to be a part of the franchise , and was looking forward to continuing her work . DiPaolo concluded that Fox ' s criticism of the media sexually objectifying girls and women was in stark contrast to her sex symbol status and that " her defiance of director Michael Bay and frequent outspoken comments " stifled her career .	Who defended director Michael Bay against accusations made by you?	Three crew members of Transformers.
In 2009 , Fox had her first lead role since the Transformers series ; she portrayed the title character in Jennifer ' s Body , written by Academy Award – winning screenwriter Diablo Cody . The film initially earned mixed to average reviews upon its release , with Fox ' s performance earning praise . However , the film grew a cult following over time and was critically reassessed as a " forgotten feminist classic " . According to Cody , the film was marketed incorrectly by executives who focused their efforts on the young male audience .	Who wrote the movie Jennifer's Body?	Academy Award-winning screenwriter Diablo Cody.
Fox began dating actor Brian Austin Green in 2004 , after meeting on the set of Hope & Faith ; she was 18 years old , while he was 30 . According to Fox , Green was initially hesitant to enter a relationship with her due to the age difference , stating , " I had to convince him that I was slightly more responsible and well - spoken and had other things to bring to the table besides being 18 . " They became engaged in November 2006 . In February 2009 , they ended their engagement , but were reported to have gotten engaged again on June 1 , 2010 . Fox maintained that she and Green had been continuously engaged since 2006 .	How old were you when you started dating Brian Austin Green?	I was 18 years old.
In 2009 , Fox had her first lead role since the Transformers series ; she portrayed the title character in Jennifer ' s Body , written by Academy Award – winning screenwriter Diablo Cody . The film initially earned mixed to average reviews upon its release , with Fox ' s performance earning praise . However , the film grew a cult following over time and was critically reassessed as a " forgotten feminist classic " . According to Cody , the film was marketed incorrectly by executives who focused their efforts on the young male audience .	How was the film Jennifer's Body later reassessed?	It was critically reassessed as a "forgotten feminist classic".
Fox began dating actor Brian Austin Green in 2004 , after meeting on the set of Hope & Faith ; she was 18 years old , while he was 30 . According to Fox , Green was initially hesitant to enter a relationship with her due to the age difference , stating , " I had to convince him that I was slightly more responsible and well - spoken and had other things to bring to the table besides being 18 . " They became engaged in November 2006 . In February 2009 , they ended their engagement , but were reported to have gotten engaged again on June 1 , 2010 . Fox maintained that she and Green had been continuously engaged since 2006 .	When did you and Brian Austin Green start dating?	We began dating in 2004.
