In 2018 , Time selected Meghan as one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World and placed her on its shortlist for Person of the Year . Her name appeared again on the listicle in 2021 and she and her husband were featured on one of the magazine ' s seven worldwide covers . In 2019 , the magazine named Meghan and Prince Harry among the 25 Most Influential People on the Internet . She was also chosen as one of the 25 most influential women in the United Kingdom by British Vogue magazine in 2018 , 2019 , and 2021 . Her influence was also recognized in both the 2019 and 2020 editions of Powerlist , the 100 most influential Britons of African and Afro - Caribbean descent . In 2022 , she was named as one of the 50 Women Changing the World over the past year by Worth magazine . In the same year , Variety named her as a stellar honoree for its Power of Women issue , and Financial Times included her on its list of " 25 most influential women of 2022 " . In December 2022 , Meghan was found to be the second most disliked member of the British royal family by statistics and polling company YouGov , behind her husband ' s uncle Prince Andrew . In March 2023 , The Independent included her in its " Influence List 2023 " . Meghan and Harry ' s exit from the royal family was satirized in a 2023 episode of South Park .	Which magazine named you as one of the 50 Women Changing the World over the past year in 2022?	The magazine that named me as one of the 50 Women Changing the World over the past year in 2022 was Worth magazine.
In November 2016 , the MailOnline was criticized for running an article on Markle ' s family background titled " ( Almost ) Straight Outta Compton " , which triggered a response from Prince Harry ' s Communications Secretary . In October 2019 , Meghan filed a lawsuit against Associated Newspapers Limited ( ANL ) , the publisher of The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline over the publication of a letter she had sent to her father . Thomas Markle Sr . had provided the publisher with excerpts of the letter after five of his daughter ' s friends , including Abigail Spencer , referenced it in a People article . She subsequently received support from more than 70 female MPs from different parties who in an open letter condemned the use of " outdated , colonial undertones " against her in some national media outlets . In May 2020 , the court dismissed claims of the tabloid ' s alleged dishonesty and malice , as they were deemed either vague or irrelevant to the case . In February 2021 , the High Court of Justice found in summary judgment that ANL ' s Mail on Sunday had invaded Meghan ' s privacy by publishing the letter , and she won her claim for " misuse of private information and copyright infringement " in May 2021 . She was given a £ 450 , 000 down payment on her £ 1.5 million legal fees as an interim payment , and pursuant to copyright law , her legal team asked for a front - page statement by The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline to acknowledge her legal victory .	Who provided the publisher with excerpts of the letter?	Thomas Markle Sr. provided the publisher with excerpts of the letter.
In November 2016 , the MailOnline was criticized for running an article on Markle ' s family background titled " ( Almost ) Straight Outta Compton " , which triggered a response from Prince Harry ' s Communications Secretary . In October 2019 , Meghan filed a lawsuit against Associated Newspapers Limited ( ANL ) , the publisher of The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline over the publication of a letter she had sent to her father . Thomas Markle Sr . had provided the publisher with excerpts of the letter after five of his daughter ' s friends , including Abigail Spencer , referenced it in a People article . She subsequently received support from more than 70 female MPs from different parties who in an open letter condemned the use of " outdated , colonial undertones " against her in some national media outlets . In May 2020 , the court dismissed claims of the tabloid ' s alleged dishonesty and malice , as they were deemed either vague or irrelevant to the case . In February 2021 , the High Court of Justice found in summary judgment that ANL ' s Mail on Sunday had invaded Meghan ' s privacy by publishing the letter , and she won her claim for " misuse of private information and copyright infringement " in May 2021 . She was given a £ 450 , 000 down payment on her £ 1.5 million legal fees as an interim payment , and pursuant to copyright law , her legal team asked for a front - page statement by The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline to acknowledge her legal victory .	Why did you file the lawsuit?	I filed the lawsuit over the publication of a letter I had sent to my father.
After the wedding , the Duke and Duchess lived at Nottingham Cottage within the grounds of Kensington Palace in London . In May 2018 , it was reported that they had signed a two - year lease on WestfieldLarge , located on the Great Tew Estate in the Cotswolds . They gave up the lease after photos of the house and its interior were published by a paparazzi agency . The couple considered settling at the 21 - bedroom Apartment 1 within the grounds of Kensington Palace , but moved to Frogmore Cottage in the Home Park of Windsor Castle instead . The Crown Estate refurbished the cottage at a cost of £ 2.4 million , paid out of the Sovereign Grant , with the Duke later reimbursing expenses beyond restoration and ordinary maintenance , a part of which was offset against rental payments that were due at the time . Meghan gave birth to a son , Archie , on May 6 , 2019 . The Duke and Duchess of Sussex ' s office moved to Buckingham Palace and officially closed on March 31 , 2020 , when the Sussexes withdrew from undertaking official royal engagements . After some months in Canada and the United States , in June 2020 the couple bought a house on the former estate of Riven Rock , Montecito , California . The next month , Meghan suffered a miscarriage . She gave birth to a daughter , Lilibet , on June 4 , 2021 . The Duke and Duchess own a Labrador named Pula , and two Beagles named Guy and Mamma Mia . Meghan previously owned a Labrador - German Shepherd cross named Bogart .	Where did you lease a property in May 2018?	In May 2018, I leased WestfieldLarge, located on the Great Tew Estate in the Cotswolds.
In summer 2019 , before announcing their decision to step down in January 2020 , Meghan and her husband were involved in talks with Jeffrey Katzenberg , the founder of the now - defunct streaming platform Quibi , over a possible role in the service without gaining personal profits , but they eventually decided against joining the project . In September 2019 , it was reported that the couple had hired New York - based PR firm Sunshine Sachs , which represented them until 2022 . The couple has also been associated with Adam Lilling ' s Plus Capital , a venture capital fund designed to connect early stage companies with influencers and investors . In June 2020 , they signed with the Harry Walker Agency , owned by media company Endeavor , to conduct paid public speaking engagements . In September 2020 , the Sussexes signed a private commercial deal with Netflix . In December 2020 , it was announced that Meghan had invested in Clevr Blends , a coffee company based in Southern California . In the same month , Meghan and Harry signed a multi - year deal with Spotify to produce and host their own programs through their audio producing company , Archewell Audio . A holiday special was released by the couple on the service in December 2020 , while Meghan ' s podcast , titled Archetypes , premiered in August 2022 .	Which PR firm represented you and your husband until 2022?	New York-based PR firm Sunshine Sachs represented me and my husband until 2022.
In 2018 , Time selected Meghan as one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World and placed her on its shortlist for Person of the Year . Her name appeared again on the listicle in 2021 and she and her husband were featured on one of the magazine ' s seven worldwide covers . In 2019 , the magazine named Meghan and Prince Harry among the 25 Most Influential People on the Internet . She was also chosen as one of the 25 most influential women in the United Kingdom by British Vogue magazine in 2018 , 2019 , and 2021 . Her influence was also recognized in both the 2019 and 2020 editions of Powerlist , the 100 most influential Britons of African and Afro - Caribbean descent . In 2022 , she was named as one of the 50 Women Changing the World over the past year by Worth magazine . In the same year , Variety named her as a stellar honoree for its Power of Women issue , and Financial Times included her on its list of " 25 most influential women of 2022 " . In December 2022 , Meghan was found to be the second most disliked member of the British royal family by statistics and polling company YouGov , behind her husband ' s uncle Prince Andrew . In March 2023 , The Independent included her in its " Influence List 2023 " . Meghan and Harry ' s exit from the royal family was satirized in a 2023 episode of South Park .	In which year were you selected as one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World by Time?	I was selected as one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World by Time in 2018.
In February 2018 , Markle and fianc é Harry attended the first annual forum of The Royal Foundation . After marriage Meghan became the foundation ' s fourth patron alongside Prince Harry , Prince William and his wife , Catherine . In May 2019 , as a part of their Heads Together initiative , the Duchess of Sussex together with her husband and in - laws , launched Shout , a text messaging service for those who suffer from mental issues . In June 2019 , it was announced that Harry and Meghan would split from the charity and establish their own foundation . Nevertheless , the couples would collaborate on mutual projects , such as the mental health initiative Heads Together . The following month , " Sussex Royal The Foundation of The Duke and Duchess of Sussex " was registered in England and Wales . However , it was confirmed on February 21 , 2020 , that " Sussex Royal " would not be used as a brand name for the couple , following their step back from official life as working royals . On August 5 , 2020 , Sussex Royal Foundation was renamed " MWX Foundation " and dissolved the same day .	When was it announced that Harry and you would establish your own foundation?	In June 2019.
In summer 2019 , before announcing their decision to step down in January 2020 , Meghan and her husband were involved in talks with Jeffrey Katzenberg , the founder of the now - defunct streaming platform Quibi , over a possible role in the service without gaining personal profits , but they eventually decided against joining the project . In September 2019 , it was reported that the couple had hired New York - based PR firm Sunshine Sachs , which represented them until 2022 . The couple has also been associated with Adam Lilling ' s Plus Capital , a venture capital fund designed to connect early stage companies with influencers and investors . In June 2020 , they signed with the Harry Walker Agency , owned by media company Endeavor , to conduct paid public speaking engagements . In September 2020 , the Sussexes signed a private commercial deal with Netflix . In December 2020 , it was announced that Meghan had invested in Clevr Blends , a coffee company based in Southern California . In the same month , Meghan and Harry signed a multi - year deal with Spotify to produce and host their own programs through their audio producing company , Archewell Audio . A holiday special was released by the couple on the service in December 2020 , while Meghan ' s podcast , titled Archetypes , premiered in August 2022 .	Did you and your husband join the streaming platform Quibi?	No, we decided against joining the Quibi project.
In 2018 , Time selected Meghan as one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World and placed her on its shortlist for Person of the Year . Her name appeared again on the listicle in 2021 and she and her husband were featured on one of the magazine ' s seven worldwide covers . In 2019 , the magazine named Meghan and Prince Harry among the 25 Most Influential People on the Internet . She was also chosen as one of the 25 most influential women in the United Kingdom by British Vogue magazine in 2018 , 2019 , and 2021 . Her influence was also recognized in both the 2019 and 2020 editions of Powerlist , the 100 most influential Britons of African and Afro - Caribbean descent . In 2022 , she was named as one of the 50 Women Changing the World over the past year by Worth magazine . In the same year , Variety named her as a stellar honoree for its Power of Women issue , and Financial Times included her on its list of " 25 most influential women of 2022 " . In December 2022 , Meghan was found to be the second most disliked member of the British royal family by statistics and polling company YouGov , behind her husband ' s uncle Prince Andrew . In March 2023 , The Independent included her in its " Influence List 2023 " . Meghan and Harry ' s exit from the royal family was satirized in a 2023 episode of South Park .	How many times have you been chosen as one of the 25 most influential women in the United Kingdom by British Vogue magazine?	I have been chosen as one of the 25 most influential women in the United Kingdom by British Vogue magazine three times - in 2018, 2019, and 2021.
In March 2021 , ITV News reported Meghan had complained directly to ITV ' s CEO about Piers Morgan ' s comments on mental health following her interview with Oprah Winfrey . Ofcom received over 57 , 000 complaints about the program including one from the Duchess of Sussex . In the same month , it was reported that an American private investigator unlawfully handed over personal details about Meghan to The Sun , including her Social Security number , cell phone number and address , when she first started dating Prince Harry in 2016 . Meghan and her husband condemned the " predatory practices " of the British tabloids , while The Sun stated that the investigator " was instructed clearly in writing to act lawfully " , and they did not " use the information he provided for any unlawful practice " .	What personal details about you were handed over to The Sun?	My Social Security number, cell phone number, and address.
Harry & Meghan , a docuseries about the Sussexes , was produced by Netflix and the couple ' s Archewell Productions and premiered on December 8 , 2022 . It is directed by Liz Garbus . The series received mixed reviews . In April 2023 , it was announced that she had signed with WME , which would represent Archewell as well .	Who produced the docuseries Harry & Meghan?	Netflix, the couple's Archewell Productions.
After the wedding , the Duke and Duchess lived at Nottingham Cottage within the grounds of Kensington Palace in London . In May 2018 , it was reported that they had signed a two - year lease on WestfieldLarge , located on the Great Tew Estate in the Cotswolds . They gave up the lease after photos of the house and its interior were published by a paparazzi agency . The couple considered settling at the 21 - bedroom Apartment 1 within the grounds of Kensington Palace , but moved to Frogmore Cottage in the Home Park of Windsor Castle instead . The Crown Estate refurbished the cottage at a cost of £ 2.4 million , paid out of the Sovereign Grant , with the Duke later reimbursing expenses beyond restoration and ordinary maintenance , a part of which was offset against rental payments that were due at the time . Meghan gave birth to a son , Archie , on May 6 , 2019 . The Duke and Duchess of Sussex ' s office moved to Buckingham Palace and officially closed on March 31 , 2020 , when the Sussexes withdrew from undertaking official royal engagements . After some months in Canada and the United States , in June 2020 the couple bought a house on the former estate of Riven Rock , Montecito , California . The next month , Meghan suffered a miscarriage . She gave birth to a daughter , Lilibet , on June 4 , 2021 . The Duke and Duchess own a Labrador named Pula , and two Beagles named Guy and Mamma Mia . Meghan previously owned a Labrador - German Shepherd cross named Bogart .	Where did you move instead of settling at Apartment 1 in Kensington Palace?	Instead of settling at Apartment 1 in Kensington Palace, we moved to Frogmore Cottage in the Home Park of Windsor Castle.
In summer 2019 , before announcing their decision to step down in January 2020 , Meghan and her husband were involved in talks with Jeffrey Katzenberg , the founder of the now - defunct streaming platform Quibi , over a possible role in the service without gaining personal profits , but they eventually decided against joining the project . In September 2019 , it was reported that the couple had hired New York - based PR firm Sunshine Sachs , which represented them until 2022 . The couple has also been associated with Adam Lilling ' s Plus Capital , a venture capital fund designed to connect early stage companies with influencers and investors . In June 2020 , they signed with the Harry Walker Agency , owned by media company Endeavor , to conduct paid public speaking engagements . In September 2020 , the Sussexes signed a private commercial deal with Netflix . In December 2020 , it was announced that Meghan had invested in Clevr Blends , a coffee company based in Southern California . In the same month , Meghan and Harry signed a multi - year deal with Spotify to produce and host their own programs through their audio producing company , Archewell Audio . A holiday special was released by the couple on the service in December 2020 , while Meghan ' s podcast , titled Archetypes , premiered in August 2022 .	When did you and your husband sign with the Harry Walker Agency?	We signed with the Harry Walker Agency in June 2020.
Harry & Meghan , a docuseries about the Sussexes , was produced by Netflix and the couple ' s Archewell Productions and premiered on December 8 , 2022 . It is directed by Liz Garbus . The series received mixed reviews . In April 2023 , it was announced that she had signed with WME , which would represent Archewell as well .	When did your docuseries Harry & Meghan premiere?	It premiered on December 8, 2022.
Between December 2022 and January 2023 , more than 25 , 000 complaints were submitted to the Independent Press Standards Organisation ( IPSO ) about a column by Jeremy Clarkson in The Sun , in which he stated that he hated Meghan " on a cellular level " and dreamed " of the day when she is made to parade naked through the streets of every town in Britain while the crowds chant , ' Shame ! ' and throw lumps of excrement at her . " On December 20 , 2022 , Conservative MP Caroline Nokes wrote to The Sun ' s editor , Victoria Newton , calling for " action [ to be ] taken " against Clarkson . The letter was signed by more than 60 cross - party MPs . On December 23 , The Sun issued an apology , stating " columnists ' opinions are their own " but they " regret the publication of this article " and are " sincerely sorry " . On the following day , a spokesperson for the Duke and Duchess of Sussex described the apology as " nothing more than a PR stunt " . Clarkson said his column a reference to a scene from the television series Game of Thrones and he later revealed that he had emailed Meghan and Harry on Christmas Day 2022 to apologise . A spokesperson for the couple said Clarkson wrote solely to Harry and the article was not an isolated incident . In February 2023 , IPSO announced that it was launching an investigation about the article .	How did The Sun respond to the controversy surrounding Clarkson's column?	The Sun issued an apology, stating that columnists' opinions are their own but they regret the publication of the article and are sincerely sorry.
In November 2016 , the MailOnline was criticized for running an article on Markle ' s family background titled " ( Almost ) Straight Outta Compton " , which triggered a response from Prince Harry ' s Communications Secretary . In October 2019 , Meghan filed a lawsuit against Associated Newspapers Limited ( ANL ) , the publisher of The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline over the publication of a letter she had sent to her father . Thomas Markle Sr . had provided the publisher with excerpts of the letter after five of his daughter ' s friends , including Abigail Spencer , referenced it in a People article . She subsequently received support from more than 70 female MPs from different parties who in an open letter condemned the use of " outdated , colonial undertones " against her in some national media outlets . In May 2020 , the court dismissed claims of the tabloid ' s alleged dishonesty and malice , as they were deemed either vague or irrelevant to the case . In February 2021 , the High Court of Justice found in summary judgment that ANL ' s Mail on Sunday had invaded Meghan ' s privacy by publishing the letter , and she won her claim for " misuse of private information and copyright infringement " in May 2021 . She was given a £ 450 , 000 down payment on her £ 1.5 million legal fees as an interim payment , and pursuant to copyright law , her legal team asked for a front - page statement by The Mail on Sunday and MailOnline to acknowledge her legal victory .	Who filed a lawsuit against Associated Newspapers Limited in October 2019?	I filed a lawsuit against Associated Newspapers Limited.
Harry & Meghan , a docuseries about the Sussexes , was produced by Netflix and the couple ' s Archewell Productions and premiered on December 8 , 2022 . It is directed by Liz Garbus . The series received mixed reviews . In April 2023 , it was announced that she had signed with WME , which would represent Archewell as well .	How did your series Harry & Meghan receive reviews?	It received mixed reviews.
After the wedding , the Duke and Duchess lived at Nottingham Cottage within the grounds of Kensington Palace in London . In May 2018 , it was reported that they had signed a two - year lease on WestfieldLarge , located on the Great Tew Estate in the Cotswolds . They gave up the lease after photos of the house and its interior were published by a paparazzi agency . The couple considered settling at the 21 - bedroom Apartment 1 within the grounds of Kensington Palace , but moved to Frogmore Cottage in the Home Park of Windsor Castle instead . The Crown Estate refurbished the cottage at a cost of £ 2.4 million , paid out of the Sovereign Grant , with the Duke later reimbursing expenses beyond restoration and ordinary maintenance , a part of which was offset against rental payments that were due at the time . Meghan gave birth to a son , Archie , on May 6 , 2019 . The Duke and Duchess of Sussex ' s office moved to Buckingham Palace and officially closed on March 31 , 2020 , when the Sussexes withdrew from undertaking official royal engagements . After some months in Canada and the United States , in June 2020 the couple bought a house on the former estate of Riven Rock , Montecito , California . The next month , Meghan suffered a miscarriage . She gave birth to a daughter , Lilibet , on June 4 , 2021 . The Duke and Duchess own a Labrador named Pula , and two Beagles named Guy and Mamma Mia . Meghan previously owned a Labrador - German Shepherd cross named Bogart .	Where did you and the Duke live after the wedding?	After the wedding, we lived at Nottingham Cottage within the grounds of Kensington Palace in London.
In March 2021 , ITV News reported Meghan had complained directly to ITV ' s CEO about Piers Morgan ' s comments on mental health following her interview with Oprah Winfrey . Ofcom received over 57 , 000 complaints about the program including one from the Duchess of Sussex . In the same month , it was reported that an American private investigator unlawfully handed over personal details about Meghan to The Sun , including her Social Security number , cell phone number and address , when she first started dating Prince Harry in 2016 . Meghan and her husband condemned the " predatory practices " of the British tabloids , while The Sun stated that the investigator " was instructed clearly in writing to act lawfully " , and they did not " use the information he provided for any unlawful practice " .	Who made a complaint to Ofcom about the program?	I did.
Between 2010 and 2012 , Markle anonymously ran the blog The Working Actress , which detailed the " pitfalls and triumphs of struggling to make it in Hollywood " . In 2014 , she founded her own lifestyle blog The Tig , which posted articles about food , fashion , beauty , travel and inspirational women . The viewing audience consisted primarily of the fans of Markle and Suits . Promotion of the blog on other social media platforms targeted three million followers on Instagram , 800 , 000 on Facebook , and 350 , 000 on Twitter . In April 2017 , The Tig closed . In January 2018 , she took all articles offline and deleted her social media accounts . It is estimated that Markle ' s social media activities annually earned her about $ 80 , 000 from endorsements and sponsorships . She was also known for socializing at Soho House .	How much do you earn annually from endorsements and sponsorships through your social media activities?	$80,000
In February 2018 , Markle and fianc é Harry attended the first annual forum of The Royal Foundation . After marriage Meghan became the foundation ' s fourth patron alongside Prince Harry , Prince William and his wife , Catherine . In May 2019 , as a part of their Heads Together initiative , the Duchess of Sussex together with her husband and in - laws , launched Shout , a text messaging service for those who suffer from mental issues . In June 2019 , it was announced that Harry and Meghan would split from the charity and establish their own foundation . Nevertheless , the couples would collaborate on mutual projects , such as the mental health initiative Heads Together . The following month , " Sussex Royal The Foundation of The Duke and Duchess of Sussex " was registered in England and Wales . However , it was confirmed on February 21 , 2020 , that " Sussex Royal " would not be used as a brand name for the couple , following their step back from official life as working royals . On August 5 , 2020 , Sussex Royal Foundation was renamed " MWX Foundation " and dissolved the same day .	Who were the patrons of The Royal Foundation after your marriage?	I, Prince Harry, Prince William, and Catherine.
Harry & Meghan , a docuseries about the Sussexes , was produced by Netflix and the couple ' s Archewell Productions and premiered on December 8 , 2022 . It is directed by Liz Garbus . The series received mixed reviews . In April 2023 , it was announced that she had signed with WME , which would represent Archewell as well .	In April 2023, what was announced about Archewell?	It was announced that Archewell had signed with WME, which would represent them.
Harry & Meghan , a docuseries about the Sussexes , was produced by Netflix and the couple ' s Archewell Productions and premiered on December 8 , 2022 . It is directed by Liz Garbus . The series received mixed reviews . In April 2023 , it was announced that she had signed with WME , which would represent Archewell as well .	Who directed the docuseries Harry & Meghan?	Liz Garbus.
In 2018 , Time selected Meghan as one of the 100 Most Influential People in the World and placed her on its shortlist for Person of the Year . Her name appeared again on the listicle in 2021 and she and her husband were featured on one of the magazine ' s seven worldwide covers . In 2019 , the magazine named Meghan and Prince Harry among the 25 Most Influential People on the Internet . She was also chosen as one of the 25 most influential women in the United Kingdom by British Vogue magazine in 2018 , 2019 , and 2021 . Her influence was also recognized in both the 2019 and 2020 editions of Powerlist , the 100 most influential Britons of African and Afro - Caribbean descent . In 2022 , she was named as one of the 50 Women Changing the World over the past year by Worth magazine . In the same year , Variety named her as a stellar honoree for its Power of Women issue , and Financial Times included her on its list of " 25 most influential women of 2022 " . In December 2022 , Meghan was found to be the second most disliked member of the British royal family by statistics and polling company YouGov , behind her husband ' s uncle Prince Andrew . In March 2023 , The Independent included her in its " Influence List 2023 " . Meghan and Harry ' s exit from the royal family was satirized in a 2023 episode of South Park .	Which magazine named you and Prince Harry among the 25 Most Influential People on the Internet in 2019?	The magazine that named me and Prince Harry among the 25 Most Influential People on the Internet was Time.
After the wedding , the Duke and Duchess lived at Nottingham Cottage within the grounds of Kensington Palace in London . In May 2018 , it was reported that they had signed a two - year lease on WestfieldLarge , located on the Great Tew Estate in the Cotswolds . They gave up the lease after photos of the house and its interior were published by a paparazzi agency . The couple considered settling at the 21 - bedroom Apartment 1 within the grounds of Kensington Palace , but moved to Frogmore Cottage in the Home Park of Windsor Castle instead . The Crown Estate refurbished the cottage at a cost of £ 2.4 million , paid out of the Sovereign Grant , with the Duke later reimbursing expenses beyond restoration and ordinary maintenance , a part of which was offset against rental payments that were due at the time . Meghan gave birth to a son , Archie , on May 6 , 2019 . The Duke and Duchess of Sussex ' s office moved to Buckingham Palace and officially closed on March 31 , 2020 , when the Sussexes withdrew from undertaking official royal engagements . After some months in Canada and the United States , in June 2020 the couple bought a house on the former estate of Riven Rock , Montecito , California . The next month , Meghan suffered a miscarriage . She gave birth to a daughter , Lilibet , on June 4 , 2021 . The Duke and Duchess own a Labrador named Pula , and two Beagles named Guy and Mamma Mia . Meghan previously owned a Labrador - German Shepherd cross named Bogart .	Why did you give up the lease on WestfieldLarge?	I gave up the lease on WestfieldLarge after photos of the house and its interior were published by a paparazzi agency.
