In August 2009 , the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield , Massachusetts , opened a Michael Jordan exhibit that contained items from his college and NBA careers as well as from the 1992 " Dream Team " ; the exhibit also has a batting baseball glove to signify Jordan ' s short career in the Minor League Baseball . After Jordan received word of his acceptance into the Hall of Fame , he selected Class of 1996 member David Thompson to present him . As Jordan would later explain during his induction speech in September 2009 , he was not a fan of the Tar Heels when growing up in North Carolina but greatly admired Thompson , who played for the rival NC State Wolfpack . In September , he was inducted into the Hall with several former Bulls teammates in attendance , including Scottie Pippen , Dennis Rodman , Charles Oakley , Ron Harper , Steve Kerr , and Toni Kuko č . Dean Smith and Doug Collins , two of Jordan ' s former coaches , were also among those present . His emotional reaction during his speech when he began to cry was captured by Associated Press photographer Stephan Savoia and would later go viral on social media as the " Crying Jordan " Internet meme . In 2016 , President Barack Obama honored Jordan with the Presidential Medal of Freedom . In October 2021 , Jordan was named to the NBA 75th Anniversary Team . In September 2022 , Jordan ' s jersey in which he played the opening game of the 1998 NBA Finals was sold for $ 10.1   million , making it the most expensive game - worn sports memorabilia in history . In December 2022 , the NBA unveiled a new MVP trophy , named in Jordan ' s honor , to be awarded beginning with the 2022 – 23 season . The " Michael Jordan Trophy " will replace the original trophy , named in honor of former NBA commissioner Maurice Podoloff , with a new Podoloff Trophy set to be awarded to the team with the best overall regular season record .	When did the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame open a your exhibit?	In August 2009.
Although Jordan was a well - rounded player , his " Air Jordan " image is also often credited with inadvertently decreasing the jump shooting skills , defense , and fundamentals of young players , a fact Jordan himself has lamented , saying : " I think it was the exposure of Michael Jordan ; the marketing of Michael Jordan . Everything was marketed towards the things that people wanted to see , which was scoring and dunking . That Michael Jordan still played defense and an all - around game , but it was never really publicized . " During his heyday , Jordan did much to increase the status of the game ; television ratings increased only during his time in the league . The popularity of the NBA in the U . S . declined after his last title . As late as 2022 , NBA Finals television ratings had not returned to the level reached during his last championship - winning season .	What happened to the popularity of the NBA in the U.S. after your last title?	The popularity of the NBA in the U.S. declined after my last title.
Jordan ' s athletic leaping ability , highlighted in his back - to - back Slam Dunk Contest championships in 1987 and 1988 , is credited by many people with having influenced a generation of young players . Several NBA players , including James and Dwyane Wade , have stated that they considered Jordan their role model while they were growing up . In addition , commentators have dubbed a number of next - generation players " the next Michael Jordan " upon their entry to the NBA , including Penny Hardaway , Grant Hill , Allen Iverson , Bryant , Vince Carter , James , and Wade . Some analysts , such as The Ringer ' s Dan Devine , drew parallels between Jordan ' s experiment at point guard in the 1988 – 89 season and the modern NBA ; for Devine , it " inadvertently foreshadowed the modern game ' s stylistic shift toward monster - usage primary playmakers " , such as Russell Westbrook , James Harden , Luka Don č i ć , and James . Don Nelson stated : " I would ' ve been playing him at point guard the day he showed up as a rookie . "	According to Dan Devine, what did your experiment at point guard in the 1988-89 season foreshadow?	According to Dan Devine, my experiment at point guard in the 1988-89 season inadvertently foreshadowed the modern game's stylistic shift towards monster-usage primary playmakers such as Russell Westbrook, James Harden, Luka Dončić, and James.
With the recognition that 2002 – 03 would be Jordan ' s final season , tributes were paid to him throughout the NBA . In his final game at the United Center in Chicago , which was his old home court , Jordan received a four - minute standing ovation . The Miami Heat retired the No . 23 jersey on April 11 , 2003 , even though Jordan never played for the team . At the 2003 All - Star Game , Jordan was offered a starting spot from Tracy McGrady and Allen Iverson but refused both ; in the end , he accepted the spot of Vince Carter . Jordan played in his final NBA game on April 16 , 2003 , in Philadelphia . After scoring 13 points in the game , Jordan went to the bench with 4 minutes and 13 seconds remaining in the third quarter and his team trailing the Philadelphia 76ers 75 – 56 . Just after the start of the fourth quarter , the First Union Center crowd began chanting " We want Mike ! " After much encouragement from coach Doug Collins , Jordan finally rose from the bench and re - entered the game , replacing Larry Hughes with 2 : 35 remaining . At 1 : 45 , Jordan was intentionally fouled by the 76ers ' Eric Snow , and stepped to the line to make both free throws . After the second foul shot , the 76ers in - bounded the ball to rookie John Salmons , who in turn was intentionally fouled by Bobby Simmons one second later , stopping time so that Jordan could return to the bench . Jordan received a three - minute standing ovation from his teammates , his opponents , the officials , and the crowd of 21 , 257 fans .	Which team retired the No. 23 jersey in honor of you?	The Miami Heat retired my No. 23 jersey on April 11, 2003.
Jordan then dribbled down the court and paused , eyeing his defender , Jazz guard Bryon Russell . With 10 seconds remaining , Jordan started to dribble right , then crossed over to his left , possibly pushing off Russell , although the officials did not call a foul . With 5.2 seconds left , Jordan made the climactic shot of his Bulls career , a top - key jumper over a stumbling Russell to give Chicago an 87 – 86 lead . Afterwards , the Jazz ' John Stockton narrowly missed a game - winning three - pointer , and the buzzer sounded as Jordan and the Bulls won their sixth NBA championship , achieving a second three - peat in the decade . Once again , Jordan was voted Finals MVP , having led all scorers by averaging 33.5 ppg , including 45 in the deciding Game 6 . Jordan ' s six Finals MVPs is a record . The 1998 Finals holds the highest television rating of any Finals series in history , and Game 6 holds the highest television rating of any game in NBA history .	How many NBA championships did you win in the 1998 Finals?	I won my sixth NBA championship.
Playing in his 14th and final NBA All - Star Game in 2003 , Jordan passed Kareem Abdul - Jabbar as the all - time leading scorer in All - Star Game history , a record since broken by Kobe Bryant and LeBron James . That year , Jordan was the only Washington player to play in all 82 games , starting in 67 of them , and coming from off the bench in 15 . He averaged 20.0 ppg , 6.1 rpg , 3.8 assists , and 1.5 spg per game . He also shot 45% from the field , and 82% from the free - throw line . Even though he turned 40 during the season , he scored 20 or more points 42 times , 30 or more points nine times , and 40 or more points three times . On February 21 , 2003 , Jordan became the first 40 - year - old to tally 43 points in an NBA game . During his stint with the Wizards , all of Jordan ' s home games at the MCI Center were sold out and the Wizards were the second most - watched team in the NBA , averaging 20 , 172 fans a game at home and 19 , 311 on the road . Jordan ' s final two seasons did not result in a playoff appearance for the Wizards , and he was often unsatisfied with the play of those around him . At several points , he openly criticized his teammates to the media , citing their lack of focus and intensity , notably that of Kwame Brown , the number - one draft pick in the 2001 NBA draft .	How many times did you score 40 or more points during the 2003 season?	I scored 40 or more points three times during the 2003 season.
Jordan then dribbled down the court and paused , eyeing his defender , Jazz guard Bryon Russell . With 10 seconds remaining , Jordan started to dribble right , then crossed over to his left , possibly pushing off Russell , although the officials did not call a foul . With 5.2 seconds left , Jordan made the climactic shot of his Bulls career , a top - key jumper over a stumbling Russell to give Chicago an 87 – 86 lead . Afterwards , the Jazz ' John Stockton narrowly missed a game - winning three - pointer , and the buzzer sounded as Jordan and the Bulls won their sixth NBA championship , achieving a second three - peat in the decade . Once again , Jordan was voted Finals MVP , having led all scorers by averaging 33.5 ppg , including 45 in the deciding Game 6 . Jordan ' s six Finals MVPs is a record . The 1998 Finals holds the highest television rating of any Finals series in history , and Game 6 holds the highest television rating of any game in NBA history .	How much time was left when you made the shot?	5.2 seconds.
In August 2009 , the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield , Massachusetts , opened a Michael Jordan exhibit that contained items from his college and NBA careers as well as from the 1992 " Dream Team " ; the exhibit also has a batting baseball glove to signify Jordan ' s short career in the Minor League Baseball . After Jordan received word of his acceptance into the Hall of Fame , he selected Class of 1996 member David Thompson to present him . As Jordan would later explain during his induction speech in September 2009 , he was not a fan of the Tar Heels when growing up in North Carolina but greatly admired Thompson , who played for the rival NC State Wolfpack . In September , he was inducted into the Hall with several former Bulls teammates in attendance , including Scottie Pippen , Dennis Rodman , Charles Oakley , Ron Harper , Steve Kerr , and Toni Kuko č . Dean Smith and Doug Collins , two of Jordan ' s former coaches , were also among those present . His emotional reaction during his speech when he began to cry was captured by Associated Press photographer Stephan Savoia and would later go viral on social media as the " Crying Jordan " Internet meme . In 2016 , President Barack Obama honored Jordan with the Presidential Medal of Freedom . In October 2021 , Jordan was named to the NBA 75th Anniversary Team . In September 2022 , Jordan ' s jersey in which he played the opening game of the 1998 NBA Finals was sold for $ 10.1   million , making it the most expensive game - worn sports memorabilia in history . In December 2022 , the NBA unveiled a new MVP trophy , named in Jordan ' s honor , to be awarded beginning with the 2022 – 23 season . The " Michael Jordan Trophy " will replace the original trophy , named in honor of former NBA commissioner Maurice Podoloff , with a new Podoloff Trophy set to be awarded to the team with the best overall regular season record .	Who did you select to present you at your Hall of Fame induction?	David Thompson.
Nike created a signature shoe for Jordan , called the Air Jordan , in 1984 . One of Jordan ' s more popular commercials for the shoe involved Spike Lee playing the part of Mars Blackmon . In the commercials , Lee , as Blackmon , attempted to find the source of Jordan ' s abilities and became convinced that " it ' s gotta be the shoes " . The hype and demand for the shoes even brought on a spate of " shoe - jackings " , in which people were robbed of their sneakers at gunpoint . Subsequently , Nike spun off the Jordan line into its own division named the " Jordan Brand " . The company features a list of athletes and celebrities as endorsers . The brand has also sponsored college sports programs such as those of North Carolina , UCLA , California , Oklahoma , Florida , Georgetown , and Marquette .	What was the slogan used in the commercials featuring Mars Blackmon?	The slogan used in the commercials featuring Mars Blackmon was "it's gotta be the shoes".
An often - cited moment was on August 26 , 1985 , when Jordan shook the arena during a Nike exhibition game in Trieste , Italy , by shattering the glass of the backboard with a dunk . The moment was filmed and is often referred to worldwide as an important milestone in Jordan ' s rise . The shoes Jordan wore during the game were auctioned in August 2020 and sold for $ 615 , 000 , a record for a pair of sneakers . Jordan ' s 1985 – 86 season was cut short when he broke his foot in the third game of the year , causing him to miss 64 games . The Bulls made the playoffs despite Jordan ' s injury and a 30 – 52 record , at the time the fifth - worst record of any team to qualify for the playoffs in NBA history . Jordan recovered in time to participate in the postseason and performed well upon his return . On April 20 at the Boston Garden , in Game 2 of the First Round , a 135 – 131 double overtime loss to the eventual NBA Champion Boston Celtics , Jordan scored a playoff career - high 63 points , breaking Elgin Baylor ’ s single - game playoff scoring record . A Celtics team that is often considered one of the greatest in NBA history , Boston swept the series in three games .	When did you break your foot during the 1985-86 season?	I broke my foot in the third game of the season.
Playing in his 14th and final NBA All - Star Game in 2003 , Jordan passed Kareem Abdul - Jabbar as the all - time leading scorer in All - Star Game history , a record since broken by Kobe Bryant and LeBron James . That year , Jordan was the only Washington player to play in all 82 games , starting in 67 of them , and coming from off the bench in 15 . He averaged 20.0 ppg , 6.1 rpg , 3.8 assists , and 1.5 spg per game . He also shot 45% from the field , and 82% from the free - throw line . Even though he turned 40 during the season , he scored 20 or more points 42 times , 30 or more points nine times , and 40 or more points three times . On February 21 , 2003 , Jordan became the first 40 - year - old to tally 43 points in an NBA game . During his stint with the Wizards , all of Jordan ' s home games at the MCI Center were sold out and the Wizards were the second most - watched team in the NBA , averaging 20 , 172 fans a game at home and 19 , 311 on the road . Jordan ' s final two seasons did not result in a playoff appearance for the Wizards , and he was often unsatisfied with the play of those around him . At several points , he openly criticized his teammates to the media , citing their lack of focus and intensity , notably that of Kwame Brown , the number - one draft pick in the 2001 NBA draft .	Who did you pass as the all-time leading scorer in All-Star Game history?	I passed Kareem Abdul-Jabbar as the all-time leading scorer in All-Star Game history.
Although Jordan was a well - rounded player , his " Air Jordan " image is also often credited with inadvertently decreasing the jump shooting skills , defense , and fundamentals of young players , a fact Jordan himself has lamented , saying : " I think it was the exposure of Michael Jordan ; the marketing of Michael Jordan . Everything was marketed towards the things that people wanted to see , which was scoring and dunking . That Michael Jordan still played defense and an all - around game , but it was never really publicized . " During his heyday , Jordan did much to increase the status of the game ; television ratings increased only during his time in the league . The popularity of the NBA in the U . S . declined after his last title . As late as 2022 , NBA Finals television ratings had not returned to the level reached during his last championship - winning season .	How have NBA Finals television ratings been since your last championship-winning season?	As late as 2022, NBA Finals television ratings had not returned to the level reached during my last championship-winning season.
On October 6 , 1993 , Jordan announced his retirement , saying that he lost his desire to play basketball . Jordan later said that the murder of his father three months earlier helped shape his decision . James R . Jordan Sr . was murdered on July 23 , 1993 , at a highway rest area in Lumberton , North Carolina , by two teenagers , Daniel Green and Larry Martin Demery , who carjacked his Lexus bearing the license plate " UNC 0023 " . His body , dumped in a South Carolina swamp , was not discovered until August 3 . Green and Demery were found after they made calls on James Jordan ' s cell phone , convicted at a trial , and sentenced to life in prison .	When and where was your father murdered?	My father, James R. Jordan Sr., was murdered on July 23, 1993, at a highway rest area in Lumberton, North Carolina.
Jordan then dribbled down the court and paused , eyeing his defender , Jazz guard Bryon Russell . With 10 seconds remaining , Jordan started to dribble right , then crossed over to his left , possibly pushing off Russell , although the officials did not call a foul . With 5.2 seconds left , Jordan made the climactic shot of his Bulls career , a top - key jumper over a stumbling Russell to give Chicago an 87 – 86 lead . Afterwards , the Jazz ' John Stockton narrowly missed a game - winning three - pointer , and the buzzer sounded as Jordan and the Bulls won their sixth NBA championship , achieving a second three - peat in the decade . Once again , Jordan was voted Finals MVP , having led all scorers by averaging 33.5 ppg , including 45 in the deciding Game 6 . Jordan ' s six Finals MVPs is a record . The 1998 Finals holds the highest television rating of any Finals series in history , and Game 6 holds the highest television rating of any game in NBA history .	Who did you make the shot over?	Bryon Russell.
In August 2009 , the Naismith Memorial Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield , Massachusetts , opened a Michael Jordan exhibit that contained items from his college and NBA careers as well as from the 1992 " Dream Team " ; the exhibit also has a batting baseball glove to signify Jordan ' s short career in the Minor League Baseball . After Jordan received word of his acceptance into the Hall of Fame , he selected Class of 1996 member David Thompson to present him . As Jordan would later explain during his induction speech in September 2009 , he was not a fan of the Tar Heels when growing up in North Carolina but greatly admired Thompson , who played for the rival NC State Wolfpack . In September , he was inducted into the Hall with several former Bulls teammates in attendance , including Scottie Pippen , Dennis Rodman , Charles Oakley , Ron Harper , Steve Kerr , and Toni Kuko č . Dean Smith and Doug Collins , two of Jordan ' s former coaches , were also among those present . His emotional reaction during his speech when he began to cry was captured by Associated Press photographer Stephan Savoia and would later go viral on social media as the " Crying Jordan " Internet meme . In 2016 , President Barack Obama honored Jordan with the Presidential Medal of Freedom . In October 2021 , Jordan was named to the NBA 75th Anniversary Team . In September 2022 , Jordan ' s jersey in which he played the opening game of the 1998 NBA Finals was sold for $ 10.1   million , making it the most expensive game - worn sports memorabilia in history . In December 2022 , the NBA unveiled a new MVP trophy , named in Jordan ' s honor , to be awarded beginning with the 2022 – 23 season . The " Michael Jordan Trophy " will replace the original trophy , named in honor of former NBA commissioner Maurice Podoloff , with a new Podoloff Trophy set to be awarded to the team with the best overall regular season record .	Which baseball item is featured in your exhibit?	A batting baseball glove.
An often - cited moment was on August 26 , 1985 , when Jordan shook the arena during a Nike exhibition game in Trieste , Italy , by shattering the glass of the backboard with a dunk . The moment was filmed and is often referred to worldwide as an important milestone in Jordan ' s rise . The shoes Jordan wore during the game were auctioned in August 2020 and sold for $ 615 , 000 , a record for a pair of sneakers . Jordan ' s 1985 – 86 season was cut short when he broke his foot in the third game of the year , causing him to miss 64 games . The Bulls made the playoffs despite Jordan ' s injury and a 30 – 52 record , at the time the fifth - worst record of any team to qualify for the playoffs in NBA history . Jordan recovered in time to participate in the postseason and performed well upon his return . On April 20 at the Boston Garden , in Game 2 of the First Round , a 135 – 131 double overtime loss to the eventual NBA Champion Boston Celtics , Jordan scored a playoff career - high 63 points , breaking Elgin Baylor ’ s single - game playoff scoring record . A Celtics team that is often considered one of the greatest in NBA history , Boston swept the series in three games .	How many games did you miss due to your foot injury?	I missed 64 games.
Nike created a signature shoe for Jordan , called the Air Jordan , in 1984 . One of Jordan ' s more popular commercials for the shoe involved Spike Lee playing the part of Mars Blackmon . In the commercials , Lee , as Blackmon , attempted to find the source of Jordan ' s abilities and became convinced that " it ' s gotta be the shoes " . The hype and demand for the shoes even brought on a spate of " shoe - jackings " , in which people were robbed of their sneakers at gunpoint . Subsequently , Nike spun off the Jordan line into its own division named the " Jordan Brand " . The company features a list of athletes and celebrities as endorsers . The brand has also sponsored college sports programs such as those of North Carolina , UCLA , California , Oklahoma , Florida , Georgetown , and Marquette .	What is the name of the signature shoe created by Nike for you?	The signature shoe created by Nike for me is called the Air Jordan.
An often - cited moment was on August 26 , 1985 , when Jordan shook the arena during a Nike exhibition game in Trieste , Italy , by shattering the glass of the backboard with a dunk . The moment was filmed and is often referred to worldwide as an important milestone in Jordan ' s rise . The shoes Jordan wore during the game were auctioned in August 2020 and sold for $ 615 , 000 , a record for a pair of sneakers . Jordan ' s 1985 – 86 season was cut short when he broke his foot in the third game of the year , causing him to miss 64 games . The Bulls made the playoffs despite Jordan ' s injury and a 30 – 52 record , at the time the fifth - worst record of any team to qualify for the playoffs in NBA history . Jordan recovered in time to participate in the postseason and performed well upon his return . On April 20 at the Boston Garden , in Game 2 of the First Round , a 135 – 131 double overtime loss to the eventual NBA Champion Boston Celtics , Jordan scored a playoff career - high 63 points , breaking Elgin Baylor ’ s single - game playoff scoring record . A Celtics team that is often considered one of the greatest in NBA history , Boston swept the series in three games .	How much did the shoes you wore during the game sell for in the auction?	The shoes sold for $615,000.
With the recognition that 2002 – 03 would be Jordan ' s final season , tributes were paid to him throughout the NBA . In his final game at the United Center in Chicago , which was his old home court , Jordan received a four - minute standing ovation . The Miami Heat retired the No . 23 jersey on April 11 , 2003 , even though Jordan never played for the team . At the 2003 All - Star Game , Jordan was offered a starting spot from Tracy McGrady and Allen Iverson but refused both ; in the end , he accepted the spot of Vince Carter . Jordan played in his final NBA game on April 16 , 2003 , in Philadelphia . After scoring 13 points in the game , Jordan went to the bench with 4 minutes and 13 seconds remaining in the third quarter and his team trailing the Philadelphia 76ers 75 – 56 . Just after the start of the fourth quarter , the First Union Center crowd began chanting " We want Mike ! " After much encouragement from coach Doug Collins , Jordan finally rose from the bench and re - entered the game , replacing Larry Hughes with 2 : 35 remaining . At 1 : 45 , Jordan was intentionally fouled by the 76ers ' Eric Snow , and stepped to the line to make both free throws . After the second foul shot , the 76ers in - bounded the ball to rookie John Salmons , who in turn was intentionally fouled by Bobby Simmons one second later , stopping time so that Jordan could return to the bench . Jordan received a three - minute standing ovation from his teammates , his opponents , the officials , and the crowd of 21 , 257 fans .	How many fans were in attendance when you received a three-minute standing ovation?	There were 21,257 fans in attendance when I received a three-minute standing ovation.
Noted as a durable player , Jordan did not miss four or more games while active for a full season from 1986 – 87 to 2001 – 02 , when he injured his right knee . Of the 15 seasons Jordan was in the NBA , he played all 82 regular season games nine times . Jordan has frequently cited David Thompson , Walter Davis , and Jerry West as influences . Confirmed at the start of his career , and possibly later on , Jordan had a special " Love of the Game Clause " written into his contract , which was unusual at the time , and allowed him to play basketball against anyone at any time , anywhere .	What was unusual about your contract?	My contract had a special "Love of the Game Clause" which allowed me to play basketball against anyone at any time, anywhere.
Although Jordan was a well - rounded player , his " Air Jordan " image is also often credited with inadvertently decreasing the jump shooting skills , defense , and fundamentals of young players , a fact Jordan himself has lamented , saying : " I think it was the exposure of Michael Jordan ; the marketing of Michael Jordan . Everything was marketed towards the things that people wanted to see , which was scoring and dunking . That Michael Jordan still played defense and an all - around game , but it was never really publicized . " During his heyday , Jordan did much to increase the status of the game ; television ratings increased only during his time in the league . The popularity of the NBA in the U . S . declined after his last title . As late as 2022 , NBA Finals television ratings had not returned to the level reached during his last championship - winning season .	What did you yourself say about your exposure?	I myself lamented that "I think it was my exposure; my marketing. Everything was marketed towards the things that people wanted to see, which was scoring and dunking. Yet, I still played defense and an all-around game, but it was never really publicized."
Although Jordan was a well - rounded player , his " Air Jordan " image is also often credited with inadvertently decreasing the jump shooting skills , defense , and fundamentals of young players , a fact Jordan himself has lamented , saying : " I think it was the exposure of Michael Jordan ; the marketing of Michael Jordan . Everything was marketed towards the things that people wanted to see , which was scoring and dunking . That Michael Jordan still played defense and an all - around game , but it was never really publicized . " During his heyday , Jordan did much to increase the status of the game ; television ratings increased only during his time in the league . The popularity of the NBA in the U . S . declined after his last title . As late as 2022 , NBA Finals television ratings had not returned to the level reached during his last championship - winning season .	How is your "Air Jordan" image often credited?	It is often credited with inadvertently decreasing the jump shooting skills, defense, and fundamentals of young players.
Playing in his 14th and final NBA All - Star Game in 2003 , Jordan passed Kareem Abdul - Jabbar as the all - time leading scorer in All - Star Game history , a record since broken by Kobe Bryant and LeBron James . That year , Jordan was the only Washington player to play in all 82 games , starting in 67 of them , and coming from off the bench in 15 . He averaged 20.0 ppg , 6.1 rpg , 3.8 assists , and 1.5 spg per game . He also shot 45% from the field , and 82% from the free - throw line . Even though he turned 40 during the season , he scored 20 or more points 42 times , 30 or more points nine times , and 40 or more points three times . On February 21 , 2003 , Jordan became the first 40 - year - old to tally 43 points in an NBA game . During his stint with the Wizards , all of Jordan ' s home games at the MCI Center were sold out and the Wizards were the second most - watched team in the NBA , averaging 20 , 172 fans a game at home and 19 , 311 on the road . Jordan ' s final two seasons did not result in a playoff appearance for the Wizards , and he was often unsatisfied with the play of those around him . At several points , he openly criticized his teammates to the media , citing their lack of focus and intensity , notably that of Kwame Brown , the number - one draft pick in the 2001 NBA draft .	How many points did you score on average per game during the 2003 season?	I averaged 20.0 points per game during the 2003 season.
Nike created a signature shoe for Jordan , called the Air Jordan , in 1984 . One of Jordan ' s more popular commercials for the shoe involved Spike Lee playing the part of Mars Blackmon . In the commercials , Lee , as Blackmon , attempted to find the source of Jordan ' s abilities and became convinced that " it ' s gotta be the shoes " . The hype and demand for the shoes even brought on a spate of " shoe - jackings " , in which people were robbed of their sneakers at gunpoint . Subsequently , Nike spun off the Jordan line into its own division named the " Jordan Brand " . The company features a list of athletes and celebrities as endorsers . The brand has also sponsored college sports programs such as those of North Carolina , UCLA , California , Oklahoma , Florida , Georgetown , and Marquette .	When was your shoe introduced?	My shoe was introduced in 1984.
Jordan ' s athletic leaping ability , highlighted in his back - to - back Slam Dunk Contest championships in 1987 and 1988 , is credited by many people with having influenced a generation of young players . Several NBA players , including James and Dwyane Wade , have stated that they considered Jordan their role model while they were growing up . In addition , commentators have dubbed a number of next - generation players " the next Michael Jordan " upon their entry to the NBA , including Penny Hardaway , Grant Hill , Allen Iverson , Bryant , Vince Carter , James , and Wade . Some analysts , such as The Ringer ' s Dan Devine , drew parallels between Jordan ' s experiment at point guard in the 1988 – 89 season and the modern NBA ; for Devine , it " inadvertently foreshadowed the modern game ' s stylistic shift toward monster - usage primary playmakers " , such as Russell Westbrook , James Harden , Luka Don č i ć , and James . Don Nelson stated : " I would ' ve been playing him at point guard the day he showed up as a rookie . "	What was your athletic ability known for?	My athletic leaping ability was known for my back-to-back Slam Dunk Contest championships in 1987 and 1988.
