In 1996 , Jackson won a Grammy for Best Music Video , Short Form , for " Scream " and an American Music Award for Favorite Pop / Rock Male Artist . On July 1996 , Jackson performed for Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah ' s fiftieth birthday at Jerudong Park Amphitheater , which was specifically built for that birthday concert . Jackson was reportedly paid $ 17M ( $ 32 million in 2023 dollars ) . Jackson promoted HIStory with the HIStory World Tour , from September 7 , 1996 , to October 15 , 1997 . He performed 82 concerts in five continents , 35 countries and 58 cities to over 4.5   million fans , his most attended tour . It grossed $ 165 million . During the tour , in Sydney , Australia , Jackson married Debbie Rowe , a dermatology assistant , who was six months pregnant with his first child .	How much were you reportedly paid for your performance at Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah's birthday concert?	$17 million.
On January 9 , 2002 , Jackson won his 22nd American Music Award for Artist of the Century . Later that year , an anonymous surrogate mother gave birth to his third child , Prince Michael Jackson II ( nicknamed " Blanket " ) , who had been conceived by artificial insemination . On November 20 , Jackson briefly held Blanket over the railing of his Berlin hotel room , four stories above ground level , prompting widespread criticism in the media . Jackson apologized for the incident , calling it " a terrible mistake " . On January 22 , promoter Marcel Avram filed a breach of contract complaint against Jackson for failing to perform two planned 1999 concerts . In March , a Santa Maria jury ordered Jackson to pay Avram $ 5.3   million . On December 18 , 2003 , Jackson ' s attorneys dropped all appeals on the verdict and settled the lawsuit for an undisclosed amount .	What happened on December 18, 2003, regarding the lawsuit between you and Avram?	On December 18, 2003, my attorneys dropped all appeals on the verdict and settled the lawsuit with Avram for an undisclosed amount.
On January 9 , 2002 , Jackson won his 22nd American Music Award for Artist of the Century . Later that year , an anonymous surrogate mother gave birth to his third child , Prince Michael Jackson II ( nicknamed " Blanket " ) , who had been conceived by artificial insemination . On November 20 , Jackson briefly held Blanket over the railing of his Berlin hotel room , four stories above ground level , prompting widespread criticism in the media . Jackson apologized for the incident , calling it " a terrible mistake " . On January 22 , promoter Marcel Avram filed a breach of contract complaint against Jackson for failing to perform two planned 1999 concerts . In March , a Santa Maria jury ordered Jackson to pay Avram $ 5.3   million . On December 18 , 2003 , Jackson ' s attorneys dropped all appeals on the verdict and settled the lawsuit for an undisclosed amount .	What incident involving you caused widespread criticism in the media?	I briefly held Blanket over the railing of my Berlin hotel room, four stories above ground level. This incident prompted widespread criticism in the media.
In 1984 , Time pop critic Jay Cocks wrote that " Jackson is the biggest thing since the Beatles . He is the hottest single phenomenon since Elvis Presley . He just may be the most popular black singer ever . " He described Jackson as a " star of records , radio , rock video . A one - man rescue team for the music business . A songwriter who sets the beat for a decade . A dancer with the fanciest feet on the street . A singer who cuts across all boundaries of taste and style , and color too . " In 2003 , The Daily Telegraph writer Tom Utley described Jackson as " extremely important " and a " genius " . At Jackson ' s memorial service on July 7 , 2009 , Motown founder Berry Gordy called Jackson " the greatest entertainer that ever lived " . In a June 28 , 2009 Baltimore Sun article , Jill Rosen wrote that Jackson ' s legacy influenced fields including sound , dance , fashion , music videos and celebrity .	What did Motown founder Berry Gordy call you at your memorial service?	Berry Gordy called me "the greatest entertainer that ever lived" at my memorial service.
On January 9 , 2002 , Jackson won his 22nd American Music Award for Artist of the Century . Later that year , an anonymous surrogate mother gave birth to his third child , Prince Michael Jackson II ( nicknamed " Blanket " ) , who had been conceived by artificial insemination . On November 20 , Jackson briefly held Blanket over the railing of his Berlin hotel room , four stories above ground level , prompting widespread criticism in the media . Jackson apologized for the incident , calling it " a terrible mistake " . On January 22 , promoter Marcel Avram filed a breach of contract complaint against Jackson for failing to perform two planned 1999 concerts . In March , a Santa Maria jury ordered Jackson to pay Avram $ 5.3   million . On December 18 , 2003 , Jackson ' s attorneys dropped all appeals on the verdict and settled the lawsuit for an undisclosed amount .	Who filed a breach of contract complaint against you and for what reason?	Promoter Marcel Avram filed a breach of contract complaint against me for failing to perform two planned 1999 concerts.
On January 9 , 2002 , Jackson won his 22nd American Music Award for Artist of the Century . Later that year , an anonymous surrogate mother gave birth to his third child , Prince Michael Jackson II ( nicknamed " Blanket " ) , who had been conceived by artificial insemination . On November 20 , Jackson briefly held Blanket over the railing of his Berlin hotel room , four stories above ground level , prompting widespread criticism in the media . Jackson apologized for the incident , calling it " a terrible mistake " . On January 22 , promoter Marcel Avram filed a breach of contract complaint against Jackson for failing to perform two planned 1999 concerts . In March , a Santa Maria jury ordered Jackson to pay Avram $ 5.3   million . On December 18 , 2003 , Jackson ' s attorneys dropped all appeals on the verdict and settled the lawsuit for an undisclosed amount .	When did you win your 22nd American Music Award?	I won my 22nd American Music Award on January 9, 2002.
In 2012 , in an attempt to end a family dispute , Jackson ' s brother Jermaine retracted his signature on a public letter criticizing executors of Jackson ' s estate and his mother ' s advisors over the legitimacy of his brother ' s will . T . J . Jackson , son of Tito Jackson , was given co - guardianship of Michael Jackson ' s children after false reports of Katherine Jackson going missing . Xscape , an album of unreleased material , was released on May 13 , 2014 . The lead single , a duet between Jackson and Justin Timberlake , " Love Never Felt So Good " , reached number 9 on the US Billboard Hot 100 , making Jackson the first artist to have a top - 10 single on the chart in five different decades .	When was your album "Xscape" released?	On May 13, 2014.
In mid - 2006 , Jackson moved to Grouse Lodge , a residential recording studio near Rosemount , County Westmeath , Ireland . There , he began work on a new album with the American producers will . i . am and Rodney Jenkins . That November , Jackson invited an Access Hollywood camera crew into the studio in Westmeath . On November 15 , Jackson briefly performed " We Are the World " at the World Music Awards in London , his last public performance , and accepted the Diamond Award for sales of 100 million records . He returned to the US in December , settling in Las Vegas . That month , he attended James Brown ' s funeral in Augusta , Georgia , where he gave a eulogy calling Brown his greatest inspiration .	Who did you work on a new album with at Grouse Lodge?	I worked with the American producers will.i.am and Rodney Jenkins.
In 1996 , Jackson won a Grammy for Best Music Video , Short Form , for " Scream " and an American Music Award for Favorite Pop / Rock Male Artist . On July 1996 , Jackson performed for Sultan Hassanal Bolkiah ' s fiftieth birthday at Jerudong Park Amphitheater , which was specifically built for that birthday concert . Jackson was reportedly paid $ 17M ( $ 32 million in 2023 dollars ) . Jackson promoted HIStory with the HIStory World Tour , from September 7 , 1996 , to October 15 , 1997 . He performed 82 concerts in five continents , 35 countries and 58 cities to over 4.5   million fans , his most attended tour . It grossed $ 165 million . During the tour , in Sydney , Australia , Jackson married Debbie Rowe , a dermatology assistant , who was six months pregnant with his first child .	When did you start and end the HIStory World Tour?	The tour started on September 7, 1996, and ended on October 15, 1997.
The first posthumous Jackson song , " This Is It " , co - written in the 1980s with Paul Anka , was released in October 2009 . The surviving Jackson brothers reunited to record backing vocals . It was followed by a documentary film about the rehearsals for the canceled This Is It tour , Michael Jackson ' s This Is It , and a compilation album . Despite a limited two - week engagement , the film became the highest - grossing documentary or concert film ever , with earnings of more than $ 260 million worldwide . Jackson ' s estate received 90% of the profits . In late 2010 , Sony released the first posthumous album , Michael , and the promotional single " Breaking News " . Jackson collaborator will . i . am expressed disgust , saying that Jackson would not have approved the release .	What is the title of the documentary film about your rehearsals for the canceled tour?	The documentary film about my rehearsals for the canceled tour is titled "This Is It."
From October 1997 to September 2001 , Jackson worked on his tenth solo album , Invincible , which cost $ 30 million to record . In June 1999 , Jackson joined Luciano Pavarotti for a War Child benefit concert in Modena , Italy . The show raised a million dollars for refugees of the Kosovo War , and additional funds for the children of Guatemala . Later that month , Jackson organized a series of " Michael Jackson & Friends " benefit concerts in Germany and Korea . Other artists involved included Slash , The Scorpions , Boyz II Men , Luther Vandross , Mariah Carey , A . R . Rahman , Prabhu Deva Sundaram , Shobana , Andrea Bocelli , and Luciano Pavarotti . The proceeds went to the Nelson Mandela Children ' s Fund , the Red Cross and UNESCO . In 1999 , Jackson was presented with the " Outstanding Humanitarian Award " at Bollywood Movie Awards in New York City where he noted Mahatma Gandhi to have been an inspiration for him . From August 1999 to 2000 , he lived in New York City at 4 East 74th Street . At the turn of the century , Jackson won an American Music Award as Artist of the 1980s . In 2000 , Guinness World Records recognized him for supporting 39 charities , more than any other entertainer .	Which country did you join Luciano Pavarotti for a benefit concert?	Italy
In 2012 , in an attempt to end a family dispute , Jackson ' s brother Jermaine retracted his signature on a public letter criticizing executors of Jackson ' s estate and his mother ' s advisors over the legitimacy of his brother ' s will . T . J . Jackson , son of Tito Jackson , was given co - guardianship of Michael Jackson ' s children after false reports of Katherine Jackson going missing . Xscape , an album of unreleased material , was released on May 13 , 2014 . The lead single , a duet between Jackson and Justin Timberlake , " Love Never Felt So Good " , reached number 9 on the US Billboard Hot 100 , making Jackson the first artist to have a top - 10 single on the chart in five different decades .	Who was given co-guardianship of your children?	T.J. Jackson, son of Tito Jackson.
From October 1997 to September 2001 , Jackson worked on his tenth solo album , Invincible , which cost $ 30 million to record . In June 1999 , Jackson joined Luciano Pavarotti for a War Child benefit concert in Modena , Italy . The show raised a million dollars for refugees of the Kosovo War , and additional funds for the children of Guatemala . Later that month , Jackson organized a series of " Michael Jackson & Friends " benefit concerts in Germany and Korea . Other artists involved included Slash , The Scorpions , Boyz II Men , Luther Vandross , Mariah Carey , A . R . Rahman , Prabhu Deva Sundaram , Shobana , Andrea Bocelli , and Luciano Pavarotti . The proceeds went to the Nelson Mandela Children ' s Fund , the Red Cross and UNESCO . In 1999 , Jackson was presented with the " Outstanding Humanitarian Award " at Bollywood Movie Awards in New York City where he noted Mahatma Gandhi to have been an inspiration for him . From August 1999 to 2000 , he lived in New York City at 4 East 74th Street . At the turn of the century , Jackson won an American Music Award as Artist of the 1980s . In 2000 , Guinness World Records recognized him for supporting 39 charities , more than any other entertainer .	How much did it cost to record the album?	$30 million
In March 1991 , Jackson renewed his contract with Sony for $ 65   million ( equivalent to $ 129 , 317 , 127 in 2021 ) , a record - breaking deal , beating Neil Diamond ' s renewal contract with Columbia Records . In 1991 , he released his eighth album , Dangerous , co - produced with Teddy Riley . It was certified eight times platinum in the US , and by 2018 had sold 32   million copies worldwide . In the US , the first single , " Black or White " , was the album ' s highest - charting song ; it was number one on the Billboard Hot 100 for seven weeks and achieved similar chart performances worldwide . The second single , " Remember the Time " peaked at number three on the Billboard Hot 100 singles chart . At the end of 1992 , Dangerous was the best - selling album of the year worldwide and " Black or White " the best - selling single of the year worldwide at the Billboard Music Awards . In 1993 , he performed " Remember the Time " at the Soul Train Music Awards in a chair , saying he twisted his ankle during dance rehearsals . In the UK , " Heal the World " made No . 2 on the charts in 1992 .	Which album did you release in 1991 and who did you co-produce it with?	In 1991, I released my eighth album called "Dangerous" which I co-produced with Teddy Riley.
The first posthumous Jackson song , " This Is It " , co - written in the 1980s with Paul Anka , was released in October 2009 . The surviving Jackson brothers reunited to record backing vocals . It was followed by a documentary film about the rehearsals for the canceled This Is It tour , Michael Jackson ' s This Is It , and a compilation album . Despite a limited two - week engagement , the film became the highest - grossing documentary or concert film ever , with earnings of more than $ 260 million worldwide . Jackson ' s estate received 90% of the profits . In late 2010 , Sony released the first posthumous album , Michael , and the promotional single " Breaking News " . Jackson collaborator will . i . am expressed disgust , saying that Jackson would not have approved the release .	What did you do for the song "This Is It"?	I reunited to record backing vocals for the song "This Is It."
The first posthumous Jackson song , " This Is It " , co - written in the 1980s with Paul Anka , was released in October 2009 . The surviving Jackson brothers reunited to record backing vocals . It was followed by a documentary film about the rehearsals for the canceled This Is It tour , Michael Jackson ' s This Is It , and a compilation album . Despite a limited two - week engagement , the film became the highest - grossing documentary or concert film ever , with earnings of more than $ 260 million worldwide . Jackson ' s estate received 90% of the profits . In late 2010 , Sony released the first posthumous album , Michael , and the promotional single " Breaking News " . Jackson collaborator will . i . am expressed disgust , saying that Jackson would not have approved the release .	How much did your film "This Is It" earn worldwide?	My film "This Is It" became the highest-grossing documentary or concert film ever, earning more than $260 million worldwide.
In mid - 2006 , Jackson moved to Grouse Lodge , a residential recording studio near Rosemount , County Westmeath , Ireland . There , he began work on a new album with the American producers will . i . am and Rodney Jenkins . That November , Jackson invited an Access Hollywood camera crew into the studio in Westmeath . On November 15 , Jackson briefly performed " We Are the World " at the World Music Awards in London , his last public performance , and accepted the Diamond Award for sales of 100 million records . He returned to the US in December , settling in Las Vegas . That month , he attended James Brown ' s funeral in Augusta , Georgia , where he gave a eulogy calling Brown his greatest inspiration .	Where did you attend James Brown's funeral?	I attended James Brown's funeral in Augusta, Georgia.
In September 2001 , two 30th Anniversary concerts were held at Madison Square Garden to mark Jackson ' s 30th year as a solo artist . Jackson performed with his brothers for the first time since 1984 . The show also featured M ý a , Usher , Whitney Houston , Destiny ' s Child , Monica , Liza Minnelli , and Slash . The first show was marred by technical lapses , and the crowd booed a speech by Marlon Brando . Almost 30   million people watched the television broadcast of the shows in November . After the September 11 attacks , Jackson helped organize the United We Stand : What More Can I Give benefit concert at RFK Stadium in Washington , D . C . on October 21 , 2001 . Jackson performed " What More Can I Give " as the finale .	What was the purpose of the two concerts you held at Madison Square Garden in September 2001?	The purpose of the two concerts was to mark my 30th year as a solo artist.
In mid - 2006 , Jackson moved to Grouse Lodge , a residential recording studio near Rosemount , County Westmeath , Ireland . There , he began work on a new album with the American producers will . i . am and Rodney Jenkins . That November , Jackson invited an Access Hollywood camera crew into the studio in Westmeath . On November 15 , Jackson briefly performed " We Are the World " at the World Music Awards in London , his last public performance , and accepted the Diamond Award for sales of 100 million records . He returned to the US in December , settling in Las Vegas . That month , he attended James Brown ' s funeral in Augusta , Georgia , where he gave a eulogy calling Brown his greatest inspiration .	When did you perform "We Are the World" at the World Music Awards?	I performed it on November 15, at the World Music Awards in London.
The first posthumous Jackson song , " This Is It " , co - written in the 1980s with Paul Anka , was released in October 2009 . The surviving Jackson brothers reunited to record backing vocals . It was followed by a documentary film about the rehearsals for the canceled This Is It tour , Michael Jackson ' s This Is It , and a compilation album . Despite a limited two - week engagement , the film became the highest - grossing documentary or concert film ever , with earnings of more than $ 260 million worldwide . Jackson ' s estate received 90% of the profits . In late 2010 , Sony released the first posthumous album , Michael , and the promotional single " Breaking News " . Jackson collaborator will . i . am expressed disgust , saying that Jackson would not have approved the release .	When was your first posthumous song released?	My first posthumous song, "This Is It," was released in October 2009.
In 2012 , in an attempt to end a family dispute , Jackson ' s brother Jermaine retracted his signature on a public letter criticizing executors of Jackson ' s estate and his mother ' s advisors over the legitimacy of his brother ' s will . T . J . Jackson , son of Tito Jackson , was given co - guardianship of Michael Jackson ' s children after false reports of Katherine Jackson going missing . Xscape , an album of unreleased material , was released on May 13 , 2014 . The lead single , a duet between Jackson and Justin Timberlake , " Love Never Felt So Good " , reached number 9 on the US Billboard Hot 100 , making Jackson the first artist to have a top - 10 single on the chart in five different decades .	What is the name of the lead single from your album "Xscape"?	"Love Never Felt So Good".
Robson and Safechuck described allegations in graphic detail in the documentary Leaving Neverland , released in March 2019 . Radio stations in New Zealand , Canada , the UK and the Netherlands removed Jackson ' s music from their playlists . Jackson ' s family condemned the film as a " public lynching " , and the Jackson estate released a statement calling the film a " tabloid character assassination [ Jackson ] endured in life , and now in death " . Close associates of Jackson , such as Corey Feldman , Aaron Carter , Brett Barnes , and Macaulay Culkin , said that Jackson had not molested them .	When was the documentary Leaving Neverland, about you, released?	The documentary Leaving Neverland, about me, was released in March 2019.
Robson and Safechuck described allegations in graphic detail in the documentary Leaving Neverland , released in March 2019 . Radio stations in New Zealand , Canada , the UK and the Netherlands removed Jackson ' s music from their playlists . Jackson ' s family condemned the film as a " public lynching " , and the Jackson estate released a statement calling the film a " tabloid character assassination [ Jackson ] endured in life , and now in death " . Close associates of Jackson , such as Corey Feldman , Aaron Carter , Brett Barnes , and Macaulay Culkin , said that Jackson had not molested them .	Which countries' radio stations removed your music from their playlists?	Radio stations in New Zealand, Canada, the UK, and the Netherlands removed my music from their playlists.
The first posthumous Jackson song , " This Is It " , co - written in the 1980s with Paul Anka , was released in October 2009 . The surviving Jackson brothers reunited to record backing vocals . It was followed by a documentary film about the rehearsals for the canceled This Is It tour , Michael Jackson ' s This Is It , and a compilation album . Despite a limited two - week engagement , the film became the highest - grossing documentary or concert film ever , with earnings of more than $ 260 million worldwide . Jackson ' s estate received 90% of the profits . In late 2010 , Sony released the first posthumous album , Michael , and the promotional single " Breaking News " . Jackson collaborator will . i . am expressed disgust , saying that Jackson would not have approved the release .	Who co-wrote the song "This Is It"?	I co-wrote the song "This Is It" with Paul Anka in the 1980s.
In 2012 , in an attempt to end a family dispute , Jackson ' s brother Jermaine retracted his signature on a public letter criticizing executors of Jackson ' s estate and his mother ' s advisors over the legitimacy of his brother ' s will . T . J . Jackson , son of Tito Jackson , was given co - guardianship of Michael Jackson ' s children after false reports of Katherine Jackson going missing . Xscape , an album of unreleased material , was released on May 13 , 2014 . The lead single , a duet between Jackson and Justin Timberlake , " Love Never Felt So Good " , reached number 9 on the US Billboard Hot 100 , making Jackson the first artist to have a top - 10 single on the chart in five different decades .	When did you retract your signature on the public letter?	In 2012.
On January 9 , 2002 , Jackson won his 22nd American Music Award for Artist of the Century . Later that year , an anonymous surrogate mother gave birth to his third child , Prince Michael Jackson II ( nicknamed " Blanket " ) , who had been conceived by artificial insemination . On November 20 , Jackson briefly held Blanket over the railing of his Berlin hotel room , four stories above ground level , prompting widespread criticism in the media . Jackson apologized for the incident , calling it " a terrible mistake " . On January 22 , promoter Marcel Avram filed a breach of contract complaint against Jackson for failing to perform two planned 1999 concerts . In March , a Santa Maria jury ordered Jackson to pay Avram $ 5.3   million . On December 18 , 2003 , Jackson ' s attorneys dropped all appeals on the verdict and settled the lawsuit for an undisclosed amount .	What is the name of your third child and how was he conceived?	My third child was named Prince Michael Jackson II, nicknamed "Blanket". He was conceived through artificial insemination by an anonymous surrogate mother.
