In 2000 , Tyson had three fights . The first match in January was staged at the MEN Arena in Manchester , England against Julius Francis . Following controversy as to whether Tyson was allowed into the country , he took four minutes to knock out Francis , ending the bout in the second round . He also fought Lou Savarese in June 2000 in Glasgow , winning in the first round ; the fight lasted only 38 seconds . Tyson continued punching after the referee had stopped the fight , knocking the referee to the floor as he tried to separate the boxers . In October , Tyson fought the similarly controversial Andrew Golota , winning in round three after Go ł ota was unable to continue due to a broken cheekbone , concussion , and neck injury . The result was later changed to no contest after Tyson refused to take a pre - fight drug test and then tested positive for marijuana in a post - fight urine test . Tyson fought only once in 2001 , beating Brian Nielsen in Copenhagen by TKO in the seventh round .	Where was your first match in January 2000 staged?	My first match in January 2000 was staged at the MEN Arena in Manchester, England.
By 1990 , Tyson seemed to have lost direction , and his personal life was in disarray amidst reports of less vigorous training prior to the Buster Douglas match . In a fight on February 11 , 1990 , he lost the undisputed championship to Douglas in Tokyo . Tyson was a huge betting favorite ; indeed , the Mirage , the only casino to put out odds for the fight , made Tyson a 42 / 1 favorite . Tyson failed to find a way past Douglas ' s quick jab that had a 12 - inch ( 30   cm ) reach advantage over his own . Tyson did catch Douglas with an uppercut in the eighth round and knocked him to the floor , but Douglas recovered sufficiently to hand Tyson a heavy beating in the subsequent two rounds . After the fight , the Tyson camp would complain that the count was slow and that Douglas had taken longer than ten seconds to get back on his feet . Just 35 seconds into the tenth round , Douglas unleashed a brutal uppercut , followed by a four - punch combination of hooks that knocked Tyson down for the first time in his career . He was counted out by referee Octavio Meyran .	What were the odds for you winning the fight?	I was a 42/1 favorite to win the fight.
Tyson and Holyfield fought again on June 28 , 1997 . Originally , Halpern was supposed to be the referee , but after Tyson ' s camp protested , Halpern stepped aside in favor of Mills Lane . The highly anticipated rematch was dubbed The Sound and the Fury , and it was held at the Las Vegas MGM Grand Garden Arena , site of the first bout . It was a lucrative event , drawing even more attention than the first bout and grossing $ 100   million . Tyson received $ 30   million and Holyfield $ 35   million , the highest paid professional boxing purses until 2007 . The fight was purchased by 1.99   million households , setting a pay - per - view buy rate record that stood until May 5 , 2007 , being surpassed by Oscar De La Hoya vs . Floyd Mayweather Jr .	What was the name given to your rematch?	The rematch was dubbed "The Sound and the Fury."
Tyson and Holyfield fought again on June 28 , 1997 . Originally , Halpern was supposed to be the referee , but after Tyson ' s camp protested , Halpern stepped aside in favor of Mills Lane . The highly anticipated rematch was dubbed The Sound and the Fury , and it was held at the Las Vegas MGM Grand Garden Arena , site of the first bout . It was a lucrative event , drawing even more attention than the first bout and grossing $ 100   million . Tyson received $ 30   million and Holyfield $ 35   million , the highest paid professional boxing purses until 2007 . The fight was purchased by 1.99   million households , setting a pay - per - view buy rate record that stood until May 5 , 2007 , being surpassed by Oscar De La Hoya vs . Floyd Mayweather Jr .	Where was your rematch held?	My rematch was held at the Las Vegas MGM Grand Garden Arena.
On July 30 , 2004 , Tyson had a match against British boxer Danny Williams in another comeback fight , and this time , staged in Louisville , Kentucky . Tyson dominated the opening two rounds . The third round was even , with Williams getting in some clean blows and also a few illegal ones , for which he was penalized . In the fourth round , Tyson was unexpectedly knocked out . After the fight , it was revealed that Tyson was trying to fight on one leg , having torn a ligament in his other knee in the first round . This was Tyson ' s fifth career defeat . He underwent surgery for the ligament four days after the fight . His manager , Shelly Finkel , claimed that Tyson was unable to throw meaningful right - hand punches since he had a knee injury .	How did you perform in the opening two rounds?	I dominated the opening two rounds.
Expectations for Tyson were extremely high , and he was the favorite to win the heavyweight unification series , a tournament designed to establish an undisputed heavyweight champion . Tyson defended his title against James Smith on March 7 , 1987 , in Las Vegas , Nevada . He won by unanimous decision and added Smith ' s World Boxing Association ( WBA ) title to his existing belt . " Tyson - mania " in the media was becoming rampant . He beat Pinklon Thomas in May by TKO in the sixth round . On August 1 he took the International Boxing Federation ( IBF ) title from Tony Tucker in a twelve - round unanimous decision 119 – 111 , 118 – 113 , and 116 – 112 . He became the first heavyweight to own all three major belts   – WBA , WBC , and IBF   – at the same time . Another fight , in October of that year , ended with a victory for Tyson over 1984 Olympic super heavyweight gold medalist Tyrell Biggs by TKO in the seventh round .	How did you win against Pinklon Thomas in May?	I won against Pinklon Thomas by TKO in the sixth round.
To help pay off his debts , Tyson announced he would be doing a series of exhibition bouts , calling it Tyson ' s World Tour . For his first bout , Tyson returned to the ring in 2006 for a four - round exhibition against journeyman heavyweight Corey Sanders in Youngstown , Ohio . Tyson , without headgear at 5   ft 10.5   in and 216 pounds , was in quality shape , but far from his prime against Sanders , at 6   ft 6   in who wore headgear . Tyson appeared to be " holding back " in the exhibition to prevent an early end to the " show " . " If I don ' t get out of this financial quagmire there ' s a possibility I may have to be a punching bag for somebody . The money I make isn ' t going to help my bills from a tremendous standpoint , but I ' m going to feel better about myself . I ' m not going to be depressed " , explained Tyson about the reasons for his " comeback " . After the bout was poorly received by fans the remainder of the tour was cancelled .	Who did you fight in your first bout of the tour?	Corey Sanders.
Expectations for Tyson were extremely high , and he was the favorite to win the heavyweight unification series , a tournament designed to establish an undisputed heavyweight champion . Tyson defended his title against James Smith on March 7 , 1987 , in Las Vegas , Nevada . He won by unanimous decision and added Smith ' s World Boxing Association ( WBA ) title to his existing belt . " Tyson - mania " in the media was becoming rampant . He beat Pinklon Thomas in May by TKO in the sixth round . On August 1 he took the International Boxing Federation ( IBF ) title from Tony Tucker in a twelve - round unanimous decision 119 – 111 , 118 – 113 , and 116 – 112 . He became the first heavyweight to own all three major belts   – WBA , WBC , and IBF   – at the same time . Another fight , in October of that year , ended with a victory for Tyson over 1984 Olympic super heavyweight gold medalist Tyrell Biggs by TKO in the seventh round .	Where did you defend your title against James Smith?	I defended my title against James Smith in Las Vegas, Nevada.
Two years prior to the bout , Tyson had made several inflammatory remarks to Lewis in an interview following the Savarese fight . The remarks included the statement " I want your heart , I want to eat your children . " On January 22 , 2002 , the two boxers and their entourages were involved in a brawl at a New York press conference to publicize the planned event . A few weeks later , the Nevada State Athletic Commission refused to grant Tyson a license for the fight , and the promoters had to make alternative arrangements . After multiple states balked at granting Tyson a license , the fight eventually occurred on June 8 at the Pyramid Arena in Memphis , Tennessee . Lewis dominated the fight and knocked out Tyson with a right hand in the eighth round . Tyson was respectful after the fight and praised Lewis on his victory . This fight was the highest - grossing event in pay - per - view history at that time , generating $ 106.9   million from 1.95   million buys in the US .	Why were you refused a license for the fight by the Nevada State Athletic Commission?	The Nevada State Athletic Commission refused to grant me a license for the fight, but the reason was not stated.
Two years prior to the bout , Tyson had made several inflammatory remarks to Lewis in an interview following the Savarese fight . The remarks included the statement " I want your heart , I want to eat your children . " On January 22 , 2002 , the two boxers and their entourages were involved in a brawl at a New York press conference to publicize the planned event . A few weeks later , the Nevada State Athletic Commission refused to grant Tyson a license for the fight , and the promoters had to make alternative arrangements . After multiple states balked at granting Tyson a license , the fight eventually occurred on June 8 at the Pyramid Arena in Memphis , Tennessee . Lewis dominated the fight and knocked out Tyson with a right hand in the eighth round . Tyson was respectful after the fight and praised Lewis on his victory . This fight was the highest - grossing event in pay - per - view history at that time , generating $ 106.9   million from 1.95   million buys in the US .	Where did our fight eventually occur?	The fight took place at the Pyramid Arena in Memphis, Tennessee.
Two years prior to the bout , Tyson had made several inflammatory remarks to Lewis in an interview following the Savarese fight . The remarks included the statement " I want your heart , I want to eat your children . " On January 22 , 2002 , the two boxers and their entourages were involved in a brawl at a New York press conference to publicize the planned event . A few weeks later , the Nevada State Athletic Commission refused to grant Tyson a license for the fight , and the promoters had to make alternative arrangements . After multiple states balked at granting Tyson a license , the fight eventually occurred on June 8 at the Pyramid Arena in Memphis , Tennessee . Lewis dominated the fight and knocked out Tyson with a right hand in the eighth round . Tyson was respectful after the fight and praised Lewis on his victory . This fight was the highest - grossing event in pay - per - view history at that time , generating $ 106.9   million from 1.95   million buys in the US .	What inflammatory remarks did you make to Lewis?	I said, "I want your heart, I want to eat your children."
To help pay off his debts , Tyson announced he would be doing a series of exhibition bouts , calling it Tyson ' s World Tour . For his first bout , Tyson returned to the ring in 2006 for a four - round exhibition against journeyman heavyweight Corey Sanders in Youngstown , Ohio . Tyson , without headgear at 5   ft 10.5   in and 216 pounds , was in quality shape , but far from his prime against Sanders , at 6   ft 6   in who wore headgear . Tyson appeared to be " holding back " in the exhibition to prevent an early end to the " show " . " If I don ' t get out of this financial quagmire there ' s a possibility I may have to be a punching bag for somebody . The money I make isn ' t going to help my bills from a tremendous standpoint , but I ' m going to feel better about myself . I ' m not going to be depressed " , explained Tyson about the reasons for his " comeback " . After the bout was poorly received by fans the remainder of the tour was cancelled .	Where did the first bout take place?	Youngstown, Ohio.
Legal problems arose with Tyson once again . On February 5 , 1999 , Tyson was sentenced to a year ' s imprisonment , fined $ 5 , 000 , and ordered to serve two years probation along with undergoing 200 hours of community service for assaulting two motorists after a traffic accident on August 31 , 1998 . He served nine months of that sentence . After his release , he fought Orlin Norris on October 23 , 1999 . Tyson knocked down Norris with a left hook thrown after the bell sounded to end the first round . Norris injured his knee when he went down and said that he was unable to continue . Consequently , the bout was ruled a no contest .	What were the conditions of your probation?	I was ordered to serve two years probation and undergo 200 hours of community service.
During this period , Tyson ' s problems outside the ring were also beginning to emerge . His marriage to Robin Givens was heading for divorce , and his future contract was being fought over by Don King and Bill Cayton . In late 1988 , Tyson parted with manager Bill Cayton and fired longtime trainer Kevin Rooney , the man many credit for honing Tyson ' s craft after the death of D ' Amato . Following Rooney ' s departure , critics alleged that Tyson began to show less head movement and combination punching . In 1989 , Tyson had only two fights amid personal turmoil . He faced the British boxer Frank Bruno in February . Bruno managed to stun Tyson at the end of the first round , although Tyson went on to knock Bruno out in the fifth round . Tyson then knocked out Carl " The Truth " Williams in the first round in July .	What problems were emerging for you outside the ring during this period?	My marriage to Robin Givens was heading for divorce, and my future contract was being fought over by Don King and Bill Cayton.
On July 30 , 2004 , Tyson had a match against British boxer Danny Williams in another comeback fight , and this time , staged in Louisville , Kentucky . Tyson dominated the opening two rounds . The third round was even , with Williams getting in some clean blows and also a few illegal ones , for which he was penalized . In the fourth round , Tyson was unexpectedly knocked out . After the fight , it was revealed that Tyson was trying to fight on one leg , having torn a ligament in his other knee in the first round . This was Tyson ' s fifth career defeat . He underwent surgery for the ligament four days after the fight . His manager , Shelly Finkel , claimed that Tyson was unable to throw meaningful right - hand punches since he had a knee injury .	Where was the match staged?	The match was staged in Louisville, Kentucky.
To help pay off his debts , Tyson announced he would be doing a series of exhibition bouts , calling it Tyson ' s World Tour . For his first bout , Tyson returned to the ring in 2006 for a four - round exhibition against journeyman heavyweight Corey Sanders in Youngstown , Ohio . Tyson , without headgear at 5   ft 10.5   in and 216 pounds , was in quality shape , but far from his prime against Sanders , at 6   ft 6   in who wore headgear . Tyson appeared to be " holding back " in the exhibition to prevent an early end to the " show " . " If I don ' t get out of this financial quagmire there ' s a possibility I may have to be a punching bag for somebody . The money I make isn ' t going to help my bills from a tremendous standpoint , but I ' m going to feel better about myself . I ' m not going to be depressed " , explained Tyson about the reasons for his " comeback " . After the bout was poorly received by fans the remainder of the tour was cancelled .	What was the name of your World Tour?	My World Tour.
During this period , Tyson ' s problems outside the ring were also beginning to emerge . His marriage to Robin Givens was heading for divorce , and his future contract was being fought over by Don King and Bill Cayton . In late 1988 , Tyson parted with manager Bill Cayton and fired longtime trainer Kevin Rooney , the man many credit for honing Tyson ' s craft after the death of D ' Amato . Following Rooney ' s departure , critics alleged that Tyson began to show less head movement and combination punching . In 1989 , Tyson had only two fights amid personal turmoil . He faced the British boxer Frank Bruno in February . Bruno managed to stun Tyson at the end of the first round , although Tyson went on to knock Bruno out in the fifth round . Tyson then knocked out Carl " The Truth " Williams in the first round in July .	How many fights did you have in 1989 amid personal turmoil?	I had only two fights in 1989 amid personal turmoil.
In 2000 , Tyson had three fights . The first match in January was staged at the MEN Arena in Manchester , England against Julius Francis . Following controversy as to whether Tyson was allowed into the country , he took four minutes to knock out Francis , ending the bout in the second round . He also fought Lou Savarese in June 2000 in Glasgow , winning in the first round ; the fight lasted only 38 seconds . Tyson continued punching after the referee had stopped the fight , knocking the referee to the floor as he tried to separate the boxers . In October , Tyson fought the similarly controversial Andrew Golota , winning in round three after Go ł ota was unable to continue due to a broken cheekbone , concussion , and neck injury . The result was later changed to no contest after Tyson refused to take a pre - fight drug test and then tested positive for marijuana in a post - fight urine test . Tyson fought only once in 2001 , beating Brian Nielsen in Copenhagen by TKO in the seventh round .	How long did your fight against Lou Savarese last?	My fight against Lou Savarese lasted only 38 seconds.
Legal problems arose with Tyson once again . On February 5 , 1999 , Tyson was sentenced to a year ' s imprisonment , fined $ 5 , 000 , and ordered to serve two years probation along with undergoing 200 hours of community service for assaulting two motorists after a traffic accident on August 31 , 1998 . He served nine months of that sentence . After his release , he fought Orlin Norris on October 23 , 1999 . Tyson knocked down Norris with a left hook thrown after the bell sounded to end the first round . Norris injured his knee when he went down and said that he was unable to continue . Consequently , the bout was ruled a no contest .	How long were you sentenced to imprisonment?	I was sentenced to a year's imprisonment.
Soon to become one of the most controversial events in modern sports , the fight was stopped at the end of the third round , with Tyson disqualified for biting Holyfield on both ears . The first time Tyson bit him , the match was temporarily stopped . Referee Mills Lane deducted two points from Tyson and the fight resumed . However , after the match resumed , Tyson bit him again , resulting in his disqualification , and Holyfield won the match . The first bite was severe enough to remove a piece of Holyfield ' s right ear , which was found on the ring floor after the fight . Tyson later stated that his actions were retaliation for Holyfield repeatedly headbutting him without penalty . In the confusion that followed the ending of the bout and announcement of the decision , a near riot occurred in the arena and several people were injured . Tyson Holyfield II was the first heavyweight title fight in over 50 years to end in a disqualification .	How did the referee penalize you after the first biting incident?	Referee Mills Lane deducted two points from me.
To help pay off his debts , Tyson announced he would be doing a series of exhibition bouts , calling it Tyson ' s World Tour . For his first bout , Tyson returned to the ring in 2006 for a four - round exhibition against journeyman heavyweight Corey Sanders in Youngstown , Ohio . Tyson , without headgear at 5   ft 10.5   in and 216 pounds , was in quality shape , but far from his prime against Sanders , at 6   ft 6   in who wore headgear . Tyson appeared to be " holding back " in the exhibition to prevent an early end to the " show " . " If I don ' t get out of this financial quagmire there ' s a possibility I may have to be a punching bag for somebody . The money I make isn ' t going to help my bills from a tremendous standpoint , but I ' m going to feel better about myself . I ' m not going to be depressed " , explained Tyson about the reasons for his " comeback " . After the bout was poorly received by fans the remainder of the tour was cancelled .	Were you wearing headgear during the bout?	No, I was not wearing headgear.
On July 30 , 2004 , Tyson had a match against British boxer Danny Williams in another comeback fight , and this time , staged in Louisville , Kentucky . Tyson dominated the opening two rounds . The third round was even , with Williams getting in some clean blows and also a few illegal ones , for which he was penalized . In the fourth round , Tyson was unexpectedly knocked out . After the fight , it was revealed that Tyson was trying to fight on one leg , having torn a ligament in his other knee in the first round . This was Tyson ' s fifth career defeat . He underwent surgery for the ligament four days after the fight . His manager , Shelly Finkel , claimed that Tyson was unable to throw meaningful right - hand punches since he had a knee injury .	Why were you unexpectedly knocked out in the fourth round?	I was unexpectedly knocked out in the fourth round because I was trying to fight on one leg, having torn a ligament in my other knee in the first round.
By 1990 , Tyson seemed to have lost direction , and his personal life was in disarray amidst reports of less vigorous training prior to the Buster Douglas match . In a fight on February 11 , 1990 , he lost the undisputed championship to Douglas in Tokyo . Tyson was a huge betting favorite ; indeed , the Mirage , the only casino to put out odds for the fight , made Tyson a 42 / 1 favorite . Tyson failed to find a way past Douglas ' s quick jab that had a 12 - inch ( 30   cm ) reach advantage over his own . Tyson did catch Douglas with an uppercut in the eighth round and knocked him to the floor , but Douglas recovered sufficiently to hand Tyson a heavy beating in the subsequent two rounds . After the fight , the Tyson camp would complain that the count was slow and that Douglas had taken longer than ten seconds to get back on his feet . Just 35 seconds into the tenth round , Douglas unleashed a brutal uppercut , followed by a four - punch combination of hooks that knocked Tyson down for the first time in his career . He was counted out by referee Octavio Meyran .	How did you defeat Tyson?	I defeated Tyson by using my quick jab and a combination of hooks.
Soon to become one of the most controversial events in modern sports , the fight was stopped at the end of the third round , with Tyson disqualified for biting Holyfield on both ears . The first time Tyson bit him , the match was temporarily stopped . Referee Mills Lane deducted two points from Tyson and the fight resumed . However , after the match resumed , Tyson bit him again , resulting in his disqualification , and Holyfield won the match . The first bite was severe enough to remove a piece of Holyfield ' s right ear , which was found on the ring floor after the fight . Tyson later stated that his actions were retaliation for Holyfield repeatedly headbutting him without penalty . In the confusion that followed the ending of the bout and announcement of the decision , a near riot occurred in the arena and several people were injured . Tyson Holyfield II was the first heavyweight title fight in over 50 years to end in a disqualification .	What caused the fight to be stopped at the end of the third round?	I was disqualified for biting Holyfield on both ears.
In 2000 , Tyson had three fights . The first match in January was staged at the MEN Arena in Manchester , England against Julius Francis . Following controversy as to whether Tyson was allowed into the country , he took four minutes to knock out Francis , ending the bout in the second round . He also fought Lou Savarese in June 2000 in Glasgow , winning in the first round ; the fight lasted only 38 seconds . Tyson continued punching after the referee had stopped the fight , knocking the referee to the floor as he tried to separate the boxers . In October , Tyson fought the similarly controversial Andrew Golota , winning in round three after Go ł ota was unable to continue due to a broken cheekbone , concussion , and neck injury . The result was later changed to no contest after Tyson refused to take a pre - fight drug test and then tested positive for marijuana in a post - fight urine test . Tyson fought only once in 2001 , beating Brian Nielsen in Copenhagen by TKO in the seventh round .	Why was the result of your fight against Andrew Golota changed to no contest?	The result of my fight against Andrew Golota was changed to no contest because I refused to take a pre-fight drug test and then tested positive for marijuana in a post-fight urine test.
