Also in 2008 , Kunis portrayed Mona Sax , an assassin , alongside Mark Wahlberg in the action film Max Payne , based on the video game of the same name . Kunis underwent training in guns , boxing , and martial arts for her role . Max Payne was relatively successful at the box office , grossing $ 85   million worldwide but was poorly reviewed by critics , with several reviewers calling Kunis miscast . Travis Estvold of Boise Weekly wrote that she was " horribly miscast as some sort of undersized , warble - voiced crime boss " . Director John Moore defended his choice of Kunis saying , " Mila just bowled us over ..... She wasn ' t an obvious choice , but she just wears Mona so well . We needed someone who would not be just a fop or foil to Max ; we needed somebody who had to be that character and convey her own agenda . I think Mila just knocked it out of the park . " She was nominated for another Teen Choice Award for her role in the film .	What type of training did you undergo for your role in Max Payne?	I underwent training in guns, boxing, and martial arts.
In 2010 , she starred alongside Denzel Washington in the action film The Book of Eli . Although the film received mixed reviews , it performed well at the box office , grossing over $ 157   million worldwide . Film critic Richard Roeper praised Kunis ' s performance , calling it a " particularly strong piece of work " . Several other reviews were equally positive , including that of Pete Hammond of Boxoffice magazine , who wrote that she ' s " ideally cast in the key female role " . Even reviewers who didn ' t necessarily like the film complimented her performance , such as James Berardinelli , who wrote that " the demands of the role prove to be within her range , which is perhaps surprising considering she has been thus far pigeonholed into more lightweight parts " , and Colin Covert of the Star Tribune , who wrote that she " generated a spark and brought a degree of determination to her character , developing an independent female character who ' s not always in need of rescuing . " Other critics , such as Claudia Puig of USA Today felt she was miscast , noting that " she looked as if she dropped in from a Ray - Ban commercial " . Kunis received another Teen Choice Award nomination for her performance . Kunis was also cast in a minor role in the 2010 comedy film Date Night , starring Tina Fey and Steve Carell . She garnered several positive reviews for her performance . Michael Phillips of the Chicago Tribune concluded her performance with James Franco helped save the film and gave it " a shot in the arm . "	What did James Berardinelli write about your ability to handle the demands of your role?	He wrote that the demands of the role prove to be within my range, which is surprising considering I have been pigeonholed into more lightweight parts.
Also in 2008 , Kunis portrayed Mona Sax , an assassin , alongside Mark Wahlberg in the action film Max Payne , based on the video game of the same name . Kunis underwent training in guns , boxing , and martial arts for her role . Max Payne was relatively successful at the box office , grossing $ 85   million worldwide but was poorly reviewed by critics , with several reviewers calling Kunis miscast . Travis Estvold of Boise Weekly wrote that she was " horribly miscast as some sort of undersized , warble - voiced crime boss " . Director John Moore defended his choice of Kunis saying , " Mila just bowled us over ..... She wasn ' t an obvious choice , but she just wears Mona so well . We needed someone who would not be just a fop or foil to Max ; we needed somebody who had to be that character and convey her own agenda . I think Mila just knocked it out of the park . " She was nominated for another Teen Choice Award for her role in the film .	Who did you star alongside in Max Payne?	Mark Wahlberg.
In 2012 , Kunis co - starred with Mark Wahlberg in Ted , her most commercially successful film to date . The film was directed and co - written by Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane . Kunis played the girlfriend of Wahlberg ' s character . When MacFarlane first conceived the project , he considered Kunis too young for the role . However , the film remained in development for several years and when it was finally ready to begin production , he ended up casting her . Ted has received generally positive reviews from critics and was a commercial success , grossing $ 549   million worldwide . Drew McWeeny of HitFix wrote that Kunis " brings some lovely subtle grace notes to a role that easily could have just been ' the pushy girlfriend ' " .	How much money did Ted gross worldwide?	$549 million.
In 2018 , Kunis co - starred with Kate McKinnon in the comedy The Spy Who Dumped Me . The film received mixed reviews and went on to gross over $ 75 million worldwide with a budget of $ 40 million . Kunis co - starred with Glenn Close in the film Four Good Days . Principal photography began in September 2019 in Los Angeles , and premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 25 , 2020 . The film received mixed reviews but Kunis was praised for her performance , with Pete Hammond from Deadline Hollywood stating Kunis was " a revelation " in the role , while Richard Roeper of the Chicago Sun - Times concluded her performance " represents the finest work she has done " . In 2021 , she co - starred with Allison Janney and Regina Hall in Breaking News in Yuba County , which was filmed in Mississippi . The film was released February 12 , 2021 , and received negative reviews from critics . On April 30 , 2022 , it was announced that Kunis would have a guest appearance in the follow - up sitcom , That ' 90s Show .	Who did you co-star with in the comedy film The Spy Who Dumped Me?	Kate McKinnon
In 2018 , Kunis co - starred with Kate McKinnon in the comedy The Spy Who Dumped Me . The film received mixed reviews and went on to gross over $ 75 million worldwide with a budget of $ 40 million . Kunis co - starred with Glenn Close in the film Four Good Days . Principal photography began in September 2019 in Los Angeles , and premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 25 , 2020 . The film received mixed reviews but Kunis was praised for her performance , with Pete Hammond from Deadline Hollywood stating Kunis was " a revelation " in the role , while Richard Roeper of the Chicago Sun - Times concluded her performance " represents the finest work she has done " . In 2021 , she co - starred with Allison Janney and Regina Hall in Breaking News in Yuba County , which was filmed in Mississippi . The film was released February 12 , 2021 , and received negative reviews from critics . On April 30 , 2022 , it was announced that Kunis would have a guest appearance in the follow - up sitcom , That ' 90s Show .	Where was the principal photography of Four Good Days done?	Los Angeles
In 2009 , she appeared in the comedy film Extract with Ben Affleck and Jason Bateman . The film received mostly positive reviews , and grossed $ 10.8   million at the box office . Roger Ebert , while critical of the film itself , wrote that Kunis " brings her role to within shouting distance of credibility . " Director Mike Judge commented that part of what was surprising to learn about Kunis was her ability to make references to the cult animation film Rejected . Judge said : " As beautiful as Mila is , you could believe that maybe she would cross paths with you in the real world . " After seeing Kunis perform in Forgetting Sarah Marshall , Judge wanted to cast her in the role of Cindy in Extract : " I just thought , ' Wow , this girl ' s perfect . ' And she really wanted to do it , which was fantastic . " Kunis herself stated that " I ' m a huge fan of Mike Judge ' s from Office Space , so I was , like , ' Okay , this is a very easy decision . ' I told them I would do anything needed to be in this production – like craft service , or , say , acting . "	In which movie did you appear in 2009?	I appeared in the comedy film Extract with Ben Affleck and Jason Bateman.
Also in 2008 , Kunis portrayed Mona Sax , an assassin , alongside Mark Wahlberg in the action film Max Payne , based on the video game of the same name . Kunis underwent training in guns , boxing , and martial arts for her role . Max Payne was relatively successful at the box office , grossing $ 85   million worldwide but was poorly reviewed by critics , with several reviewers calling Kunis miscast . Travis Estvold of Boise Weekly wrote that she was " horribly miscast as some sort of undersized , warble - voiced crime boss " . Director John Moore defended his choice of Kunis saying , " Mila just bowled us over ..... She wasn ' t an obvious choice , but she just wears Mona so well . We needed someone who would not be just a fop or foil to Max ; we needed somebody who had to be that character and convey her own agenda . I think Mila just knocked it out of the park . " She was nominated for another Teen Choice Award for her role in the film .	Who did you portray in the 2008 film Max Payne?	Mona Sax, an assassin.
Also in 2013 , Kunis co - starred in the crime thriller Blood Ties with Clive Owen , Billy Crudup , and Marion Cotillard . The film premiered at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival and had a limited release in the United States in 2014 . Blood Ties received mixed reviews . Kunis was also cast in the comedy The Angriest Man in Brooklyn , alongside Robin Williams and Peter Dinklage . The film had a limited theatrical and VOD release and received poor reviews . The Paul Haggis - directed film Third Person co - starring with Liam Neeson , Olivia Wilde and James Franco premiered at the 2013 Toronto Film Festival and had a limited release in 2014 , but also received mostly negative reviews . Kunis ' s performance was praised by some critics ; Deborah Young of The Hollywood Reporter wrote that her role gives her " enormous room to express her talent " and she " gives her story a shot of raw intensity " . In October 2014 , it was announced Kunis , along with her partners , had launched a new production company called Orchard Farm Productions . The company has a first - look deal with ABC Studios , where the company is based . Under the agreement , the team will develop and produce TV projects for broadcast and cable . In 2015 , Kunis co - starred with Channing Tatum in the science fiction film Jupiter Ascending , directed by the Wachowskis . While the film grossed over $ 183.9   million on a $ 176   million budget , it received mostly negative reviews , with a consensus that the production was " narratively befuddled " and a " visually thrilling misfire " .	How was the reception of The Angriest Man in Brooklyn?	It received poor reviews.
In 2010 , she starred alongside Denzel Washington in the action film The Book of Eli . Although the film received mixed reviews , it performed well at the box office , grossing over $ 157   million worldwide . Film critic Richard Roeper praised Kunis ' s performance , calling it a " particularly strong piece of work " . Several other reviews were equally positive , including that of Pete Hammond of Boxoffice magazine , who wrote that she ' s " ideally cast in the key female role " . Even reviewers who didn ' t necessarily like the film complimented her performance , such as James Berardinelli , who wrote that " the demands of the role prove to be within her range , which is perhaps surprising considering she has been thus far pigeonholed into more lightweight parts " , and Colin Covert of the Star Tribune , who wrote that she " generated a spark and brought a degree of determination to her character , developing an independent female character who ' s not always in need of rescuing . " Other critics , such as Claudia Puig of USA Today felt she was miscast , noting that " she looked as if she dropped in from a Ray - Ban commercial " . Kunis received another Teen Choice Award nomination for her performance . Kunis was also cast in a minor role in the 2010 comedy film Date Night , starring Tina Fey and Steve Carell . She garnered several positive reviews for her performance . Michael Phillips of the Chicago Tribune concluded her performance with James Franco helped save the film and gave it " a shot in the arm . "	What did Pete Hammond of Boxoffice magazine write about your performance in The Book of Eli?	He wrote that I'm "ideally cast in the key female role".
Kunis starred as Rachel Jansen in the 2008 comedy film , Forgetting Sarah Marshall , co - produced by Judd Apatow . The role , which she won after unsuccessfully auditioning for Knocked Up , entailed improvisation on her part . The film garnered positive reviews , and was a commercial success , grossing $ 105   million worldwide . Kunis ' s performance was well - received ; Joe Morgenstern of The Wall Street Journal praised her " fresh beauty and focused energy " , while James Berardinelli wrote that she is " adept with her performance and understands the concept of comic timing " . She was nominated for a Teen Choice Award . In an interview , Kunis credited Apatow with helping her to expand her career from That ' 70s Show .	How was your performance in the film "Forgetting Sarah Marshall" received?	My performance in the film "Forgetting Sarah Marshall" was well-received. I received praise for my fresh beauty and focused energy by Joe Morgenstern of The Wall Street Journal and for my adeptness with my performance and understanding of comic timing by James Berardinelli.
In 2010 , she starred alongside Denzel Washington in the action film The Book of Eli . Although the film received mixed reviews , it performed well at the box office , grossing over $ 157   million worldwide . Film critic Richard Roeper praised Kunis ' s performance , calling it a " particularly strong piece of work " . Several other reviews were equally positive , including that of Pete Hammond of Boxoffice magazine , who wrote that she ' s " ideally cast in the key female role " . Even reviewers who didn ' t necessarily like the film complimented her performance , such as James Berardinelli , who wrote that " the demands of the role prove to be within her range , which is perhaps surprising considering she has been thus far pigeonholed into more lightweight parts " , and Colin Covert of the Star Tribune , who wrote that she " generated a spark and brought a degree of determination to her character , developing an independent female character who ' s not always in need of rescuing . " Other critics , such as Claudia Puig of USA Today felt she was miscast , noting that " she looked as if she dropped in from a Ray - Ban commercial " . Kunis received another Teen Choice Award nomination for her performance . Kunis was also cast in a minor role in the 2010 comedy film Date Night , starring Tina Fey and Steve Carell . She garnered several positive reviews for her performance . Michael Phillips of the Chicago Tribune concluded her performance with James Franco helped save the film and gave it " a shot in the arm . "	Who did you star alongside in the action film The Book of Eli?	Denzel Washington
In 2009 , she appeared in the comedy film Extract with Ben Affleck and Jason Bateman . The film received mostly positive reviews , and grossed $ 10.8   million at the box office . Roger Ebert , while critical of the film itself , wrote that Kunis " brings her role to within shouting distance of credibility . " Director Mike Judge commented that part of what was surprising to learn about Kunis was her ability to make references to the cult animation film Rejected . Judge said : " As beautiful as Mila is , you could believe that maybe she would cross paths with you in the real world . " After seeing Kunis perform in Forgetting Sarah Marshall , Judge wanted to cast her in the role of Cindy in Extract : " I just thought , ' Wow , this girl ' s perfect . ' And she really wanted to do it , which was fantastic . " Kunis herself stated that " I ' m a huge fan of Mike Judge ' s from Office Space , so I was , like , ' Okay , this is a very easy decision . ' I told them I would do anything needed to be in this production – like craft service , or , say , acting . "	Why did Director Mike Judge want to cast you in the role of Cindy in Extract?	After seeing me perform in Forgetting Sarah Marshall, Judge thought I was perfect for the role and wanted to cast me.
In 2018 , Kunis co - starred with Kate McKinnon in the comedy The Spy Who Dumped Me . The film received mixed reviews and went on to gross over $ 75 million worldwide with a budget of $ 40 million . Kunis co - starred with Glenn Close in the film Four Good Days . Principal photography began in September 2019 in Los Angeles , and premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 25 , 2020 . The film received mixed reviews but Kunis was praised for her performance , with Pete Hammond from Deadline Hollywood stating Kunis was " a revelation " in the role , while Richard Roeper of the Chicago Sun - Times concluded her performance " represents the finest work she has done " . In 2021 , she co - starred with Allison Janney and Regina Hall in Breaking News in Yuba County , which was filmed in Mississippi . The film was released February 12 , 2021 , and received negative reviews from critics . On April 30 , 2022 , it was announced that Kunis would have a guest appearance in the follow - up sitcom , That ' 90s Show .	How much did The Spy Who Dumped Me gross worldwide?	Over $75 million
Also in 2013 , Kunis co - starred in the crime thriller Blood Ties with Clive Owen , Billy Crudup , and Marion Cotillard . The film premiered at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival and had a limited release in the United States in 2014 . Blood Ties received mixed reviews . Kunis was also cast in the comedy The Angriest Man in Brooklyn , alongside Robin Williams and Peter Dinklage . The film had a limited theatrical and VOD release and received poor reviews . The Paul Haggis - directed film Third Person co - starring with Liam Neeson , Olivia Wilde and James Franco premiered at the 2013 Toronto Film Festival and had a limited release in 2014 , but also received mostly negative reviews . Kunis ' s performance was praised by some critics ; Deborah Young of The Hollywood Reporter wrote that her role gives her " enormous room to express her talent " and she " gives her story a shot of raw intensity " . In October 2014 , it was announced Kunis , along with her partners , had launched a new production company called Orchard Farm Productions . The company has a first - look deal with ABC Studios , where the company is based . Under the agreement , the team will develop and produce TV projects for broadcast and cable . In 2015 , Kunis co - starred with Channing Tatum in the science fiction film Jupiter Ascending , directed by the Wachowskis . While the film grossed over $ 183.9   million on a $ 176   million budget , it received mostly negative reviews , with a consensus that the production was " narratively befuddled " and a " visually thrilling misfire " .	Who did you star with in the comedy The Angriest Man in Brooklyn?	Robin Williams and Peter Dinklage
Christian Dior signed Kunis in 2012 to be the face of its Spring fashion campaign . In February 2013 , she was named Gemfields global brand ambassador and the face of their advertising campaign . Gemfields is a luxury company that produces emeralds , rubies , and amethysts . She visited Gemfields ' mine in Zambia . Kunis appeared wearing Gemfields ' s Rubies for the world premiere of Jupiter Ascending . In 2013 , she appeared in Forbes list of 100 powerful celebrities , ranking # 89 on the basis of five criteria ( Money , TV / Radio , Press , Social , and Marketability ) , with her highest ranking as # 14 in marketability . She earned $ 11   million for the year ending in June 2013 . In 2014 , Kunis appeared in a range of global advertising for Beam , Inc . ( makers of Jim Beam bourbon ) . Her announcement on Conan that she would donate to Planned Parenthood in Vice President Mike Pence ' s name received praise from supporters of abortion rights ; conversely , several anti - abortion advocates criticized her and Beam , Inc . on Twitter , creating the hashtag # BoycottJimBeam .	Who signed you to be the face of its Spring fashion campaign in 2012?	Christian Dior.
Also in 2013 , Kunis co - starred in the crime thriller Blood Ties with Clive Owen , Billy Crudup , and Marion Cotillard . The film premiered at the 2013 Cannes Film Festival and had a limited release in the United States in 2014 . Blood Ties received mixed reviews . Kunis was also cast in the comedy The Angriest Man in Brooklyn , alongside Robin Williams and Peter Dinklage . The film had a limited theatrical and VOD release and received poor reviews . The Paul Haggis - directed film Third Person co - starring with Liam Neeson , Olivia Wilde and James Franco premiered at the 2013 Toronto Film Festival and had a limited release in 2014 , but also received mostly negative reviews . Kunis ' s performance was praised by some critics ; Deborah Young of The Hollywood Reporter wrote that her role gives her " enormous room to express her talent " and she " gives her story a shot of raw intensity " . In October 2014 , it was announced Kunis , along with her partners , had launched a new production company called Orchard Farm Productions . The company has a first - look deal with ABC Studios , where the company is based . Under the agreement , the team will develop and produce TV projects for broadcast and cable . In 2015 , Kunis co - starred with Channing Tatum in the science fiction film Jupiter Ascending , directed by the Wachowskis . While the film grossed over $ 183.9   million on a $ 176   million budget , it received mostly negative reviews , with a consensus that the production was " narratively befuddled " and a " visually thrilling misfire " .	What film did you co-star in with Clive Owen, Billy Crudup, and Marion Cotillard?	Blood Ties
In 2010 , she starred alongside Denzel Washington in the action film The Book of Eli . Although the film received mixed reviews , it performed well at the box office , grossing over $ 157   million worldwide . Film critic Richard Roeper praised Kunis ' s performance , calling it a " particularly strong piece of work " . Several other reviews were equally positive , including that of Pete Hammond of Boxoffice magazine , who wrote that she ' s " ideally cast in the key female role " . Even reviewers who didn ' t necessarily like the film complimented her performance , such as James Berardinelli , who wrote that " the demands of the role prove to be within her range , which is perhaps surprising considering she has been thus far pigeonholed into more lightweight parts " , and Colin Covert of the Star Tribune , who wrote that she " generated a spark and brought a degree of determination to her character , developing an independent female character who ' s not always in need of rescuing . " Other critics , such as Claudia Puig of USA Today felt she was miscast , noting that " she looked as if she dropped in from a Ray - Ban commercial " . Kunis received another Teen Choice Award nomination for her performance . Kunis was also cast in a minor role in the 2010 comedy film Date Night , starring Tina Fey and Steve Carell . She garnered several positive reviews for her performance . Michael Phillips of the Chicago Tribune concluded her performance with James Franco helped save the film and gave it " a shot in the arm . "	Who praised your performance in The Book of Eli?	Film critic Richard Roeper.
In 2013 , Kunis played Theodora , the youngest of three witches , opposite James Franco , in the Walt Disney Pictures ' prequel , Oz the Great and Powerful . She dedicated her performance in the film to Margaret Hamilton , the original Wicked Witch of the West in the 1939 film . The film , and Kunis ' s performance , received mixed reviews from critics . Kim Newman of Empire Magazine wrote that Kunis " walks away with the honours as the wavering witch Theodora , whose heartbreak brings another , less - expected depth to this 3D spectacle " . In contrast , Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter found Kunis ' s performance to be uncertain as her character seemed to be in a state of limbo . Oz the Great and Powerful was a commercial success , grossing over $ 493   million worldwide .	Who did you dedicate your performance to in the film?	Margaret Hamilton, the original Wicked Witch of the West in the 1939 film.
In 2012 , Kunis co - starred with Mark Wahlberg in Ted , her most commercially successful film to date . The film was directed and co - written by Family Guy creator Seth MacFarlane . Kunis played the girlfriend of Wahlberg ' s character . When MacFarlane first conceived the project , he considered Kunis too young for the role . However , the film remained in development for several years and when it was finally ready to begin production , he ended up casting her . Ted has received generally positive reviews from critics and was a commercial success , grossing $ 549   million worldwide . Drew McWeeny of HitFix wrote that Kunis " brings some lovely subtle grace notes to a role that easily could have just been ' the pushy girlfriend ' " .	What role did you play in Ted?	The girlfriend of Wahlberg's character.
Black Swan received widespread acclaim from critics and was nominated for five Academy Awards , including Best Picture . The film grossed over $ 106.9   million in the United States and Canada while grossing over $ 329   million worldwide . Reviews of Kunis ' s performance were positive , with Kirk Honeycutt of The Hollywood Reporter stating , " Kunis makes a perfect alternate to Portman , equally as lithe and dark but a smirk of self - assurance in place of Portman ' s wide - eyed fearfulness . " Guy Lodge of In Contention also praised Kunis , saying , " it ' s the cool , throaty - voiced Kunis who is the surprise package here , intelligently watching and reflecting her co - star in such a manner that we ' re as uncertain as Nina of her ingenuousness . " Kunis ' s performance won her the Marcello Mastroianni Award for Best Young Actor or Actress at the 67th Venice International Film Festival , and earned her Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild Award nominations for Best Supporting Actress . At the 37th annual Saturn Awards , she was also honored with the Best Supporting Actress award for her performance .	How much money did Black Swan gross in the United States and Canada?	Black Swan grossed over $106.9 million in the United States and Canada.
In 2013 , Kunis played Theodora , the youngest of three witches , opposite James Franco , in the Walt Disney Pictures ' prequel , Oz the Great and Powerful . She dedicated her performance in the film to Margaret Hamilton , the original Wicked Witch of the West in the 1939 film . The film , and Kunis ' s performance , received mixed reviews from critics . Kim Newman of Empire Magazine wrote that Kunis " walks away with the honours as the wavering witch Theodora , whose heartbreak brings another , less - expected depth to this 3D spectacle " . In contrast , Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter found Kunis ' s performance to be uncertain as her character seemed to be in a state of limbo . Oz the Great and Powerful was a commercial success , grossing over $ 493   million worldwide .	What were the reviews like for the film and your performance?	The reviews were mixed. Kim Newman of Empire Magazine praised my performance, while Todd McCarthy of The Hollywood Reporter found it uncertain.
In 2018 , Kunis co - starred with Kate McKinnon in the comedy The Spy Who Dumped Me . The film received mixed reviews and went on to gross over $ 75 million worldwide with a budget of $ 40 million . Kunis co - starred with Glenn Close in the film Four Good Days . Principal photography began in September 2019 in Los Angeles , and premiered at the Sundance Film Festival on January 25 , 2020 . The film received mixed reviews but Kunis was praised for her performance , with Pete Hammond from Deadline Hollywood stating Kunis was " a revelation " in the role , while Richard Roeper of the Chicago Sun - Times concluded her performance " represents the finest work she has done " . In 2021 , she co - starred with Allison Janney and Regina Hall in Breaking News in Yuba County , which was filmed in Mississippi . The film was released February 12 , 2021 , and received negative reviews from critics . On April 30 , 2022 , it was announced that Kunis would have a guest appearance in the follow - up sitcom , That ' 90s Show .	What was the budget of The Spy Who Dumped Me?	$40 million
Black Swan received widespread acclaim from critics and was nominated for five Academy Awards , including Best Picture . The film grossed over $ 106.9   million in the United States and Canada while grossing over $ 329   million worldwide . Reviews of Kunis ' s performance were positive , with Kirk Honeycutt of The Hollywood Reporter stating , " Kunis makes a perfect alternate to Portman , equally as lithe and dark but a smirk of self - assurance in place of Portman ' s wide - eyed fearfulness . " Guy Lodge of In Contention also praised Kunis , saying , " it ' s the cool , throaty - voiced Kunis who is the surprise package here , intelligently watching and reflecting her co - star in such a manner that we ' re as uncertain as Nina of her ingenuousness . " Kunis ' s performance won her the Marcello Mastroianni Award for Best Young Actor or Actress at the 67th Venice International Film Festival , and earned her Golden Globe Award and Screen Actors Guild Award nominations for Best Supporting Actress . At the 37th annual Saturn Awards , she was also honored with the Best Supporting Actress award for her performance .	How much money did Black Swan gross worldwide?	Black Swan grossed over $329 million worldwide.
Christian Dior signed Kunis in 2012 to be the face of its Spring fashion campaign . In February 2013 , she was named Gemfields global brand ambassador and the face of their advertising campaign . Gemfields is a luxury company that produces emeralds , rubies , and amethysts . She visited Gemfields ' mine in Zambia . Kunis appeared wearing Gemfields ' s Rubies for the world premiere of Jupiter Ascending . In 2013 , she appeared in Forbes list of 100 powerful celebrities , ranking # 89 on the basis of five criteria ( Money , TV / Radio , Press , Social , and Marketability ) , with her highest ranking as # 14 in marketability . She earned $ 11   million for the year ending in June 2013 . In 2014 , Kunis appeared in a range of global advertising for Beam , Inc . ( makers of Jim Beam bourbon ) . Her announcement on Conan that she would donate to Planned Parenthood in Vice President Mike Pence ' s name received praise from supporters of abortion rights ; conversely , several anti - abortion advocates criticized her and Beam , Inc . on Twitter , creating the hashtag # BoycottJimBeam .	In what year did you become Gemfields global brand ambassador?	In 2013.
