On August 14 , 2020 , Cyrus released the lead single from her seventh studio album , " Midnight Sky " and confirmed the cancellation of the EPs She Is Here and She Is Everything due to major recent changes in her life that did not fit the essence of the project , including her divorce from Hemsworth , and the burning of the couple ' s house during the Woolsey Fire in California . " Midnight Sky " became her highest - charting solo single since " Malibu " in 2017 , peaking at number 14 on the US Billboard Hot 100 . Internationally , in the United Kingdom the song has thus far peaked at number five on the UK Singles Chart . The track was later mashed up with Stevie Nicks ' " Edge of Seventeen " . In October , Cyrus had a third Backyard Session on MTV and announced via Instagram that her seventh studio album Plastic Hearts would be released on November 27 , 2020 . It was previously intended to be called She Is Miley Cyrus , completing the EP series once finalized . The album was released to positive reviews from critics and performed well , debuting at number two on the Billboard 200 , with 60 , 000 units , becoming her twelfth top ten entry on the chart . With that entry , Cyrus broke the record for attaining the most US Billboard 200 top - five albums in the 21st century by a female artist . Plastic Hearts marked a step of Cyrus into rock and glam rock music and spawned two other singles : " Prisoner " featuring English singer Dua Lipa and " Angels like You " , which peaked at 8 and 66 respectively in the United Kingdom . The album also included vocal collaborations with Billy Idol and Joan Jett . Due to popular demand and social media virality , Cyrus included the live covers of Blondie ' s " Heart of Glass " and The Cranberries ' " Zombie " .	How did "Midnight Sky" perform on the US Billboard Hot 100?	"Midnight Sky" became my highest-charting solo single since "Malibu" in 2017, peaking at number 14 on the US Billboard Hot 100.
In 2013 , Cyrus hired Larry Rudolph to be her manager , although she is currently managed by Maverick ' s Adam Leber ; Rudolph is best known for representing Britney Spears . It was confirmed that Cyrus had signed with RCA Records for her future releases . She worked with producers such as Pharrell Williams and Mike Will Made - It on her fourth studio album , resulting in a hip hop - influenced sound . She collaborated with numerous hip hop artists releases and appeared on the Snoop Lion song " Ashtrays and Heartbreaks " ( 2013 ) , released as the lead single from his twelfth studio album , Reincarnated . She collaborated with will . i . am on the song " Fall Down " ( 2013 ) , released as a promotional single that same month . The song entered the Billboard Hot 100 at number fifty - eight , marking her first appearance on the chart since " Can ' t Be Tamed " ( 2010 ) . She provided guest vocals on the Lil Twist song " Twerk " , which also featured vocals by Justin Bieber . The song was unreleased for unknown reasons but leaked online . On May 23 , 2013 , it was confirmed that Cyrus would be featured on the Mike Will Made It single " 23 " , with Wiz Khalifa and Juicy J . The single went on to peak at number eleven on the Hot 100 , and had sold over one   million copies worldwide as of 2013 .	Who currently manages you?	Currently, I am managed by Maverick's Adam Leber.
In February 2022 , Cyrus embarked on her music festival concert tour , Attention Tour , in support of Plastic Hearts , which took place in North , South , and Central America . This marked her first tour to South America since her Gypsy Heart Tour in 2011 . The tour concluded on March 26 , 2022 . On April 1 , 2022 , Cyrus released her third live album , Attention : Miley Live . Most of the album was recorded during her concert as part of the Super Bowl Music Fest at the Crypto . com Arena in Los Angeles on February 12 , 2022 , with the set list including songs from her albums Plastic Hearts , Miley Cyrus & Her Dead Petz , Bangerz , The Time of Our Lives , Breakout , and Meet Miley Cyrus , along with multiple cover songs . The album also includes two unreleased tracks — " Attention " and " You " . She said the album was " curated by the fans for the fans " . Emily Swingle of Clash gave acclaim to Cyrus ' s versatile vocals , saying her " voice is truly a force to be reckoned with , seamlessly fitting whatever genre she chooses to tackle . From the playful , country - hip - hop banger that is ' 4x4 ' , to rap - heavy ' 23 ' , to the bluesy , rich cover of Janis Joplin ' s ' Maybe ' , it seems like Cyrus can fit into just about any genre she gets her paws on . " By the end of that month , Cyrus released the deluxe version of the album , which includes six additional songs including a mashup of " Mother ' s Daughter " and " Boys Don ' t Cry " featuring Anitta , that are mostly part of her time at the Lollapalooza festival in Brazil and other shows in Latin America ; she commented on the addition of her single " Angels Like You " at her concert in Colombia in gratitude due to the song reaching the number one spot on iTunes in that country and because her fans sang the song all night outside the hotel where she was staying in Bogot á . The following month , NBC announced that Miley ' s New Year ' s Eve Party had been renewed for a second iteration set to be aired on New Year ' s Eve 2022 – 23 . In August 2022 , it was announced that Cyrus is set to star in a Christmas television film Dolly Parton ' s Mountain Magic Christmas , produced by Dolly Parton for NBC .	Where did your tour take place?	My tour took place in North, South, and Central America.
Throughout her career Cyrus has sung on several charity singles such as : " Just Stand Up ! " , " Send It On " , " Everybody Hurts " and " We Are the World 25 for Haiti " . She has visited sick fans in hospitals throughout the years . She is an avid supporter of the City of Hope National Medical Center in California , having attended benefit concerts in 2008 , 2009 and 2012 . In 2008 and 2009 , during her Best of Both Worlds and Wonder World Tours , for every concert ticket sold , she donated one dollar to the organization . Cyrus celebrated her 16th birthday at Disneyland by delivering a $ 1   million donation from Disney to Youth Service America . In July 2009 , Cyrus performed at the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation ' s 20th annual A Time for Heroes celebrity picnic and donated several items including autographed merchandise , and a script from Hannah Montana for the Ronald McDonald House Auction . Cyrus has supported charities such as the Elton John AIDS Foundation , Entertainment Industry Foundation , Habitat for Humanity , United Service Organizations , Youth Service America and Music for Relief . In January 2010 , Cyrus posted the final video to her mileymandy YouTube Account . In the video , Cyrus promoted support for To Write Love on Her Arms . The next day , Cyrus appeared in a promotional video for To Write Love on Her Arms with Joaquin Phoenix , and Liv Tyler . In February 2010 , she donated several items , including the dress she wore to the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards , and two tickets to the Hollywood premiere of her film The Last Song , to raise money for the victims of the 2010 Haiti earthquake . In April 2010 , Cyrus , working with the Make - A - Wish Foundation , performed for and met with 29 Children at The Grove at Farmers Market in Los Angeles , California . Cyrus has continued her support for The Make - A - Wish Foundation and has met with at least 150 children .	What charity singles have you sung on throughout your career?	I have sung on several charity singles such as "Just Stand Up!", "Send It On", "Everybody Hurts", and "We Are the World 25 for Haiti".
On August 14 , 2020 , Cyrus released the lead single from her seventh studio album , " Midnight Sky " and confirmed the cancellation of the EPs She Is Here and She Is Everything due to major recent changes in her life that did not fit the essence of the project , including her divorce from Hemsworth , and the burning of the couple ' s house during the Woolsey Fire in California . " Midnight Sky " became her highest - charting solo single since " Malibu " in 2017 , peaking at number 14 on the US Billboard Hot 100 . Internationally , in the United Kingdom the song has thus far peaked at number five on the UK Singles Chart . The track was later mashed up with Stevie Nicks ' " Edge of Seventeen " . In October , Cyrus had a third Backyard Session on MTV and announced via Instagram that her seventh studio album Plastic Hearts would be released on November 27 , 2020 . It was previously intended to be called She Is Miley Cyrus , completing the EP series once finalized . The album was released to positive reviews from critics and performed well , debuting at number two on the Billboard 200 , with 60 , 000 units , becoming her twelfth top ten entry on the chart . With that entry , Cyrus broke the record for attaining the most US Billboard 200 top - five albums in the 21st century by a female artist . Plastic Hearts marked a step of Cyrus into rock and glam rock music and spawned two other singles : " Prisoner " featuring English singer Dua Lipa and " Angels like You " , which peaked at 8 and 66 respectively in the United Kingdom . The album also included vocal collaborations with Billy Idol and Joan Jett . Due to popular demand and social media virality , Cyrus included the live covers of Blondie ' s " Heart of Glass " and The Cranberries ' " Zombie " .	What was the peak position of my song "Midnight Sky" on the UK Singles Chart?	"Midnight Sky" peaked at number five on the UK Singles Chart for me.
In March 2009 , Cyrus released " The Climb " ( 2009 ) as a single from the soundtrack to the Hannah Montana feature film . It was met with a warm critical and commercial reaction , becoming a crossover hit in both pop and country music formats . The soundtrack , which features the single , went on to become Cyrus ' s fourth entry to top the Billboard 200 ; at age 16 , she became the youngest artist in history to have four number - one albums on the chart . She released her fourth soundtrack as Hannah Montana in July 2009 , which debuted at number two on the Billboard 200 . Cyrus later launched her first fashion line , Miley Cyrus and Max Azria , through Walmart . It was promoted by the release of " Party in the U . S . A . " ( 2009 ) and the EP The Time of Our Lives ( 2009 ) . Cyrus said the record was " a transitioning album [ ... ] really to introduce people to what I want my next record to sound like and with time I will be able to do that a little more " . " Party in the U . S . A . " became one of Cyrus ' s most successful singles to date and is considered to be one of her signature songs . She embarked on her first world tour , the Wonder World Tour ( 2009 ) which was a critical and commercial success . On December 7 , 2009 , Cyrus performed for Queen Elizabeth II and other members of the British royal family at the Royal Variety Performance in Blackpool , Lancashire .	How many number one albums did you have on the Billboard 200 at age 16?	I became the youngest artist in history to have four number-one albums on the chart.
On May 11 , 2017 , Cyrus released " Malibu " as the lead single from her sixth album . The single debuted at No . 64 on the Billboard Hot 100 and peaked at No . 10 on the chart on its second week . On June 9 , Cyrus released " Inspired " after performing the song at the One Love Manchester benefit concert . It served as a promotional single from the album . On August 8 , Cyrus announced that her sixth studio album would be titled Younger Now and would be released on September 29 , 2017 . The album ' s title track was released as the second single from the album on August 18 and debuted and peaked at No . 79 on the Billboard Hot 100 . On August 27 , Cyrus performed the track at the 2017 MTV Video Music Awards . On September 15 , she performed " Malibu " , " Younger Now " , " See You Again " , " Party in the U . S . A . " and a cover of the Roberta Flack hit " The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face " ( written by Ewan McColl ) for the BBC Radio 1 Live Lounge . On October 2 , as part of her one - week regular musical appearances on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon , Cyrus sang her 2009 hit single " The Climb " for the first time since 2011 alongside a cover of " No Freedom " by Dido to honor the victims of the Las Vegas shooting . The former one has since then been performed at multiple charity events and democratic marches like March For Our Lives . That same year Cyrus also returned as a coach in the thirteenth season of The Voice after taking a one - season hiatus . On October 5 , 2017 , Cyrus confirmed that she would not be returning to The Voice for season fourteen . On October 30 , 2017 , Cyrus revealed she would neither release any further singles from Younger Now nor tour for it .	When was your album "Younger Now" released?	It was released on September 29, 2017.
On May 11 , 2017 , Cyrus released " Malibu " as the lead single from her sixth album . The single debuted at No . 64 on the Billboard Hot 100 and peaked at No . 10 on the chart on its second week . On June 9 , Cyrus released " Inspired " after performing the song at the One Love Manchester benefit concert . It served as a promotional single from the album . On August 8 , Cyrus announced that her sixth studio album would be titled Younger Now and would be released on September 29 , 2017 . The album ' s title track was released as the second single from the album on August 18 and debuted and peaked at No . 79 on the Billboard Hot 100 . On August 27 , Cyrus performed the track at the 2017 MTV Video Music Awards . On September 15 , she performed " Malibu " , " Younger Now " , " See You Again " , " Party in the U . S . A . " and a cover of the Roberta Flack hit " The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face " ( written by Ewan McColl ) for the BBC Radio 1 Live Lounge . On October 2 , as part of her one - week regular musical appearances on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon , Cyrus sang her 2009 hit single " The Climb " for the first time since 2011 alongside a cover of " No Freedom " by Dido to honor the victims of the Las Vegas shooting . The former one has since then been performed at multiple charity events and democratic marches like March For Our Lives . That same year Cyrus also returned as a coach in the thirteenth season of The Voice after taking a one - season hiatus . On October 5 , 2017 , Cyrus confirmed that she would not be returning to The Voice for season fourteen . On October 30 , 2017 , Cyrus revealed she would neither release any further singles from Younger Now nor tour for it .	When did you confirm that you would not be returning to The Voice for season fourteen?	I confirmed it on October 5, 2017.
Miley Cyrus has been described mainly as a pop singer who has also developed a rock style . Her music has also spanned many other different genres including teen pop , country , hip hop , and psychedelic . Cyrus has cited Elvis Presley as her biggest inspiration . She has also cited artists such as Madonna , Lana Del Rey , Dolly Parton , Timbaland , Whitney Houston , Christina Aguilera , Joan Jett , Lil Kim , Shania Twain , Hanson , OneRepublic , and Britney Spears as influences . Since the beginning of her music career , Cyrus has been described as being predominantly a pop artist . Her Hannah Montana 2 : Meet Miley Cyrus debut studio effort was characterized as sounding similar to her releases as " Hannah Montana " featuring a pop - rock and bubblegum pop sound . Cyrus hoped that the release of Breakout ( 2008 ) would help distance her from this sound ; the record featured Cyrus experimenting with various genres . Cyrus co - wrote eight songs for the album and was quoted as saying : " I just hope this record showcases that , more than anything , I ' m a [ song ] writer . " The songs on her early releases feature lyrics on the topics of love and relationships .	Who have you cited as your biggest inspiration?	I have cited Elvis Presley as my biggest inspiration.
Throughout her career Cyrus has sung on several charity singles such as : " Just Stand Up ! " , " Send It On " , " Everybody Hurts " and " We Are the World 25 for Haiti " . She has visited sick fans in hospitals throughout the years . She is an avid supporter of the City of Hope National Medical Center in California , having attended benefit concerts in 2008 , 2009 and 2012 . In 2008 and 2009 , during her Best of Both Worlds and Wonder World Tours , for every concert ticket sold , she donated one dollar to the organization . Cyrus celebrated her 16th birthday at Disneyland by delivering a $ 1   million donation from Disney to Youth Service America . In July 2009 , Cyrus performed at the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation ' s 20th annual A Time for Heroes celebrity picnic and donated several items including autographed merchandise , and a script from Hannah Montana for the Ronald McDonald House Auction . Cyrus has supported charities such as the Elton John AIDS Foundation , Entertainment Industry Foundation , Habitat for Humanity , United Service Organizations , Youth Service America and Music for Relief . In January 2010 , Cyrus posted the final video to her mileymandy YouTube Account . In the video , Cyrus promoted support for To Write Love on Her Arms . The next day , Cyrus appeared in a promotional video for To Write Love on Her Arms with Joaquin Phoenix , and Liv Tyler . In February 2010 , she donated several items , including the dress she wore to the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards , and two tickets to the Hollywood premiere of her film The Last Song , to raise money for the victims of the 2010 Haiti earthquake . In April 2010 , Cyrus , working with the Make - A - Wish Foundation , performed for and met with 29 Children at The Grove at Farmers Market in Los Angeles , California . Cyrus has continued her support for The Make - A - Wish Foundation and has met with at least 150 children .	Which charitable foundation did you perform at in July 2009?	I performed at the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation's 20th annual A Time for Heroes celebrity picnic in July 2009.
In 2013 , Cyrus hired Larry Rudolph to be her manager , although she is currently managed by Maverick ' s Adam Leber ; Rudolph is best known for representing Britney Spears . It was confirmed that Cyrus had signed with RCA Records for her future releases . She worked with producers such as Pharrell Williams and Mike Will Made - It on her fourth studio album , resulting in a hip hop - influenced sound . She collaborated with numerous hip hop artists releases and appeared on the Snoop Lion song " Ashtrays and Heartbreaks " ( 2013 ) , released as the lead single from his twelfth studio album , Reincarnated . She collaborated with will . i . am on the song " Fall Down " ( 2013 ) , released as a promotional single that same month . The song entered the Billboard Hot 100 at number fifty - eight , marking her first appearance on the chart since " Can ' t Be Tamed " ( 2010 ) . She provided guest vocals on the Lil Twist song " Twerk " , which also featured vocals by Justin Bieber . The song was unreleased for unknown reasons but leaked online . On May 23 , 2013 , it was confirmed that Cyrus would be featured on the Mike Will Made It single " 23 " , with Wiz Khalifa and Juicy J . The single went on to peak at number eleven on the Hot 100 , and had sold over one   million copies worldwide as of 2013 .	Which hip hop artists did you collaborate with on your releases?	I collaborated with numerous hip hop artists on my releases.
Cyrus won a 2020 Webby Special Achievement Award . In February 2021 , Cyrus performed at the very first TikTok Tailgate show in Tampa , for 7 , 500 vaccinated healthcare workers . It served as a pre - show before Super Bowl LV . It aired on TikTok and CBS . The performance was featured in the music video for " Angels like You " . In March 2021 , Cyrus departed RCA and signed with Columbia Records , a sister label of RCA under the Sony Music umbrella . That same month Cyrus embraced her days as Hannah Montana and wrote an open letter to the character on social media for the show ' s 15th anniversary , despite all statements that her days as Montana gave Cyrus an identity crisis . Rumors about a possible revival of the show have been around ever since . On April 23 , 2021 , The Kid Laroi released a remix of his single " Without You " featuring Cyrus , her first release under Columbia Records . On April 3 , 2021 , Cyrus performed at the NCAA March Madness Final Four in Indianapolis with the frontline health care workers in the audience . In May 2021 , she signed an overall deal with NBCUniversal , including a first - look deal with her studio Hopetown Entertainment , as part of which she will develop projects for the company ' s outlets and star in three specials ; with the first project off the deal being the Stand By You Pride concert special , which was released the following month on Peacock . In June , Cyrus released a studio cover version of Metallica ' s " Nothing Else Matters " , which was included in The Metallica Blacklist , a tribute album to the band ' s homonymous record , featuring renditions recorded by various artists and released in conjunction to the original album ' s 30th anniversary . The track also features Elton John on the piano , Yo - Yo Ma and Red Hot Chili Peppers ' Chad Smith . The singer initially teased a Metallica cover album in October 2020 and had already performed the track live during her set at Glastonbury .	How many vaccinated healthcare workers attended the TikTok Tailgate show?	7,500
Cyrus won a 2020 Webby Special Achievement Award . In February 2021 , Cyrus performed at the very first TikTok Tailgate show in Tampa , for 7 , 500 vaccinated healthcare workers . It served as a pre - show before Super Bowl LV . It aired on TikTok and CBS . The performance was featured in the music video for " Angels like You " . In March 2021 , Cyrus departed RCA and signed with Columbia Records , a sister label of RCA under the Sony Music umbrella . That same month Cyrus embraced her days as Hannah Montana and wrote an open letter to the character on social media for the show ' s 15th anniversary , despite all statements that her days as Montana gave Cyrus an identity crisis . Rumors about a possible revival of the show have been around ever since . On April 23 , 2021 , The Kid Laroi released a remix of his single " Without You " featuring Cyrus , her first release under Columbia Records . On April 3 , 2021 , Cyrus performed at the NCAA March Madness Final Four in Indianapolis with the frontline health care workers in the audience . In May 2021 , she signed an overall deal with NBCUniversal , including a first - look deal with her studio Hopetown Entertainment , as part of which she will develop projects for the company ' s outlets and star in three specials ; with the first project off the deal being the Stand By You Pride concert special , which was released the following month on Peacock . In June , Cyrus released a studio cover version of Metallica ' s " Nothing Else Matters " , which was included in The Metallica Blacklist , a tribute album to the band ' s homonymous record , featuring renditions recorded by various artists and released in conjunction to the original album ' s 30th anniversary . The track also features Elton John on the piano , Yo - Yo Ma and Red Hot Chili Peppers ' Chad Smith . The singer initially teased a Metallica cover album in October 2020 and had already performed the track live during her set at Glastonbury .	Where did you perform in February 2021?	Tampa
In March 2009 , Cyrus released " The Climb " ( 2009 ) as a single from the soundtrack to the Hannah Montana feature film . It was met with a warm critical and commercial reaction , becoming a crossover hit in both pop and country music formats . The soundtrack , which features the single , went on to become Cyrus ' s fourth entry to top the Billboard 200 ; at age 16 , she became the youngest artist in history to have four number - one albums on the chart . She released her fourth soundtrack as Hannah Montana in July 2009 , which debuted at number two on the Billboard 200 . Cyrus later launched her first fashion line , Miley Cyrus and Max Azria , through Walmart . It was promoted by the release of " Party in the U . S . A . " ( 2009 ) and the EP The Time of Our Lives ( 2009 ) . Cyrus said the record was " a transitioning album [ ... ] really to introduce people to what I want my next record to sound like and with time I will be able to do that a little more " . " Party in the U . S . A . " became one of Cyrus ' s most successful singles to date and is considered to be one of her signature songs . She embarked on her first world tour , the Wonder World Tour ( 2009 ) which was a critical and commercial success . On December 7 , 2009 , Cyrus performed for Queen Elizabeth II and other members of the British royal family at the Royal Variety Performance in Blackpool , Lancashire .	What type of reaction did "The Climb" receive?	It was met with a warm critical and commercial reaction.
In 2015 , Rebecca Nicholson from The Guardian published an article calling Cyrus the Madonna of her generation , saying that " she ' s a Disney survivor with a fluid approach to gender identity . And , like the old three - chord punks , she gives really good quote " . According to Nicholson , Cyrus takes " the 90s Madonna approach to public sexuality : it ' s deliberately provocative , and crucially , it is not being served up for male consumption . " Likewise , she defends Cyrus ' s controversial rebellion , highlighting that behind the character there is a human , talented and strong person who manages to connect with the public , just like the " Queen of Pop " . In November of the same year , Billboard cataloged the singer as one of the Greatest of All Time Billboard 200 Artists , occupying position thirty - one . In 2017 , the aforementioned magazine also published an article naming the singer a " Queer Superhero " for her philanthropic fight for the LGBTQ + community .	What did Billboard name you in 2017?	They named me a "Queer Superhero" for my philanthropic fight for the LGBTQ+ community.
Cyrus won a 2020 Webby Special Achievement Award . In February 2021 , Cyrus performed at the very first TikTok Tailgate show in Tampa , for 7 , 500 vaccinated healthcare workers . It served as a pre - show before Super Bowl LV . It aired on TikTok and CBS . The performance was featured in the music video for " Angels like You " . In March 2021 , Cyrus departed RCA and signed with Columbia Records , a sister label of RCA under the Sony Music umbrella . That same month Cyrus embraced her days as Hannah Montana and wrote an open letter to the character on social media for the show ' s 15th anniversary , despite all statements that her days as Montana gave Cyrus an identity crisis . Rumors about a possible revival of the show have been around ever since . On April 23 , 2021 , The Kid Laroi released a remix of his single " Without You " featuring Cyrus , her first release under Columbia Records . On April 3 , 2021 , Cyrus performed at the NCAA March Madness Final Four in Indianapolis with the frontline health care workers in the audience . In May 2021 , she signed an overall deal with NBCUniversal , including a first - look deal with her studio Hopetown Entertainment , as part of which she will develop projects for the company ' s outlets and star in three specials ; with the first project off the deal being the Stand By You Pride concert special , which was released the following month on Peacock . In June , Cyrus released a studio cover version of Metallica ' s " Nothing Else Matters " , which was included in The Metallica Blacklist , a tribute album to the band ' s homonymous record , featuring renditions recorded by various artists and released in conjunction to the original album ' s 30th anniversary . The track also features Elton John on the piano , Yo - Yo Ma and Red Hot Chili Peppers ' Chad Smith . The singer initially teased a Metallica cover album in October 2020 and had already performed the track live during her set at Glastonbury .	Who won a 2020 Webby Special Achievement Award?	I did.
On May 11 , 2017 , Cyrus released " Malibu " as the lead single from her sixth album . The single debuted at No . 64 on the Billboard Hot 100 and peaked at No . 10 on the chart on its second week . On June 9 , Cyrus released " Inspired " after performing the song at the One Love Manchester benefit concert . It served as a promotional single from the album . On August 8 , Cyrus announced that her sixth studio album would be titled Younger Now and would be released on September 29 , 2017 . The album ' s title track was released as the second single from the album on August 18 and debuted and peaked at No . 79 on the Billboard Hot 100 . On August 27 , Cyrus performed the track at the 2017 MTV Video Music Awards . On September 15 , she performed " Malibu " , " Younger Now " , " See You Again " , " Party in the U . S . A . " and a cover of the Roberta Flack hit " The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face " ( written by Ewan McColl ) for the BBC Radio 1 Live Lounge . On October 2 , as part of her one - week regular musical appearances on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon , Cyrus sang her 2009 hit single " The Climb " for the first time since 2011 alongside a cover of " No Freedom " by Dido to honor the victims of the Las Vegas shooting . The former one has since then been performed at multiple charity events and democratic marches like March For Our Lives . That same year Cyrus also returned as a coach in the thirteenth season of The Voice after taking a one - season hiatus . On October 5 , 2017 , Cyrus confirmed that she would not be returning to The Voice for season fourteen . On October 30 , 2017 , Cyrus revealed she would neither release any further singles from Younger Now nor tour for it .	What position did the title track of your album "Younger Now" peak at on the Billboard Hot 100?	It peaked at No. 79.
Cyrus and her longtime collaborator Mike Will Made It teased potential new music to be released in 2023 , on the latter ' s social media . Cyrus continued to tease a new musical era through a cryptic promotional campaign — which included posters in major cities around the world , countdowns on her website , and video previews — with the caption , " New Year , New Miley " . Days later , during the second edition of Miley ' s New Year ' s Eve Party , the singer ' s next lead single , " Flowers " , was announced . It was released on January 12 , 2023 , accompanied by a music video directed by Jacob Bixenman . " Flowers " debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , Global 200 , and Global Excl . US charts ; it spent twelve and thirteen weeks atop the global charts . Topping the Hot 100 for eight non - consecutive weeks , the song became Cyrus ' longest - running and second US number - one single , after nearly a decade since " Wrecking Ball " ( 2013 ) . It also topped the charts in Australia , Canada , France , Germany , and the U . K . The demo , instrumental , and alternative cover versions of " Flowers " followed on March 3 , 2023 . On January 5 , Cyrus announced her eighth studio album , Endless Summer Vacation , which she co - produced with Kid Harpoon , Greg Kurstin , Mike Will Made It , and Tyler Johnson , released on March 10 , 2023 . The singer revealed the album ' s artwork and released a trailer in support of the announcement . Her first studio effort with Columbia Records , she described the record as " [ her ] love letter to Los Angeles " , which reflects upon the " strength [ she ] found in focusing on [ her ] physical and mental well - being " . Cyrus unveiled the tracklist by the end of February , revealing Brandi Carlile and Australian singer Sia as featured artists on the album . Endless Summer Vacation debuted at number three on the US Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 119 , 000 album - equivalent units . It became her tenth top - five and fourteenth top - ten entry on the chart . The second single off the album , " River " , was released on March 13 , 2023 . The song debuted at number 32 on the US Hot 100 and peaked at number two on the Hot Dance / Electronic Songs chart . The third single off the record , " Jaded " , was released on April 17 , 2023 .	How long did "Flowers" stay at the top of the Billboard Hot 100 chart?	"Flowers" spent twelve and thirteen weeks atop the global charts.
Cyrus and her longtime collaborator Mike Will Made It teased potential new music to be released in 2023 , on the latter ' s social media . Cyrus continued to tease a new musical era through a cryptic promotional campaign — which included posters in major cities around the world , countdowns on her website , and video previews — with the caption , " New Year , New Miley " . Days later , during the second edition of Miley ' s New Year ' s Eve Party , the singer ' s next lead single , " Flowers " , was announced . It was released on January 12 , 2023 , accompanied by a music video directed by Jacob Bixenman . " Flowers " debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , Global 200 , and Global Excl . US charts ; it spent twelve and thirteen weeks atop the global charts . Topping the Hot 100 for eight non - consecutive weeks , the song became Cyrus ' longest - running and second US number - one single , after nearly a decade since " Wrecking Ball " ( 2013 ) . It also topped the charts in Australia , Canada , France , Germany , and the U . K . The demo , instrumental , and alternative cover versions of " Flowers " followed on March 3 , 2023 . On January 5 , Cyrus announced her eighth studio album , Endless Summer Vacation , which she co - produced with Kid Harpoon , Greg Kurstin , Mike Will Made It , and Tyler Johnson , released on March 10 , 2023 . The singer revealed the album ' s artwork and released a trailer in support of the announcement . Her first studio effort with Columbia Records , she described the record as " [ her ] love letter to Los Angeles " , which reflects upon the " strength [ she ] found in focusing on [ her ] physical and mental well - being " . Cyrus unveiled the tracklist by the end of February , revealing Brandi Carlile and Australian singer Sia as featured artists on the album . Endless Summer Vacation debuted at number three on the US Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 119 , 000 album - equivalent units . It became her tenth top - five and fourteenth top - ten entry on the chart . The second single off the album , " River " , was released on March 13 , 2023 . The song debuted at number 32 on the US Hot 100 and peaked at number two on the Hot Dance / Electronic Songs chart . The third single off the record , " Jaded " , was released on April 17 , 2023 .	Which other charts did "Flowers" top?	"Flowers" also topped the charts in Australia, Canada, France, Germany, and the U.K.
Throughout her career Cyrus has sung on several charity singles such as : " Just Stand Up ! " , " Send It On " , " Everybody Hurts " and " We Are the World 25 for Haiti " . She has visited sick fans in hospitals throughout the years . She is an avid supporter of the City of Hope National Medical Center in California , having attended benefit concerts in 2008 , 2009 and 2012 . In 2008 and 2009 , during her Best of Both Worlds and Wonder World Tours , for every concert ticket sold , she donated one dollar to the organization . Cyrus celebrated her 16th birthday at Disneyland by delivering a $ 1   million donation from Disney to Youth Service America . In July 2009 , Cyrus performed at the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation ' s 20th annual A Time for Heroes celebrity picnic and donated several items including autographed merchandise , and a script from Hannah Montana for the Ronald McDonald House Auction . Cyrus has supported charities such as the Elton John AIDS Foundation , Entertainment Industry Foundation , Habitat for Humanity , United Service Organizations , Youth Service America and Music for Relief . In January 2010 , Cyrus posted the final video to her mileymandy YouTube Account . In the video , Cyrus promoted support for To Write Love on Her Arms . The next day , Cyrus appeared in a promotional video for To Write Love on Her Arms with Joaquin Phoenix , and Liv Tyler . In February 2010 , she donated several items , including the dress she wore to the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards , and two tickets to the Hollywood premiere of her film The Last Song , to raise money for the victims of the 2010 Haiti earthquake . In April 2010 , Cyrus , working with the Make - A - Wish Foundation , performed for and met with 29 Children at The Grove at Farmers Market in Los Angeles , California . Cyrus has continued her support for The Make - A - Wish Foundation and has met with at least 150 children .	Which medical center are you an avid supporter of?	I am an avid supporter of the City of Hope National Medical Center in California.
Cyrus won a 2020 Webby Special Achievement Award . In February 2021 , Cyrus performed at the very first TikTok Tailgate show in Tampa , for 7 , 500 vaccinated healthcare workers . It served as a pre - show before Super Bowl LV . It aired on TikTok and CBS . The performance was featured in the music video for " Angels like You " . In March 2021 , Cyrus departed RCA and signed with Columbia Records , a sister label of RCA under the Sony Music umbrella . That same month Cyrus embraced her days as Hannah Montana and wrote an open letter to the character on social media for the show ' s 15th anniversary , despite all statements that her days as Montana gave Cyrus an identity crisis . Rumors about a possible revival of the show have been around ever since . On April 23 , 2021 , The Kid Laroi released a remix of his single " Without You " featuring Cyrus , her first release under Columbia Records . On April 3 , 2021 , Cyrus performed at the NCAA March Madness Final Four in Indianapolis with the frontline health care workers in the audience . In May 2021 , she signed an overall deal with NBCUniversal , including a first - look deal with her studio Hopetown Entertainment , as part of which she will develop projects for the company ' s outlets and star in three specials ; with the first project off the deal being the Stand By You Pride concert special , which was released the following month on Peacock . In June , Cyrus released a studio cover version of Metallica ' s " Nothing Else Matters " , which was included in The Metallica Blacklist , a tribute album to the band ' s homonymous record , featuring renditions recorded by various artists and released in conjunction to the original album ' s 30th anniversary . The track also features Elton John on the piano , Yo - Yo Ma and Red Hot Chili Peppers ' Chad Smith . The singer initially teased a Metallica cover album in October 2020 and had already performed the track live during her set at Glastonbury .	Which song was featured in the music video for "Angels like You"?	The performance at the TikTok Tailgate show.
In March 2009 , Cyrus released " The Climb " ( 2009 ) as a single from the soundtrack to the Hannah Montana feature film . It was met with a warm critical and commercial reaction , becoming a crossover hit in both pop and country music formats . The soundtrack , which features the single , went on to become Cyrus ' s fourth entry to top the Billboard 200 ; at age 16 , she became the youngest artist in history to have four number - one albums on the chart . She released her fourth soundtrack as Hannah Montana in July 2009 , which debuted at number two on the Billboard 200 . Cyrus later launched her first fashion line , Miley Cyrus and Max Azria , through Walmart . It was promoted by the release of " Party in the U . S . A . " ( 2009 ) and the EP The Time of Our Lives ( 2009 ) . Cyrus said the record was " a transitioning album [ ... ] really to introduce people to what I want my next record to sound like and with time I will be able to do that a little more " . " Party in the U . S . A . " became one of Cyrus ' s most successful singles to date and is considered to be one of her signature songs . She embarked on her first world tour , the Wonder World Tour ( 2009 ) which was a critical and commercial success . On December 7 , 2009 , Cyrus performed for Queen Elizabeth II and other members of the British royal family at the Royal Variety Performance in Blackpool , Lancashire .	What was the name of your fashion line?	It was Miley Cyrus and Max Azria.
Throughout her career Cyrus has sung on several charity singles such as : " Just Stand Up ! " , " Send It On " , " Everybody Hurts " and " We Are the World 25 for Haiti " . She has visited sick fans in hospitals throughout the years . She is an avid supporter of the City of Hope National Medical Center in California , having attended benefit concerts in 2008 , 2009 and 2012 . In 2008 and 2009 , during her Best of Both Worlds and Wonder World Tours , for every concert ticket sold , she donated one dollar to the organization . Cyrus celebrated her 16th birthday at Disneyland by delivering a $ 1   million donation from Disney to Youth Service America . In July 2009 , Cyrus performed at the Elizabeth Glaser Pediatric AIDS Foundation ' s 20th annual A Time for Heroes celebrity picnic and donated several items including autographed merchandise , and a script from Hannah Montana for the Ronald McDonald House Auction . Cyrus has supported charities such as the Elton John AIDS Foundation , Entertainment Industry Foundation , Habitat for Humanity , United Service Organizations , Youth Service America and Music for Relief . In January 2010 , Cyrus posted the final video to her mileymandy YouTube Account . In the video , Cyrus promoted support for To Write Love on Her Arms . The next day , Cyrus appeared in a promotional video for To Write Love on Her Arms with Joaquin Phoenix , and Liv Tyler . In February 2010 , she donated several items , including the dress she wore to the 52nd Annual Grammy Awards , and two tickets to the Hollywood premiere of her film The Last Song , to raise money for the victims of the 2010 Haiti earthquake . In April 2010 , Cyrus , working with the Make - A - Wish Foundation , performed for and met with 29 Children at The Grove at Farmers Market in Los Angeles , California . Cyrus has continued her support for The Make - A - Wish Foundation and has met with at least 150 children .	What did you do to support the City of Hope National Medical Center?	I attended benefit concerts in 2008, 2009, and 2012 and for every concert ticket sold during my Best of Both Worlds and Wonder World Tours in 2008 and 2009, I donated one dollar to the organization.
In 2015 , Rebecca Nicholson from The Guardian published an article calling Cyrus the Madonna of her generation , saying that " she ' s a Disney survivor with a fluid approach to gender identity . And , like the old three - chord punks , she gives really good quote " . According to Nicholson , Cyrus takes " the 90s Madonna approach to public sexuality : it ' s deliberately provocative , and crucially , it is not being served up for male consumption . " Likewise , she defends Cyrus ' s controversial rebellion , highlighting that behind the character there is a human , talented and strong person who manages to connect with the public , just like the " Queen of Pop " . In November of the same year , Billboard cataloged the singer as one of the Greatest of All Time Billboard 200 Artists , occupying position thirty - one . In 2017 , the aforementioned magazine also published an article naming the singer a " Queer Superhero " for her philanthropic fight for the LGBTQ + community .	Who published an article calling you the Madonna of your generation?	Rebecca Nicholson from The Guardian.
Cyrus and her longtime collaborator Mike Will Made It teased potential new music to be released in 2023 , on the latter ' s social media . Cyrus continued to tease a new musical era through a cryptic promotional campaign — which included posters in major cities around the world , countdowns on her website , and video previews — with the caption , " New Year , New Miley " . Days later , during the second edition of Miley ' s New Year ' s Eve Party , the singer ' s next lead single , " Flowers " , was announced . It was released on January 12 , 2023 , accompanied by a music video directed by Jacob Bixenman . " Flowers " debuted at number one on the Billboard Hot 100 , Global 200 , and Global Excl . US charts ; it spent twelve and thirteen weeks atop the global charts . Topping the Hot 100 for eight non - consecutive weeks , the song became Cyrus ' longest - running and second US number - one single , after nearly a decade since " Wrecking Ball " ( 2013 ) . It also topped the charts in Australia , Canada , France , Germany , and the U . K . The demo , instrumental , and alternative cover versions of " Flowers " followed on March 3 , 2023 . On January 5 , Cyrus announced her eighth studio album , Endless Summer Vacation , which she co - produced with Kid Harpoon , Greg Kurstin , Mike Will Made It , and Tyler Johnson , released on March 10 , 2023 . The singer revealed the album ' s artwork and released a trailer in support of the announcement . Her first studio effort with Columbia Records , she described the record as " [ her ] love letter to Los Angeles " , which reflects upon the " strength [ she ] found in focusing on [ her ] physical and mental well - being " . Cyrus unveiled the tracklist by the end of February , revealing Brandi Carlile and Australian singer Sia as featured artists on the album . Endless Summer Vacation debuted at number three on the US Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 119 , 000 album - equivalent units . It became her tenth top - five and fourteenth top - ten entry on the chart . The second single off the album , " River " , was released on March 13 , 2023 . The song debuted at number 32 on the US Hot 100 and peaked at number two on the Hot Dance / Electronic Songs chart . The third single off the record , " Jaded " , was released on April 17 , 2023 .	When was your eighth studio album "Endless Summer Vacation" released?	It was released on March 10, 2023.
