Not afraid to antagonize the white establishment , Ali stated , " I am America . I am the part you won ' t recognize . But get used to me . Black , confident , cocky ; my name , not yours ; my religion , not yours ; my goals , my own ; get used to me . " Ali ' s friendship with Malcolm X ended as Malcolm split with the Nation of Islam a couple of weeks after Ali joined , and Ali remained with the Nation of Islam . Ali later said that turning his back on Malcolm was one of the mistakes he regretted most in his life .	What did you say about yourself?	"I am America. I am the part you won't recognize. But get used to me. Black, confident, cocky; my name, not yours; my religion, not yours; my goals, my own; get used to me."
Ali was an influential figure in the world of hip hop music . As a " rhyming trickster " , he was noted for his " funky delivery " , " boasts " , " comical trash talk " , and " endless quotables . " According to Rolling Stone , his " freestyle skills " and his " rhymes , flow , and braggadocio " would " one day become typical of old school MCs " like Run – D . M . C . and LL Cool J , and his " outsized ego foreshadowed the vainglorious excesses of Kanye West , while his Afrocentric consciousness and cutting honesty pointed forward to modern bards like Rakim , Nas , Jay - Z , and Kendrick Lamar . " " I ' ve wrestled with alligators , I ' ve tussled with a whale . I done handcuffed lightning and throw thunder in jail . You know I ' m bad . Just last week , I murdered a rock , Injured a stone , Hospitalized a brick . I ' m so mean , I make medicine sick " " Float like a butterfly , sting like a bee . His hands can ' t hit what his eyes can ' t see . Now you see me , now you don ' t . George thinks he will , but I know he won ' t . " Ali spoke like no man the world had seen before . So confident in what he said ; fluent , smooth , creative , and intimidating . He was a boxer and an activist , but he also had a role in influencing what now dominated pop - culture , hip - hop . In 2006 , the documentary Ali Rap was produced by ESPN . Chuck D , a rapper for the band Public Enemy is the host . Other rappers narrated the documentary as well , including Doug E Fresh , Ludacris and Rakim who all spoke on Ali ' s behalf in the film .	According to Rolling Stone, what did your freestyle skills and rhymes foreshadow?	According to Rolling Stone, my freestyle skills and rhymes would one day become typical of old school MCs like Run-D.M.C. and LL Cool J.
After the third fight with Frazier , Ali considered retirement . He said , " I ' m sore all over . My arms , my face , my sides all ache . I ' m so , so tired . There is a great possibility that I will retire . You might have seen the last of me . I want to sit back and count my money , live in my house and my farm , work for my people and concentrate on my family . "	What made you consider retirement after the third fight with Frazier?	A combination of physical soreness and fatigue.
After the third fight with Frazier , Ali considered retirement . He said , " I ' m sore all over . My arms , my face , my sides all ache . I ' m so , so tired . There is a great possibility that I will retire . You might have seen the last of me . I want to sit back and count my money , live in my house and my farm , work for my people and concentrate on my family . "	What did you express a desire to do after retirement?	I wanted to sit back, count my money, live in my house and farm, work for my people, and concentrate on my family.
The Monday night fight lived up to its billing . In a preview of their two other fights , a crouching , bobbing and weaving Frazier constantly pressured Ali , getting hit regularly by Ali jabs and combinations , but relentlessly attacking and scoring repeatedly , especially to Ali ' s body . The fight was even in the early rounds , but Ali was taking more punishment than ever in his career . On several occasions in the early rounds he played to the crowd and shook his head " no " after he was hit . In the later rounds — in what was the first appearance of the " rope - a - dope strategy " — Ali leaned against the ropes and absorbed punishment from Frazier , hoping to tire him . In the 11th round , Frazier connected with a left hook that wobbled Ali , but because it appeared that Ali might be clowning as he staggered backwards across the ring , Frazier hesitated to press his advantage , fearing an Ali counter - attack . In the final round , Frazier knocked Ali down with a vicious left hook , which referee Arthur Mercante said was as hard as a man can be hit . Ali was back on his feet in three seconds . Nevertheless , Ali lost by unanimous decision , his first professional defeat .	What was the outcome of your fight?	I lost by unanimous decision, which was my first professional defeat.
Ali then agreed to a third match with Joe Frazier in Manila . The bout , known as the " Thrilla in Manila " , was held on October 1 , 1975 , in temperatures approaching 100   ° F ( 38   ° C ) . In the first rounds , Ali was aggressive , moving and exchanging blows with Frazier . However , Ali soon appeared to tire and adopted the " rope - a - dope " strategy , frequently resorting to clinches . During this part of the bout Ali did some effective counter - punching , but for the most part absorbed punishment from a relentlessly attacking Frazier . In the 12th round , Frazier began to tire , and Ali scored several sharp blows that closed Frazier ' s left eye and opened a cut over his right eye . With Frazier ' s vision now diminished , Ali dominated the 13th and 14th rounds , at times conducting what boxing historian Mike Silver called " target practice " on Frazier ' s head . The fight was stopped when Frazier ' s trainer , Eddie Futch , refused to allow Frazier to answer the bell for the 15th and final round , despite Frazier ' s protests . Frazier ' s eyes were both swollen shut . Ali , in his corner , winner by TKO , slumped on his stool , clearly spent .	Why was the fight stopped in the 15th round?	The fight was stopped because Frazier's trainer, Eddie Futch, refused to allow Frazier to answer the bell due to his swollen shut eyes.
Ali was an influential figure in the world of hip hop music . As a " rhyming trickster " , he was noted for his " funky delivery " , " boasts " , " comical trash talk " , and " endless quotables . " According to Rolling Stone , his " freestyle skills " and his " rhymes , flow , and braggadocio " would " one day become typical of old school MCs " like Run – D . M . C . and LL Cool J , and his " outsized ego foreshadowed the vainglorious excesses of Kanye West , while his Afrocentric consciousness and cutting honesty pointed forward to modern bards like Rakim , Nas , Jay - Z , and Kendrick Lamar . " " I ' ve wrestled with alligators , I ' ve tussled with a whale . I done handcuffed lightning and throw thunder in jail . You know I ' m bad . Just last week , I murdered a rock , Injured a stone , Hospitalized a brick . I ' m so mean , I make medicine sick " " Float like a butterfly , sting like a bee . His hands can ' t hit what his eyes can ' t see . Now you see me , now you don ' t . George thinks he will , but I know he won ' t . " Ali spoke like no man the world had seen before . So confident in what he said ; fluent , smooth , creative , and intimidating . He was a boxer and an activist , but he also had a role in influencing what now dominated pop - culture , hip - hop . In 2006 , the documentary Ali Rap was produced by ESPN . Chuck D , a rapper for the band Public Enemy is the host . Other rappers narrated the documentary as well , including Doug E Fresh , Ludacris and Rakim who all spoke on Ali ' s behalf in the film .	What were you known for in the world of hip hop music?	I was known for my "funky delivery," "boasts," "comical trash talk," and "endless quotables."
Ali fought Terrell in Houston on February 6 , 1967 . Terrell , who was unbeaten in five years and had defeated many of the boxers Ali had faced , was billed as Ali ' s toughest opponent since Liston ; he was big , strong and had a three - inch reach advantage over Ali . During the lead up to the bout , Terrell repeatedly called Ali " Clay " , much to Ali ' s annoyance . The two almost came to blows over the name issue in a pre - fight interview with Howard Cosell . Ali seemed intent on humiliating Terrell . " I want to torture him " , he said . " A clean knockout is too good for him . " The fight was close until the seventh round , when Ali bloodied Terrell and almost knocked him out . In the eighth round , Ali taunted Terrell , hitting him with jabs and shouting between punches , " What ' s my name , Uncle Tom ... what ' s my name ? " Ali won a unanimous 15 - round decision . Terrell claimed that early in the fight Ali deliberately thumbed him in the eye , forcing him to fight half - blind , and then , in a clinch , rubbed the wounded eye against the ropes . Because of Ali ' s apparent intent to prolong the fight to inflict maximum punishment , critics described the bout as " one of the ugliest boxing fights . " Tex Maule later wrote : " It was a wonderful demonstration of boxing skill and a barbarous display of cruelty . " Ali denied the accusations of cruelty but , for Ali ' s critics , the fight provided more evidence of his arrogance .	How long did the fight between you and Terrell last?	The fight lasted for 15 rounds.
Ali fought Terrell in Houston on February 6 , 1967 . Terrell , who was unbeaten in five years and had defeated many of the boxers Ali had faced , was billed as Ali ' s toughest opponent since Liston ; he was big , strong and had a three - inch reach advantage over Ali . During the lead up to the bout , Terrell repeatedly called Ali " Clay " , much to Ali ' s annoyance . The two almost came to blows over the name issue in a pre - fight interview with Howard Cosell . Ali seemed intent on humiliating Terrell . " I want to torture him " , he said . " A clean knockout is too good for him . " The fight was close until the seventh round , when Ali bloodied Terrell and almost knocked him out . In the eighth round , Ali taunted Terrell , hitting him with jabs and shouting between punches , " What ' s my name , Uncle Tom ... what ' s my name ? " Ali won a unanimous 15 - round decision . Terrell claimed that early in the fight Ali deliberately thumbed him in the eye , forcing him to fight half - blind , and then , in a clinch , rubbed the wounded eye against the ropes . Because of Ali ' s apparent intent to prolong the fight to inflict maximum punishment , critics described the bout as " one of the ugliest boxing fights . " Tex Maule later wrote : " It was a wonderful demonstration of boxing skill and a barbarous display of cruelty . " Ali denied the accusations of cruelty but , for Ali ' s critics , the fight provided more evidence of his arrogance .	How did you taunt Terrell in the eighth round?	I taunted Terrell by hitting him with jabs and shouting between punches, asking "What's my name, Uncle Tom... what's my name?"
Ali fought Terrell in Houston on February 6 , 1967 . Terrell , who was unbeaten in five years and had defeated many of the boxers Ali had faced , was billed as Ali ' s toughest opponent since Liston ; he was big , strong and had a three - inch reach advantage over Ali . During the lead up to the bout , Terrell repeatedly called Ali " Clay " , much to Ali ' s annoyance . The two almost came to blows over the name issue in a pre - fight interview with Howard Cosell . Ali seemed intent on humiliating Terrell . " I want to torture him " , he said . " A clean knockout is too good for him . " The fight was close until the seventh round , when Ali bloodied Terrell and almost knocked him out . In the eighth round , Ali taunted Terrell , hitting him with jabs and shouting between punches , " What ' s my name , Uncle Tom ... what ' s my name ? " Ali won a unanimous 15 - round decision . Terrell claimed that early in the fight Ali deliberately thumbed him in the eye , forcing him to fight half - blind , and then , in a clinch , rubbed the wounded eye against the ropes . Because of Ali ' s apparent intent to prolong the fight to inflict maximum punishment , critics described the bout as " one of the ugliest boxing fights . " Tex Maule later wrote : " It was a wonderful demonstration of boxing skill and a barbarous display of cruelty . " Ali denied the accusations of cruelty but , for Ali ' s critics , the fight provided more evidence of his arrogance .	Did you have any advantages over me in the fight?	Yes, I had a three-inch reach advantage over you.
By the summer of 1977 , his second marriage ended due to Ali ' s repeated infidelity , and he had married actress and model Veronica Porch é . At the time of their marriage , they had a daughter , Hana , and Veronica was pregnant with their second child . Their second daughter , Laila Ali , was born in December 1977 . By 1986 , Ali and Porch é were divorced due to Ali ' s continuous infidelity . Porch é said of Ali ' s infidelity , " It was too much temptation for him , with women who threw themselves at him , It didn ' t mean anything . He didn ' t have affairs – he had one - night stands . I knew beyond a doubt there were no feelings involved . It was so obvious , It was easy to forgive him . "	When did you and Veronica Porch é get divorced?	I and Veronica Porch é got divorced in 1986.
After the third fight with Frazier , Ali considered retirement . He said , " I ' m sore all over . My arms , my face , my sides all ache . I ' m so , so tired . There is a great possibility that I will retire . You might have seen the last of me . I want to sit back and count my money , live in my house and my farm , work for my people and concentrate on my family . "	How did you describe your physical condition after the fight?	I said I was sore all over, with aching arms, face, and sides.
On August 17 , 1967 , Ali married Belinda Boyd . In an interview with NBC 6 , Boyd recounted meeting Ali when she was 10 years old at her hometown mosque . " He said , ' Listen here little girl . This is my name . Imma be famous . You need to keep that ' cause it ' s gone be worth a lot of money , ' " Boyd said , mimicking Ali . " You ' ll never be famous with that name . And , I walked away , " Boyd said . Born into a Chicago family that had converted to the Nation Of Islam , she later changed her name to Khalilah Ali , though she was still called Belinda by old friends and family . They had four children : author and rapper Maryum " May May " ( born 1968 ) ; twins Jamillah and Rasheda ( born 1970 ) ; and Muhammad Ali Jr . ( born 1972 ) . Rasheda married Robert Walsh and has two sons : Biaggio Ali , ( born 1998 ) , and Nico Ali ( born 2000 ) , who is a professional boxer .	What did you tell Belinda when we first met?	I told Belinda, "Listen here little girl. This is my name. Imma be famous. You need to keep that 'cause it's gone be worth a lot of money."
Ali opened the fight moving and scoring with right crosses to Foreman ' s head . Then , beginning in the second round , and to the consternation of his corner , Ali retreated to the ropes and invited Foreman to hit him while covering up , clinching and counter - punching , all while verbally taunting Foreman . The move , which would later become known as the " Rope - a - dope " , so violated conventional boxing wisdom — letting one of the hardest hitters in boxing strike at will — that at ringside writer George Plimpton thought the fight had to be fixed . Foreman , increasingly angered , threw punches that were deflected and did not land squarely . Midway through the fight , as Foreman began tiring , Ali countered more frequently and effectively with punches and flurries , which electrified the pro - Ali crowd . In the eighth round , Ali dropped an exhausted Foreman with a combination at center ring ; Foreman failed to make the count . Against the odds , and amidst pandemonium in the ring , Ali had regained the title by knockout . Reflecting on the fight , George Foreman later said : " I thought Ali was just one more knockout victim until , about the seventh round , I hit him hard to the jaw and he held me and whispered in my ear : ' That all you got , George ? ' I realized that this ain ' t what I thought it was . "	What move did you use in the fight that violated conventional boxing wisdom?	The "Rope-a-dope".
On April 28 , 1967 , Ali appeared in Houston for his scheduled induction into the U . S . Armed Forces , but he refused three times to step forward when his name was called . An officer warned him that he was committing a felony punishable by five years in prison and a fine of $ 10 , 000 . Once more , Ali refused to budge when his name was called , and he was arrested . Later that same day , the New York State Athletic Commission suspended his boxing license and the World Boxing Association stripped him of his title . Other boxing commissions followed suit . Ali remained unable to obtain a license to box in any state for over three years . [ page   needed ] On June 4 , 1967 , in a first for sports professionals , a group of high - profile African - American athletes including Jim Brown , Bill Russell , and Kareem Abdul - Jabbar , as well as one political leader , Carl Stokes , assembled at the Negro Industrial Economic Union in Cleveland for what became known as the " Cleveland Summit " or the " Muhammad Ali Summit . " The meeting was organized by Brown for his peers to question Ali about the seriousness of his convictions , and to decide whether to support him , which they ultimately did .	When did the "Cleveland Summit" or the "Muhammad Ali Summit" take place?	The "Cleveland Summit" or the "Muhammad Ali Summit" took place on June 4, 1967.
On April 28 , 1967 , Ali appeared in Houston for his scheduled induction into the U . S . Armed Forces , but he refused three times to step forward when his name was called . An officer warned him that he was committing a felony punishable by five years in prison and a fine of $ 10 , 000 . Once more , Ali refused to budge when his name was called , and he was arrested . Later that same day , the New York State Athletic Commission suspended his boxing license and the World Boxing Association stripped him of his title . Other boxing commissions followed suit . Ali remained unable to obtain a license to box in any state for over three years . [ page   needed ] On June 4 , 1967 , in a first for sports professionals , a group of high - profile African - American athletes including Jim Brown , Bill Russell , and Kareem Abdul - Jabbar , as well as one political leader , Carl Stokes , assembled at the Negro Industrial Economic Union in Cleveland for what became known as the " Cleveland Summit " or the " Muhammad Ali Summit . " The meeting was organized by Brown for his peers to question Ali about the seriousness of his convictions , and to decide whether to support him , which they ultimately did .	What were the consequences of you refusing to step forward when your name was called?	I was warned that I was committing a felony punishable by five years in prison and a fine of $10,000. Later, my boxing license was suspended by the New York State Athletic Commission and I was stripped of my title by the World Boxing Association. Other boxing commissions also followed suit.
Ali fought Terrell in Houston on February 6 , 1967 . Terrell , who was unbeaten in five years and had defeated many of the boxers Ali had faced , was billed as Ali ' s toughest opponent since Liston ; he was big , strong and had a three - inch reach advantage over Ali . During the lead up to the bout , Terrell repeatedly called Ali " Clay " , much to Ali ' s annoyance . The two almost came to blows over the name issue in a pre - fight interview with Howard Cosell . Ali seemed intent on humiliating Terrell . " I want to torture him " , he said . " A clean knockout is too good for him . " The fight was close until the seventh round , when Ali bloodied Terrell and almost knocked him out . In the eighth round , Ali taunted Terrell , hitting him with jabs and shouting between punches , " What ' s my name , Uncle Tom ... what ' s my name ? " Ali won a unanimous 15 - round decision . Terrell claimed that early in the fight Ali deliberately thumbed him in the eye , forcing him to fight half - blind , and then , in a clinch , rubbed the wounded eye against the ropes . Because of Ali ' s apparent intent to prolong the fight to inflict maximum punishment , critics described the bout as " one of the ugliest boxing fights . " Tex Maule later wrote : " It was a wonderful demonstration of boxing skill and a barbarous display of cruelty . " Ali denied the accusations of cruelty but , for Ali ' s critics , the fight provided more evidence of his arrogance .	Did you win the fight against Terrell?	Yes, I won the fight with a unanimous decision.
On August 17 , 1967 , Ali married Belinda Boyd . In an interview with NBC 6 , Boyd recounted meeting Ali when she was 10 years old at her hometown mosque . " He said , ' Listen here little girl . This is my name . Imma be famous . You need to keep that ' cause it ' s gone be worth a lot of money , ' " Boyd said , mimicking Ali . " You ' ll never be famous with that name . And , I walked away , " Boyd said . Born into a Chicago family that had converted to the Nation Of Islam , she later changed her name to Khalilah Ali , though she was still called Belinda by old friends and family . They had four children : author and rapper Maryum " May May " ( born 1968 ) ; twins Jamillah and Rasheda ( born 1970 ) ; and Muhammad Ali Jr . ( born 1972 ) . Rasheda married Robert Walsh and has two sons : Biaggio Ali , ( born 1998 ) , and Nico Ali ( born 2000 ) , who is a professional boxer .	How many children did you and Belinda have?	We had four children: Maryum "May May" (born 1968), Jamillah and Rasheda (born 1970), and Muhammad Ali Jr. (born 1972).
On August 17 , 1967 , Ali married Belinda Boyd . In an interview with NBC 6 , Boyd recounted meeting Ali when she was 10 years old at her hometown mosque . " He said , ' Listen here little girl . This is my name . Imma be famous . You need to keep that ' cause it ' s gone be worth a lot of money , ' " Boyd said , mimicking Ali . " You ' ll never be famous with that name . And , I walked away , " Boyd said . Born into a Chicago family that had converted to the Nation Of Islam , she later changed her name to Khalilah Ali , though she was still called Belinda by old friends and family . They had four children : author and rapper Maryum " May May " ( born 1968 ) ; twins Jamillah and Rasheda ( born 1970 ) ; and Muhammad Ali Jr . ( born 1972 ) . Rasheda married Robert Walsh and has two sons : Biaggio Ali , ( born 1998 ) , and Nico Ali ( born 2000 ) , who is a professional boxer .	What name did you later change your name to?	I later changed my name to Khalilah Ali.
Ali then agreed to a third match with Joe Frazier in Manila . The bout , known as the " Thrilla in Manila " , was held on October 1 , 1975 , in temperatures approaching 100   ° F ( 38   ° C ) . In the first rounds , Ali was aggressive , moving and exchanging blows with Frazier . However , Ali soon appeared to tire and adopted the " rope - a - dope " strategy , frequently resorting to clinches . During this part of the bout Ali did some effective counter - punching , but for the most part absorbed punishment from a relentlessly attacking Frazier . In the 12th round , Frazier began to tire , and Ali scored several sharp blows that closed Frazier ' s left eye and opened a cut over his right eye . With Frazier ' s vision now diminished , Ali dominated the 13th and 14th rounds , at times conducting what boxing historian Mike Silver called " target practice " on Frazier ' s head . The fight was stopped when Frazier ' s trainer , Eddie Futch , refused to allow Frazier to answer the bell for the 15th and final round , despite Frazier ' s protests . Frazier ' s eyes were both swollen shut . Ali , in his corner , winner by TKO , slumped on his stool , clearly spent .	What was the name of the bout between you and Frazier in Manila?	The bout was known as the "Thrilla in Manila".
The Monday night fight lived up to its billing . In a preview of their two other fights , a crouching , bobbing and weaving Frazier constantly pressured Ali , getting hit regularly by Ali jabs and combinations , but relentlessly attacking and scoring repeatedly , especially to Ali ' s body . The fight was even in the early rounds , but Ali was taking more punishment than ever in his career . On several occasions in the early rounds he played to the crowd and shook his head " no " after he was hit . In the later rounds — in what was the first appearance of the " rope - a - dope strategy " — Ali leaned against the ropes and absorbed punishment from Frazier , hoping to tire him . In the 11th round , Frazier connected with a left hook that wobbled Ali , but because it appeared that Ali might be clowning as he staggered backwards across the ring , Frazier hesitated to press his advantage , fearing an Ali counter - attack . In the final round , Frazier knocked Ali down with a vicious left hook , which referee Arthur Mercante said was as hard as a man can be hit . Ali was back on his feet in three seconds . Nevertheless , Ali lost by unanimous decision , his first professional defeat .	Who were the fighters in the Monday night fight?	The fighters in the Monday night fight were Frazier and I.
After the third fight with Frazier , Ali considered retirement . He said , " I ' m sore all over . My arms , my face , my sides all ache . I ' m so , so tired . There is a great possibility that I will retire . You might have seen the last of me . I want to sit back and count my money , live in my house and my farm , work for my people and concentrate on my family . "	What did you mention as a possibility regarding your future in boxing?	I expressed the great possibility of retiring from boxing.
Ali then agreed to a third match with Joe Frazier in Manila . The bout , known as the " Thrilla in Manila " , was held on October 1 , 1975 , in temperatures approaching 100   ° F ( 38   ° C ) . In the first rounds , Ali was aggressive , moving and exchanging blows with Frazier . However , Ali soon appeared to tire and adopted the " rope - a - dope " strategy , frequently resorting to clinches . During this part of the bout Ali did some effective counter - punching , but for the most part absorbed punishment from a relentlessly attacking Frazier . In the 12th round , Frazier began to tire , and Ali scored several sharp blows that closed Frazier ' s left eye and opened a cut over his right eye . With Frazier ' s vision now diminished , Ali dominated the 13th and 14th rounds , at times conducting what boxing historian Mike Silver called " target practice " on Frazier ' s head . The fight was stopped when Frazier ' s trainer , Eddie Futch , refused to allow Frazier to answer the bell for the 15th and final round , despite Frazier ' s protests . Frazier ' s eyes were both swollen shut . Ali , in his corner , winner by TKO , slumped on his stool , clearly spent .	What was the date of the bout between you and Frazier in Manila?	The bout was held on October 1, 1975.
Ali was an influential figure in the world of hip hop music . As a " rhyming trickster " , he was noted for his " funky delivery " , " boasts " , " comical trash talk " , and " endless quotables . " According to Rolling Stone , his " freestyle skills " and his " rhymes , flow , and braggadocio " would " one day become typical of old school MCs " like Run – D . M . C . and LL Cool J , and his " outsized ego foreshadowed the vainglorious excesses of Kanye West , while his Afrocentric consciousness and cutting honesty pointed forward to modern bards like Rakim , Nas , Jay - Z , and Kendrick Lamar . " " I ' ve wrestled with alligators , I ' ve tussled with a whale . I done handcuffed lightning and throw thunder in jail . You know I ' m bad . Just last week , I murdered a rock , Injured a stone , Hospitalized a brick . I ' m so mean , I make medicine sick " " Float like a butterfly , sting like a bee . His hands can ' t hit what his eyes can ' t see . Now you see me , now you don ' t . George thinks he will , but I know he won ' t . " Ali spoke like no man the world had seen before . So confident in what he said ; fluent , smooth , creative , and intimidating . He was a boxer and an activist , but he also had a role in influencing what now dominated pop - culture , hip - hop . In 2006 , the documentary Ali Rap was produced by ESPN . Chuck D , a rapper for the band Public Enemy is the host . Other rappers narrated the documentary as well , including Doug E Fresh , Ludacris and Rakim who all spoke on Ali ' s behalf in the film .	What did your Afrocentric consciousness and cutting honesty point forward to?	My Afrocentric consciousness and cutting honesty pointed forward to modern bards like Rakim, Nas, Jay-Z, and Kendrick Lamar.
The Monday night fight lived up to its billing . In a preview of their two other fights , a crouching , bobbing and weaving Frazier constantly pressured Ali , getting hit regularly by Ali jabs and combinations , but relentlessly attacking and scoring repeatedly , especially to Ali ' s body . The fight was even in the early rounds , but Ali was taking more punishment than ever in his career . On several occasions in the early rounds he played to the crowd and shook his head " no " after he was hit . In the later rounds — in what was the first appearance of the " rope - a - dope strategy " — Ali leaned against the ropes and absorbed punishment from Frazier , hoping to tire him . In the 11th round , Frazier connected with a left hook that wobbled Ali , but because it appeared that Ali might be clowning as he staggered backwards across the ring , Frazier hesitated to press his advantage , fearing an Ali counter - attack . In the final round , Frazier knocked Ali down with a vicious left hook , which referee Arthur Mercante said was as hard as a man can be hit . Ali was back on his feet in three seconds . Nevertheless , Ali lost by unanimous decision , his first professional defeat .	What strategy did you use in the later rounds?	I used the "rope-a-dope strategy" in the later rounds.
