Unused footage from Thor : The Dark World and a new voice - over was used for Portman ' s brief appearance in the 2019 superhero film Avengers : Endgame . She then portrayed a psychologically troubled astronaut ( based on Lisa Nowak ) in the drama Lucy in the Sky , directed by Noah Hawley . She replaced the film ' s producer Reese Witherspoon , who backed out due to a scheduling conflict . The film was poorly received , though Portman ' s performance was praised . The following year , she narrated the Disney + nature documentary Dolphin Reef and voiced Jane Foster in the animated series What If ... ? . In 2022 , Portman reprised her role as Foster in the sequel Thor : Love and Thunder , in which her character becomes Mighty Thor . She agreed to return to the franchise after meeting with director Taika Waititi , who offered to portray her character in an " adventurous and fun and funny " way . Nick Allen at RogerEbert . com opined , " In both her human and her heroic state , Portman ’ s performance conveys why it ' s great to see Jane again . " In a 2022 readers ' poll by Empire magazine , Portman was voted one of the 50 greatest actors of all time .	Who directed the film Lucy in the Sky?	Noah Hawley directed the film Lucy in the Sky.
Portman began 2004 by featuring in the romantic comedy Garden State , which was written and directed by its star Zach Braff . She was the first actor to sign on to the film after finding a connection with her part : a spirited young girl suffering from epilepsy . Her role in it was described by Nathan Rabin of The A . V . Club . as a prime example of the Manic Pixie Dream Girl character type – a stereotypical female role designed to spiritually help a male protagonist . Portman later said she found it upsetting to have contributed to the trope . She followed it by playing a mysterious stripper in Closer , a romantic drama directed by Mike Nichols based on the play of the same name , and co - starring Julia Roberts , Jude Law , and Clive Owen . Portman agreed to her first sexually explicit adult role after turning down such parts in the past , saying it reflected her own maturity as a person . She had also performed her first nude scenes for the film , but they were deleted from the final cut when she insisted that they were inessential to the story . Closer grossed over $ 115 million worldwide against a $ 27   million budget , and the critic Peter Travers took note of Portman ' s " blazing , breakthrough performance " , writing that she " digs so deep into the bruised core of her character that they seem to wear the same skin . " She won the Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actress and received an Academy Award nomination in the same category .	How was your role in Garden State described by Nathan Rabin?	As a prime example of the Manic Pixie Dream Girl character type.
At Harvard , Portman wrote a letter to The Harvard Crimson in response to an essay critical of Israeli actions toward Palestinians . She has nevertheless criticized the Israeli government , specifically Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . Portman was critical of Netanyahu ' s re - election in 2015 , saying she was " disappointed " and often found his comments racist . In November 2017 , Portman was announced as the Genesis Prize recipient for 2018 , which includes $ 2 , 000 , 000 in prize money . The following April , Portman announced that she did not plan to attend the awards ceremony scheduled for June , citing " recent events in Israel " that left her feeling uncomfortable attending public events there . The ceremony was canceled . Portman further clarified that she was not boycotting Israel , explaining that she did not want to " appear as endorsing " Netanyahu , who was to give a speech at the ceremony . She is also a member of the One Voice movement .	What was your reason for not attending the awards ceremony?	I cited "recent events in Israel" that left me feeling uncomfortable attending public events there as my reason for not attending the awards ceremony.
In 2018 , Portman starred in the science fiction film Annihilation , based on Jeff VanderMeer ' s novel . She played a biologist and former soldier who studies a mysterious quarantined zone of mutating organisms . She was pleased to headline a rare female - led science fiction film , and she moved her family near Pinewood Studios during filming . For the action sequences , she underwent movement training with the dancer Bobbi Jene Smith . Benjamin Lee of The Guardian took note of Portman ' s " strong , fiercely compelling presence " and commended her for playing the part without unnecessary sentimentality . It only received a limited theatrical release and was distributed on Netflix internationally . Her next appearance was in Xavier Dolan ' s first English - language film , the ensemble drama The Death & Life of John F . Donovan ( 2018 ) , which was termed a " shocking misfire " by Eric Kohn of IndieWire . She then starred as a troubled pop singer in Vox Lux , sharing the part with Raffey Cassidy . She was drawn to the idea of showcasing the negative effects of fame , and in preparation , she watched documentaries on musicians and listened to the music of Sia , who wrote her songs in the film . For the climactic dance routines , she trained with her husband , Benjamin Millepied , who choreographed the sequence . It received mixed reviews from critics , but Portman ' s performance earned unanimous praise . Comparing it to her performances in Black Swan and Jackie , Robbie Collin of The Daily Telegraph wrote that " this role has a similar audacity and extravagance that few actresses would dare attempt , let alone be allowed to get away with " .	What was your role in Annihilation?	I played a biologist and former soldier in the film Annihilation.
Star Wars : Episode III – Revenge of the Sith , the final installment of the Star Wars prequel trilogy , was Portman ' s first film release of 2005 . It earned over $ 848   million to rank as the second - highest - grossing film of the year . She next played a Jewish - American girl in Free Zone , a drama from Israeli filmmaker Amos Gitai . To prepare , she studied at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem and read memoirs of Yitzhak Rabin , which she said allowed her to explore both the role and her own heritage . Controversy arose when she filmed a kissing scene at the Western Wall , where gender segregation is enforced , and she later issued an apology . Critics disliked the film for its heavy - handed approach to the conflicts in the Middle East . Portman ' s final film role in 2005 was that of Evey Hammond in the political thriller V for Vendetta , based on the comics of the same name , about an alternative future where a neo - fascist regime has subjugated the United Kingdom . She was drawn to the provocative nature of the script , and worked with a dialect coach to speak in an English accent . In a scene in which her character is tortured , her head was shaved on camera ; she considered it an opportunity to rid herself of vanity . Ruthe Stein of the San Francisco Chronicle deemed it Portman ' s strongest performance to that point , and remarked that she " keeps you focused on her words and actions instead of her bald head . " She was awarded the Saturn Award for Best Actress .	How much money did Star Wars: Episode III - Revenge of the Sith earn?	It earned over $848 million.
Unused footage from Thor : The Dark World and a new voice - over was used for Portman ' s brief appearance in the 2019 superhero film Avengers : Endgame . She then portrayed a psychologically troubled astronaut ( based on Lisa Nowak ) in the drama Lucy in the Sky , directed by Noah Hawley . She replaced the film ' s producer Reese Witherspoon , who backed out due to a scheduling conflict . The film was poorly received , though Portman ' s performance was praised . The following year , she narrated the Disney + nature documentary Dolphin Reef and voiced Jane Foster in the animated series What If ... ? . In 2022 , Portman reprised her role as Foster in the sequel Thor : Love and Thunder , in which her character becomes Mighty Thor . She agreed to return to the franchise after meeting with director Taika Waititi , who offered to portray her character in an " adventurous and fun and funny " way . Nick Allen at RogerEbert . com opined , " In both her human and her heroic state , Portman ’ s performance conveys why it ' s great to see Jane again . " In a 2022 readers ' poll by Empire magazine , Portman was voted one of the 50 greatest actors of all time .	What nature documentary did you narrate?	I narrated the Disney+ nature documentary Dolphin Reef.
Portman began 2006 by hosting an episode of the television sketch comedy show Saturday Night Live . One of her sketches , a song named " Natalie ' s Rap " , was released later in 2009 on Incredibad , an album by the Lonely Island . In the anthology film Paris , je t ' aime , consisting of eighteen short films , she had a role in the segment named " Faubourg Saint - Denis " from director Tom Tykwer . Later that year , she starred in Milo š Forman ' s Goya ' s Ghosts , about the painter Francisco Goya . Forman cast her in the film after finding a resemblance between her and Goya ' s portrait The Milkmaid of Bordeaux . She insisted on using a body double for her nude scenes after discovering on set that she had to perform them when they were not originally in the script . It received predominantly negative reviews , but Roger Ebert was appreciative of Portman for playing her dual role " with fearless conviction " .	Who directed the film Goya's Ghosts, in which you starred?	Miloš Forman directed the film Goya's Ghosts.
Unused footage from Thor : The Dark World and a new voice - over was used for Portman ' s brief appearance in the 2019 superhero film Avengers : Endgame . She then portrayed a psychologically troubled astronaut ( based on Lisa Nowak ) in the drama Lucy in the Sky , directed by Noah Hawley . She replaced the film ' s producer Reese Witherspoon , who backed out due to a scheduling conflict . The film was poorly received , though Portman ' s performance was praised . The following year , she narrated the Disney + nature documentary Dolphin Reef and voiced Jane Foster in the animated series What If ... ? . In 2022 , Portman reprised her role as Foster in the sequel Thor : Love and Thunder , in which her character becomes Mighty Thor . She agreed to return to the franchise after meeting with director Taika Waititi , who offered to portray her character in an " adventurous and fun and funny " way . Nick Allen at RogerEbert . com opined , " In both her human and her heroic state , Portman ’ s performance conveys why it ' s great to see Jane again . " In a 2022 readers ' poll by Empire magazine , Portman was voted one of the 50 greatest actors of all time .	Who did you replace as the producer of Lucy in the Sky?	I replaced Reese Witherspoon as the producer of Lucy in the Sky.
In 2015 , Portman appeared alongside an ensemble cast , including Christian Bale , in Terrence Malick ' s experimental drama film Knight of Cups , which marked her first project after giving birth . She shot for it within a week of returning to work and she did not receive a traditional script or dialogues , improvising most of her scenes with Bale . She said that shooting with Malick influenced her own directorial venture , A Tale of Love and Darkness which was released in the same year . Based on Israeli author Amos Oz ' s autobiographical novel of the same name which is set in Jerusalem during the last years of the British Mandate of Palestine , the Hebrew - language film starred Portman who also produced and co - wrote it . She had wanted to adapt the book since she first read it a decade ago , but postponed it until she was old enough to play the leading role of a mother herself . She collaborated closely with Amos , showing him drafts of her script as she adapted the book . A . O . Scott of The New York Times found it to be a " conscientious adaptation of a difficult book " and was appreciative of Portman ' s potential as a filmmaker . She next produced and starred in the western film Jane Got a Gun about a young mother seeking vengeance . Initially scheduled to be directed by Lynne Ramsay , the production was plagued with numerous difficulties . Ramsay did not turn up on set for the first day of filming and was eventually replaced with Gavin O ' Connor . Michael Fassbender , Jude Law , and Bradley Cooper were all cast as the male lead , before Ewan McGregor played the part . Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian reviewed that Portman ' s " stately performance " was not enough to save the " laborious and solemn western " , and it grossed less than $ 4   million against its $ 25   million budget .	Whose autobiographical novel was A Tale of Love and Darkness based on?	The autobiographical novel was based on the book by Israeli author Amos Oz.
Portman began 2004 by featuring in the romantic comedy Garden State , which was written and directed by its star Zach Braff . She was the first actor to sign on to the film after finding a connection with her part : a spirited young girl suffering from epilepsy . Her role in it was described by Nathan Rabin of The A . V . Club . as a prime example of the Manic Pixie Dream Girl character type – a stereotypical female role designed to spiritually help a male protagonist . Portman later said she found it upsetting to have contributed to the trope . She followed it by playing a mysterious stripper in Closer , a romantic drama directed by Mike Nichols based on the play of the same name , and co - starring Julia Roberts , Jude Law , and Clive Owen . Portman agreed to her first sexually explicit adult role after turning down such parts in the past , saying it reflected her own maturity as a person . She had also performed her first nude scenes for the film , but they were deleted from the final cut when she insisted that they were inessential to the story . Closer grossed over $ 115 million worldwide against a $ 27   million budget , and the critic Peter Travers took note of Portman ' s " blazing , breakthrough performance " , writing that she " digs so deep into the bruised core of her character that they seem to wear the same skin . " She won the Golden Globe for Best Supporting Actress and received an Academy Award nomination in the same category .	Who wrote and directed Garden State?	Zach Braff.
Portman has also supported anti - poverty causes . In 2004 and 2005 , she traveled to Uganda , Guatemala , and Ecuador as the Ambassador of Hope for FINCA International , an organization that promotes micro - lending to help finance women - owned businesses in developing countries . In an interview appearing on the PBS program Foreign Exchange with Fareed Zakaria , she discussed microfinance . Host Fareed Zakaria said that he was " generally wary of celebrities with fashionable causes " , but included the segment with Portman because " she really knew her stuff " . On This Week with George Stephanopoulos in April 2007 , Portman discussed her work with FINCA and how it can benefit women and children in Third World countries . In fall - 2007 , she visited several university campuses , including Harvard , USC , UCLA , UC Berkeley , Stanford , Princeton , New York University , and Columbia , to inspire students with the power of microfinance and to encourage them to join the Village Banking Campaign to help families and communities lift themselves out of poverty .	Where did you travel to as the Ambassador of Hope for FINCA International?	I traveled to Uganda, Guatemala, and Ecuador.
Portman has also supported anti - poverty causes . In 2004 and 2005 , she traveled to Uganda , Guatemala , and Ecuador as the Ambassador of Hope for FINCA International , an organization that promotes micro - lending to help finance women - owned businesses in developing countries . In an interview appearing on the PBS program Foreign Exchange with Fareed Zakaria , she discussed microfinance . Host Fareed Zakaria said that he was " generally wary of celebrities with fashionable causes " , but included the segment with Portman because " she really knew her stuff " . On This Week with George Stephanopoulos in April 2007 , Portman discussed her work with FINCA and how it can benefit women and children in Third World countries . In fall - 2007 , she visited several university campuses , including Harvard , USC , UCLA , UC Berkeley , Stanford , Princeton , New York University , and Columbia , to inspire students with the power of microfinance and to encourage them to join the Village Banking Campaign to help families and communities lift themselves out of poverty .	Who interviewed you on the PBS program?	Fareed Zakaria.
Portman began 2007 by replacing Jodie Foster in Wong Kar - wai ' s romantic drama My Blueberry Nights , which was his first English - language film . For her role as a gambler , she trained with a poker coach . Richard Corliss of Time magazine believed that " for once she ' s not playing a waif or a child princess but a mature , full - bodied woman " and commended her " vibrancy , grittiness and ache , all performed with a virtuosa ' s easy assurance " . Her next appearance was in Hotel Chevalier , a short film from Wes Anderson , which served as a prologue to his feature The Darjeeling Limited ( in which Portman had a cameo ) . In the short , she and Jason Schwartzman play former lovers who reunite in a Paris hotel room . For the first time , Portman performed an extended nude scene ; she was later disappointed at the undue focus on it and she subsequently swore off appearing nude again . Keen to work in different genres , Portman accepted a role in the children ' s film Mr . Magorium ' s Wonder Emporium , playing an employee of a magical toy store . She also appeared in Paul McCartney ' s music video " Dance Tonight " from his album Memory Almost Full , directed by Michel Gondry .	In what type of store did your character work in the film Mr. Magorium's Wonder Emporium?	A magical toy store
In 2015 , Portman appeared alongside an ensemble cast , including Christian Bale , in Terrence Malick ' s experimental drama film Knight of Cups , which marked her first project after giving birth . She shot for it within a week of returning to work and she did not receive a traditional script or dialogues , improvising most of her scenes with Bale . She said that shooting with Malick influenced her own directorial venture , A Tale of Love and Darkness which was released in the same year . Based on Israeli author Amos Oz ' s autobiographical novel of the same name which is set in Jerusalem during the last years of the British Mandate of Palestine , the Hebrew - language film starred Portman who also produced and co - wrote it . She had wanted to adapt the book since she first read it a decade ago , but postponed it until she was old enough to play the leading role of a mother herself . She collaborated closely with Amos , showing him drafts of her script as she adapted the book . A . O . Scott of The New York Times found it to be a " conscientious adaptation of a difficult book " and was appreciative of Portman ' s potential as a filmmaker . She next produced and starred in the western film Jane Got a Gun about a young mother seeking vengeance . Initially scheduled to be directed by Lynne Ramsay , the production was plagued with numerous difficulties . Ramsay did not turn up on set for the first day of filming and was eventually replaced with Gavin O ' Connor . Michael Fassbender , Jude Law , and Bradley Cooper were all cast as the male lead , before Ewan McGregor played the part . Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian reviewed that Portman ' s " stately performance " was not enough to save the " laborious and solemn western " , and it grossed less than $ 4   million against its $ 25   million budget .	What role did you play in the film Knight of Cups?	The specific role of mine in the film Knight of Cups is not mentioned.
Portman has also supported anti - poverty causes . In 2004 and 2005 , she traveled to Uganda , Guatemala , and Ecuador as the Ambassador of Hope for FINCA International , an organization that promotes micro - lending to help finance women - owned businesses in developing countries . In an interview appearing on the PBS program Foreign Exchange with Fareed Zakaria , she discussed microfinance . Host Fareed Zakaria said that he was " generally wary of celebrities with fashionable causes " , but included the segment with Portman because " she really knew her stuff " . On This Week with George Stephanopoulos in April 2007 , Portman discussed her work with FINCA and how it can benefit women and children in Third World countries . In fall - 2007 , she visited several university campuses , including Harvard , USC , UCLA , UC Berkeley , Stanford , Princeton , New York University , and Columbia , to inspire students with the power of microfinance and to encourage them to join the Village Banking Campaign to help families and communities lift themselves out of poverty .	Which PBS program did you appear on to discuss microfinance?	Foreign Exchange with Fareed Zakaria.
Portman ' s sole screen appearance in 2000 was in Where the Heart Is , a romantic drama filmed in Texas , in which she played a pregnant teenager . After finishing work on the film , she began attending Harvard University to pursue her bachelor ' s degree in psychology , and significantly reduced her acting roles over the next few years . She studied advanced Hebrew literature and neurobiology , and she served as Alan Dershowitz ' s research assistant . In the summer of 2001 , she returned to Broadway ( at the Delacorte Theater ) to perform Chekhov ' s drama The Seagull , which was directed by Mike Nichols and co - starred Meryl Streep and Philip Seymour Hoffman . Linda Winer of Newsday wrote that the " major surprises come from Portman , whose Nina transforms with astonishing lyricism from the girl with ambition to Chekhov ' s most difficult symbol of destruction " . Also in 2001 , Portman was among several celebrities who made cameo appearances in the comedy Zoolander . The following year she reprised her role of Amidala in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones , which she had filmed in Sydney and London during her summer break of 2000 . She was excited by the opportunity to play a confident young woman who did not depend on the male lead . When asked about balancing her career and education , she said , " I don ' t care if [ college ] ruins my career . I ' d rather be smart than a movie star . " In 2002 , she contributed to a study on memory called " Frontal lobe activation during object permanence : data from near - infrared spectroscopy " . Portman graduated from Harvard in 2003 and her sole screen appearance that year was in the brief part of a young mother in the war film Cold Mountain .	What did you study at Harvard University?	I studied advanced Hebrew literature and neurobiology at Harvard University.
In 2015 , Portman appeared alongside an ensemble cast , including Christian Bale , in Terrence Malick ' s experimental drama film Knight of Cups , which marked her first project after giving birth . She shot for it within a week of returning to work and she did not receive a traditional script or dialogues , improvising most of her scenes with Bale . She said that shooting with Malick influenced her own directorial venture , A Tale of Love and Darkness which was released in the same year . Based on Israeli author Amos Oz ' s autobiographical novel of the same name which is set in Jerusalem during the last years of the British Mandate of Palestine , the Hebrew - language film starred Portman who also produced and co - wrote it . She had wanted to adapt the book since she first read it a decade ago , but postponed it until she was old enough to play the leading role of a mother herself . She collaborated closely with Amos , showing him drafts of her script as she adapted the book . A . O . Scott of The New York Times found it to be a " conscientious adaptation of a difficult book " and was appreciative of Portman ' s potential as a filmmaker . She next produced and starred in the western film Jane Got a Gun about a young mother seeking vengeance . Initially scheduled to be directed by Lynne Ramsay , the production was plagued with numerous difficulties . Ramsay did not turn up on set for the first day of filming and was eventually replaced with Gavin O ' Connor . Michael Fassbender , Jude Law , and Bradley Cooper were all cast as the male lead , before Ewan McGregor played the part . Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian reviewed that Portman ' s " stately performance " was not enough to save the " laborious and solemn western " , and it grossed less than $ 4   million against its $ 25   million budget .	What was the name of your directorial venture released in the same year as Knight of Cups?	A Tale of Love and Darkness.
In 2018 , Portman starred in the science fiction film Annihilation , based on Jeff VanderMeer ' s novel . She played a biologist and former soldier who studies a mysterious quarantined zone of mutating organisms . She was pleased to headline a rare female - led science fiction film , and she moved her family near Pinewood Studios during filming . For the action sequences , she underwent movement training with the dancer Bobbi Jene Smith . Benjamin Lee of The Guardian took note of Portman ' s " strong , fiercely compelling presence " and commended her for playing the part without unnecessary sentimentality . It only received a limited theatrical release and was distributed on Netflix internationally . Her next appearance was in Xavier Dolan ' s first English - language film , the ensemble drama The Death & Life of John F . Donovan ( 2018 ) , which was termed a " shocking misfire " by Eric Kohn of IndieWire . She then starred as a troubled pop singer in Vox Lux , sharing the part with Raffey Cassidy . She was drawn to the idea of showcasing the negative effects of fame , and in preparation , she watched documentaries on musicians and listened to the music of Sia , who wrote her songs in the film . For the climactic dance routines , she trained with her husband , Benjamin Millepied , who choreographed the sequence . It received mixed reviews from critics , but Portman ' s performance earned unanimous praise . Comparing it to her performances in Black Swan and Jackie , Robbie Collin of The Daily Telegraph wrote that " this role has a similar audacity and extravagance that few actresses would dare attempt , let alone be allowed to get away with " .	Who did you train with for the dance routines in Vox Lux?	I trained with my husband, Benjamin Millepied, for the dance routines in Vox Lux.
Portman ' s sole screen appearance in 2000 was in Where the Heart Is , a romantic drama filmed in Texas , in which she played a pregnant teenager . After finishing work on the film , she began attending Harvard University to pursue her bachelor ' s degree in psychology , and significantly reduced her acting roles over the next few years . She studied advanced Hebrew literature and neurobiology , and she served as Alan Dershowitz ' s research assistant . In the summer of 2001 , she returned to Broadway ( at the Delacorte Theater ) to perform Chekhov ' s drama The Seagull , which was directed by Mike Nichols and co - starred Meryl Streep and Philip Seymour Hoffman . Linda Winer of Newsday wrote that the " major surprises come from Portman , whose Nina transforms with astonishing lyricism from the girl with ambition to Chekhov ' s most difficult symbol of destruction " . Also in 2001 , Portman was among several celebrities who made cameo appearances in the comedy Zoolander . The following year she reprised her role of Amidala in Star Wars : Episode II – Attack of the Clones , which she had filmed in Sydney and London during her summer break of 2000 . She was excited by the opportunity to play a confident young woman who did not depend on the male lead . When asked about balancing her career and education , she said , " I don ' t care if [ college ] ruins my career . I ' d rather be smart than a movie star . " In 2002 , she contributed to a study on memory called " Frontal lobe activation during object permanence : data from near - infrared spectroscopy " . Portman graduated from Harvard in 2003 and her sole screen appearance that year was in the brief part of a young mother in the war film Cold Mountain .	In which Star Wars film did you reprise your role as Amidala?	I reprised my role as Amidala in "Star Wars: Episode II – Attack of the Clones".
Portman began 2007 by replacing Jodie Foster in Wong Kar - wai ' s romantic drama My Blueberry Nights , which was his first English - language film . For her role as a gambler , she trained with a poker coach . Richard Corliss of Time magazine believed that " for once she ' s not playing a waif or a child princess but a mature , full - bodied woman " and commended her " vibrancy , grittiness and ache , all performed with a virtuosa ' s easy assurance " . Her next appearance was in Hotel Chevalier , a short film from Wes Anderson , which served as a prologue to his feature The Darjeeling Limited ( in which Portman had a cameo ) . In the short , she and Jason Schwartzman play former lovers who reunite in a Paris hotel room . For the first time , Portman performed an extended nude scene ; she was later disappointed at the undue focus on it and she subsequently swore off appearing nude again . Keen to work in different genres , Portman accepted a role in the children ' s film Mr . Magorium ' s Wonder Emporium , playing an employee of a magical toy store . She also appeared in Paul McCartney ' s music video " Dance Tonight " from his album Memory Almost Full , directed by Michel Gondry .	What type of coach did you train with for your role as a gambler?	A poker coach
In 2018 , Portman starred in the science fiction film Annihilation , based on Jeff VanderMeer ' s novel . She played a biologist and former soldier who studies a mysterious quarantined zone of mutating organisms . She was pleased to headline a rare female - led science fiction film , and she moved her family near Pinewood Studios during filming . For the action sequences , she underwent movement training with the dancer Bobbi Jene Smith . Benjamin Lee of The Guardian took note of Portman ' s " strong , fiercely compelling presence " and commended her for playing the part without unnecessary sentimentality . It only received a limited theatrical release and was distributed on Netflix internationally . Her next appearance was in Xavier Dolan ' s first English - language film , the ensemble drama The Death & Life of John F . Donovan ( 2018 ) , which was termed a " shocking misfire " by Eric Kohn of IndieWire . She then starred as a troubled pop singer in Vox Lux , sharing the part with Raffey Cassidy . She was drawn to the idea of showcasing the negative effects of fame , and in preparation , she watched documentaries on musicians and listened to the music of Sia , who wrote her songs in the film . For the climactic dance routines , she trained with her husband , Benjamin Millepied , who choreographed the sequence . It received mixed reviews from critics , but Portman ' s performance earned unanimous praise . Comparing it to her performances in Black Swan and Jackie , Robbie Collin of The Daily Telegraph wrote that " this role has a similar audacity and extravagance that few actresses would dare attempt , let alone be allowed to get away with " .	What science fiction film did you star in in 2018?	I starred in the film Annihilation in 2018.
In 2018 , Portman starred in the science fiction film Annihilation , based on Jeff VanderMeer ' s novel . She played a biologist and former soldier who studies a mysterious quarantined zone of mutating organisms . She was pleased to headline a rare female - led science fiction film , and she moved her family near Pinewood Studios during filming . For the action sequences , she underwent movement training with the dancer Bobbi Jene Smith . Benjamin Lee of The Guardian took note of Portman ' s " strong , fiercely compelling presence " and commended her for playing the part without unnecessary sentimentality . It only received a limited theatrical release and was distributed on Netflix internationally . Her next appearance was in Xavier Dolan ' s first English - language film , the ensemble drama The Death & Life of John F . Donovan ( 2018 ) , which was termed a " shocking misfire " by Eric Kohn of IndieWire . She then starred as a troubled pop singer in Vox Lux , sharing the part with Raffey Cassidy . She was drawn to the idea of showcasing the negative effects of fame , and in preparation , she watched documentaries on musicians and listened to the music of Sia , who wrote her songs in the film . For the climactic dance routines , she trained with her husband , Benjamin Millepied , who choreographed the sequence . It received mixed reviews from critics , but Portman ' s performance earned unanimous praise . Comparing it to her performances in Black Swan and Jackie , Robbie Collin of The Daily Telegraph wrote that " this role has a similar audacity and extravagance that few actresses would dare attempt , let alone be allowed to get away with " .	What was your next appearance after Annihilation?	My next appearance was in Xavier Dolan's film The Death & Life of John F. Donovan.
At Harvard , Portman wrote a letter to The Harvard Crimson in response to an essay critical of Israeli actions toward Palestinians . She has nevertheless criticized the Israeli government , specifically Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu . Portman was critical of Netanyahu ' s re - election in 2015 , saying she was " disappointed " and often found his comments racist . In November 2017 , Portman was announced as the Genesis Prize recipient for 2018 , which includes $ 2 , 000 , 000 in prize money . The following April , Portman announced that she did not plan to attend the awards ceremony scheduled for June , citing " recent events in Israel " that left her feeling uncomfortable attending public events there . The ceremony was canceled . Portman further clarified that she was not boycotting Israel , explaining that she did not want to " appear as endorsing " Netanyahu , who was to give a speech at the ceremony . She is also a member of the One Voice movement .	What movement are you a member of?	I am a member of the One Voice movement.
Unused footage from Thor : The Dark World and a new voice - over was used for Portman ' s brief appearance in the 2019 superhero film Avengers : Endgame . She then portrayed a psychologically troubled astronaut ( based on Lisa Nowak ) in the drama Lucy in the Sky , directed by Noah Hawley . She replaced the film ' s producer Reese Witherspoon , who backed out due to a scheduling conflict . The film was poorly received , though Portman ' s performance was praised . The following year , she narrated the Disney + nature documentary Dolphin Reef and voiced Jane Foster in the animated series What If ... ? . In 2022 , Portman reprised her role as Foster in the sequel Thor : Love and Thunder , in which her character becomes Mighty Thor . She agreed to return to the franchise after meeting with director Taika Waititi , who offered to portray her character in an " adventurous and fun and funny " way . Nick Allen at RogerEbert . com opined , " In both her human and her heroic state , Portman ’ s performance conveys why it ' s great to see Jane again . " In a 2022 readers ' poll by Empire magazine , Portman was voted one of the 50 greatest actors of all time .	What film did you briefly appear in by using unused footage from Thor: The Dark World?	I briefly appeared in Avengers: Endgame.
Portman began 2007 by replacing Jodie Foster in Wong Kar - wai ' s romantic drama My Blueberry Nights , which was his first English - language film . For her role as a gambler , she trained with a poker coach . Richard Corliss of Time magazine believed that " for once she ' s not playing a waif or a child princess but a mature , full - bodied woman " and commended her " vibrancy , grittiness and ache , all performed with a virtuosa ' s easy assurance " . Her next appearance was in Hotel Chevalier , a short film from Wes Anderson , which served as a prologue to his feature The Darjeeling Limited ( in which Portman had a cameo ) . In the short , she and Jason Schwartzman play former lovers who reunite in a Paris hotel room . For the first time , Portman performed an extended nude scene ; she was later disappointed at the undue focus on it and she subsequently swore off appearing nude again . Keen to work in different genres , Portman accepted a role in the children ' s film Mr . Magorium ' s Wonder Emporium , playing an employee of a magical toy store . She also appeared in Paul McCartney ' s music video " Dance Tonight " from his album Memory Almost Full , directed by Michel Gondry .	Who directed the short film Hotel Chevalier in which you appeared?	Wes Anderson
