Returning to Mqhekezweni in December 1940 , Mandela found that Jongintaba had arranged marriages for him and Justice ; dismayed , they fled to Johannesburg via Queenstown , arriving in April 1941 . Mandela found work as a night watchman at Crown Mines , his " first sight of South African capitalism in action " , but was fired when the induna ( headman ) discovered that he was a runaway . He stayed with a cousin in George Goch Township , who introduced Mandela to realtor and ANC activist Walter Sisulu . The latter secured Mandela a job as an articled clerk at the law firm of Witkin , Sidelsky and Eidelman , a company run by Lazar Sidelsky , a liberal Jew sympathetic to the ANC ' s cause . At the firm , Mandela befriended Gaur Radebe — a Hlubi member of the ANC and Communist Party — and Nat Bregman , a Jewish communist who became his first white friend . Mandela attended Communist Party gatherings , where he was impressed that Europeans , Africans , Indians , and Coloureds mixed as equals . He later stated that he did not join the party because its atheism conflicted with his Christian faith , and because he saw the South African struggle as being racially based rather than as class warfare . To continue his higher education , Mandela signed up to a University of South Africa correspondence course , working on his bachelor ' s degree at night .	When did you return to Mqhekezweni?	I returned to Mqhekezweni in December 1940.
Mandela proceeded on an African tour , meeting supporters and politicians in Zambia , Zimbabwe , Namibia , Libya and Algeria , and continuing to Sweden , where he was reunited with Tambo , and London , where he appeared at the Nelson Mandela : An International Tribute for a Free South Africa concert at Wembley Stadium . Encouraging foreign countries to support sanctions against the apartheid government , he met President Fran ç ois Mitterrand in France , Pope John Paul II in the Vatican , and Thatcher in the United Kingdom . In the United States , he met President George H . W . Bush , addressed both Houses of Congress and visited eight cities , being particularly popular among the African - American community . In Cuba , he became friends with President Castro , whom he had long admired . He met President R . Venkataraman in India , President Suharto in Indonesia , Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in Malaysia , and Prime Minister Bob Hawke in Australia . He visited Japan , but not the Soviet Union , a longtime ANC supporter .	Who did you meet in the Vatican?	I met Pope John Paul II in the Vatican.
Mandela obtained work as an attorney for the firm Terblanche and Briggish , before moving to the liberal - run Helman and Michel , passing qualification exams to become a full - fledged attorney . In August 1953 , Mandela and Tambo opened their own law firm , Mandela and Tambo , operating in downtown Johannesburg . The only African - run law firm in the country , it was popular with aggrieved black people , often dealing with cases of police brutality . Disliked by the authorities , the firm was forced to relocate to a remote location after their office permit was removed under the Group Areas Act ; as a result , their clientele dwindled . As a lawyer of aristocratic heritage , Mandela was part of Johannesburg ' s elite black middle - class , and accorded much respect from the black community . Although a second daughter , Makaziwe Phumia , was born in May 1954 , Mandela ' s relationship with Evelyn became strained , and she accused him of adultery . He may have had affairs with ANC member Lillian Ngoyi and secretary Ruth Mompati ; various individuals close to Mandela in this period have stated that the latter bore him a child . Disgusted by her son ' s behaviour , Nosekeni returned to Transkei , while Evelyn embraced the Jehovah ' s Witnesses and rejected Mandela ' s preoccupation with politics .	When did you and Tambo open your own law firm?	We opened our own law firm in August 1953.
Mandela obtained work as an attorney for the firm Terblanche and Briggish , before moving to the liberal - run Helman and Michel , passing qualification exams to become a full - fledged attorney . In August 1953 , Mandela and Tambo opened their own law firm , Mandela and Tambo , operating in downtown Johannesburg . The only African - run law firm in the country , it was popular with aggrieved black people , often dealing with cases of police brutality . Disliked by the authorities , the firm was forced to relocate to a remote location after their office permit was removed under the Group Areas Act ; as a result , their clientele dwindled . As a lawyer of aristocratic heritage , Mandela was part of Johannesburg ' s elite black middle - class , and accorded much respect from the black community . Although a second daughter , Makaziwe Phumia , was born in May 1954 , Mandela ' s relationship with Evelyn became strained , and she accused him of adultery . He may have had affairs with ANC member Lillian Ngoyi and secretary Ruth Mompati ; various individuals close to Mandela in this period have stated that the latter bore him a child . Disgusted by her son ' s behaviour , Nosekeni returned to Transkei , while Evelyn embraced the Jehovah ' s Witnesses and rejected Mandela ' s preoccupation with politics .	What kind of cases did your and Tambo's law firm often deal with?	We often dealt with cases of police brutality.
The newly elected National Assembly ' s first act was to formally elect Mandela as South Africa ' s first black chief executive . His inauguration took place in Pretoria on 10 May 1994 , televised to a billion viewers globally . The event was attended by four thousand guests , including world leaders from a wide range of geographic and ideological backgrounds . Mandela headed a Government of National Unity dominated by the ANC — which had no experience of governing by itself — but containing representatives from the National Party and Inkatha . Under the Interim Constitution , Inkatha and the National Party were entitled to seats in the government by virtue of winning at least 20 seats . In keeping with earlier agreements , both de Klerk and Thabo Mbeki were given the position of Deputy President . Although Mbeki had not been his first choice for the job , Mandela grew to rely heavily on him throughout his presidency , allowing him to shape policy details . Moving into the presidential office at Tuynhuys in Cape Town , Mandela allowed de Klerk to retain the presidential residence in the Groote Schuur estate , instead settling into the nearby Westbrooke manor , which he renamed " Genadendal " , meaning " Valley of Mercy " in Afrikaans . Retaining his Houghton home , he also had a house built in his home village of Qunu , which he visited regularly , walking around the area , meeting with locals , and judging tribal disputes .	Where did you settle into after moving into the presidential office at Tuynhuys?	I settled into the nearby Westbrooke manor, which I renamed "Genadendal".
On 5 August 1962 , police captured Mandela along with fellow activist Cecil Williams near Howick . Many MK members suspected that the authorities had been tipped off with regard to Mandela ' s whereabouts , although Mandela himself gave these ideas little credence . In later years , Donald Rickard , a former American diplomat , revealed that the Central Intelligence Agency , which feared Mandela ' s associations with communists , had informed the South African police of his location . Jailed in Johannesburg ' s Marshall Square prison , Mandela was charged with inciting workers ' strikes and leaving the country without permission . Representing himself with Slovo as legal advisor , Mandela intended to use the trial to showcase " the ANC ' s moral opposition to racism " while supporters demonstrated outside the court . Moved to Pretoria , where Winnie could visit him , he began correspondence studies for a Bachelor of Laws ( LLB ) degree from the University of London International Programmes . His hearing began in October , but he disrupted proceedings by wearing a traditional kaross , refusing to call any witnesses , and turning his plea of mitigation into a political speech . Found guilty , he was sentenced to five years ' imprisonment ; as he left the courtroom , supporters sang " Nkosi Sikelel iAfrika " .	Who were you captured with?	I was captured with fellow activist Cecil Williams.
At Sisulu ' s house , Mandela met Evelyn Mase , a trainee nurse and ANC activist from Engcobo , Transkei . Entering a relationship and marrying in October 1944 , they initially lived with her relatives until moving into a rented house in the township of Orlando in early 1946 . Their first child , Madiba " Thembi " Thembekile , was born in February 1945 ; a daughter , Makaziwe , was born in 1947 but died of meningitis nine months later . Mandela enjoyed home life , welcoming his mother and his sister , Leabie , to stay with him . In early 1947 , his three years of articles ended at Witkin , Sidelsky and Eidelman , and he decided to become a full - time student , subsisting on loans from the Bantu Welfare Trust .	How many children did you and Evelyn have?	I and Evelyn had two children. Our first child, Madiba "Thembi" Thembekile, was born in February 1945, and a daughter named Makaziwe was born in 1947 but died of meningitis nine months later.
Mandela proceeded on an African tour , meeting supporters and politicians in Zambia , Zimbabwe , Namibia , Libya and Algeria , and continuing to Sweden , where he was reunited with Tambo , and London , where he appeared at the Nelson Mandela : An International Tribute for a Free South Africa concert at Wembley Stadium . Encouraging foreign countries to support sanctions against the apartheid government , he met President Fran ç ois Mitterrand in France , Pope John Paul II in the Vatican , and Thatcher in the United Kingdom . In the United States , he met President George H . W . Bush , addressed both Houses of Congress and visited eight cities , being particularly popular among the African - American community . In Cuba , he became friends with President Castro , whom he had long admired . He met President R . Venkataraman in India , President Suharto in Indonesia , Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in Malaysia , and Prime Minister Bob Hawke in Australia . He visited Japan , but not the Soviet Union , a longtime ANC supporter .	Who did you meet during your African tour?	I met supporters and politicians in Zambia, Zimbabwe, Namibia, Libya, and Algeria.
Mandela was given an office in the newly purchased ANC headquarters at Shell House , Johannesburg , and moved into Winnie ' s large Soweto home . Their marriage was increasingly strained as he learned of her affair with Dali Mpofu , but he supported her during her trial for kidnapping and assault . He gained funding for her defence from the International Defence and Aid Fund for Southern Africa and from Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi , but , in June 1991 , she was found guilty and sentenced to six years in prison , reduced to two on appeal . On 13 April 1992 , Mandela publicly announced his separation from Winnie . The ANC forced her to step down from the national executive for misappropriating ANC funds ; Mandela moved into the mostly white Johannesburg suburb of Houghton . Mandela ' s prospects for a peaceful transition were further damaged by an increase in " black - on - black " violence , particularly between ANC and Inkatha supporters in KwaZulu - Natal , which resulted in thousands of deaths . Mandela met with Inkatha leader Buthelezi , but the ANC prevented further negotiations on the issue . Mandela argued that there was a " third force " within the state intelligence services fuelling the " slaughter of the people " and openly blamed de Klerk — whom he increasingly distrusted — for the Sebokeng massacre . In September 1991 , a national peace conference was held in Johannesburg at which Mandela , Buthelezi and de Klerk signed a peace accord , though the violence continued .	Who supported me during my trial?	You supported me during my trial for kidnapping and assault.
Mandela proceeded on an African tour , meeting supporters and politicians in Zambia , Zimbabwe , Namibia , Libya and Algeria , and continuing to Sweden , where he was reunited with Tambo , and London , where he appeared at the Nelson Mandela : An International Tribute for a Free South Africa concert at Wembley Stadium . Encouraging foreign countries to support sanctions against the apartheid government , he met President Fran ç ois Mitterrand in France , Pope John Paul II in the Vatican , and Thatcher in the United Kingdom . In the United States , he met President George H . W . Bush , addressed both Houses of Congress and visited eight cities , being particularly popular among the African - American community . In Cuba , he became friends with President Castro , whom he had long admired . He met President R . Venkataraman in India , President Suharto in Indonesia , Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in Malaysia , and Prime Minister Bob Hawke in Australia . He visited Japan , but not the Soviet Union , a longtime ANC supporter .	Who did you meet in France?	I met President François Mitterrand in France.
Mandela was very self - conscious about being a man and regularly made references to manhood . He was heterosexual , and biographer Fatima Meer said that he was " easily tempted " by women . Another biographer , Martin Meredith , characterised him as being " by nature a romantic " , highlighting that he had relationships with various women . Mandela was married three times , fathered six children , and had seventeen grandchildren and at least seventeen great - grandchildren . He could be stern and demanding of his children , although he was more affectionate with his grandchildren . His first marriage was to Evelyn Ntoko Mase in October 1944 ; they divorced in March 1958 under the multiple strains of his adultery and constant absences , devotion to revolutionary agitation , and the fact that she was a Jehovah ' s Witness , a religion requiring political neutrality . Mandela ' s second wife was the social worker Winnie Madikizela - Mandela , whom he married in June 1958 . They divorced in March 1996 . Mandela married his third wife , Gra ç a Machel , on his 80th birthday in July 1998 .	How many great-grandchildren do you have?	I have at least seventeen great-grandchildren.
By the late 1960s , Mandela ' s fame had been eclipsed by Steve Biko and the Black Consciousness Movement ( BCM ) . Seeing the ANC as ineffectual , the BCM called for militant action , but , following the Soweto uprising of 1976 , many BCM activists were imprisoned on Robben Island . Mandela tried to build a relationship with these young radicals , although he was critical of their racialism and contempt for white anti - apartheid activists . Renewed international interest in his plight came in July 1978 , when he celebrated his 60th birthday . He was awarded an honorary doctorate in Lesotho , the Jawaharlal Nehru Award for International Understanding in India in 1979 , and the Freedom of the City of Glasgow , Scotland in 1981 . In March 1980 , the slogan " Free Mandela ! " was developed by journalist Percy Qoboza , sparking an international campaign that led the UN Security Council to call for his release . Despite increasing foreign pressure , the government refused , relying on its Cold War allies US president Ronald Reagan and British prime minister Margaret Thatcher ; both considered Mandela ' s ANC a terrorist organisation sympathetic to communism and supported its suppression .	How did you view the young radicals imprisoned on Robben Island?	I tried to build a relationship with them, although I was critical of their racialism and contempt for white anti-apartheid activists.
Mandela proceeded on an African tour , meeting supporters and politicians in Zambia , Zimbabwe , Namibia , Libya and Algeria , and continuing to Sweden , where he was reunited with Tambo , and London , where he appeared at the Nelson Mandela : An International Tribute for a Free South Africa concert at Wembley Stadium . Encouraging foreign countries to support sanctions against the apartheid government , he met President Fran ç ois Mitterrand in France , Pope John Paul II in the Vatican , and Thatcher in the United Kingdom . In the United States , he met President George H . W . Bush , addressed both Houses of Congress and visited eight cities , being particularly popular among the African - American community . In Cuba , he became friends with President Castro , whom he had long admired . He met President R . Venkataraman in India , President Suharto in Indonesia , Prime Minister Mahathir Mohamad in Malaysia , and Prime Minister Bob Hawke in Australia . He visited Japan , but not the Soviet Union , a longtime ANC supporter .	Where were you reunited with Tambo?	I was reunited with Tambo in Sweden.
The ANC decided to send Mandela as a delegate to the February 1962 meeting of the Pan - African Freedom Movement for East , Central and Southern Africa ( PAFMECSA ) in Addis Ababa , Ethiopia . Leaving South Africa in secret via Bechuanaland , on his way Mandela visited Tanganyika and met with its president , Julius Nyerere . Arriving in Ethiopia , Mandela met with Emperor Haile Selassie I , and gave his speech after Selassie ' s at the conference . After the symposium , he travelled to Cairo , Egypt , admiring the political reforms of President Gamal Abdel Nasser , and on April 1962 he went to Morocco where asked El Khatib to meet the king to ask him to give him £ 5 , 000 . The next day he got the £ 5 , 000 along with some weapons and training to Mandels ' s soldier , and then went to Tunis , Tunisia , where President Habib Bourguiba gave him £ 5 , 000 for weaponry . He proceeded to Morocco , Mali , Guinea , Sierra Leone , Liberia and Senegal , receiving funds from Liberian president William Tubman and Guinean president Ahmed S é kou Tour é . He left Africa for London , England , where he met anti - apartheid activists , reporters and prominent politicians . Upon returning to Ethiopia , he began a six - month course in guerrilla warfare , but completed only two months before being recalled to South Africa by the ANC ' s leadership .	Where did you go after leaving Africa for London, England?	I returned to Ethiopia after leaving Africa for London, England.
Returning to Mqhekezweni in December 1940 , Mandela found that Jongintaba had arranged marriages for him and Justice ; dismayed , they fled to Johannesburg via Queenstown , arriving in April 1941 . Mandela found work as a night watchman at Crown Mines , his " first sight of South African capitalism in action " , but was fired when the induna ( headman ) discovered that he was a runaway . He stayed with a cousin in George Goch Township , who introduced Mandela to realtor and ANC activist Walter Sisulu . The latter secured Mandela a job as an articled clerk at the law firm of Witkin , Sidelsky and Eidelman , a company run by Lazar Sidelsky , a liberal Jew sympathetic to the ANC ' s cause . At the firm , Mandela befriended Gaur Radebe — a Hlubi member of the ANC and Communist Party — and Nat Bregman , a Jewish communist who became his first white friend . Mandela attended Communist Party gatherings , where he was impressed that Europeans , Africans , Indians , and Coloureds mixed as equals . He later stated that he did not join the party because its atheism conflicted with his Christian faith , and because he saw the South African struggle as being racially based rather than as class warfare . To continue his higher education , Mandela signed up to a University of South Africa correspondence course , working on his bachelor ' s degree at night .	Who arranged marriages for you and Justice?	Jongintaba arranged the marriages for me and Justice.
The ANC decided to send Mandela as a delegate to the February 1962 meeting of the Pan - African Freedom Movement for East , Central and Southern Africa ( PAFMECSA ) in Addis Ababa , Ethiopia . Leaving South Africa in secret via Bechuanaland , on his way Mandela visited Tanganyika and met with its president , Julius Nyerere . Arriving in Ethiopia , Mandela met with Emperor Haile Selassie I , and gave his speech after Selassie ' s at the conference . After the symposium , he travelled to Cairo , Egypt , admiring the political reforms of President Gamal Abdel Nasser , and on April 1962 he went to Morocco where asked El Khatib to meet the king to ask him to give him £ 5 , 000 . The next day he got the £ 5 , 000 along with some weapons and training to Mandels ' s soldier , and then went to Tunis , Tunisia , where President Habib Bourguiba gave him £ 5 , 000 for weaponry . He proceeded to Morocco , Mali , Guinea , Sierra Leone , Liberia and Senegal , receiving funds from Liberian president William Tubman and Guinean president Ahmed S é kou Tour é . He left Africa for London , England , where he met anti - apartheid activists , reporters and prominent politicians . Upon returning to Ethiopia , he began a six - month course in guerrilla warfare , but completed only two months before being recalled to South Africa by the ANC ' s leadership .	What political reforms do you admire in Egypt?	I admire the political reforms of President Gamal Abdel Nasser in Egypt.
Mandela was given an office in the newly purchased ANC headquarters at Shell House , Johannesburg , and moved into Winnie ' s large Soweto home . Their marriage was increasingly strained as he learned of her affair with Dali Mpofu , but he supported her during her trial for kidnapping and assault . He gained funding for her defence from the International Defence and Aid Fund for Southern Africa and from Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi , but , in June 1991 , she was found guilty and sentenced to six years in prison , reduced to two on appeal . On 13 April 1992 , Mandela publicly announced his separation from Winnie . The ANC forced her to step down from the national executive for misappropriating ANC funds ; Mandela moved into the mostly white Johannesburg suburb of Houghton . Mandela ' s prospects for a peaceful transition were further damaged by an increase in " black - on - black " violence , particularly between ANC and Inkatha supporters in KwaZulu - Natal , which resulted in thousands of deaths . Mandela met with Inkatha leader Buthelezi , but the ANC prevented further negotiations on the issue . Mandela argued that there was a " third force " within the state intelligence services fuelling the " slaughter of the people " and openly blamed de Klerk — whom he increasingly distrusted — for the Sebokeng massacre . In September 1991 , a national peace conference was held in Johannesburg at which Mandela , Buthelezi and de Klerk signed a peace accord , though the violence continued .	Who provided funding for your defense?	The International Defence and Aid Fund for Southern Africa and Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi provided funding for my defense.
The newly elected National Assembly ' s first act was to formally elect Mandela as South Africa ' s first black chief executive . His inauguration took place in Pretoria on 10 May 1994 , televised to a billion viewers globally . The event was attended by four thousand guests , including world leaders from a wide range of geographic and ideological backgrounds . Mandela headed a Government of National Unity dominated by the ANC — which had no experience of governing by itself — but containing representatives from the National Party and Inkatha . Under the Interim Constitution , Inkatha and the National Party were entitled to seats in the government by virtue of winning at least 20 seats . In keeping with earlier agreements , both de Klerk and Thabo Mbeki were given the position of Deputy President . Although Mbeki had not been his first choice for the job , Mandela grew to rely heavily on him throughout his presidency , allowing him to shape policy details . Moving into the presidential office at Tuynhuys in Cape Town , Mandela allowed de Klerk to retain the presidential residence in the Groote Schuur estate , instead settling into the nearby Westbrooke manor , which he renamed " Genadendal " , meaning " Valley of Mercy " in Afrikaans . Retaining his Houghton home , he also had a house built in his home village of Qunu , which he visited regularly , walking around the area , meeting with locals , and judging tribal disputes .	How many guests attended the event?	Four thousand guests attended the event.
Mandela was very self - conscious about being a man and regularly made references to manhood . He was heterosexual , and biographer Fatima Meer said that he was " easily tempted " by women . Another biographer , Martin Meredith , characterised him as being " by nature a romantic " , highlighting that he had relationships with various women . Mandela was married three times , fathered six children , and had seventeen grandchildren and at least seventeen great - grandchildren . He could be stern and demanding of his children , although he was more affectionate with his grandchildren . His first marriage was to Evelyn Ntoko Mase in October 1944 ; they divorced in March 1958 under the multiple strains of his adultery and constant absences , devotion to revolutionary agitation , and the fact that she was a Jehovah ' s Witness , a religion requiring political neutrality . Mandela ' s second wife was the social worker Winnie Madikizela - Mandela , whom he married in June 1958 . They divorced in March 1996 . Mandela married his third wife , Gra ç a Machel , on his 80th birthday in July 1998 .	How many times were you married?	I was married three times.
Returning to Mqhekezweni in December 1940 , Mandela found that Jongintaba had arranged marriages for him and Justice ; dismayed , they fled to Johannesburg via Queenstown , arriving in April 1941 . Mandela found work as a night watchman at Crown Mines , his " first sight of South African capitalism in action " , but was fired when the induna ( headman ) discovered that he was a runaway . He stayed with a cousin in George Goch Township , who introduced Mandela to realtor and ANC activist Walter Sisulu . The latter secured Mandela a job as an articled clerk at the law firm of Witkin , Sidelsky and Eidelman , a company run by Lazar Sidelsky , a liberal Jew sympathetic to the ANC ' s cause . At the firm , Mandela befriended Gaur Radebe — a Hlubi member of the ANC and Communist Party — and Nat Bregman , a Jewish communist who became his first white friend . Mandela attended Communist Party gatherings , where he was impressed that Europeans , Africans , Indians , and Coloureds mixed as equals . He later stated that he did not join the party because its atheism conflicted with his Christian faith , and because he saw the South African struggle as being racially based rather than as class warfare . To continue his higher education , Mandela signed up to a University of South Africa correspondence course , working on his bachelor ' s degree at night .	How did you and Justice react to the arranged marriages?	We were dismayed by the arranged marriages.
At Sisulu ' s house , Mandela met Evelyn Mase , a trainee nurse and ANC activist from Engcobo , Transkei . Entering a relationship and marrying in October 1944 , they initially lived with her relatives until moving into a rented house in the township of Orlando in early 1946 . Their first child , Madiba " Thembi " Thembekile , was born in February 1945 ; a daughter , Makaziwe , was born in 1947 but died of meningitis nine months later . Mandela enjoyed home life , welcoming his mother and his sister , Leabie , to stay with him . In early 1947 , his three years of articles ended at Witkin , Sidelsky and Eidelman , and he decided to become a full - time student , subsisting on loans from the Bantu Welfare Trust .	Where did you and Evelyn initially live after getting married?	After getting married, we initially lived with her relatives.
Mandela was given an office in the newly purchased ANC headquarters at Shell House , Johannesburg , and moved into Winnie ' s large Soweto home . Their marriage was increasingly strained as he learned of her affair with Dali Mpofu , but he supported her during her trial for kidnapping and assault . He gained funding for her defence from the International Defence and Aid Fund for Southern Africa and from Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi , but , in June 1991 , she was found guilty and sentenced to six years in prison , reduced to two on appeal . On 13 April 1992 , Mandela publicly announced his separation from Winnie . The ANC forced her to step down from the national executive for misappropriating ANC funds ; Mandela moved into the mostly white Johannesburg suburb of Houghton . Mandela ' s prospects for a peaceful transition were further damaged by an increase in " black - on - black " violence , particularly between ANC and Inkatha supporters in KwaZulu - Natal , which resulted in thousands of deaths . Mandela met with Inkatha leader Buthelezi , but the ANC prevented further negotiations on the issue . Mandela argued that there was a " third force " within the state intelligence services fuelling the " slaughter of the people " and openly blamed de Klerk — whom he increasingly distrusted — for the Sebokeng massacre . In September 1991 , a national peace conference was held in Johannesburg at which Mandela , Buthelezi and de Klerk signed a peace accord , though the violence continued .	Where were you given an office?	I was given an office at Shell House in Johannesburg.
Mandela obtained work as an attorney for the firm Terblanche and Briggish , before moving to the liberal - run Helman and Michel , passing qualification exams to become a full - fledged attorney . In August 1953 , Mandela and Tambo opened their own law firm , Mandela and Tambo , operating in downtown Johannesburg . The only African - run law firm in the country , it was popular with aggrieved black people , often dealing with cases of police brutality . Disliked by the authorities , the firm was forced to relocate to a remote location after their office permit was removed under the Group Areas Act ; as a result , their clientele dwindled . As a lawyer of aristocratic heritage , Mandela was part of Johannesburg ' s elite black middle - class , and accorded much respect from the black community . Although a second daughter , Makaziwe Phumia , was born in May 1954 , Mandela ' s relationship with Evelyn became strained , and she accused him of adultery . He may have had affairs with ANC member Lillian Ngoyi and secretary Ruth Mompati ; various individuals close to Mandela in this period have stated that the latter bore him a child . Disgusted by her son ' s behaviour , Nosekeni returned to Transkei , while Evelyn embraced the Jehovah ' s Witnesses and rejected Mandela ' s preoccupation with politics .	How was your law firm viewed by the black community?	My law firm was popular and respected among the black community.
On 5 August 1962 , police captured Mandela along with fellow activist Cecil Williams near Howick . Many MK members suspected that the authorities had been tipped off with regard to Mandela ' s whereabouts , although Mandela himself gave these ideas little credence . In later years , Donald Rickard , a former American diplomat , revealed that the Central Intelligence Agency , which feared Mandela ' s associations with communists , had informed the South African police of his location . Jailed in Johannesburg ' s Marshall Square prison , Mandela was charged with inciting workers ' strikes and leaving the country without permission . Representing himself with Slovo as legal advisor , Mandela intended to use the trial to showcase " the ANC ' s moral opposition to racism " while supporters demonstrated outside the court . Moved to Pretoria , where Winnie could visit him , he began correspondence studies for a Bachelor of Laws ( LLB ) degree from the University of London International Programmes . His hearing began in October , but he disrupted proceedings by wearing a traditional kaross , refusing to call any witnesses , and turning his plea of mitigation into a political speech . Found guilty , he was sentenced to five years ' imprisonment ; as he left the courtroom , supporters sang " Nkosi Sikelel iAfrika " .	What did you intend to showcase during your trial?	I intended to use the trial to showcase "the ANC's moral opposition to racism" while supporters demonstrated outside the court.
Mandela obtained work as an attorney for the firm Terblanche and Briggish , before moving to the liberal - run Helman and Michel , passing qualification exams to become a full - fledged attorney . In August 1953 , Mandela and Tambo opened their own law firm , Mandela and Tambo , operating in downtown Johannesburg . The only African - run law firm in the country , it was popular with aggrieved black people , often dealing with cases of police brutality . Disliked by the authorities , the firm was forced to relocate to a remote location after their office permit was removed under the Group Areas Act ; as a result , their clientele dwindled . As a lawyer of aristocratic heritage , Mandela was part of Johannesburg ' s elite black middle - class , and accorded much respect from the black community . Although a second daughter , Makaziwe Phumia , was born in May 1954 , Mandela ' s relationship with Evelyn became strained , and she accused him of adultery . He may have had affairs with ANC member Lillian Ngoyi and secretary Ruth Mompati ; various individuals close to Mandela in this period have stated that the latter bore him a child . Disgusted by her son ' s behaviour , Nosekeni returned to Transkei , while Evelyn embraced the Jehovah ' s Witnesses and rejected Mandela ' s preoccupation with politics .	Where did you work as an attorney before opening your own law firm?	I obtained work as an attorney for the firm Terblanche and Briggish.
