In June 2019 , Minaj released a standalone single titled " Megatron " along with an accompanying music video . In the U . S , the song debuted at number twenty . A month later , she provided information on her upcoming fifth studio album , appearing on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon , stating that " there ' s definitely a new album , of course . " She featured on the song " Hot Girl Summer " alongside fellow female rapper Megan Thee Stallion in August 2019 , which reached number eleven in the U . S . Minaj began dating her childhood friend Kenneth Petty ( nicknamed " Zoo " ) in December 2018 , and after less than a year of dating , filed for a marriage license in August 2019 . She announced that they had officially married in October , hyphenating his last name to hers upon marriage .	When did you release your standalone single "Megatron"?	In June 2019.
Pink Friday : Roman Reloaded was eventually released on April 2 , 2012 , two months later than initially planned . The album was preceded by the promotional singles " Roman in Moscow " and " Stupid Hoe " . The album debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 , with first - week sales of 253 , 000 copies , and was certified platinum by the RIAA in June 2012 . However , the mix of hip - hop songs and mainstream pop material received mixed reviews . " Pound the Alarm " and " Va Va Voom " were later released as the final singles from the album . Minaj along with fellow rapper M . I . A . joined Madonna to perform the single , " Give Me All Your Luvin " during the Super Bowl XLVI halftime show on February 6 , 2012 . Minaj was the first solo female rapper to perform at the Grammy Awards , performing " Roman Holiday " during the 2012 ceremony on February 12 . Her exorcism - themed performance was controversial , with the American Catholic League and its president criticizing her performance .	Which songs were released as promotional singles before your album's release?	The promotional singles released before my album were "Roman in Moscow" and "Stupid Hoe".
In June 2019 , Minaj released a standalone single titled " Megatron " along with an accompanying music video . In the U . S , the song debuted at number twenty . A month later , she provided information on her upcoming fifth studio album , appearing on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon , stating that " there ' s definitely a new album , of course . " She featured on the song " Hot Girl Summer " alongside fellow female rapper Megan Thee Stallion in August 2019 , which reached number eleven in the U . S . Minaj began dating her childhood friend Kenneth Petty ( nicknamed " Zoo " ) in December 2018 , and after less than a year of dating , filed for a marriage license in August 2019 . She announced that they had officially married in October , hyphenating his last name to hers upon marriage .	When did you file for a marriage license with your childhood friend Kenneth Petty?	I filed for a marriage license in August 2019.
In February 2017 , Minaj was featured on Jason Derulo ' s single " Swalla " which reached the top ten in several countries , including a peak of number six in the UK . The following month , Minaj signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . On March 20 , 2017 , when her singles " No Frauds " , " Changed It " , and " Regret in Your Tears " were released simultaneously , Minaj broke the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 entries for a female artist , which at the time was previously held by Aretha Franklin . In May 2017 , Minaj opened the 2017 Billboard Music Awards with a medley performance that was described by Elias Leight of Rolling Stone as " flamboyantly produced " and " dexterous " .	When were you featured on Jason Derulo's single "Swalla"?	In February 2017.
" Super Freaky Girl " debuted at number one in the U . S , making the song Minaj ' s third U . S . number one and her first unaccompanied number one . It became the first solo song by a female rapper to debut at number one in the U . S . in 22 years , after fellow rapper Lauryn Hill ' s song " Doo Wop ( That Thing ) " also debuted at number one in 1998 . On August 28 , 2022 , Minaj released a compilation album called Queen Radio : Volume 1 with one new track , " Likkle Miss ( Remix ) " with Skeng . On September 9 , 2022 , Minaj released a remix of " Super Freaky Girl " called " Queen Mix " , which features 5 other female rappers : JT , BIA , Katie Got Bandz , Akbar V , and Maliibu Miitch .	Did you release any remixes of "Super Freaky Girl"?	Yes, on September 9, 2022, I released a remix of "Super Freaky Girl" called "Queen Mix" which features 5 other female rappers: JT, BIA, Katie Got Bandz, Akbar V, and Maliibu Miitch.
Minaj ' s first live - action theatrical film The Other Woman was filmed in spring 2013 and premiered on April 25 , 2014 . In late 2014 , Minaj separated from her longtime boyfriend Safaree Samuels , whom she had dated since 2003 . [ b ] According to Minaj , he had proposed to her , but she declined . Several tracks on her forthcoming third album , The Pinkprint , are believed to have been heavily inspired by the end of their relationship . Minaj began dating rapper Meek Mill in early 2015 , shortly after her breakup with Samuels . As she was working on The Pinkprint , she described the album as " a continuation of The Re - Up with a lot more " and said it would focus on her " hip hop roots " . During an MTV interview , she additionally said that it would be " next level " and that she has " much to talk about " .	When did The Other Woman premiere?	The Other Woman premiered on April 25, 2014.
Pink Friday : Roman Reloaded was eventually released on April 2 , 2012 , two months later than initially planned . The album was preceded by the promotional singles " Roman in Moscow " and " Stupid Hoe " . The album debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 , with first - week sales of 253 , 000 copies , and was certified platinum by the RIAA in June 2012 . However , the mix of hip - hop songs and mainstream pop material received mixed reviews . " Pound the Alarm " and " Va Va Voom " were later released as the final singles from the album . Minaj along with fellow rapper M . I . A . joined Madonna to perform the single , " Give Me All Your Luvin " during the Super Bowl XLVI halftime show on February 6 , 2012 . Minaj was the first solo female rapper to perform at the Grammy Awards , performing " Roman Holiday " during the 2012 ceremony on February 12 . Her exorcism - themed performance was controversial , with the American Catholic League and its president criticizing her performance .	Which singles were released from your album after its initial release?	"Pound the Alarm" and "Va Va Voom" were later released as the final singles from my album.
" Pills n Potions " was released as the lead single from The Pinkprint in May 2014 . In July , she appeared as a featured artist on the song " Bang Bang " with singers Jessie J and Ariana Grande , which peaked at number three on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 chart . " Anaconda " was released in August as the second single from the album , peaking at number two , which became her highest - charting single in the U . S . at the time . The music video for " Anaconda " went viral upon release online ; it set a 24 - hour Vevo record , accumulating 19.6   million views on its first day of release , breaking the record previously held by Miley Cyrus for " Wrecking Ball " . On November 9 , 2014 , Minaj hosted the 2014 MTV Europe Music Awards in Glasgow , Scotland . She also won the Best Hip - Hop Award for a second time . The Pinkprint was officially released on December 15 , 2014 , and debuted at number two in the U . S , with first week sales of 244 , 000 equivalent units ( 198 , 000 in pure album sales and 46 , 000 combined album - equivalent units and streams ) . Upon release , critics praised the production and personal lyrics .	When was "Pills n Potions" released?	"Pills n Potions" was released in May 2014.
Pink Friday : Roman Reloaded was eventually released on April 2 , 2012 , two months later than initially planned . The album was preceded by the promotional singles " Roman in Moscow " and " Stupid Hoe " . The album debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 , with first - week sales of 253 , 000 copies , and was certified platinum by the RIAA in June 2012 . However , the mix of hip - hop songs and mainstream pop material received mixed reviews . " Pound the Alarm " and " Va Va Voom " were later released as the final singles from the album . Minaj along with fellow rapper M . I . A . joined Madonna to perform the single , " Give Me All Your Luvin " during the Super Bowl XLVI halftime show on February 6 , 2012 . Minaj was the first solo female rapper to perform at the Grammy Awards , performing " Roman Holiday " during the 2012 ceremony on February 12 . Her exorcism - themed performance was controversial , with the American Catholic League and its president criticizing her performance .	When was Pink Friday: Roman Reloaded released?	Pink Friday: Roman Reloaded was released on April 2, 2012.
In March 2022 , Minaj fronted the campaign for the " Heaven " Spring 2022 collection by Marc Jacobs . In July 2022 , she collaborated with Rap Snacks and released her own potato chip flavor , " Barbie - Que Honey Truffle " . The following month , Mattel sued Rap Snacks , claiming the company violated the Barbie trademark and had made a " deliberate and calculated " choice to do so . The lawsuit was settled in September after the company changed the snack ' s name to " Bar - B - Quin " . Minaj released a " variety pack " with Rap Snacks in October , and a " Nocho Nachos " nachos flavor in March 2023 , inspired by a lyric on her 2023 single , " Red Ruby Da Sleeze " . Also in October 2022 , the rapper appeared alongside Lil Baby , Kane Brown , Pete Davidson , and Bukayo Saka in a trailer for the video game , Call of Duty : Modern Warfare II .	Which company did Mattel sue in August 2022?	Mattel sued Rap Snacks in August 2022.
" Pills n Potions " was released as the lead single from The Pinkprint in May 2014 . In July , she appeared as a featured artist on the song " Bang Bang " with singers Jessie J and Ariana Grande , which peaked at number three on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 chart . " Anaconda " was released in August as the second single from the album , peaking at number two , which became her highest - charting single in the U . S . at the time . The music video for " Anaconda " went viral upon release online ; it set a 24 - hour Vevo record , accumulating 19.6   million views on its first day of release , breaking the record previously held by Miley Cyrus for " Wrecking Ball " . On November 9 , 2014 , Minaj hosted the 2014 MTV Europe Music Awards in Glasgow , Scotland . She also won the Best Hip - Hop Award for a second time . The Pinkprint was officially released on December 15 , 2014 , and debuted at number two in the U . S , with first week sales of 244 , 000 equivalent units ( 198 , 000 in pure album sales and 46 , 000 combined album - equivalent units and streams ) . Upon release , critics praised the production and personal lyrics .	When was "Anaconda" released as your second single from the album?	"Anaconda" was released in August as my second single from the album.
At the beginning of the year , after a social media hiatus , Minaj announced a song collaboration with rapper Lil Baby called " Do We Have a Problem ? " . The track was released on February 4 , along with a music video that featured guest appearances from actors Joseph Sikora and Cory Hardrict . The video also contained a snippet of another Lil Baby collaboration titled " Bussin " , which was officially released a week later , on February 11 . " Do We Have a Problem ? " debuted and peaked at number two on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 . It became Minaj ' s twentieth top ten entry in the U . S , extending her record as the female rapper with the most U . S . top ten singles . In a promotional Apple Music interview with DJ Zane Lowe , Minaj said her forthcoming fifth studio album is " coming very soon " . She described it as " fun , gutta , and back to the basics " . Her other ventures also include fronting the campaign for the " Heaven " Spring 2022 collection by Marc Jacobs , which launched on March 3 .	What is my current peak position of "Do We Have a Problem?" on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100?	"Do We Have a Problem?" debuted and peaked at number two on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 for me.
In February 2017 , Minaj was featured on Jason Derulo ' s single " Swalla " which reached the top ten in several countries , including a peak of number six in the UK . The following month , Minaj signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . On March 20 , 2017 , when her singles " No Frauds " , " Changed It " , and " Regret in Your Tears " were released simultaneously , Minaj broke the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 entries for a female artist , which at the time was previously held by Aretha Franklin . In May 2017 , Minaj opened the 2017 Billboard Music Awards with a medley performance that was described by Elias Leight of Rolling Stone as " flamboyantly produced " and " dexterous " .	Who previously held the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 entries for a female artist?	Aretha Franklin.
In February 2017 , Minaj was featured on Jason Derulo ' s single " Swalla " which reached the top ten in several countries , including a peak of number six in the UK . The following month , Minaj signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . On March 20 , 2017 , when her singles " No Frauds " , " Changed It " , and " Regret in Your Tears " were released simultaneously , Minaj broke the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 entries for a female artist , which at the time was previously held by Aretha Franklin . In May 2017 , Minaj opened the 2017 Billboard Music Awards with a medley performance that was described by Elias Leight of Rolling Stone as " flamboyantly produced " and " dexterous " .	What was the peak position of "Swalla" in the UK?	Number six.
Minaj ' s first live - action theatrical film The Other Woman was filmed in spring 2013 and premiered on April 25 , 2014 . In late 2014 , Minaj separated from her longtime boyfriend Safaree Samuels , whom she had dated since 2003 . [ b ] According to Minaj , he had proposed to her , but she declined . Several tracks on her forthcoming third album , The Pinkprint , are believed to have been heavily inspired by the end of their relationship . Minaj began dating rapper Meek Mill in early 2015 , shortly after her breakup with Samuels . As she was working on The Pinkprint , she described the album as " a continuation of The Re - Up with a lot more " and said it would focus on her " hip hop roots " . During an MTV interview , she additionally said that it would be " next level " and that she has " much to talk about " .	Did you accept Samuels' proposal?	No, according to me, I declined Samuels' proposal.
In June 2019 , Minaj released a standalone single titled " Megatron " along with an accompanying music video . In the U . S , the song debuted at number twenty . A month later , she provided information on her upcoming fifth studio album , appearing on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon , stating that " there ' s definitely a new album , of course . " She featured on the song " Hot Girl Summer " alongside fellow female rapper Megan Thee Stallion in August 2019 , which reached number eleven in the U . S . Minaj began dating her childhood friend Kenneth Petty ( nicknamed " Zoo " ) in December 2018 , and after less than a year of dating , filed for a marriage license in August 2019 . She announced that they had officially married in October , hyphenating his last name to hers upon marriage .	What information did you provide about your upcoming fifth studio album?	I stated that there is definitely a new album.
" Super Freaky Girl " debuted at number one in the U . S , making the song Minaj ' s third U . S . number one and her first unaccompanied number one . It became the first solo song by a female rapper to debut at number one in the U . S . in 22 years , after fellow rapper Lauryn Hill ' s song " Doo Wop ( That Thing ) " also debuted at number one in 1998 . On August 28 , 2022 , Minaj released a compilation album called Queen Radio : Volume 1 with one new track , " Likkle Miss ( Remix ) " with Skeng . On September 9 , 2022 , Minaj released a remix of " Super Freaky Girl " called " Queen Mix " , which features 5 other female rappers : JT , BIA , Katie Got Bandz , Akbar V , and Maliibu Miitch .	Which other female rapper had achieved a similar feat before you?	Lauryn Hill, with her song "Doo Wop (That Thing)" debuted at number one in 1998.
In July , Minaj announced via Instagram that she was expecting her first child . She gave birth to a son on September 30 , 2020 , whom she refers to publicly as " Papa Bear " . His real name is still unknown . She later collaborated with rappers ASAP Ferg and MadeinTYO on a song called " Move Ya Hips " . Almost a month later , Minaj featured on rapper Ty Dolla Sign ' s track " Expensive " . She continued to appear as a featured artist on several songs in late 2020 , and released " What That Speed Bout ! ? " with producer Mike Will Made It and rapper YoungBoy Never Broke Again on November 6 . On the 10th anniversary of her debut album Pink Friday ( 2010 ) , Minaj announced a six - part docuseries about her , produced by Bron Studios and was originally said to premiere on HBO Max . However , in 2022 , the streaming platform confirmed it dropped the still - unreleased project .	Who did you collaborate with on the song "Move Ya Hips"?	ASAP Ferg and MadeinTYO.
" Super Freaky Girl " debuted at number one in the U . S , making the song Minaj ' s third U . S . number one and her first unaccompanied number one . It became the first solo song by a female rapper to debut at number one in the U . S . in 22 years , after fellow rapper Lauryn Hill ' s song " Doo Wop ( That Thing ) " also debuted at number one in 1998 . On August 28 , 2022 , Minaj released a compilation album called Queen Radio : Volume 1 with one new track , " Likkle Miss ( Remix ) " with Skeng . On September 9 , 2022 , Minaj released a remix of " Super Freaky Girl " called " Queen Mix " , which features 5 other female rappers : JT , BIA , Katie Got Bandz , Akbar V , and Maliibu Miitch .	How does this achievement compare to your other songs?	It is my third U.S. number one and my first unaccompanied number one.
" Pills n Potions " was released as the lead single from The Pinkprint in May 2014 . In July , she appeared as a featured artist on the song " Bang Bang " with singers Jessie J and Ariana Grande , which peaked at number three on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 chart . " Anaconda " was released in August as the second single from the album , peaking at number two , which became her highest - charting single in the U . S . at the time . The music video for " Anaconda " went viral upon release online ; it set a 24 - hour Vevo record , accumulating 19.6   million views on its first day of release , breaking the record previously held by Miley Cyrus for " Wrecking Ball " . On November 9 , 2014 , Minaj hosted the 2014 MTV Europe Music Awards in Glasgow , Scotland . She also won the Best Hip - Hop Award for a second time . The Pinkprint was officially released on December 15 , 2014 , and debuted at number two in the U . S , with first week sales of 244 , 000 equivalent units ( 198 , 000 in pure album sales and 46 , 000 combined album - equivalent units and streams ) . Upon release , critics praised the production and personal lyrics .	What was the peak position of "Bang Bang" on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart for you?	"Bang Bang" peaked at number three on the U.S. Billboard Hot 100 chart for me.
In February 2017 , Minaj was featured on Jason Derulo ' s single " Swalla " which reached the top ten in several countries , including a peak of number six in the UK . The following month , Minaj signed with the major modeling agency , Wilhelmina Models . On March 20 , 2017 , when her singles " No Frauds " , " Changed It " , and " Regret in Your Tears " were released simultaneously , Minaj broke the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 entries for a female artist , which at the time was previously held by Aretha Franklin . In May 2017 , Minaj opened the 2017 Billboard Music Awards with a medley performance that was described by Elias Leight of Rolling Stone as " flamboyantly produced " and " dexterous " .	When did you break the record for the most Billboard Hot 100 entries for a female artist?	On March 20, 2017.
In June 2019 , Minaj released a standalone single titled " Megatron " along with an accompanying music video . In the U . S , the song debuted at number twenty . A month later , she provided information on her upcoming fifth studio album , appearing on The Tonight Show Starring Jimmy Fallon , stating that " there ' s definitely a new album , of course . " She featured on the song " Hot Girl Summer " alongside fellow female rapper Megan Thee Stallion in August 2019 , which reached number eleven in the U . S . Minaj began dating her childhood friend Kenneth Petty ( nicknamed " Zoo " ) in December 2018 , and after less than a year of dating , filed for a marriage license in August 2019 . She announced that they had officially married in October , hyphenating his last name to hers upon marriage .	Where did your song "Megatron" debut at in the U.S.?	It debuted at number twenty in the U.S.
In March 2022 , Minaj fronted the campaign for the " Heaven " Spring 2022 collection by Marc Jacobs . In July 2022 , she collaborated with Rap Snacks and released her own potato chip flavor , " Barbie - Que Honey Truffle " . The following month , Mattel sued Rap Snacks , claiming the company violated the Barbie trademark and had made a " deliberate and calculated " choice to do so . The lawsuit was settled in September after the company changed the snack ' s name to " Bar - B - Quin " . Minaj released a " variety pack " with Rap Snacks in October , and a " Nocho Nachos " nachos flavor in March 2023 , inspired by a lyric on her 2023 single , " Red Ruby Da Sleeze " . Also in October 2022 , the rapper appeared alongside Lil Baby , Kane Brown , Pete Davidson , and Bukayo Saka in a trailer for the video game , Call of Duty : Modern Warfare II .	Who did you collaborate with for the "Heaven" Spring 2022 collection?	I collaborated with Marc Jacobs for the "Heaven" Spring 2022 collection.
After a social media hiatus , Minaj released two singles from her fourth studio album Queen . She released " Chun - Li " and " Barbie Tingz " simultaneously on April 12 , 2018 , with both reaching number ten and number twenty - five in the U . S . respectively . She performed " Chun - Li " on Saturday Night Live and the 2018 BET Awards . While " Chun Li " appears on the tracklist of the album , " Barbie Tingz " is only included on the Target version of the album . On the red carpet of the 2018 Met Gala , she announced the title of the album and the original release date . The second single , " Bed " , featuring Ariana Grande was released on June 14 , 2018 , alongside the album pre - order , reaching number 42 on the Hot 100 . Additionally , Minaj appeared as a featured artist on the song " Fefe " along with Murda Beatz and Tekashi 6ix9ine . It debuted at number four in the U . S , marking Minaj ' s highest debut on the chart at the time , besting the sixth place start of " Bang Bang " in 2014 . It later peaked at number three and was added to Queen in the middle of its first tracking week . The day before the album ' s release , Minaj launched her own Beats 1 radio show , Queen Radio .	On what date was your second single, "Bed" featuring Ariana Grande released?	My second single, "Bed" featuring Ariana Grande, was released on June 14, 2018.
At the beginning of the year , after a social media hiatus , Minaj announced a song collaboration with rapper Lil Baby called " Do We Have a Problem ? " . The track was released on February 4 , along with a music video that featured guest appearances from actors Joseph Sikora and Cory Hardrict . The video also contained a snippet of another Lil Baby collaboration titled " Bussin " , which was officially released a week later , on February 11 . " Do We Have a Problem ? " debuted and peaked at number two on the U . S . Billboard Hot 100 . It became Minaj ' s twentieth top ten entry in the U . S , extending her record as the female rapper with the most U . S . top ten singles . In a promotional Apple Music interview with DJ Zane Lowe , Minaj said her forthcoming fifth studio album is " coming very soon " . She described it as " fun , gutta , and back to the basics " . Her other ventures also include fronting the campaign for the " Heaven " Spring 2022 collection by Marc Jacobs , which launched on March 3 .	What is the name of the song collaboration between you and rapper Lil Baby?	The song collaboration is called "Do We Have a Problem?".
