After becoming wealthy , Escobar created or bought numerous residences and safe houses , with the Hacienda N á poles gaining significant notoriety . The luxury house contained a colonial house , a sculpture park , and a complete zoo with animals from various continents , including elephants , exotic birds , giraffes , and hippopotamuses . Escobar had also planned to construct a Greek - style citadel near it , and though construction of the citadel was started , it was never finished .	Name some animals found in the zoo at Hacienda Nápoles.	The zoo at Hacienda Nápoles had elephants, exotic birds, giraffes, and hippopotamuses.
After becoming wealthy , Escobar created or bought numerous residences and safe houses , with the Hacienda N á poles gaining significant notoriety . The luxury house contained a colonial house , a sculpture park , and a complete zoo with animals from various continents , including elephants , exotic birds , giraffes , and hippopotamuses . Escobar had also planned to construct a Greek - style citadel near it , and though construction of the citadel was started , it was never finished .	Which of your residences gained significant notoriety?	My Hacienda Nápoles gained significant notoriety.
After escaping first to Mozambique , then to Brazil , the family settled in Argentina . Living under her assumed name , Henao became a successful real estate entrepreneur until one of her business associates discovered her true identity , and Henao absconded with her earnings . Local media were alerted , and after being exposed as Escobar ' s widow , Henao was imprisoned for eighteen months while her finances were investigated . Ultimately , authorities were unable to link her funds to illegal activity , and she was released . According to her son , Henao fell in love with Escobar " because of his naughty smile [ and ] the way he looked at [ her ] . [ He ] was affectionate and sweet . A great lover . I fell in love with his desire to help people and his compassion for their hardship . We [ would ] drive to places where he dreamed of building schools for the poor . From [ the ] beginning , he was always a gentleman . " Mar í a Victoria Henao de Escobar , with her new identity as Mar í a Isabel Santos Caballero , continues to live in Buenos Aires with her son and daughter . On 5 June 2018 , the Argentine federal judge Nestor Barral accused her and her son , Sebasti á n Marroqu í n Santos , of money laundering with two Colombian drug traffickers . The judge ordered the seizing of assets for about $ 1m each .	What was the amount of assets that were ordered to be seized from you and your son?	The judge ordered the seizing of assets for about $1m each from me and my son.
Escobar also owned a home in the US under his own name : a 6 , 500 square foot ( 604   m2 ) , pink , waterfront mansion situated at 5860 North Bay Road in Miami Beach , Florida . The four - bedroom estate , built in 1948 on Biscayne Bay , was seized by the US federal government in the 1980s . Later , the dilapidated property was owned by Christian de Berdouare , proprietor of the Chicken Kitchen fast - food chain , who had bought it in 2014 . De Berdouare would later hire a documentary film crew and professional treasure hunters to search the edifice before and after demolition , for anything related to Escobar or his cartel . They would find unusual holes in floors and walls , as well as a safe that was stolen from its hole in the marble flooring before it could be properly examined .	Where was your home in the US located?	5860 North Bay Road in Miami Beach, Florida.
After escaping first to Mozambique , then to Brazil , the family settled in Argentina . Living under her assumed name , Henao became a successful real estate entrepreneur until one of her business associates discovered her true identity , and Henao absconded with her earnings . Local media were alerted , and after being exposed as Escobar ' s widow , Henao was imprisoned for eighteen months while her finances were investigated . Ultimately , authorities were unable to link her funds to illegal activity , and she was released . According to her son , Henao fell in love with Escobar " because of his naughty smile [ and ] the way he looked at [ her ] . [ He ] was affectionate and sweet . A great lover . I fell in love with his desire to help people and his compassion for their hardship . We [ would ] drive to places where he dreamed of building schools for the poor . From [ the ] beginning , he was always a gentleman . " Mar í a Victoria Henao de Escobar , with her new identity as Mar í a Isabel Santos Caballero , continues to live in Buenos Aires with her son and daughter . On 5 June 2018 , the Argentine federal judge Nestor Barral accused her and her son , Sebasti á n Marroqu í n Santos , of money laundering with two Colombian drug traffickers . The judge ordered the seizing of assets for about $ 1m each .	What were you accused of in 2018?	I was accused of money laundering with two Colombian drug traffickers in 2018.
Escobar kept four hippos in a private menagerie at Hacienda N á poles . They were deemed too difficult to seize and move after Escobar ' s death , and hence left on the untended estate . By 2007 , the animals had multiplied to 16 and had taken to roaming the area for food in the nearby Magdalena River . In 2009 , two adults and one calf escaped the herd and , after attacking humans and killing cattle , one of the adults ( called " Pepe " ) was killed by hunters under authorization of the local authorities . As of early 2014 , 40 hippos have been reported to exist in Puerto Triunfo , Antioquia Department , from the original four belonging to Escobar . Without management the population size is likely to more than double in the next decade .	How many hippos are currently reported to exist in Puerto Triunfo, Antioquia Department?	As of early 2014, there are 40 hippos reported to exist in Puerto Triunfo, Antioquia Department.
Escobar kept four hippos in a private menagerie at Hacienda N á poles . They were deemed too difficult to seize and move after Escobar ' s death , and hence left on the untended estate . By 2007 , the animals had multiplied to 16 and had taken to roaming the area for food in the nearby Magdalena River . In 2009 , two adults and one calf escaped the herd and , after attacking humans and killing cattle , one of the adults ( called " Pepe " ) was killed by hunters under authorization of the local authorities . As of early 2014 , 40 hippos have been reported to exist in Puerto Triunfo , Antioquia Department , from the original four belonging to Escobar . Without management the population size is likely to more than double in the next decade .	How many hippos were there in 2007 and where did they roam for food?	In 2007, there were 16 hippos, and they roamed the area for food in the nearby Magdalena River.
Escobar faced threats from the Colombian police , the U . S . government and his rival , the Cali Cartel . On 2 December 1993 , Escobar was found in a house in a middle - class residential area of Medellin by Colombian special forces using technology provided by the United States . Police tried to arrest Escobar , but the situation quickly escalated to an exchange of gun fire . Escobar was shot and killed while trying to escape from the roof . He was hit by bullets in the torso and feet , and a bullet which struck him in the ear , killing him . This sparked debate about whether he killed himself or whether he was shot dead .	When and where were you found by Colombian special forces?	I was found on 2 December 1993 in a house located in a middle-class residential area of Medellin.
Escobar ' s sister , Luz Maria Escobar , also made multiple gestures in attempts to make amends for the drug baron ' s crimes . These include making public statements in the press , leaving letters on the graves of his victims and on the 20th anniversary of his death organizing a public memorial for his victims . Escobar ' s body was exhumed on 28 October 2006 at the request of some of his relatives in order to take a DNA sample to confirm the alleged paternity of an illegitimate child and remove all doubt about the identity of the body that had been buried next to his parents for 12 years . A video of the exhumation was broadcast by RCN , angering Marroqu í n , who accused his uncle , Roberto Escobar , and cousin , Nicolas Escobar , of being " merchants of death " by allowing the video to air .	What gestures did you make to make amends for my crimes?	I made multiple gestures, including making public statements in the press, leaving letters on the graves of my victims, and organizing a public memorial for my victims on the 20th anniversary of my death.
Among Escobar ' s biographers , only Vallejo has given a detailed explanation of his role in the 1985 Palace of Justice siege . The journalist stated that Escobar had financed the operation , which was committed by M - 19 ; but she blamed the army for the killings of more than 100 people , including 11 Supreme Court magistrates , M - 19 members , and employees of the cafeteria . Her statements prompted the reopening of the case in 2008 ; Vallejo was asked to testify , and many of the events she had described in her book and testimonial were confirmed by Colombia ' s Commission of Truth . These events led to further investigation into the siege that resulted with the conviction of a high - ranking former colonel and a former general , later sentenced to 30 and 35 years in prison , respectively , for the forced disappearance of the detained after the siege . Vallejo would subsequently testify in Gal á n ' s assassination . In her book , Amando a Pablo , odiando a Escobar ( Loving Pablo , Hating Escobar ) , she had accused several politicians , including Colombian presidents Alfonso L ó pez Michelsen , Ernesto Samper and Á lvaro Uribe of having links to drug cartels .	Who is the journalist that you had a detailed explanation from about your role in the Palace of Justice siege?	Vallejo
Escobar ' s sister , Luz Maria Escobar , also made multiple gestures in attempts to make amends for the drug baron ' s crimes . These include making public statements in the press , leaving letters on the graves of his victims and on the 20th anniversary of his death organizing a public memorial for his victims . Escobar ' s body was exhumed on 28 October 2006 at the request of some of his relatives in order to take a DNA sample to confirm the alleged paternity of an illegitimate child and remove all doubt about the identity of the body that had been buried next to his parents for 12 years . A video of the exhumation was broadcast by RCN , angering Marroqu í n , who accused his uncle , Roberto Escobar , and cousin , Nicolas Escobar , of being " merchants of death " by allowing the video to air .	Why was your body exhumed?	My body was exhumed at the request of some of my relatives in order to take a DNA sample to confirm the alleged paternity of an illegitimate child and remove all doubt about the identity of the body that had been buried next to my parents for 12 years.
Escobar kept four hippos in a private menagerie at Hacienda N á poles . They were deemed too difficult to seize and move after Escobar ' s death , and hence left on the untended estate . By 2007 , the animals had multiplied to 16 and had taken to roaming the area for food in the nearby Magdalena River . In 2009 , two adults and one calf escaped the herd and , after attacking humans and killing cattle , one of the adults ( called " Pepe " ) was killed by hunters under authorization of the local authorities . As of early 2014 , 40 hippos have been reported to exist in Puerto Triunfo , Antioquia Department , from the original four belonging to Escobar . Without management the population size is likely to more than double in the next decade .	What happened to one of your adult hippos in 2009?	One of my adult hippos, called "Pepe," was killed by hunters under authorization of the local authorities after it attacked humans and killed cattle.
Among Escobar ' s biographers , only Vallejo has given a detailed explanation of his role in the 1985 Palace of Justice siege . The journalist stated that Escobar had financed the operation , which was committed by M - 19 ; but she blamed the army for the killings of more than 100 people , including 11 Supreme Court magistrates , M - 19 members , and employees of the cafeteria . Her statements prompted the reopening of the case in 2008 ; Vallejo was asked to testify , and many of the events she had described in her book and testimonial were confirmed by Colombia ' s Commission of Truth . These events led to further investigation into the siege that resulted with the conviction of a high - ranking former colonel and a former general , later sentenced to 30 and 35 years in prison , respectively , for the forced disappearance of the detained after the siege . Vallejo would subsequently testify in Gal á n ' s assassination . In her book , Amando a Pablo , odiando a Escobar ( Loving Pablo , Hating Escobar ) , she had accused several politicians , including Colombian presidents Alfonso L ó pez Michelsen , Ernesto Samper and Á lvaro Uribe of having links to drug cartels .	What prompted the reopening of the Palace of Justice siege case in 2008?	Vallejo's statements
Escobar also owned a home in the US under his own name : a 6 , 500 square foot ( 604   m2 ) , pink , waterfront mansion situated at 5860 North Bay Road in Miami Beach , Florida . The four - bedroom estate , built in 1948 on Biscayne Bay , was seized by the US federal government in the 1980s . Later , the dilapidated property was owned by Christian de Berdouare , proprietor of the Chicken Kitchen fast - food chain , who had bought it in 2014 . De Berdouare would later hire a documentary film crew and professional treasure hunters to search the edifice before and after demolition , for anything related to Escobar or his cartel . They would find unusual holes in floors and walls , as well as a safe that was stolen from its hole in the marble flooring before it could be properly examined .	Who currently owns the dilapidated property?	Christian de Berdouare, proprietor of the Chicken Kitchen fast-food chain.
In Congress , the new Minister of Justice , Rodrigo Lara - Bonilla , had become Escobar ' s opponent , accusing Escobar of criminal activity from the very first day of Congress . Escobar ' s arrest in 1976 was investigated by Lara - Bonilla ' s subordinates . A few months later , Liberal leader Luis Carlos Gal á n expelled Escobar from the party . Although Escobar fought back , he announced his retirement from politics in January 1984 . Three months later , Lara - Bonilla was murdered .	Who accused you of criminal activity from the very first day of Congress?	Rodrigo Lara-Bonilla.
After becoming wealthy , Escobar created or bought numerous residences and safe houses , with the Hacienda N á poles gaining significant notoriety . The luxury house contained a colonial house , a sculpture park , and a complete zoo with animals from various continents , including elephants , exotic birds , giraffes , and hippopotamuses . Escobar had also planned to construct a Greek - style citadel near it , and though construction of the citadel was started , it was never finished .	What did your luxury house at Hacienda Nápoles contain?	My luxury house contained a colonial house, a sculpture park, and a complete zoo with animals from various continents.
After the assassination of Luis Carlos Gal á n , the administration of C é sar Gaviria moved against Escobar and the drug cartels . Eventually , the government negotiated with Escobar and convinced him to surrender and cease all criminal activity in exchange for a reduced sentence and preferential treatment during his captivity . Declaring an end to a series of previous violent acts meant to pressure authorities and public opinion , Escobar surrendered to Colombian authorities in 1991 . Before he gave himself up , the extradition of Colombian citizens to the United States had been prohibited by the newly approved Colombian Constitution of 1991 . This act was controversial , as it was suspected that Escobar and other drug lords had influenced members of the Constituent Assembly in passing the law . Escobar was confined in what became his own luxurious private prison , La Catedral , which featured a football pitch , a giant dollhouse , a bar , a Jacuzzi , and a waterfall . Accounts of Escobar ' s continued criminal activities while in prison began to surface in the media , which prompted the government to attempt to move him to a more conventional jail on 22 July 1992 . Escobar ' s influence allowed him to discover the plan in advance and make a successful escape , spending the remainder of his life evading the police .	What prohibited your extradition to the United States?	The newly approved Colombian Constitution of 1991 prohibited my extradition to the United States.
After becoming wealthy , Escobar created or bought numerous residences and safe houses , with the Hacienda N á poles gaining significant notoriety . The luxury house contained a colonial house , a sculpture park , and a complete zoo with animals from various continents , including elephants , exotic birds , giraffes , and hippopotamuses . Escobar had also planned to construct a Greek - style citadel near it , and though construction of the citadel was started , it was never finished .	What did you create or buy with your wealth?	I created or bought numerous residences and safe houses.
Escobar still held a grudge against Luis Carlos Gal á n , who kicked him out of politics , and was assassinated on 18 August 1989 , at Escobar ' s orders . Escobar then planted a bomb on Avianca Flight 203 in an attempt to assassinate Gal á n ' s successor , C é sar Gaviria Trujillo , who missed the plane and survived . All 107 people were killed in the blast . Because two Americans were also killed in the bombing , the U . S . government began to intervene directly .	Whom did you attempt to assassinate by planting a bomb?	I attempted to assassinate César Gaviria Trujillo.
Escobar ' s sister , Luz Maria Escobar , also made multiple gestures in attempts to make amends for the drug baron ' s crimes . These include making public statements in the press , leaving letters on the graves of his victims and on the 20th anniversary of his death organizing a public memorial for his victims . Escobar ' s body was exhumed on 28 October 2006 at the request of some of his relatives in order to take a DNA sample to confirm the alleged paternity of an illegitimate child and remove all doubt about the identity of the body that had been buried next to his parents for 12 years . A video of the exhumation was broadcast by RCN , angering Marroqu í n , who accused his uncle , Roberto Escobar , and cousin , Nicolas Escobar , of being " merchants of death " by allowing the video to air .	Who did you accuse of being "merchants of death"?	I accused my uncle, Roberto Escobar, and cousin, Nicolas Escobar, of being "merchants of death" for allowing the video of the exhumation to air.
Escobar ' s sister , Luz Maria Escobar , also made multiple gestures in attempts to make amends for the drug baron ' s crimes . These include making public statements in the press , leaving letters on the graves of his victims and on the 20th anniversary of his death organizing a public memorial for his victims . Escobar ' s body was exhumed on 28 October 2006 at the request of some of his relatives in order to take a DNA sample to confirm the alleged paternity of an illegitimate child and remove all doubt about the identity of the body that had been buried next to his parents for 12 years . A video of the exhumation was broadcast by RCN , angering Marroqu í n , who accused his uncle , Roberto Escobar , and cousin , Nicolas Escobar , of being " merchants of death " by allowing the video to air .	Which media company broadcasted the video of your exhumation?	The video of my exhumation was broadcasted by RCN.
Escobar also owned a home in the US under his own name : a 6 , 500 square foot ( 604   m2 ) , pink , waterfront mansion situated at 5860 North Bay Road in Miami Beach , Florida . The four - bedroom estate , built in 1948 on Biscayne Bay , was seized by the US federal government in the 1980s . Later , the dilapidated property was owned by Christian de Berdouare , proprietor of the Chicken Kitchen fast - food chain , who had bought it in 2014 . De Berdouare would later hire a documentary film crew and professional treasure hunters to search the edifice before and after demolition , for anything related to Escobar or his cartel . They would find unusual holes in floors and walls , as well as a safe that was stolen from its hole in the marble flooring before it could be properly examined .	Who seized your home in the 1980s?	The US federal government.
After becoming wealthy , Escobar created or bought numerous residences and safe houses , with the Hacienda N á poles gaining significant notoriety . The luxury house contained a colonial house , a sculpture park , and a complete zoo with animals from various continents , including elephants , exotic birds , giraffes , and hippopotamuses . Escobar had also planned to construct a Greek - style citadel near it , and though construction of the citadel was started , it was never finished .	What did you originally plan to construct near the Hacienda Nápoles?	I originally planned to construct a Greek-style citadel near the Hacienda Nápoles.
Among Escobar ' s biographers , only Vallejo has given a detailed explanation of his role in the 1985 Palace of Justice siege . The journalist stated that Escobar had financed the operation , which was committed by M - 19 ; but she blamed the army for the killings of more than 100 people , including 11 Supreme Court magistrates , M - 19 members , and employees of the cafeteria . Her statements prompted the reopening of the case in 2008 ; Vallejo was asked to testify , and many of the events she had described in her book and testimonial were confirmed by Colombia ' s Commission of Truth . These events led to further investigation into the siege that resulted with the conviction of a high - ranking former colonel and a former general , later sentenced to 30 and 35 years in prison , respectively , for the forced disappearance of the detained after the siege . Vallejo would subsequently testify in Gal á n ' s assassination . In her book , Amando a Pablo , odiando a Escobar ( Loving Pablo , Hating Escobar ) , she had accused several politicians , including Colombian presidents Alfonso L ó pez Michelsen , Ernesto Samper and Á lvaro Uribe of having links to drug cartels .	Who confirmed many of the events described by you in your book and testimonial?	Colombia's Commission of Truth
In Congress , the new Minister of Justice , Rodrigo Lara - Bonilla , had become Escobar ' s opponent , accusing Escobar of criminal activity from the very first day of Congress . Escobar ' s arrest in 1976 was investigated by Lara - Bonilla ' s subordinates . A few months later , Liberal leader Luis Carlos Gal á n expelled Escobar from the party . Although Escobar fought back , he announced his retirement from politics in January 1984 . Three months later , Lara - Bonilla was murdered .	When was Rodrigo Lara-Bonilla murdered?	Three months later.
