In February 1976 , a picture of Margaret and Llewellyn in swimsuits on Mustique was published on the front page of a tabloid , the News of the World . The press portrayed Margaret as a predatory older woman and Llewellyn as her toyboy lover . On 19 March 1976 , the Snowdons publicly acknowledged that their marriage had irretrievably broken down and had decided to separate . Some politicians suggested removing Margaret from the civil list . Labour MPs denounced her as " a royal parasite " and a " floosie " . On 24 May 1978 , the decree nisi for their divorce was granted . In the same month , Margaret was taken ill , and diagnosed as suffering from gastroenteritis and alcoholic hepatitis , although Warwick denied that she was ever an alcoholic . On 11 July 1978 , the Snowdons ' divorce was finalized . It was the first divorce of a senior member of the British royal family since Princess Victoria Melita of Edinburgh ' s in 1901 . On 15 December 1978 , Snowdon married Lucy Lindsay - Hogg , but he and Margaret remained close friends .	Which newspaper published the picture?	The News of the World.
The press avidly discussed " the world ' s most eligible bachelor - girl " and her alleged romances with more than 30 bachelors , including David Mountbatten and Michael I of Romania , Dominic Elliot , Colin Tennant ( later Baron Glenconner ) , Prince Henry of Hesse - Kassel , and future Prime Minister of Canada John Turner . Most had titles and almost all were wealthy . Blandford and Lord Dalkeith , both wealthy sons of dukes , were the likeliest potential husbands . Her family reportedly hoped that Margaret would marry Dalkeith , but , unlike him , the princess was uninterested in the outdoors . Billy Wallace , sole heir to a £ 2.8 million ( £ 78 million today ) fortune and an old friend , was reportedly Margaret ' s favourite date during the mid - 1950s . During her 21st birthday party at Balmoral in August 1951 , the press was disappointed to only photograph Margaret with Townsend , always in the background of pictures of royal appearances , and to her parents a safe companion as Elizabeth ' s duties increased . The following month her father underwent surgery for lung cancer , and Margaret was appointed one of the Counsellors of State who undertook the King ' s official duties while he was incapacitated . Her father died five months later , on 6 February 1952 , and her sister became Queen .	Who was your favorite date during the mid-1950s?	My favorite date during the mid-1950s was reportedly Billy Wallace.
By the early 1970s , the Snowdons had drifted apart . In September 1973 , Colin Tennant introduced Margaret to Roddy Llewellyn . Llewellyn was 17 years her junior . In 1974 , she invited him as a guest to Les Jolies Eaux , the holiday home she had built on Mustique . It was the first of several visits . Margaret described their relationship as " a loving friendship " . Once , when Llewellyn left on an impulsive trip to Turkey , Margaret became emotionally distraught and took an overdose of sleeping tablets . " I was so exhausted because of everything " , she later said , " that all I wanted to do was sleep " . As she recovered , her ladies - in - waiting kept Lord Snowdon away from her , afraid that seeing him would distress her further .	What happened when Roddy Llewellyn impulsively went on a trip to Turkey?	I became emotionally distraught and took an overdose of sleeping tablets.
The press avidly discussed " the world ' s most eligible bachelor - girl " and her alleged romances with more than 30 bachelors , including David Mountbatten and Michael I of Romania , Dominic Elliot , Colin Tennant ( later Baron Glenconner ) , Prince Henry of Hesse - Kassel , and future Prime Minister of Canada John Turner . Most had titles and almost all were wealthy . Blandford and Lord Dalkeith , both wealthy sons of dukes , were the likeliest potential husbands . Her family reportedly hoped that Margaret would marry Dalkeith , but , unlike him , the princess was uninterested in the outdoors . Billy Wallace , sole heir to a £ 2.8 million ( £ 78 million today ) fortune and an old friend , was reportedly Margaret ' s favourite date during the mid - 1950s . During her 21st birthday party at Balmoral in August 1951 , the press was disappointed to only photograph Margaret with Townsend , always in the background of pictures of royal appearances , and to her parents a safe companion as Elizabeth ' s duties increased . The following month her father underwent surgery for lung cancer , and Margaret was appointed one of the Counsellors of State who undertook the King ' s official duties while he was incapacitated . Her father died five months later , on 6 February 1952 , and her sister became Queen .	Who were some of your alleged romances as the "world's most eligible bachelor - girl"?	David Mountbatten, Michael I of Romania, Dominic Elliot, Colin Tennant, Prince Henry of Hesse-Kassel, and John Turner.
The press described Margaret ' s 25th birthday , 21 August 1955 , as the day she was free to marry , and expected an announcement about Townsend soon . Three hundred journalists waited outside Balmoral , four times as many as those later following Diana , Princess of Wales . " COME ON MARGARET ! " , the Daily Mirror ' s front page said two days earlier , asking her to " please make up your mind ! " . On 12 October Townsend returned from Brussels as Margaret ' s suitor . The royal family devised a system in which it did not host Townsend , but he and Margaret formally courted each other at dinner parties hosted by friends such as Mark Bonham Carter . A Gallup poll found that 59% of Britons approved of their marrying , with 17% opposed . Women in the East End of London shouted " Go on , Marg , do what you want " at the princess . Although the couple was never seen together in public during this time , the general consensus was that they would marry . Crowds waited outside Clarence House , and a global audience read daily updates and rumours on newspaper front pages .	Which newspaper asked you to make up your mind two days earlier?	The Daily Mirror asked me to make up my mind two days earlier.
" Thoroughly drained , thoroughly demoralized " , Margaret later said , she and Townsend wrote the statement together . She refused when Oliver Dawnay , the Queen Mother ' s private secretary , asked to remove the word " devotion " . The written statement , signed " Margaret " , was the first official confirmation of the relationship . Some Britons were disbelieving or angry while others , including clergy , were proud of the princess for choosing duty and faith ; newspapers were evenly divided on the decision . Mass - Observation recorded indifference or criticism of the couple among men , but great interest among women , whether for or against . Kenneth Tynan , John Minton , Ronald Searle , and others signed an open letter from " the younger generation " . Published in the Daily Express on 4 November , the letter said that the end of the relationship had exposed The Establishment and " our national hypocrisy " .	Why did you refuse to remove the word "devotion"?	I refused to remove the word "devotion" when Oliver Dawnay, the Queen Mother's private secretary, asked because I wanted the statement to accurately reflect my feelings.
By the early 1970s , the Snowdons had drifted apart . In September 1973 , Colin Tennant introduced Margaret to Roddy Llewellyn . Llewellyn was 17 years her junior . In 1974 , she invited him as a guest to Les Jolies Eaux , the holiday home she had built on Mustique . It was the first of several visits . Margaret described their relationship as " a loving friendship " . Once , when Llewellyn left on an impulsive trip to Turkey , Margaret became emotionally distraught and took an overdose of sleeping tablets . " I was so exhausted because of everything " , she later said , " that all I wanted to do was sleep " . As she recovered , her ladies - in - waiting kept Lord Snowdon away from her , afraid that seeing him would distress her further .	Who introduced you to Roddy Llewellyn?	Colin Tennant introduced me to Roddy Llewellyn.
The press avidly discussed " the world ' s most eligible bachelor - girl " and her alleged romances with more than 30 bachelors , including David Mountbatten and Michael I of Romania , Dominic Elliot , Colin Tennant ( later Baron Glenconner ) , Prince Henry of Hesse - Kassel , and future Prime Minister of Canada John Turner . Most had titles and almost all were wealthy . Blandford and Lord Dalkeith , both wealthy sons of dukes , were the likeliest potential husbands . Her family reportedly hoped that Margaret would marry Dalkeith , but , unlike him , the princess was uninterested in the outdoors . Billy Wallace , sole heir to a £ 2.8 million ( £ 78 million today ) fortune and an old friend , was reportedly Margaret ' s favourite date during the mid - 1950s . During her 21st birthday party at Balmoral in August 1951 , the press was disappointed to only photograph Margaret with Townsend , always in the background of pictures of royal appearances , and to her parents a safe companion as Elizabeth ' s duties increased . The following month her father underwent surgery for lung cancer , and Margaret was appointed one of the Counsellors of State who undertook the King ' s official duties while he was incapacitated . Her father died five months later , on 6 February 1952 , and her sister became Queen .	When did your father pass away?	My father passed away on 6 February 1952.
In February 1976 , a picture of Margaret and Llewellyn in swimsuits on Mustique was published on the front page of a tabloid , the News of the World . The press portrayed Margaret as a predatory older woman and Llewellyn as her toyboy lover . On 19 March 1976 , the Snowdons publicly acknowledged that their marriage had irretrievably broken down and had decided to separate . Some politicians suggested removing Margaret from the civil list . Labour MPs denounced her as " a royal parasite " and a " floosie " . On 24 May 1978 , the decree nisi for their divorce was granted . In the same month , Margaret was taken ill , and diagnosed as suffering from gastroenteritis and alcoholic hepatitis , although Warwick denied that she was ever an alcoholic . On 11 July 1978 , the Snowdons ' divorce was finalized . It was the first divorce of a senior member of the British royal family since Princess Victoria Melita of Edinburgh ' s in 1901 . On 15 December 1978 , Snowdon married Lucy Lindsay - Hogg , but he and Margaret remained close friends .	How did the press portray you and Llewellyn?	I was portrayed as a predatory older woman and Llewellyn as my toyboy lover.
Favoured haunts of the Margaret Set were The 400 Club , the Caf é de Paris and the Mirabelle restaurant . Anticipation of an engagement or romance between Margaret and a member of her set were often reported . In 1948 , international news grew that her engagement to " Sunny " , the Marquess of Blandford , would be announced on her 18th birthday . Similar speculation moved to the Hon . Peter Ward , then Billy Wallace and others . The set also mixed with celebrities , including Danny Kaye , whom she met after watching him perform at the London Palladium in February 1948 . He was soon accepted by the royal social circle . In July 1949 , at a fancy dress ball at the American Ambassador ' s residence , Margaret performed the can - can on stage , accompanied by Douglas and ten other costumed girls . A press commotion ensued , with Kaye denying he had taught Margaret the dance . Press interest could be intrusive . During a private visit to Paris in 1951 , Margaret and Prince Nicholas of Yugoslavia were followed into a nightclub by a paparazzo who took photographs of them until British detectives physically removed him from the club .	Who was the celebrity that you met and was accepted by the royal social circle?	Danny Kaye.
Favoured haunts of the Margaret Set were The 400 Club , the Caf é de Paris and the Mirabelle restaurant . Anticipation of an engagement or romance between Margaret and a member of her set were often reported . In 1948 , international news grew that her engagement to " Sunny " , the Marquess of Blandford , would be announced on her 18th birthday . Similar speculation moved to the Hon . Peter Ward , then Billy Wallace and others . The set also mixed with celebrities , including Danny Kaye , whom she met after watching him perform at the London Palladium in February 1948 . He was soon accepted by the royal social circle . In July 1949 , at a fancy dress ball at the American Ambassador ' s residence , Margaret performed the can - can on stage , accompanied by Douglas and ten other costumed girls . A press commotion ensued , with Kaye denying he had taught Margaret the dance . Press interest could be intrusive . During a private visit to Paris in 1951 , Margaret and Prince Nicholas of Yugoslavia were followed into a nightclub by a paparazzo who took photographs of them until British detectives physically removed him from the club .	Who were some of the speculated romantic interests for you?	The Marquess of Blandford, the Hon. Peter Ward, Billy Wallace, and others.
Reportedly , Margaret had her first extramarital affair in 1966 , with her daughter ' s godfather Anthony Barton , a Bordeaux wine producer . A year later she had a one - month liaison with Robin Douglas - Home , a nephew of former British Prime Minister Alec Douglas - Home . Margaret claimed that her relationship with Douglas - Home was platonic , but her letters to him ( which were later sold ) were intimate . Douglas - Home , who suffered from depression , died by suicide 18 months after the split with Margaret . Claims that she was romantically involved with musician Mick Jagger , actor Peter Sellers , and Australian cricketer Keith Miller are unproven . According to biographer Charlotte Breese , entertainer Leslie Hutchinson had a " brief liaison " with Margaret in 1955 . A 2009 biography of actor David Niven included assertions , based on information from Niven ' s widow and a good friend of Niven ' s , that he had had an affair with the princess , who was 20 years his junior . In 1975 , the Princess was listed among women with whom actor Warren Beatty had had romantic relationships . John Bindon , an actor from Fulham , who had spent time in prison , sold his story to the Daily Mirror , boasting of a close relationship with Margaret .	How did you describe your relationship with Douglas-Home?	I claimed that my relationship with Douglas-Home was platonic.
In 1952 , although Margaret attended parties and debutante balls with friends such as Douglas and Mark Bonham Carter , the set were seen infrequently together . They regrouped in time for Coronation season social functions . In May 1953 , Margaret met singer Eddie Fisher when he performed at the Red , White and Blue Ball . She asked him to her table and he was " invited to all sorts of parties " . Margaret fell out with him in 1957 , but years later , Fisher still claimed the night he was introduced to her was the greatest thrill of his lifetime . In June 1954 , the Set performed the Edgar Wallace play The Frog at the Scala Theatre . It was organized by Margaret ' s by now best girlfriend Judy Montagu with Margaret as Assistant Director . It drew praise for raising £ 10 , 500 for charity , but criticism for incompetent performances . By the mid 1950s , although still seen at fashionable nightspots and theatre premieres , the set was depleted by its members getting married . As she reached her late twenties unmarried , the press increasingly turned from predicting whom she might marry to suspecting she would remain a spinster .	What play did the Set perform in June 1954?	The Set performed the Edgar Wallace play The Frog at the Scala Theatre in June 1954.
Reportedly , Margaret had her first extramarital affair in 1966 , with her daughter ' s godfather Anthony Barton , a Bordeaux wine producer . A year later she had a one - month liaison with Robin Douglas - Home , a nephew of former British Prime Minister Alec Douglas - Home . Margaret claimed that her relationship with Douglas - Home was platonic , but her letters to him ( which were later sold ) were intimate . Douglas - Home , who suffered from depression , died by suicide 18 months after the split with Margaret . Claims that she was romantically involved with musician Mick Jagger , actor Peter Sellers , and Australian cricketer Keith Miller are unproven . According to biographer Charlotte Breese , entertainer Leslie Hutchinson had a " brief liaison " with Margaret in 1955 . A 2009 biography of actor David Niven included assertions , based on information from Niven ' s widow and a good friend of Niven ' s , that he had had an affair with the princess , who was 20 years his junior . In 1975 , the Princess was listed among women with whom actor Warren Beatty had had romantic relationships . John Bindon , an actor from Fulham , who had spent time in prison , sold his story to the Daily Mirror , boasting of a close relationship with Margaret .	Were you listed among women with whom actor Warren Beatty had romantic relationships in 1975?	In 1975, I was listed among the women with whom actor Warren Beatty had romantic relationships.
During her lifetime , Princess Margaret was considered a fashion icon . Her fashion earned the nickname ' The Margaret Look ' . The princess , dubbed a ' royal rebel ' styled herself in contrast to her sister ' s prim and timeless style , adopting trendy mod accessories , such as brightly coloured headscarves and glamorous sunglasses . Margaret developed a close relationship with atelier Christian Dior , wearing his designs throughout her life and becoming one of his most prominent customers . In 1950 , he designed a cream gown worn for her 21st birthday , which has been cited as an iconic part of fashion history . Throughout the decade , the princess was known for wearing floral - print dresses , bold - hued ballgowns and luxurious fabrics , accessorising with diamonds , pearls , and fur stoles . British Vogue wrote that Margaret ' s style ' hit her stride ' in the mid - 60s , where she was photographed alongside celebrities like The Beatles , Frank Sinatra and Sophia Loren . Princess Margaret was also known for her " magnificent " hats and headdresses , including a canary feather hat worn on a 1962 Jamaica visit and a peacock feather pillbox hat to the 1973 Royal Ascot . Marie Claire stated that the princess " refused to compromise " on her style later in life , continuing with trends of big sleeves and strapless evening gowns .	What nickname did my fashion earn?	The Margaret Look
Favoured haunts of the Margaret Set were The 400 Club , the Caf é de Paris and the Mirabelle restaurant . Anticipation of an engagement or romance between Margaret and a member of her set were often reported . In 1948 , international news grew that her engagement to " Sunny " , the Marquess of Blandford , would be announced on her 18th birthday . Similar speculation moved to the Hon . Peter Ward , then Billy Wallace and others . The set also mixed with celebrities , including Danny Kaye , whom she met after watching him perform at the London Palladium in February 1948 . He was soon accepted by the royal social circle . In July 1949 , at a fancy dress ball at the American Ambassador ' s residence , Margaret performed the can - can on stage , accompanied by Douglas and ten other costumed girls . A press commotion ensued , with Kaye denying he had taught Margaret the dance . Press interest could be intrusive . During a private visit to Paris in 1951 , Margaret and Prince Nicholas of Yugoslavia were followed into a nightclub by a paparazzo who took photographs of them until British detectives physically removed him from the club .	What happened during your and Prince Nicholas of Yugoslavia's private visit to Paris in 1951?	We were followed into a nightclub by a paparazzo who took photographs of us until British detectives physically removed him from the club.
In 1952 , although Margaret attended parties and debutante balls with friends such as Douglas and Mark Bonham Carter , the set were seen infrequently together . They regrouped in time for Coronation season social functions . In May 1953 , Margaret met singer Eddie Fisher when he performed at the Red , White and Blue Ball . She asked him to her table and he was " invited to all sorts of parties " . Margaret fell out with him in 1957 , but years later , Fisher still claimed the night he was introduced to her was the greatest thrill of his lifetime . In June 1954 , the Set performed the Edgar Wallace play The Frog at the Scala Theatre . It was organized by Margaret ' s by now best girlfriend Judy Montagu with Margaret as Assistant Director . It drew praise for raising £ 10 , 500 for charity , but criticism for incompetent performances . By the mid 1950s , although still seen at fashionable nightspots and theatre premieres , the set was depleted by its members getting married . As she reached her late twenties unmarried , the press increasingly turned from predicting whom she might marry to suspecting she would remain a spinster .	Who did you attend parties and debutante balls with in 1952?	I attended parties and debutante balls with friends such as Douglas and Mark Bonham Carter in 1952.
" Thoroughly drained , thoroughly demoralized " , Margaret later said , she and Townsend wrote the statement together . She refused when Oliver Dawnay , the Queen Mother ' s private secretary , asked to remove the word " devotion " . The written statement , signed " Margaret " , was the first official confirmation of the relationship . Some Britons were disbelieving or angry while others , including clergy , were proud of the princess for choosing duty and faith ; newspapers were evenly divided on the decision . Mass - Observation recorded indifference or criticism of the couple among men , but great interest among women , whether for or against . Kenneth Tynan , John Minton , Ronald Searle , and others signed an open letter from " the younger generation " . Published in the Daily Express on 4 November , the letter said that the end of the relationship had exposed The Establishment and " our national hypocrisy " .	Who wrote the statement together with you?	Townsend wrote the statement together with me.
" Thoroughly drained , thoroughly demoralized " , Margaret later said , she and Townsend wrote the statement together . She refused when Oliver Dawnay , the Queen Mother ' s private secretary , asked to remove the word " devotion " . The written statement , signed " Margaret " , was the first official confirmation of the relationship . Some Britons were disbelieving or angry while others , including clergy , were proud of the princess for choosing duty and faith ; newspapers were evenly divided on the decision . Mass - Observation recorded indifference or criticism of the couple among men , but great interest among women , whether for or against . Kenneth Tynan , John Minton , Ronald Searle , and others signed an open letter from " the younger generation " . Published in the Daily Express on 4 November , the letter said that the end of the relationship had exposed The Establishment and " our national hypocrisy " .	How did the British public react to the news of your relationship?	Some Britons were disbelieving or angry while others, including clergy, were proud of me for choosing duty and faith. Newspapers were evenly divided on the decision.
By the early 1970s , the Snowdons had drifted apart . In September 1973 , Colin Tennant introduced Margaret to Roddy Llewellyn . Llewellyn was 17 years her junior . In 1974 , she invited him as a guest to Les Jolies Eaux , the holiday home she had built on Mustique . It was the first of several visits . Margaret described their relationship as " a loving friendship " . Once , when Llewellyn left on an impulsive trip to Turkey , Margaret became emotionally distraught and took an overdose of sleeping tablets . " I was so exhausted because of everything " , she later said , " that all I wanted to do was sleep " . As she recovered , her ladies - in - waiting kept Lord Snowdon away from her , afraid that seeing him would distress her further .	How much younger were you compared to me?	You were 17 years younger than me.
" Thoroughly drained , thoroughly demoralized " , Margaret later said , she and Townsend wrote the statement together . She refused when Oliver Dawnay , the Queen Mother ' s private secretary , asked to remove the word " devotion " . The written statement , signed " Margaret " , was the first official confirmation of the relationship . Some Britons were disbelieving or angry while others , including clergy , were proud of the princess for choosing duty and faith ; newspapers were evenly divided on the decision . Mass - Observation recorded indifference or criticism of the couple among men , but great interest among women , whether for or against . Kenneth Tynan , John Minton , Ronald Searle , and others signed an open letter from " the younger generation " . Published in the Daily Express on 4 November , the letter said that the end of the relationship had exposed The Establishment and " our national hypocrisy " .	What was the significance of the written statement signed by you?	The written statement signed by me was the first official confirmation of the relationship between me and Townsend.
During her lifetime , Princess Margaret was considered a fashion icon . Her fashion earned the nickname ' The Margaret Look ' . The princess , dubbed a ' royal rebel ' styled herself in contrast to her sister ' s prim and timeless style , adopting trendy mod accessories , such as brightly coloured headscarves and glamorous sunglasses . Margaret developed a close relationship with atelier Christian Dior , wearing his designs throughout her life and becoming one of his most prominent customers . In 1950 , he designed a cream gown worn for her 21st birthday , which has been cited as an iconic part of fashion history . Throughout the decade , the princess was known for wearing floral - print dresses , bold - hued ballgowns and luxurious fabrics , accessorising with diamonds , pearls , and fur stoles . British Vogue wrote that Margaret ' s style ' hit her stride ' in the mid - 60s , where she was photographed alongside celebrities like The Beatles , Frank Sinatra and Sophia Loren . Princess Margaret was also known for her " magnificent " hats and headdresses , including a canary feather hat worn on a 1962 Jamaica visit and a peacock feather pillbox hat to the 1973 Royal Ascot . Marie Claire stated that the princess " refused to compromise " on her style later in life , continuing with trends of big sleeves and strapless evening gowns .	Which fashion designer did you have a close relationship with?	Christian Dior
In February 1976 , a picture of Margaret and Llewellyn in swimsuits on Mustique was published on the front page of a tabloid , the News of the World . The press portrayed Margaret as a predatory older woman and Llewellyn as her toyboy lover . On 19 March 1976 , the Snowdons publicly acknowledged that their marriage had irretrievably broken down and had decided to separate . Some politicians suggested removing Margaret from the civil list . Labour MPs denounced her as " a royal parasite " and a " floosie " . On 24 May 1978 , the decree nisi for their divorce was granted . In the same month , Margaret was taken ill , and diagnosed as suffering from gastroenteritis and alcoholic hepatitis , although Warwick denied that she was ever an alcoholic . On 11 July 1978 , the Snowdons ' divorce was finalized . It was the first divorce of a senior member of the British royal family since Princess Victoria Melita of Edinburgh ' s in 1901 . On 15 December 1978 , Snowdon married Lucy Lindsay - Hogg , but he and Margaret remained close friends .	When was the picture of you and Llewellyn in swimsuits published?	In February 1976.
The press avidly discussed " the world ' s most eligible bachelor - girl " and her alleged romances with more than 30 bachelors , including David Mountbatten and Michael I of Romania , Dominic Elliot , Colin Tennant ( later Baron Glenconner ) , Prince Henry of Hesse - Kassel , and future Prime Minister of Canada John Turner . Most had titles and almost all were wealthy . Blandford and Lord Dalkeith , both wealthy sons of dukes , were the likeliest potential husbands . Her family reportedly hoped that Margaret would marry Dalkeith , but , unlike him , the princess was uninterested in the outdoors . Billy Wallace , sole heir to a £ 2.8 million ( £ 78 million today ) fortune and an old friend , was reportedly Margaret ' s favourite date during the mid - 1950s . During her 21st birthday party at Balmoral in August 1951 , the press was disappointed to only photograph Margaret with Townsend , always in the background of pictures of royal appearances , and to her parents a safe companion as Elizabeth ' s duties increased . The following month her father underwent surgery for lung cancer , and Margaret was appointed one of the Counsellors of State who undertook the King ' s official duties while he was incapacitated . Her father died five months later , on 6 February 1952 , and her sister became Queen .	Did your family want you to marry Lord Dalkeith?	Yes, my family reportedly hoped that I would marry Lord Dalkeith.
During her lifetime , Princess Margaret was considered a fashion icon . Her fashion earned the nickname ' The Margaret Look ' . The princess , dubbed a ' royal rebel ' styled herself in contrast to her sister ' s prim and timeless style , adopting trendy mod accessories , such as brightly coloured headscarves and glamorous sunglasses . Margaret developed a close relationship with atelier Christian Dior , wearing his designs throughout her life and becoming one of his most prominent customers . In 1950 , he designed a cream gown worn for her 21st birthday , which has been cited as an iconic part of fashion history . Throughout the decade , the princess was known for wearing floral - print dresses , bold - hued ballgowns and luxurious fabrics , accessorising with diamonds , pearls , and fur stoles . British Vogue wrote that Margaret ' s style ' hit her stride ' in the mid - 60s , where she was photographed alongside celebrities like The Beatles , Frank Sinatra and Sophia Loren . Princess Margaret was also known for her " magnificent " hats and headdresses , including a canary feather hat worn on a 1962 Jamaica visit and a peacock feather pillbox hat to the 1973 Royal Ascot . Marie Claire stated that the princess " refused to compromise " on her style later in life , continuing with trends of big sleeves and strapless evening gowns .	What kind of gown did Christian Dior design for your 21st birthday?	A cream gown
