Prince was romantically linked with many women over the years , including Kim Basinger , Madonna , Vanity , Jill Jones , Sheila E . , Carmen Electra , Susannah Melvoin , and Sherilyn Fenn . Susannah Melvoin recalled how , around the time of Sign o ' the Times , " Wendy [ Melvoin , her twin sister ] and Lisa [ Coleman ] and I lived together and we would have [ Prince ] stay at our place . We became really close . He got to be in a family of three women , and we got to have our Prince . Not many people had that kind of relationship with him . " In 1990 , he saw 16 - year - old dancer Mayte Garc í a standing outside his tour bus , and referred to her as his " future wife " when pointing her out to bandmate Rosie Gaines . Garc í a began working as one of his backup singers and dancers after graduating from high school . They were married on February 14 , 1996 , when he was 37 and she was 22 . They had a son named Amiir ( born October 16 , 1996 ) , who died a week after being born due to Pfeiffer syndrome . The distress of losing a child and Garc í a ' s subsequent miscarriage took a toll on the marriage , and the couple divorced in 2000 . Prince married Manuela Testolini , a Canadian businesswoman of Italian and Egyptian descent , in a private ceremony in 2001 ; she hails from Toronto , which led the couple to live there part - time . They separated in 2005 and divorced in May 2006 . Prince would never marry again , and it is not known that he had more children .	Who did you marry after divorcing Mayte García?	I married Manuela Testolini after divorcing Mayte García.
Numerous musicians and cultural figures reacted to Prince ' s death . President Obama mourned him , and the United States Senate passed a resolution praising his achievements " as a musician , composer , innovator , and cultural icon " . Cities across the U . S . held tributes and vigils , and lit buildings , bridges , and other structures in purple . In the first five hours after the media reported his death , " Prince " was the top trending ( most - used ) term on Twitter , and Facebook had 61   million Prince - related interactions . MTV interrupted its programming to air a marathon of Prince music videos and Purple Rain . AMC Theatres and Carmike Cinemas screened Purple Rain in select theaters over the following week . Saturday Night Live aired an episode in his honor , titled " Goodnight , Sweet Prince " , featuring his performances from the show .	How did MTV and Saturday Night Live pay tribute to you?	MTV interrupted its programming to air a marathon of my music videos and Purple Rain, while Saturday Night Live aired an episode in my honor, titled "Goodnight, Sweet Prince", featuring my performances from the show.
In 1980 , Prince released the album Dirty Mind , which contained sexually explicit material , including the title song , " Head " , and the song " Sister " , and was described by Stephen Thomas Erlewine as a " stunning , audacious amalgam of funk , new wave , R & B , and pop , fueled by grinningly salacious sex and the desire to shock " . Recorded in Prince ' s own studio , this album was certified gold , and the single " Uptown " reached No . 5 on the Billboard Dance chart and No . 5 on the Hot Soul Singles chart . Prince was also the opening act for Rick James ' 1980 Fire It Up tour .	How did Stephen Thomas Erlewine describe your album Dirty Mind?	Stephen Thomas Erlewine described my album Dirty Mind as a "stunning, audacious amalgam of funk, new wave, R&B, and pop, fueled by grinningly salacious sex and the desire to shock".
In February 1981 , Prince made his first appearance on Saturday Night Live , performing " Partyup " . In October 1981 , Prince released the album Controversy . He played several dates in support of it , as the first of three opening acts for the Rolling Stones , on their US tour . In Los Angeles , Prince , who appeared in a trench coat and black bikini briefs , was forced off the stage after just three songs by audience members throwing trash at him . He began 1982 with a small tour of college towns where he was the headlining act . The songs on Controversy were published by Controversy Music   – ASCAP , a practice he continued until the Emancipation album in 1996 . Controversy also marked the introduction of Prince ' s use of abbreviated spelling , such as writing the words you as U , to as 2 , and for as 4 ; by 2002 , MTV News noted that " [ n ] ow all of his titles , liner notes , and Web postings are written in his own shorthand spelling , as seen on 1999 ' s Rave Un2 the Joy Fantastic , which featured ' Hot Wit U . ' "	What was the name of the album you released in October 1981?	The album was called Controversy.
Many artists have cited Prince as an influence and inspiration , including Beyonc é , Justin Timberlake , Bruno Mars , Rihanna , Alicia Keys , Usher , Janelle Mon á e , The Weeknd , Lady Gaga , Lorde , Marilyn Manson , Lenny Kravitz , Andr é 3000 , Mark Speer , Jamie Lidell , Frank Ocean , Miguel , Mya , Robyn , D ' Angelo , H . E . R . and Beck . Bono of U2 regarded Prince as one of his " favorite composers of the twentieth century " . Beyonc é expressed her admiration for Prince in the book Prince : A Private View , calling him " my mentor " and also praising his independence : " He dared to fight for what was rightfully his : his freedom , wrapped up in words and music he created . "	What did you express about me in the book "Prince: A Private View"?	In the book "Prince: A Private View," I expressed my admiration for you and called you "my mentor."
In 1980 , Prince released the album Dirty Mind , which contained sexually explicit material , including the title song , " Head " , and the song " Sister " , and was described by Stephen Thomas Erlewine as a " stunning , audacious amalgam of funk , new wave , R & B , and pop , fueled by grinningly salacious sex and the desire to shock " . Recorded in Prince ' s own studio , this album was certified gold , and the single " Uptown " reached No . 5 on the Billboard Dance chart and No . 5 on the Hot Soul Singles chart . Prince was also the opening act for Rick James ' 1980 Fire It Up tour .	What kind of material did your album Dirty Mind contain?	My album Dirty Mind contained sexually explicit material.
In 1990 , Prince went back on tour with a revamped band for his back - to - basics Nude Tour . With the departures of Boni Boyer , Sheila E . , the horns , and Cat , Prince brought in keyboardist Rosie Gaines , drummer Michael Bland , and dancing trio the Game Boyz ( Tony M . , Kirky J . , and Damon Dickson ) . The European and Japanese tour was a financial success with a short , greatest hits setlist . As the year progressed , Prince finished production on his fourth film , Graffiti Bridge ( 1990 ) , and the 1990 album of the same name . Initially , Warner Bros . was reluctant to fund the film , but with Prince ' s assurances it would be a sequel to Purple Rain as well as the involvement of the original members of the Time , the studio greenlit the project . Released on August 20 , 1990 , the album reached No . 6 on the Billboard 200 and R & B albums chart . The single " Thieves in the Temple " reached No . 6 on the Hot 100 and No . 1 on the R & B chart ; " Round and Round " placed at No . 12 on the US charts and No . 2 on the R & B charts . The song featured the teenage Tevin Campbell ( who also had a role in the film ) on lead vocals . The film , released on November 20 , 1990 , was a box - office flop , grossing $ 4.2   million . After the release of the film and album , the last remaining members of the Revolution , Miko Weaver , and Doctor Fink , left Prince ' s band .	How did your film "Graffiti Bridge" perform at the box office?	My film "Graffiti Bridge" was a box-office flop, grossing $4.2 million.
In 1980 , Prince released the album Dirty Mind , which contained sexually explicit material , including the title song , " Head " , and the song " Sister " , and was described by Stephen Thomas Erlewine as a " stunning , audacious amalgam of funk , new wave , R & B , and pop , fueled by grinningly salacious sex and the desire to shock " . Recorded in Prince ' s own studio , this album was certified gold , and the single " Uptown " reached No . 5 on the Billboard Dance chart and No . 5 on the Hot Soul Singles chart . Prince was also the opening act for Rick James ' 1980 Fire It Up tour .	When was your album Dirty Mind released?	My album Dirty Mind was released in 1980.
With the help of Husney , Prince signed a recording contract with Warner Bros . The record company agreed to give Prince creative control for three albums and retain his publishing rights . Husney and Prince then left Minneapolis and moved to Sausalito , California , where Prince ' s first album , For You , was recorded at Record Plant Studios . The album was mixed in Los Angeles and released on April 7 , 1978 . According to the For You album notes , Prince wrote , produced , arranged , composed , and played all 27 instruments on the recording , except for the song " Soft and Wet " , whose lyrics were co - written by Moon . The cost of recording the album was twice Prince ' s initial advance . Prince used the Prince ' s Music Co . to publish his songs . " Soft and Wet " reached No . 12 on the Hot Soul Singles chart and No . 92 on the Billboard Hot 100 . The song " Just as Long as We ' re Together " reached No . 91 on the Hot Soul Singles chart .	What was the highest position "Soft and Wet" reached on the Hot Soul Singles chart?	No. 12
Numerous musicians and cultural figures reacted to Prince ' s death . President Obama mourned him , and the United States Senate passed a resolution praising his achievements " as a musician , composer , innovator , and cultural icon " . Cities across the U . S . held tributes and vigils , and lit buildings , bridges , and other structures in purple . In the first five hours after the media reported his death , " Prince " was the top trending ( most - used ) term on Twitter , and Facebook had 61   million Prince - related interactions . MTV interrupted its programming to air a marathon of Prince music videos and Purple Rain . AMC Theatres and Carmike Cinemas screened Purple Rain in select theaters over the following week . Saturday Night Live aired an episode in his honor , titled " Goodnight , Sweet Prince " , featuring his performances from the show .	What were the top trending terms on Twitter after your death?	In the first five hours after the media reported my death, "Prince" was the top trending (most-used) term on Twitter.
In 1979 , Prince created a band with Andr é Cymone on bass , Dez Dickerson on guitar , Gayle Chapman and Doctor Fink on keyboards , and Bobby Z . on drums . Their first show was at the Capri Theater on January 5 , 1979 . Warner Bros . executives attended the show but decided that Prince and the band needed more time to develop his music . [ page   needed ] In October 1979 , Prince released the album Prince , which was No . 4 on the Billboard Top R & B / Black Albums charts and No . 22 on the Billboard 200 , and went platinum . It contained two R & B hits : " Why You Wanna Treat Me So Bad ? " and " I Wanna Be Your Lover " , which sold over a million copies , and reached No . 11 on the Billboard Hot 100 and No . 1 for two weeks on the Hot Soul Singles chart . Prince performed both these songs on January 26 , 1980 , on American Bandstand . On this album , Prince used Ecnirp Music   – BMI .	Where was your first show held?	My first show was held at the Capri Theater.
Many artists have cited Prince as an influence and inspiration , including Beyonc é , Justin Timberlake , Bruno Mars , Rihanna , Alicia Keys , Usher , Janelle Mon á e , The Weeknd , Lady Gaga , Lorde , Marilyn Manson , Lenny Kravitz , Andr é 3000 , Mark Speer , Jamie Lidell , Frank Ocean , Miguel , Mya , Robyn , D ' Angelo , H . E . R . and Beck . Bono of U2 regarded Prince as one of his " favorite composers of the twentieth century " . Beyonc é expressed her admiration for Prince in the book Prince : A Private View , calling him " my mentor " and also praising his independence : " He dared to fight for what was rightfully his : his freedom , wrapped up in words and music he created . "	How did you praise my independence?	I praised your independence and mentioned that you "dared to fight for what was rightfully yours: your freedom, wrapped up in words and music you created."
In 1980 , Prince released the album Dirty Mind , which contained sexually explicit material , including the title song , " Head " , and the song " Sister " , and was described by Stephen Thomas Erlewine as a " stunning , audacious amalgam of funk , new wave , R & B , and pop , fueled by grinningly salacious sex and the desire to shock " . Recorded in Prince ' s own studio , this album was certified gold , and the single " Uptown " reached No . 5 on the Billboard Dance chart and No . 5 on the Hot Soul Singles chart . Prince was also the opening act for Rick James ' 1980 Fire It Up tour .	How well did your single "Uptown" perform on the Billboard charts?	My single "Uptown" reached No. 5 on the Billboard Dance chart and No. 5 on the Hot Soul Singles chart.
In 2001 , Warner Bros . released a second compilation album , The Very Best of Prince , containing most of his commercially successful singles from the eighties . In 2002 , Prince released his first live album , One Nite Alone ... Live ! , which features performances from the One Nite Alone ... Tour . The 3 - CD box set also includes a disc of " aftershow " music entitled It Ain ' t Over ! . During this time , Prince sought to engage more effectively with his fan base via the NPG Music Club , pre - concert sound checks , and at yearly " celebrations " at Paisley Park , his music studios . Fans were invited into the studio for tours , interviews , discussions and music - listening sessions . Some of these fan discussions were filmed for an unreleased documentary , directed by Kevin Smith .	What was the documentary directed by Kevin Smith about?	The documentary was about the fan discussions filmed during the yearly "celebrations" at Paisley Park.
1991 began with a performance in Rock in Rio II and marked the debut of Prince ' s new band , the New Power Generation . With guitarist Miko Weaver and long - time keyboardist Doctor Fink gone , Prince added bass player Sonny T . , Tommy Barbarella on keyboards , and a brass section known as the Hornheads to go along with Levi Seacer ( taking over on guitar ) , Rosie Gaines , Michael Bland , and the Game Boyz . With significant input from his band members , Diamonds and Pearls was released on October 1 , 1991 . Reaching No . 3 on the Billboard 200 album chart , Diamonds and Pearls saw four hit singles released in the United States . " Gett Off " peaked at No . 21 on the Hot 100 and No . 6 on the R & B charts , followed by " Cream " , which gave Prince his fifth US No . 1 single . The title track " Diamonds and Pearls " became the album ' s third single , reaching No . 3 on the Hot 100 and the top spot on the R & B charts . " Money Don ' t Matter 2 Night " peaked at No . 23 and No . 14 on the Hot 100 and R & B charts respectively .	What was the highest position that your album Diamonds and Pearls reached on the Billboard 200 album chart?	No. 3.
1991 began with a performance in Rock in Rio II and marked the debut of Prince ' s new band , the New Power Generation . With guitarist Miko Weaver and long - time keyboardist Doctor Fink gone , Prince added bass player Sonny T . , Tommy Barbarella on keyboards , and a brass section known as the Hornheads to go along with Levi Seacer ( taking over on guitar ) , Rosie Gaines , Michael Bland , and the Game Boyz . With significant input from his band members , Diamonds and Pearls was released on October 1 , 1991 . Reaching No . 3 on the Billboard 200 album chart , Diamonds and Pearls saw four hit singles released in the United States . " Gett Off " peaked at No . 21 on the Hot 100 and No . 6 on the R & B charts , followed by " Cream " , which gave Prince his fifth US No . 1 single . The title track " Diamonds and Pearls " became the album ' s third single , reaching No . 3 on the Hot 100 and the top spot on the R & B charts . " Money Don ' t Matter 2 Night " peaked at No . 23 and No . 14 on the Hot 100 and R & B charts respectively .	Which song from Diamonds and Pearls became your fifth US No. 1 single?	"Cream".
In 1990 , Prince went back on tour with a revamped band for his back - to - basics Nude Tour . With the departures of Boni Boyer , Sheila E . , the horns , and Cat , Prince brought in keyboardist Rosie Gaines , drummer Michael Bland , and dancing trio the Game Boyz ( Tony M . , Kirky J . , and Damon Dickson ) . The European and Japanese tour was a financial success with a short , greatest hits setlist . As the year progressed , Prince finished production on his fourth film , Graffiti Bridge ( 1990 ) , and the 1990 album of the same name . Initially , Warner Bros . was reluctant to fund the film , but with Prince ' s assurances it would be a sequel to Purple Rain as well as the involvement of the original members of the Time , the studio greenlit the project . Released on August 20 , 1990 , the album reached No . 6 on the Billboard 200 and R & B albums chart . The single " Thieves in the Temple " reached No . 6 on the Hot 100 and No . 1 on the R & B chart ; " Round and Round " placed at No . 12 on the US charts and No . 2 on the R & B charts . The song featured the teenage Tevin Campbell ( who also had a role in the film ) on lead vocals . The film , released on November 20 , 1990 , was a box - office flop , grossing $ 4.2   million . After the release of the film and album , the last remaining members of the Revolution , Miko Weaver , and Doctor Fink , left Prince ' s band .	What was the name of your fourth film released in 1990?	My fourth film released in 1990 was called "Graffiti Bridge".
In February 1981 , Prince made his first appearance on Saturday Night Live , performing " Partyup " . In October 1981 , Prince released the album Controversy . He played several dates in support of it , as the first of three opening acts for the Rolling Stones , on their US tour . In Los Angeles , Prince , who appeared in a trench coat and black bikini briefs , was forced off the stage after just three songs by audience members throwing trash at him . He began 1982 with a small tour of college towns where he was the headlining act . The songs on Controversy were published by Controversy Music   – ASCAP , a practice he continued until the Emancipation album in 1996 . Controversy also marked the introduction of Prince ' s use of abbreviated spelling , such as writing the words you as U , to as 2 , and for as 4 ; by 2002 , MTV News noted that " [ n ] ow all of his titles , liner notes , and Web postings are written in his own shorthand spelling , as seen on 1999 ' s Rave Un2 the Joy Fantastic , which featured ' Hot Wit U . ' "	Who did you perform as the opening act for on their US tour?	I was the opening act for the Rolling Stones on their US tour.
1991 began with a performance in Rock in Rio II and marked the debut of Prince ' s new band , the New Power Generation . With guitarist Miko Weaver and long - time keyboardist Doctor Fink gone , Prince added bass player Sonny T . , Tommy Barbarella on keyboards , and a brass section known as the Hornheads to go along with Levi Seacer ( taking over on guitar ) , Rosie Gaines , Michael Bland , and the Game Boyz . With significant input from his band members , Diamonds and Pearls was released on October 1 , 1991 . Reaching No . 3 on the Billboard 200 album chart , Diamonds and Pearls saw four hit singles released in the United States . " Gett Off " peaked at No . 21 on the Hot 100 and No . 6 on the R & B charts , followed by " Cream " , which gave Prince his fifth US No . 1 single . The title track " Diamonds and Pearls " became the album ' s third single , reaching No . 3 on the Hot 100 and the top spot on the R & B charts . " Money Don ' t Matter 2 Night " peaked at No . 23 and No . 14 on the Hot 100 and R & B charts respectively .	Who were the new members added to your band?	Sonny T., Tommy Barbarella, Levi Seacer, Rosie Gaines, Michael Bland, and the Game Boyz.
In 1979 , Prince created a band with Andr é Cymone on bass , Dez Dickerson on guitar , Gayle Chapman and Doctor Fink on keyboards , and Bobby Z . on drums . Their first show was at the Capri Theater on January 5 , 1979 . Warner Bros . executives attended the show but decided that Prince and the band needed more time to develop his music . [ page   needed ] In October 1979 , Prince released the album Prince , which was No . 4 on the Billboard Top R & B / Black Albums charts and No . 22 on the Billboard 200 , and went platinum . It contained two R & B hits : " Why You Wanna Treat Me So Bad ? " and " I Wanna Be Your Lover " , which sold over a million copies , and reached No . 11 on the Billboard Hot 100 and No . 1 for two weeks on the Hot Soul Singles chart . Prince performed both these songs on January 26 , 1980 , on American Bandstand . On this album , Prince used Ecnirp Music   – BMI .	What was the title of your album released in October 1979?	The title of my album released in October 1979 was "Prince".
In 1990 , Prince went back on tour with a revamped band for his back - to - basics Nude Tour . With the departures of Boni Boyer , Sheila E . , the horns , and Cat , Prince brought in keyboardist Rosie Gaines , drummer Michael Bland , and dancing trio the Game Boyz ( Tony M . , Kirky J . , and Damon Dickson ) . The European and Japanese tour was a financial success with a short , greatest hits setlist . As the year progressed , Prince finished production on his fourth film , Graffiti Bridge ( 1990 ) , and the 1990 album of the same name . Initially , Warner Bros . was reluctant to fund the film , but with Prince ' s assurances it would be a sequel to Purple Rain as well as the involvement of the original members of the Time , the studio greenlit the project . Released on August 20 , 1990 , the album reached No . 6 on the Billboard 200 and R & B albums chart . The single " Thieves in the Temple " reached No . 6 on the Hot 100 and No . 1 on the R & B chart ; " Round and Round " placed at No . 12 on the US charts and No . 2 on the R & B charts . The song featured the teenage Tevin Campbell ( who also had a role in the film ) on lead vocals . The film , released on November 20 , 1990 , was a box - office flop , grossing $ 4.2   million . After the release of the film and album , the last remaining members of the Revolution , Miko Weaver , and Doctor Fink , left Prince ' s band .	What was the financial outcome of your European and Japanese tour in 1990?	My European and Japanese tour was a financial success.
Prince was romantically linked with many women over the years , including Kim Basinger , Madonna , Vanity , Jill Jones , Sheila E . , Carmen Electra , Susannah Melvoin , and Sherilyn Fenn . Susannah Melvoin recalled how , around the time of Sign o ' the Times , " Wendy [ Melvoin , her twin sister ] and Lisa [ Coleman ] and I lived together and we would have [ Prince ] stay at our place . We became really close . He got to be in a family of three women , and we got to have our Prince . Not many people had that kind of relationship with him . " In 1990 , he saw 16 - year - old dancer Mayte Garc í a standing outside his tour bus , and referred to her as his " future wife " when pointing her out to bandmate Rosie Gaines . Garc í a began working as one of his backup singers and dancers after graduating from high school . They were married on February 14 , 1996 , when he was 37 and she was 22 . They had a son named Amiir ( born October 16 , 1996 ) , who died a week after being born due to Pfeiffer syndrome . The distress of losing a child and Garc í a ' s subsequent miscarriage took a toll on the marriage , and the couple divorced in 2000 . Prince married Manuela Testolini , a Canadian businesswoman of Italian and Egyptian descent , in a private ceremony in 2001 ; she hails from Toronto , which led the couple to live there part - time . They separated in 2005 and divorced in May 2006 . Prince would never marry again , and it is not known that he had more children .	Who were some of the women you were romantically linked with?	Kim Basinger, Madonna, Vanity, Jill Jones, Sheila E., Carmen Electra, Susannah Melvoin, and Sherilyn Fenn.
In 2001 , Warner Bros . released a second compilation album , The Very Best of Prince , containing most of his commercially successful singles from the eighties . In 2002 , Prince released his first live album , One Nite Alone ... Live ! , which features performances from the One Nite Alone ... Tour . The 3 - CD box set also includes a disc of " aftershow " music entitled It Ain ' t Over ! . During this time , Prince sought to engage more effectively with his fan base via the NPG Music Club , pre - concert sound checks , and at yearly " celebrations " at Paisley Park , his music studios . Fans were invited into the studio for tours , interviews , discussions and music - listening sessions . Some of these fan discussions were filmed for an unreleased documentary , directed by Kevin Smith .	How did you try to engage more effectively with your fan base?	I sought to engage more effectively with my fan base through the NPG Music Club, pre-concert sound checks, and yearly "celebrations" at Paisley Park.
Numerous musicians and cultural figures reacted to Prince ' s death . President Obama mourned him , and the United States Senate passed a resolution praising his achievements " as a musician , composer , innovator , and cultural icon " . Cities across the U . S . held tributes and vigils , and lit buildings , bridges , and other structures in purple . In the first five hours after the media reported his death , " Prince " was the top trending ( most - used ) term on Twitter , and Facebook had 61   million Prince - related interactions . MTV interrupted its programming to air a marathon of Prince music videos and Purple Rain . AMC Theatres and Carmike Cinemas screened Purple Rain in select theaters over the following week . Saturday Night Live aired an episode in his honor , titled " Goodnight , Sweet Prince " , featuring his performances from the show .	How did cities across the U.S. remember you?	Cities across the U.S. held tributes and vigils, and lit buildings, bridges, and other structures in purple for me.
Many artists have cited Prince as an influence and inspiration , including Beyonc é , Justin Timberlake , Bruno Mars , Rihanna , Alicia Keys , Usher , Janelle Mon á e , The Weeknd , Lady Gaga , Lorde , Marilyn Manson , Lenny Kravitz , Andr é 3000 , Mark Speer , Jamie Lidell , Frank Ocean , Miguel , Mya , Robyn , D ' Angelo , H . E . R . and Beck . Bono of U2 regarded Prince as one of his " favorite composers of the twentieth century " . Beyonc é expressed her admiration for Prince in the book Prince : A Private View , calling him " my mentor " and also praising his independence : " He dared to fight for what was rightfully his : his freedom , wrapped up in words and music he created . "	Who are some artists that have cited you as an influence and inspiration?	Beyoncé, Justin Timberlake, Bruno Mars, Rihanna, Alicia Keys, Usher, Janelle Monáe, The Weeknd, Lady Gaga, Lorde, Marilyn Manson, Lenny Kravitz, André 3000, Mark Speer, Jamie Lidell, Frank Ocean, Miguel, Mya, Robyn, D'Angelo, H.E.R., and Beck.
