Philip was patron of some 800 organisations , particularly focused on the environment , industry , sport , and education . His first solo engagement as Duke of Edinburgh was in March 1948 , presenting prizes at the boxing finals of the London Federation of Boys ' Clubs at the Royal Albert Hall . He was president of the National Playing Fields Association ( now known as Fields in Trust ) for 64 years , from 1947 until his grandson Prince William took over the role in 2013 . He was appointed a fellow of the Royal Society in 1951 . In 1952 , he became patron of The Industrial Society ( since renamed The Work Foundation ) . In the same year , and after his father - in - law ' s death , he took over the role of the Ranger of Windsor Great Park , overseeing its protection and maintenance . From 1955 to 1957 , he was president of The Football Association . He served two terms as president of Marylebone Cricket Club , with his tenures starting in 1949 and 1974 , respectively . In the same decade , he became the first patron of Lord ' s Taverners , a youth cricket and disability sports charity , for which he organised fundraising events . Between 1959 and 1965 Prince Philip was the president of BAFTA . He helped found the Australian Conservation Foundation in 1963 and the World Wildlife Fund in 1961 and served as the latter ' s UK president from 1961 to 1982 , international president from 1981 , and president emeritus from 1996 . He was also president of the Zoological Society of London for two decades and was appointed an honorary fellow in 1977 . Despite his involvement in initiatives for conserving nature , he was also criticised for practices such as fox hunting and shooting of game birds and the killing of a tiger in India in 1961 . He was president of the International Equestrian Federation from 1964 to 1986 , and served as chancellor of the universities of Cambridge , Edinburgh , Salford , and Wales . In 1965 , at the suggestion of Prime Minister Harold Wilson , Philip became chair to a scheme set up for awarding industrial innovations , which later became known as The Queen ' s Awards for Enterprise . In the same year , Philip became president of the Council of Engineering Institutions and in that capacity he assisted with the inception of the Fellowship of Engineering ( later the Royal Academy of Engineering ) , of which he later became the senior fellow . He also commissioned the Prince Philip Designers Prize and the Prince Philip Medal to recognise designers and engineers with exceptional contributions . In 1970 , he was involved with the founding of The Maritime Trust for restoring and preserving historic British ships . In 2017 , the British Heart Foundation thanked Prince Philip for being its patron for 55 years , during which time , in addition to organising fundraisers , he " supported the creation of nine BHF - funded centres of excellence " . He was an honorary fellow of St Edmund ' s College , Cambridge .	When did you become the president of The Football Association?	I served as the president of The Football Association from 1955 to 1957.
A year after the divorce , Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris on 31 August 1997 . At the time , Philip was on holiday at Balmoral with the extended royal family . In their grief , Diana ' s sons , Princes William and Harry , wanted to attend church , so Elizabeth and Philip took them that morning . For five days , the royal couple shielded their grandsons from the ensuing press interest by keeping them at Balmoral , where they could grieve in private . The royal family ' s seclusion caused public dismay , but the public mood changed after a live broadcast made by Elizabeth on 5   September . Uncertain as to whether they should walk behind her coffin during the funeral procession , Diana ' s sons hesitated . Philip told William : " If you don ' t walk , I think you ' ll regret it later . If I walk , will you walk with me ? " On the day of the funeral , Philip , William , Harry , Charles , and Diana ' s brother , Earl Spencer , walked through London behind her bier .	Who was killed in a car crash?	Diana.
Philip ' s down - to - earth manner was attested to by a White House butler , who recalled that , on a visit in 1976 , Philip engaged him and a fellow butler in a conversation and poured them drinks . [ fn 5 ] As well as a reputation for bluntness and plain speaking , Philip was noted for occasionally making observations and jokes that have been construed as either funny , or as gaffes : awkward , politically incorrect , or even offensive , but sometimes perceived as stereotypical of someone of his age and background . In an address to the General Dental Council in 1960 , he jokingly coined a new word for his blunders : " Dontopedalogy is the science of opening your mouth and putting your foot in it , a science which I have practised for a good many years . " Later in life , he suggested his comments may have contributed to the perception that he was " a cantankerous old sod " .	How do you feel about the perception of you as a cantankerous old sod?	Later in life, I suggested that my comments may have contributed to the perception of me as "a cantankerous old sod."
A year after the divorce , Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris on 31 August 1997 . At the time , Philip was on holiday at Balmoral with the extended royal family . In their grief , Diana ' s sons , Princes William and Harry , wanted to attend church , so Elizabeth and Philip took them that morning . For five days , the royal couple shielded their grandsons from the ensuing press interest by keeping them at Balmoral , where they could grieve in private . The royal family ' s seclusion caused public dismay , but the public mood changed after a live broadcast made by Elizabeth on 5   September . Uncertain as to whether they should walk behind her coffin during the funeral procession , Diana ' s sons hesitated . Philip told William : " If you don ' t walk , I think you ' ll regret it later . If I walk , will you walk with me ? " On the day of the funeral , Philip , William , Harry , Charles , and Diana ' s brother , Earl Spencer , walked through London behind her bier .	Where were you when the car crash happened?	On holiday at Balmoral.
As consort to the Queen , Philip supported his wife in her new duties as sovereign , accompanying her to ceremonies such as the State Opening of Parliament in various countries , state dinners , and tours abroad . As chairman of the Coronation Commission , he was the first member of the royal family to fly in a helicopter , visiting the troops that were to take part in the ceremony . Philip was not himself crowned in the coronation service , but knelt before Elizabeth , with her hands enclosing his , and swore to be her " liege man of life and limb " .	What was your role in the Coronation Commission?	I was the chairman of the Coronation Commission.
In the early 1950s , Philip ' s sister - in - law Princess Margaret considered marrying a divorced older man , Peter Townsend . The press accused Philip of being hostile to the match , to which he replied : " I haven ' t done anything . " Philip had not interfered , preferring to stay out of other people ' s love lives . Eventually , Margaret and Townsend parted . For six months , over 1953 and 1954 , Philip and Elizabeth toured the Commonwealth ; as with previous tours , the children were left in Britain .	Who did Princess Margaret consider marrying?	Princess Margaret considered marrying Peter Townsend.
Philip ' s down - to - earth manner was attested to by a White House butler , who recalled that , on a visit in 1976 , Philip engaged him and a fellow butler in a conversation and poured them drinks . [ fn 5 ] As well as a reputation for bluntness and plain speaking , Philip was noted for occasionally making observations and jokes that have been construed as either funny , or as gaffes : awkward , politically incorrect , or even offensive , but sometimes perceived as stereotypical of someone of his age and background . In an address to the General Dental Council in 1960 , he jokingly coined a new word for his blunders : " Dontopedalogy is the science of opening your mouth and putting your foot in it , a science which I have practised for a good many years . " Later in life , he suggested his comments may have contributed to the perception that he was " a cantankerous old sod " .	How was your down-to-earth manner attested to?	My down-to-earth manner was attested to by a White House butler who recalled that I engaged him and a fellow butler in a conversation and poured them drinks during a visit in 1976.
In the early 1950s , Philip ' s sister - in - law Princess Margaret considered marrying a divorced older man , Peter Townsend . The press accused Philip of being hostile to the match , to which he replied : " I haven ' t done anything . " Philip had not interfered , preferring to stay out of other people ' s love lives . Eventually , Margaret and Townsend parted . For six months , over 1953 and 1954 , Philip and Elizabeth toured the Commonwealth ; as with previous tours , the children were left in Britain .	What did the press accuse you of?	The press accused me of being hostile to the match.
In the early 1950s , Philip ' s sister - in - law Princess Margaret considered marrying a divorced older man , Peter Townsend . The press accused Philip of being hostile to the match , to which he replied : " I haven ' t done anything . " Philip had not interfered , preferring to stay out of other people ' s love lives . Eventually , Margaret and Townsend parted . For six months , over 1953 and 1954 , Philip and Elizabeth toured the Commonwealth ; as with previous tours , the children were left in Britain .	How did you respond to the accusations?	I responded by saying, "I haven't done anything."
As consort to the Queen , Philip supported his wife in her new duties as sovereign , accompanying her to ceremonies such as the State Opening of Parliament in various countries , state dinners , and tours abroad . As chairman of the Coronation Commission , he was the first member of the royal family to fly in a helicopter , visiting the troops that were to take part in the ceremony . Philip was not himself crowned in the coronation service , but knelt before Elizabeth , with her hands enclosing his , and swore to be her " liege man of life and limb " .	What ceremonies did you accompany your wife to?	I accompanied my wife to ceremonies such as the State Opening of Parliament in various countries, state dinners, and tours abroad.
After leaving Gordonstoun in early 1939 , Philip completed a term as a cadet at the Royal Naval College , Dartmouth , then repatriated to Greece , living with his mother in Athens for a month in mid - 1939 . At the behest of King George   II of Greece , his first cousin , he returned to Britain in September to resume training for the Royal Navy . He graduated from Dartmouth the next year as the best cadet in his course . During the Second World War , he continued to serve in the British forces , while two of his brothers - in - law , Prince Christoph of Hesse and Berthold , Margrave of Baden , fought on the opposing German side . Philip was appointed as a midshipman in January 1940 . He spent four months on the battleship HMS   Ramillies , protecting convoys of the Australian Expeditionary Force in the Indian Ocean , followed by shorter postings on HMS   Kent , on HMS   Shropshire , and in British Ceylon . After the invasion of Greece by Italy in October 1940 , he was transferred from the Indian Ocean to the battleship HMS   Valiant in the Mediterranean Fleet .	Which battleship did you serve on after spending four months on HMS Ramillies?	After spending four months on HMS Ramillies, I served on the battleship HMS Valiant in the Mediterranean Fleet.
Philip painted with oils and collected artworks , including contemporary cartoons , which hang at Buckingham Palace , Windsor Castle , Sandringham House , and Balmoral Castle . Hugh Casson described Philip ' s own artwork as " exactly what you ' d expect   ... totally direct , no hanging about . Strong colours , vigorous brushstrokes . " He was patron of the Royal Society of Arts from 1952 until 2011 . He was " fascinated " by cartoons about the monarchy and the royal family and was a patron of The Cartoon Museum .	What type of artwork do you collect?	I collect contemporary cartoons.
After leaving Gordonstoun in early 1939 , Philip completed a term as a cadet at the Royal Naval College , Dartmouth , then repatriated to Greece , living with his mother in Athens for a month in mid - 1939 . At the behest of King George   II of Greece , his first cousin , he returned to Britain in September to resume training for the Royal Navy . He graduated from Dartmouth the next year as the best cadet in his course . During the Second World War , he continued to serve in the British forces , while two of his brothers - in - law , Prince Christoph of Hesse and Berthold , Margrave of Baden , fought on the opposing German side . Philip was appointed as a midshipman in January 1940 . He spent four months on the battleship HMS   Ramillies , protecting convoys of the Australian Expeditionary Force in the Indian Ocean , followed by shorter postings on HMS   Kent , on HMS   Shropshire , and in British Ceylon . After the invasion of Greece by Italy in October 1940 , he was transferred from the Indian Ocean to the battleship HMS   Valiant in the Mediterranean Fleet .	Where did you live with your mother in mid-1939?	I lived with my mother in Athens, Greece.
Philip was patron of some 800 organisations , particularly focused on the environment , industry , sport , and education . His first solo engagement as Duke of Edinburgh was in March 1948 , presenting prizes at the boxing finals of the London Federation of Boys ' Clubs at the Royal Albert Hall . He was president of the National Playing Fields Association ( now known as Fields in Trust ) for 64 years , from 1947 until his grandson Prince William took over the role in 2013 . He was appointed a fellow of the Royal Society in 1951 . In 1952 , he became patron of The Industrial Society ( since renamed The Work Foundation ) . In the same year , and after his father - in - law ' s death , he took over the role of the Ranger of Windsor Great Park , overseeing its protection and maintenance . From 1955 to 1957 , he was president of The Football Association . He served two terms as president of Marylebone Cricket Club , with his tenures starting in 1949 and 1974 , respectively . In the same decade , he became the first patron of Lord ' s Taverners , a youth cricket and disability sports charity , for which he organised fundraising events . Between 1959 and 1965 Prince Philip was the president of BAFTA . He helped found the Australian Conservation Foundation in 1963 and the World Wildlife Fund in 1961 and served as the latter ' s UK president from 1961 to 1982 , international president from 1981 , and president emeritus from 1996 . He was also president of the Zoological Society of London for two decades and was appointed an honorary fellow in 1977 . Despite his involvement in initiatives for conserving nature , he was also criticised for practices such as fox hunting and shooting of game birds and the killing of a tiger in India in 1961 . He was president of the International Equestrian Federation from 1964 to 1986 , and served as chancellor of the universities of Cambridge , Edinburgh , Salford , and Wales . In 1965 , at the suggestion of Prime Minister Harold Wilson , Philip became chair to a scheme set up for awarding industrial innovations , which later became known as The Queen ' s Awards for Enterprise . In the same year , Philip became president of the Council of Engineering Institutions and in that capacity he assisted with the inception of the Fellowship of Engineering ( later the Royal Academy of Engineering ) , of which he later became the senior fellow . He also commissioned the Prince Philip Designers Prize and the Prince Philip Medal to recognise designers and engineers with exceptional contributions . In 1970 , he was involved with the founding of The Maritime Trust for restoring and preserving historic British ships . In 2017 , the British Heart Foundation thanked Prince Philip for being its patron for 55 years , during which time , in addition to organising fundraisers , he " supported the creation of nine BHF - funded centres of excellence " . He was an honorary fellow of St Edmund ' s College , Cambridge .	What role did you take over after your father-in-law's death?	After my father-in-law's death, I took over the role of the Ranger of Windsor Great Park, overseeing its protection and maintenance.
After leaving Gordonstoun in early 1939 , Philip completed a term as a cadet at the Royal Naval College , Dartmouth , then repatriated to Greece , living with his mother in Athens for a month in mid - 1939 . At the behest of King George   II of Greece , his first cousin , he returned to Britain in September to resume training for the Royal Navy . He graduated from Dartmouth the next year as the best cadet in his course . During the Second World War , he continued to serve in the British forces , while two of his brothers - in - law , Prince Christoph of Hesse and Berthold , Margrave of Baden , fought on the opposing German side . Philip was appointed as a midshipman in January 1940 . He spent four months on the battleship HMS   Ramillies , protecting convoys of the Australian Expeditionary Force in the Indian Ocean , followed by shorter postings on HMS   Kent , on HMS   Shropshire , and in British Ceylon . After the invasion of Greece by Italy in October 1940 , he was transferred from the Indian Ocean to the battleship HMS   Valiant in the Mediterranean Fleet .	What was your rank when you were appointed in January 1940?	I was appointed as a midshipman in January 1940.
A year after the divorce , Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris on 31 August 1997 . At the time , Philip was on holiday at Balmoral with the extended royal family . In their grief , Diana ' s sons , Princes William and Harry , wanted to attend church , so Elizabeth and Philip took them that morning . For five days , the royal couple shielded their grandsons from the ensuing press interest by keeping them at Balmoral , where they could grieve in private . The royal family ' s seclusion caused public dismay , but the public mood changed after a live broadcast made by Elizabeth on 5   September . Uncertain as to whether they should walk behind her coffin during the funeral procession , Diana ' s sons hesitated . Philip told William : " If you don ' t walk , I think you ' ll regret it later . If I walk , will you walk with me ? " On the day of the funeral , Philip , William , Harry , Charles , and Diana ' s brother , Earl Spencer , walked through London behind her bier .	How long did we keep Princes William and Harry at Balmoral?	For five days.
Philip ' s down - to - earth manner was attested to by a White House butler , who recalled that , on a visit in 1976 , Philip engaged him and a fellow butler in a conversation and poured them drinks . [ fn 5 ] As well as a reputation for bluntness and plain speaking , Philip was noted for occasionally making observations and jokes that have been construed as either funny , or as gaffes : awkward , politically incorrect , or even offensive , but sometimes perceived as stereotypical of someone of his age and background . In an address to the General Dental Council in 1960 , he jokingly coined a new word for his blunders : " Dontopedalogy is the science of opening your mouth and putting your foot in it , a science which I have practised for a good many years . " Later in life , he suggested his comments may have contributed to the perception that he was " a cantankerous old sod " .	Can you provide an example of one of your jokes?	One example of my jokes was when I jokingly coined a new word for my blunders during an address to the General Dental Council in 1960. I referred to it as "Dontopedalogy," which I defined as the science of opening your mouth and putting your foot in it.
Philip painted with oils and collected artworks , including contemporary cartoons , which hang at Buckingham Palace , Windsor Castle , Sandringham House , and Balmoral Castle . Hugh Casson described Philip ' s own artwork as " exactly what you ' d expect   ... totally direct , no hanging about . Strong colours , vigorous brushstrokes . " He was patron of the Royal Society of Arts from 1952 until 2011 . He was " fascinated " by cartoons about the monarchy and the royal family and was a patron of The Cartoon Museum .	How did Hugh Casson describe your own artwork?	Hugh Casson described my own artwork as "exactly what you'd expect... totally direct, no hanging about. Strong colours, vigorous brushstrokes."
Philip ' s first airborne flying lesson took place in 1952 , and by his 70th birthday , he had accrued 5 , 150 pilot hours . He was presented with Royal Air Force wings in 1953 , helicopter wings with the Royal Navy in 1956 , and his private pilot ' s licence in 1959 . After 44 years as a pilot , he retired in August 1997 with 5 , 986 hours spent in 59 different aircraft . In April 2014 , it was reported that an old British Path é newsreel film had been discovered of Philip ' s 1962 two - month flying tour of South America . Filmed sitting alongside Philip at the aircraft ' s controls was his co - pilot Captain Peter Middleton , the grandfather of Philip ' s granddaughter - in - law Catherine . In 1959 , he flew solo in a Druine Turbulent , becoming the first and , as of April 2021 [ update ] , the only member of the royal family to have flown a single - seat aircraft .	When did you have your first airborne flying lesson?	I had my first airborne flying lesson in 1952.
Philip was patron of some 800 organisations , particularly focused on the environment , industry , sport , and education . His first solo engagement as Duke of Edinburgh was in March 1948 , presenting prizes at the boxing finals of the London Federation of Boys ' Clubs at the Royal Albert Hall . He was president of the National Playing Fields Association ( now known as Fields in Trust ) for 64 years , from 1947 until his grandson Prince William took over the role in 2013 . He was appointed a fellow of the Royal Society in 1951 . In 1952 , he became patron of The Industrial Society ( since renamed The Work Foundation ) . In the same year , and after his father - in - law ' s death , he took over the role of the Ranger of Windsor Great Park , overseeing its protection and maintenance . From 1955 to 1957 , he was president of The Football Association . He served two terms as president of Marylebone Cricket Club , with his tenures starting in 1949 and 1974 , respectively . In the same decade , he became the first patron of Lord ' s Taverners , a youth cricket and disability sports charity , for which he organised fundraising events . Between 1959 and 1965 Prince Philip was the president of BAFTA . He helped found the Australian Conservation Foundation in 1963 and the World Wildlife Fund in 1961 and served as the latter ' s UK president from 1961 to 1982 , international president from 1981 , and president emeritus from 1996 . He was also president of the Zoological Society of London for two decades and was appointed an honorary fellow in 1977 . Despite his involvement in initiatives for conserving nature , he was also criticised for practices such as fox hunting and shooting of game birds and the killing of a tiger in India in 1961 . He was president of the International Equestrian Federation from 1964 to 1986 , and served as chancellor of the universities of Cambridge , Edinburgh , Salford , and Wales . In 1965 , at the suggestion of Prime Minister Harold Wilson , Philip became chair to a scheme set up for awarding industrial innovations , which later became known as The Queen ' s Awards for Enterprise . In the same year , Philip became president of the Council of Engineering Institutions and in that capacity he assisted with the inception of the Fellowship of Engineering ( later the Royal Academy of Engineering ) , of which he later became the senior fellow . He also commissioned the Prince Philip Designers Prize and the Prince Philip Medal to recognise designers and engineers with exceptional contributions . In 1970 , he was involved with the founding of The Maritime Trust for restoring and preserving historic British ships . In 2017 , the British Heart Foundation thanked Prince Philip for being its patron for 55 years , during which time , in addition to organising fundraisers , he " supported the creation of nine BHF - funded centres of excellence " . He was an honorary fellow of St Edmund ' s College , Cambridge .	When did you become the president of the National Playing Fields Association?	I became the president of the National Playing Fields Association in 1947.
Philip ' s down - to - earth manner was attested to by a White House butler , who recalled that , on a visit in 1976 , Philip engaged him and a fellow butler in a conversation and poured them drinks . [ fn 5 ] As well as a reputation for bluntness and plain speaking , Philip was noted for occasionally making observations and jokes that have been construed as either funny , or as gaffes : awkward , politically incorrect , or even offensive , but sometimes perceived as stereotypical of someone of his age and background . In an address to the General Dental Council in 1960 , he jokingly coined a new word for his blunders : " Dontopedalogy is the science of opening your mouth and putting your foot in it , a science which I have practised for a good many years . " Later in life , he suggested his comments may have contributed to the perception that he was " a cantankerous old sod " .	How have some people perceived your observations and jokes?	Some people have perceived my observations and jokes as awkward, politically incorrect, or even offensive. However, others have found them funny or stereotypical of someone of my age and background.
A year after the divorce , Diana was killed in a car crash in Paris on 31 August 1997 . At the time , Philip was on holiday at Balmoral with the extended royal family . In their grief , Diana ' s sons , Princes William and Harry , wanted to attend church , so Elizabeth and Philip took them that morning . For five days , the royal couple shielded their grandsons from the ensuing press interest by keeping them at Balmoral , where they could grieve in private . The royal family ' s seclusion caused public dismay , but the public mood changed after a live broadcast made by Elizabeth on 5   September . Uncertain as to whether they should walk behind her coffin during the funeral procession , Diana ' s sons hesitated . Philip told William : " If you don ' t walk , I think you ' ll regret it later . If I walk , will you walk with me ? " On the day of the funeral , Philip , William , Harry , Charles , and Diana ' s brother , Earl Spencer , walked through London behind her bier .	Who took Princes William and Harry to church after Diana's death?	Elizabeth and I.
In 1956 , the Duke , with Kurt Hahn , founded The Duke of Edinburgh ' s Award to give young people " a sense of responsibility to themselves and their communities " . In the same year , he also established the Commonwealth Study Conferences . From 1956 to 1957 , Philip travelled around the world aboard the newly commissioned HMY   Britannia , during which he opened the 1956 Summer Olympics in Melbourne and visited the Antarctic , becoming the first royal to cross the Antarctic Circle . Elizabeth and the children remained in the UK . On the return leg of the journey , Philip ' s private secretary , Mike Parker , was sued for divorce by his wife . As with Townsend , the press still portrayed divorce as a scandal , and eventually , Parker resigned . He later said that the Duke was very supportive and " the Queen was wonderful throughout . She regarded divorce as a sadness , not a hanging offence . " In a public show of support , Elizabeth created Parker a Commander of the Royal Victorian Order .	What other organization did you establish in 1956?	In the same year, I also established the Commonwealth Study Conferences.
Philip was patron of some 800 organisations , particularly focused on the environment , industry , sport , and education . His first solo engagement as Duke of Edinburgh was in March 1948 , presenting prizes at the boxing finals of the London Federation of Boys ' Clubs at the Royal Albert Hall . He was president of the National Playing Fields Association ( now known as Fields in Trust ) for 64 years , from 1947 until his grandson Prince William took over the role in 2013 . He was appointed a fellow of the Royal Society in 1951 . In 1952 , he became patron of The Industrial Society ( since renamed The Work Foundation ) . In the same year , and after his father - in - law ' s death , he took over the role of the Ranger of Windsor Great Park , overseeing its protection and maintenance . From 1955 to 1957 , he was president of The Football Association . He served two terms as president of Marylebone Cricket Club , with his tenures starting in 1949 and 1974 , respectively . In the same decade , he became the first patron of Lord ' s Taverners , a youth cricket and disability sports charity , for which he organised fundraising events . Between 1959 and 1965 Prince Philip was the president of BAFTA . He helped found the Australian Conservation Foundation in 1963 and the World Wildlife Fund in 1961 and served as the latter ' s UK president from 1961 to 1982 , international president from 1981 , and president emeritus from 1996 . He was also president of the Zoological Society of London for two decades and was appointed an honorary fellow in 1977 . Despite his involvement in initiatives for conserving nature , he was also criticised for practices such as fox hunting and shooting of game birds and the killing of a tiger in India in 1961 . He was president of the International Equestrian Federation from 1964 to 1986 , and served as chancellor of the universities of Cambridge , Edinburgh , Salford , and Wales . In 1965 , at the suggestion of Prime Minister Harold Wilson , Philip became chair to a scheme set up for awarding industrial innovations , which later became known as The Queen ' s Awards for Enterprise . In the same year , Philip became president of the Council of Engineering Institutions and in that capacity he assisted with the inception of the Fellowship of Engineering ( later the Royal Academy of Engineering ) , of which he later became the senior fellow . He also commissioned the Prince Philip Designers Prize and the Prince Philip Medal to recognise designers and engineers with exceptional contributions . In 1970 , he was involved with the founding of The Maritime Trust for restoring and preserving historic British ships . In 2017 , the British Heart Foundation thanked Prince Philip for being its patron for 55 years , during which time , in addition to organising fundraisers , he " supported the creation of nine BHF - funded centres of excellence " . He was an honorary fellow of St Edmund ' s College , Cambridge .	What organization did you help found in 1961?	I helped found the World Wildlife Fund in 1961.
Philip ' s first airborne flying lesson took place in 1952 , and by his 70th birthday , he had accrued 5 , 150 pilot hours . He was presented with Royal Air Force wings in 1953 , helicopter wings with the Royal Navy in 1956 , and his private pilot ' s licence in 1959 . After 44 years as a pilot , he retired in August 1997 with 5 , 986 hours spent in 59 different aircraft . In April 2014 , it was reported that an old British Path é newsreel film had been discovered of Philip ' s 1962 two - month flying tour of South America . Filmed sitting alongside Philip at the aircraft ' s controls was his co - pilot Captain Peter Middleton , the grandfather of Philip ' s granddaughter - in - law Catherine . In 1959 , he flew solo in a Druine Turbulent , becoming the first and , as of April 2021 [ update ] , the only member of the royal family to have flown a single - seat aircraft .	When did you retire as a pilot?	I retired as a pilot in August 1997.
