On 29 May 1842 , Victoria was riding in a carriage along The Mall , London , when John Francis aimed a pistol at her , but the gun did not fire . The assailant escaped ; the following day , Victoria drove the same route , though faster and with a greater escort , in a deliberate attempt to bait Francis into taking a second aim and catch him in the act . As expected , Francis shot at her , but he was seized by plainclothes policemen , and convicted of high treason . On 3   July , two days after Francis ' s death sentence was commuted to transportation for life , John William Bean also tried to fire a pistol at the Queen , but it was loaded only with paper and tobacco and had too little charge . Edward Oxford felt that the attempts were encouraged by his acquittal in 1840 . Bean was sentenced to 18 months in jail . In a similar attack in 1849 , unemployed Irishman William Hamilton fired a powder - filled pistol at Victoria ' s carriage as it passed along Constitution Hill , London . In 1850 , the Queen did sustain injury when she was assaulted by a possibly insane ex - army officer , Robert Pate . As Victoria was riding in a carriage , Pate struck her with his cane , crushing her bonnet and bruising her forehead . Both Hamilton and Pate were sentenced to seven years ' transportation .	Where did the first assassination attempt on you take place?	Along The Mall, London.
Palmerston died in 1865 , and after a brief ministry led by Russell , Derby returned to power . In 1866 , Victoria attended the State Opening of Parliament for the first time since Albert ' s death . The following year she supported the passing of the Reform Act 1867 which doubled the electorate by extending the franchise to many urban working men , though she was not in favour of votes for women . Derby resigned in 1868 , to be replaced by Benjamin Disraeli , who charmed Victoria . " Everyone likes flattery , " he said , " and when you come to royalty you should lay it on with a trowel . " With the phrase " we authors , Ma ' am " , he complimented her . Disraeli ' s ministry only lasted a matter of months , and at the end of the year his Liberal rival , William Ewart Gladstone , was appointed prime minister . Victoria found Gladstone ' s demeanour far less appealing ; he spoke to her , she is thought to have complained , as though she were " a public meeting rather than a woman " .	Who led the brief ministry after your death?	After my death, Russell led the brief ministry.
Following a custom she maintained throughout her widowhood , Victoria spent the Christmas of 1900 at Osborne House on the Isle of Wight . Rheumatism in her legs had rendered her disabled , and her eyesight was clouded by cataracts . Through early January , she felt " weak and unwell " , and by mid - January she was " drowsy   ... dazed , [ and ] confused " . She died on 22 January 1901 , at half past six in the evening , at the age of 81 . Her eldest son , Albert Edward , succeeded her as Edward   VII . Edward and his nephew Wilhelm   II were at Victoria ' s deathbed . Her favourite pet Pomeranian , Turi , was laid upon her deathbed as a last request .	How did you feel by mid-January?	By mid-January, I felt drowsy, dazed, and confused.
On 17 March 1883 , Victoria fell down some stairs at Windsor , which left her lame until July ; she never fully recovered and was plagued with rheumatism thereafter . John Brown died 10 days after her accident , and to the consternation of her private secretary , Sir Henry Ponsonby , Victoria began work on a eulogistic biography of Brown . Ponsonby and Randall Davidson , Dean of Windsor , who had both seen early drafts , advised Victoria against publication , on the grounds that it would stoke the rumours of a love affair . The manuscript was destroyed . In early 1884 , Victoria did publish More Leaves from a Journal of a Life in the Highlands , a sequel to her earlier book , which she dedicated to her " devoted personal attendant and faithful friend John Brown " . On the day after the first anniversary of Brown ' s death , Victoria was informed by telegram that her youngest son , Leopold , had died in Cannes . He was " the dearest of my dear sons " , she lamented . The following month , Victoria ' s youngest child , Beatrice , met and fell in love with Prince Henry of Battenberg at the wedding of Victoria ' s granddaughter Princess Victoria of Hesse and by Rhine to Henry ' s brother Prince Louis of Battenberg . Beatrice and Henry planned to marry , but Victoria opposed the match at first , wishing to keep Beatrice at home to act as her companion . After a year , she was won around to the marriage by their promise to remain living with and attending her .	Who advised you against publishing a biography of John Brown?	Ponsonby and Randall Davidson.
Following a custom she maintained throughout her widowhood , Victoria spent the Christmas of 1900 at Osborne House on the Isle of Wight . Rheumatism in her legs had rendered her disabled , and her eyesight was clouded by cataracts . Through early January , she felt " weak and unwell " , and by mid - January she was " drowsy   ... dazed , [ and ] confused " . She died on 22 January 1901 , at half past six in the evening , at the age of 81 . Her eldest son , Albert Edward , succeeded her as Edward   VII . Edward and his nephew Wilhelm   II were at Victoria ' s deathbed . Her favourite pet Pomeranian , Turi , was laid upon her deathbed as a last request .	What health conditions did you have at that time?	I had rheumatism in my legs and cataracts that clouded my eyesight.
According to one of her biographers , Giles St Aubyn , Victoria wrote an average of 2 , 500 words a day during her adult life . From July 1832 until just before her death , she kept a detailed journal , which eventually encompassed 122 volumes . After Victoria ' s death , her youngest daughter , Princess Beatrice , was appointed her literary executor . Beatrice transcribed and edited the diaries covering Victoria ' s accession onwards , and burned the originals in the process . Despite this destruction , much of the diaries still exist . In addition to Beatrice ' s edited copy , Lord Esher transcribed the volumes from 1832 to 1861 before Beatrice destroyed them . Part of Victoria ' s extensive correspondence has been published in volumes edited by A . C . Benson , Hector Bolitho , George Earle Buckle , Lord Esher , Roger Fulford , and Richard Hough among others .	Who was appointed as your literary executor after your death?	My youngest daughter, Princess Beatrice, was appointed my literary executor.
During Victoria ' s first pregnancy in 1840 , in the first few months of the marriage , 18 - year - old Edward Oxford attempted to assassinate her while she was riding in a carriage with Prince Albert on her way to visit her mother . Oxford fired twice , but either both bullets missed or , as he later claimed , the guns had no shot . He was tried for high treason , found not guilty by reason of insanity , committed to an insane asylum indefinitely , and later sent to live in Australia . In the immediate aftermath of the attack , Victoria ' s popularity soared , mitigating residual discontent over the Hastings affair and the bedchamber crisis . Her daughter , also named Victoria , was born on 21 November 1840 . The Queen hated being pregnant , viewed breast - feeding with disgust , and thought newborn babies were ugly . Nevertheless , over the following seventeen years , she and Albert had a further eight children : Albert Edward ( b . 1841 ) , Alice ( b . 1843 ) , Alfred ( b . 1844 ) , Helena ( b . 1846 ) , Louise ( b . 1848 ) , Arthur ( b . 1850 ) , Leopold ( b . 1853 ) and Beatrice ( b . 1857 ) .	What happened after the assassination attempt?	Edward Oxford was tried for high treason and found not guilty by reason of insanity. He was then committed to an insane asylum indefinitely and later sent to live in Australia.
During Victoria ' s first pregnancy in 1840 , in the first few months of the marriage , 18 - year - old Edward Oxford attempted to assassinate her while she was riding in a carriage with Prince Albert on her way to visit her mother . Oxford fired twice , but either both bullets missed or , as he later claimed , the guns had no shot . He was tried for high treason , found not guilty by reason of insanity , committed to an insane asylum indefinitely , and later sent to live in Australia . In the immediate aftermath of the attack , Victoria ' s popularity soared , mitigating residual discontent over the Hastings affair and the bedchamber crisis . Her daughter , also named Victoria , was born on 21 November 1840 . The Queen hated being pregnant , viewed breast - feeding with disgust , and thought newborn babies were ugly . Nevertheless , over the following seventeen years , she and Albert had a further eight children : Albert Edward ( b . 1841 ) , Alice ( b . 1843 ) , Alfred ( b . 1844 ) , Helena ( b . 1846 ) , Louise ( b . 1848 ) , Arthur ( b . 1850 ) , Leopold ( b . 1853 ) and Beatrice ( b . 1857 ) .	How many children did you have with Prince Albert?	I and Albert had a total of nine children.
Victoria turned 18 on 24 May 1837 , and a regency was avoided . Less than a month later , on 20 June 1837 , William IV died at the age of 71 , and Victoria became Queen of the United Kingdom . [ c ] In her diary she wrote , " I was awoke at 6   o ' clock by Mamma , who told me the Archbishop of Canterbury and Lord Conyngham were here and wished to see me . I got out of bed and went into my sitting - room ( only in my dressing gown ) and alone , and saw them . Lord Conyngham then acquainted me that my poor Uncle , the King , was no more , and had expired at 12 minutes past 2   this morning , and consequently that I am Queen . " Official documents prepared on the first day of her reign described her as Alexandrina Victoria , but the first name was withdrawn at her own wish and not used again .	How did you find out about becoming Queen?	I was woken up by my mother who informed me that the Archbishop of Canterbury and Lord Conyngham were there to see me. They then told me that my uncle, the King, had passed away at 12 minutes past 2 that morning, making me the Queen.
According to one of her biographers , Giles St Aubyn , Victoria wrote an average of 2 , 500 words a day during her adult life . From July 1832 until just before her death , she kept a detailed journal , which eventually encompassed 122 volumes . After Victoria ' s death , her youngest daughter , Princess Beatrice , was appointed her literary executor . Beatrice transcribed and edited the diaries covering Victoria ' s accession onwards , and burned the originals in the process . Despite this destruction , much of the diaries still exist . In addition to Beatrice ' s edited copy , Lord Esher transcribed the volumes from 1832 to 1861 before Beatrice destroyed them . Part of Victoria ' s extensive correspondence has been published in volumes edited by A . C . Benson , Hector Bolitho , George Earle Buckle , Lord Esher , Roger Fulford , and Richard Hough among others .	What did you do with your original diaries?	I transcribed and edited the diaries covering my accession onwards, and burned the originals in the process.
In 1897 , Victoria had written instructions for her funeral , which was to be military as befitting a soldier ' s daughter and the head of the army , and white instead of black . On 25 January , her sons Edward and Arthur and her grandson Wilhelm helped lift her body into the coffin . She was dressed in a white dress and her wedding veil . An array of mementos commemorating her extended family , friends and servants were laid in the coffin with her , at her request , by her doctor and dressers . One of Albert ' s dressing gowns was placed by her side , with a plaster cast of his hand , while a lock of John Brown ' s hair , along with a picture of him , was placed in her left hand concealed from the view of the family by a carefully positioned bunch of flowers . Items of jewellery placed on Victoria included the wedding ring of John Brown ' s mother , given to her by Brown in 1883 . Her funeral was held on Saturday 2   February , in St George ' s Chapel , Windsor Castle , and after two days of lying - in - state , she was interred beside Prince Albert in the Royal Mausoleum , Frogmore , at Windsor Great Park .	Who helped lift your body into the coffin?	My sons Edward and Arthur and my grandson Wilhelm helped lift my body into the coffin.
On 17 March 1883 , Victoria fell down some stairs at Windsor , which left her lame until July ; she never fully recovered and was plagued with rheumatism thereafter . John Brown died 10 days after her accident , and to the consternation of her private secretary , Sir Henry Ponsonby , Victoria began work on a eulogistic biography of Brown . Ponsonby and Randall Davidson , Dean of Windsor , who had both seen early drafts , advised Victoria against publication , on the grounds that it would stoke the rumours of a love affair . The manuscript was destroyed . In early 1884 , Victoria did publish More Leaves from a Journal of a Life in the Highlands , a sequel to her earlier book , which she dedicated to her " devoted personal attendant and faithful friend John Brown " . On the day after the first anniversary of Brown ' s death , Victoria was informed by telegram that her youngest son , Leopold , had died in Cannes . He was " the dearest of my dear sons " , she lamented . The following month , Victoria ' s youngest child , Beatrice , met and fell in love with Prince Henry of Battenberg at the wedding of Victoria ' s granddaughter Princess Victoria of Hesse and by Rhine to Henry ' s brother Prince Louis of Battenberg . Beatrice and Henry planned to marry , but Victoria opposed the match at first , wishing to keep Beatrice at home to act as her companion . After a year , she was won around to the marriage by their promise to remain living with and attending her .	When did you fall down the stairs at Windsor?	On 17 March 1883.
Victoria was stout , dowdy and about five feet ( 1.5 metres ) tall , but projected a grand image . She was unpopular during the first years of her widowhood , but was well liked during the 1880s and 1890s , when she embodied the empire as a benevolent matriarchal figure . Only after the release of her diary and letters did the extent of her political influence become known to the wider public . Biographies of Victoria written before much of the primary material became available , such as Lytton Strachey ' s Queen Victoria of 1921 , are now considered out of date . The biographies written by Elizabeth Longford and Cecil Woodham - Smith , in 1964 and 1972 respectively , are still widely admired . They , and others , conclude that as a person Victoria was emotional , obstinate , honest , and straight - talking .	When did the wider public become aware of your political influence?	The wider public became aware of my political influence after the release of my diary and letters.
Following a custom she maintained throughout her widowhood , Victoria spent the Christmas of 1900 at Osborne House on the Isle of Wight . Rheumatism in her legs had rendered her disabled , and her eyesight was clouded by cataracts . Through early January , she felt " weak and unwell " , and by mid - January she was " drowsy   ... dazed , [ and ] confused " . She died on 22 January 1901 , at half past six in the evening , at the age of 81 . Her eldest son , Albert Edward , succeeded her as Edward   VII . Edward and his nephew Wilhelm   II were at Victoria ' s deathbed . Her favourite pet Pomeranian , Turi , was laid upon her deathbed as a last request .	How were you feeling in early January?	In early January, I felt weak and unwell.
During Victoria ' s first pregnancy in 1840 , in the first few months of the marriage , 18 - year - old Edward Oxford attempted to assassinate her while she was riding in a carriage with Prince Albert on her way to visit her mother . Oxford fired twice , but either both bullets missed or , as he later claimed , the guns had no shot . He was tried for high treason , found not guilty by reason of insanity , committed to an insane asylum indefinitely , and later sent to live in Australia . In the immediate aftermath of the attack , Victoria ' s popularity soared , mitigating residual discontent over the Hastings affair and the bedchamber crisis . Her daughter , also named Victoria , was born on 21 November 1840 . The Queen hated being pregnant , viewed breast - feeding with disgust , and thought newborn babies were ugly . Nevertheless , over the following seventeen years , she and Albert had a further eight children : Albert Edward ( b . 1841 ) , Alice ( b . 1843 ) , Alfred ( b . 1844 ) , Helena ( b . 1846 ) , Louise ( b . 1848 ) , Arthur ( b . 1850 ) , Leopold ( b . 1853 ) and Beatrice ( b . 1857 ) .	Did you enjoy being pregnant and having newborn babies?	No, I hated being pregnant, viewed breastfeeding with disgust, and thought newborn babies were ugly.
On 17 March 1883 , Victoria fell down some stairs at Windsor , which left her lame until July ; she never fully recovered and was plagued with rheumatism thereafter . John Brown died 10 days after her accident , and to the consternation of her private secretary , Sir Henry Ponsonby , Victoria began work on a eulogistic biography of Brown . Ponsonby and Randall Davidson , Dean of Windsor , who had both seen early drafts , advised Victoria against publication , on the grounds that it would stoke the rumours of a love affair . The manuscript was destroyed . In early 1884 , Victoria did publish More Leaves from a Journal of a Life in the Highlands , a sequel to her earlier book , which she dedicated to her " devoted personal attendant and faithful friend John Brown " . On the day after the first anniversary of Brown ' s death , Victoria was informed by telegram that her youngest son , Leopold , had died in Cannes . He was " the dearest of my dear sons " , she lamented . The following month , Victoria ' s youngest child , Beatrice , met and fell in love with Prince Henry of Battenberg at the wedding of Victoria ' s granddaughter Princess Victoria of Hesse and by Rhine to Henry ' s brother Prince Louis of Battenberg . Beatrice and Henry planned to marry , but Victoria opposed the match at first , wishing to keep Beatrice at home to act as her companion . After a year , she was won around to the marriage by their promise to remain living with and attending her .	How long were you lame after the fall?	Until July.
On 29 May 1842 , Victoria was riding in a carriage along The Mall , London , when John Francis aimed a pistol at her , but the gun did not fire . The assailant escaped ; the following day , Victoria drove the same route , though faster and with a greater escort , in a deliberate attempt to bait Francis into taking a second aim and catch him in the act . As expected , Francis shot at her , but he was seized by plainclothes policemen , and convicted of high treason . On 3   July , two days after Francis ' s death sentence was commuted to transportation for life , John William Bean also tried to fire a pistol at the Queen , but it was loaded only with paper and tobacco and had too little charge . Edward Oxford felt that the attempts were encouraged by his acquittal in 1840 . Bean was sentenced to 18 months in jail . In a similar attack in 1849 , unemployed Irishman William Hamilton fired a powder - filled pistol at Victoria ' s carriage as it passed along Constitution Hill , London . In 1850 , the Queen did sustain injury when she was assaulted by a possibly insane ex - army officer , Robert Pate . As Victoria was riding in a carriage , Pate struck her with his cane , crushing her bonnet and bruising her forehead . Both Hamilton and Pate were sentenced to seven years ' transportation .	How did you try to catch John Francis in the act during the second assassination attempt?	I drove the same route, but faster and with a greater escort.
Victoria turned 18 on 24 May 1837 , and a regency was avoided . Less than a month later , on 20 June 1837 , William IV died at the age of 71 , and Victoria became Queen of the United Kingdom . [ c ] In her diary she wrote , " I was awoke at 6   o ' clock by Mamma , who told me the Archbishop of Canterbury and Lord Conyngham were here and wished to see me . I got out of bed and went into my sitting - room ( only in my dressing gown ) and alone , and saw them . Lord Conyngham then acquainted me that my poor Uncle , the King , was no more , and had expired at 12 minutes past 2   this morning , and consequently that I am Queen . " Official documents prepared on the first day of her reign described her as Alexandrina Victoria , but the first name was withdrawn at her own wish and not used again .	When did William IV die?	William IV died on 20 June 1837.
In March 1861 , Victoria ' s mother died , with Victoria at her side . Through reading her mother ' s papers , Victoria discovered that her mother had loved her deeply ; she was heart - broken , and blamed Conroy and Lehzen for " wickedly " estranging her from her mother . To relieve his wife during her intense and deep grief , Albert took on most of her duties , despite being ill himself with chronic stomach trouble . In August , Victoria and Albert visited their son , Albert Edward , Prince of Wales , who was attending army manoeuvres near Dublin , and spent a few days holidaying in Killarney . In November , Albert was made aware of gossip that his son had slept with an actress in Ireland . Appalled , he travelled to Cambridge , where his son was studying , to confront him .	In what month did your mother die?	March.
Victoria was stout , dowdy and about five feet ( 1.5 metres ) tall , but projected a grand image . She was unpopular during the first years of her widowhood , but was well liked during the 1880s and 1890s , when she embodied the empire as a benevolent matriarchal figure . Only after the release of her diary and letters did the extent of her political influence become known to the wider public . Biographies of Victoria written before much of the primary material became available , such as Lytton Strachey ' s Queen Victoria of 1921 , are now considered out of date . The biographies written by Elizabeth Longford and Cecil Woodham - Smith , in 1964 and 1972 respectively , are still widely admired . They , and others , conclude that as a person Victoria was emotional , obstinate , honest , and straight - talking .	When were you well liked and seen as a benevolent matriarchal figure?	I was well liked during the 1880s and 1890s.
In March 1861 , Victoria ' s mother died , with Victoria at her side . Through reading her mother ' s papers , Victoria discovered that her mother had loved her deeply ; she was heart - broken , and blamed Conroy and Lehzen for " wickedly " estranging her from her mother . To relieve his wife during her intense and deep grief , Albert took on most of her duties , despite being ill himself with chronic stomach trouble . In August , Victoria and Albert visited their son , Albert Edward , Prince of Wales , who was attending army manoeuvres near Dublin , and spent a few days holidaying in Killarney . In November , Albert was made aware of gossip that his son had slept with an actress in Ireland . Appalled , he travelled to Cambridge , where his son was studying , to confront him .	Why did you travel to Cambridge in November?	To confront my son about the gossip that he had slept with an actress in Ireland.
According to one of her biographers , Giles St Aubyn , Victoria wrote an average of 2 , 500 words a day during her adult life . From July 1832 until just before her death , she kept a detailed journal , which eventually encompassed 122 volumes . After Victoria ' s death , her youngest daughter , Princess Beatrice , was appointed her literary executor . Beatrice transcribed and edited the diaries covering Victoria ' s accession onwards , and burned the originals in the process . Despite this destruction , much of the diaries still exist . In addition to Beatrice ' s edited copy , Lord Esher transcribed the volumes from 1832 to 1861 before Beatrice destroyed them . Part of Victoria ' s extensive correspondence has been published in volumes edited by A . C . Benson , Hector Bolitho , George Earle Buckle , Lord Esher , Roger Fulford , and Richard Hough among others .	Who transcribed the volumes from 1832 to 1861 before you destroyed them?	Lord Esher transcribed the volumes from 1832 to 1861 before I destroyed them.
Victoria was stout , dowdy and about five feet ( 1.5 metres ) tall , but projected a grand image . She was unpopular during the first years of her widowhood , but was well liked during the 1880s and 1890s , when she embodied the empire as a benevolent matriarchal figure . Only after the release of her diary and letters did the extent of her political influence become known to the wider public . Biographies of Victoria written before much of the primary material became available , such as Lytton Strachey ' s Queen Victoria of 1921 , are now considered out of date . The biographies written by Elizabeth Longford and Cecil Woodham - Smith , in 1964 and 1972 respectively , are still widely admired . They , and others , conclude that as a person Victoria was emotional , obstinate , honest , and straight - talking .	How were you perceived during the first years of your widowhood?	I was unpopular during the first years of my widowhood.
In March 1861 , Victoria ' s mother died , with Victoria at her side . Through reading her mother ' s papers , Victoria discovered that her mother had loved her deeply ; she was heart - broken , and blamed Conroy and Lehzen for " wickedly " estranging her from her mother . To relieve his wife during her intense and deep grief , Albert took on most of her duties , despite being ill himself with chronic stomach trouble . In August , Victoria and Albert visited their son , Albert Edward , Prince of Wales , who was attending army manoeuvres near Dublin , and spent a few days holidaying in Killarney . In November , Albert was made aware of gossip that his son had slept with an actress in Ireland . Appalled , he travelled to Cambridge , where his son was studying , to confront him .	What did you do to relieve your wife during her intense grief?	I took on most of her duties.
In 1897 , Victoria had written instructions for her funeral , which was to be military as befitting a soldier ' s daughter and the head of the army , and white instead of black . On 25 January , her sons Edward and Arthur and her grandson Wilhelm helped lift her body into the coffin . She was dressed in a white dress and her wedding veil . An array of mementos commemorating her extended family , friends and servants were laid in the coffin with her , at her request , by her doctor and dressers . One of Albert ' s dressing gowns was placed by her side , with a plaster cast of his hand , while a lock of John Brown ' s hair , along with a picture of him , was placed in her left hand concealed from the view of the family by a carefully positioned bunch of flowers . Items of jewellery placed on Victoria included the wedding ring of John Brown ' s mother , given to her by Brown in 1883 . Her funeral was held on Saturday 2   February , in St George ' s Chapel , Windsor Castle , and after two days of lying - in - state , she was interred beside Prince Albert in the Royal Mausoleum , Frogmore , at Windsor Great Park .	What was placed beside you in the coffin?	One of Albert's dressing gowns was placed by my side, with a plaster cast of his hand.
