During the late 2000s , Rihanna experimented further with pop , dubstep , and rock music , officially shifting her musical style and image away from the Barbados island girl . Throughout 2008 , Rihanna performed on the Glow in the Dark Tour alongside Kanye West , Lupe Fiasco , and N . E . R . D . Her third studio album ' s reissue , Good Girl Gone Bad : Reloaded , was released in June 2008 with three new songs : " Disturbia " , " Take a Bow " and the Maroon 5 duet " If I Never See Your Face Again " , plus a Spanglish version of " Hate That I Love You " featuring Spanish pop singer David Bisbal . All four were released as singles and charted highly , reaching peak positions worldwide . In August 2008 , Rihanna and a host of other female singers recorded the charity single " Just Stand Up ! " , the theme song to the anti - cancer campaign Stand Up to Cancer . " Live Your Life " , a duet between T . I . and Rihanna , was released that November and topped the Billboard Hot 100 .	Which new songs were included in the reissue of your third studio album?	The reissue of my third studio album included three new songs: "Disturbia", "Take a Bow", and the Maroon 5 duet "If I Never See Your Face Again".
During the late 2000s , Rihanna experimented further with pop , dubstep , and rock music , officially shifting her musical style and image away from the Barbados island girl . Throughout 2008 , Rihanna performed on the Glow in the Dark Tour alongside Kanye West , Lupe Fiasco , and N . E . R . D . Her third studio album ' s reissue , Good Girl Gone Bad : Reloaded , was released in June 2008 with three new songs : " Disturbia " , " Take a Bow " and the Maroon 5 duet " If I Never See Your Face Again " , plus a Spanglish version of " Hate That I Love You " featuring Spanish pop singer David Bisbal . All four were released as singles and charted highly , reaching peak positions worldwide . In August 2008 , Rihanna and a host of other female singers recorded the charity single " Just Stand Up ! " , the theme song to the anti - cancer campaign Stand Up to Cancer . " Live Your Life " , a duet between T . I . and Rihanna , was released that November and topped the Billboard Hot 100 .	What genres did you experiment with during the late 2000s?	I experimented with pop, dubstep, and rock music during the late 2000s.
In February 2013 , at the 55th Grammy Awards , Rihanna won her sixth Grammy Award , in the category Best Short Form Music Video for " We Found Love " ( 2011 ) . Also that month , the United Kingdom ' s Official Charts Company announced that Rihanna had sold 3 , 868 , 000 records in the past year in the country , ranking at No . 1 in the list of 2013 BRIT Awards artist nominees . Rihanna ' s fifth headlining concert tour , the Diamonds World Tour , began in March 2013 , in support of Unapologetic . Rihanna then appeared in the Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg comedy film This Is the End , which was released in June 2013 . That same month , American hip hop artist Wale released a remixed version of his single " Bad " featuring Rihanna . In October 2013 , Eminem released his Rihanna - assisted single , " The Monster " , as the fourth release from his eighth studio album The Marshall Mathers LP 2 ( 2013 ) .	When did you win your sixth Grammy Award?	In February 2013.
During the late 2000s , Rihanna experimented further with pop , dubstep , and rock music , officially shifting her musical style and image away from the Barbados island girl . Throughout 2008 , Rihanna performed on the Glow in the Dark Tour alongside Kanye West , Lupe Fiasco , and N . E . R . D . Her third studio album ' s reissue , Good Girl Gone Bad : Reloaded , was released in June 2008 with three new songs : " Disturbia " , " Take a Bow " and the Maroon 5 duet " If I Never See Your Face Again " , plus a Spanglish version of " Hate That I Love You " featuring Spanish pop singer David Bisbal . All four were released as singles and charted highly , reaching peak positions worldwide . In August 2008 , Rihanna and a host of other female singers recorded the charity single " Just Stand Up ! " , the theme song to the anti - cancer campaign Stand Up to Cancer . " Live Your Life " , a duet between T . I . and Rihanna , was released that November and topped the Billboard Hot 100 .	Who did you perform with on the Glow in the Dark Tour in 2008?	I performed on the Glow in the Dark Tour alongside Kanye West, Lupe Fiasco, and N.E.R.D.
The lead single , " Umbrella " , topped the charts in 13 countries and remained at No . 1 in the UK for 10 consecutive weeks , the longest - running No . 1 single there since Wet Wet Wet ' s single " Love Is All Around " spent 15 weeks at the top in 1994 . It was Rihanna ' s first single to be named one of the best - selling singles worldwide , with sales of over 8   million copies . The songs " Shut Up and Drive " , " Hate That I Love You " ( featuring Ne - Yo ) , and " Don ' t Stop the Music " were also released as singles , with the latter becoming an international hit . In support of the album , Rihanna began the Good Girl Gone Bad Tour in September 2007 , with 80 shows across the US , Canada , and Europe . Rihanna was nominated for several 2008 Grammy Awards for Good Girl Gone Bad , winning Best Rap / Sung Collaboration for " Umbrella " alongside Jay - Z , her first Grammy Award .	How many consecutive weeks did "Umbrella" remain at No. 1 in the UK?	"Umbrella" remained at No. 1 in the UK for 10 consecutive weeks.
In October 2017 , Shakka revealed that he was working with Rihanna on her " absolutely insane " album . In December 2018 , Rihanna confirmed that the album would be released in 2019 , and later announced that it is a reggae project . In August 2019 , fans noticed that Rihanna and co - songwriters Collin Edwards , Monique Lawrence , and Alexander Ogunmokun registered a song titled " Private Loving " with the music publishing organization BMI . [ n 2 ] In September 2019 , it was announced she had signed with Sony / ATV Music Publishing . In December 2019 , Rihanna alluded to her album being complete and indefinitely withholding the release date in an Instagram post . She was next featured on Canadian singer PartyNextDoor ' s song " Believe It " , which was released on March 27 , 2020 . On September 25 , 2022 , Rihanna announced that she would be headlining the Super Bowl LVII halftime show , which marked her first live performance in over five years , and the end of her previously self - imposed boycott of the event , which she instigated in solidarity with Colin Kaepernick . The show was critically acclaimed . It was initially reported that the performance gained a total of 118.7 million viewers across TV and digital platforms ,	What genre did you announce your album to be?	A reggae project.
The lead single , " Umbrella " , topped the charts in 13 countries and remained at No . 1 in the UK for 10 consecutive weeks , the longest - running No . 1 single there since Wet Wet Wet ' s single " Love Is All Around " spent 15 weeks at the top in 1994 . It was Rihanna ' s first single to be named one of the best - selling singles worldwide , with sales of over 8   million copies . The songs " Shut Up and Drive " , " Hate That I Love You " ( featuring Ne - Yo ) , and " Don ' t Stop the Music " were also released as singles , with the latter becoming an international hit . In support of the album , Rihanna began the Good Girl Gone Bad Tour in September 2007 , with 80 shows across the US , Canada , and Europe . Rihanna was nominated for several 2008 Grammy Awards for Good Girl Gone Bad , winning Best Rap / Sung Collaboration for " Umbrella " alongside Jay - Z , her first Grammy Award .	Which song spent 15 weeks at the top of the UK charts in 1994?	Wet Wet Wet's single "Love Is All Around" spent 15 weeks at the top of the UK charts in 1994.
Rihanna released several collaborations in 2017 . First she was the featured part in Future ' s " Selfish " , the lead single from the rapper ' s sixth studio album , Hndrxx . Summer 2017 saw the release of Rihanna ' s collaborations with record producer DJ Khaled , " Wild Thoughts " , which also featured Bryson Tiller and was a worldwide success , and Kendrick Lamar ' s single , " Loyalty " , which earned Rihanna her ninth Grammy Award at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards . In November 2017 , Rihanna was part of N . E . R . D ' s comeback single " Lemon " from the band ' s album No One Ever Really Dies .	Which band did you collaborate with for their comeback single in November 2017?	I collaborated with N.E.R.D for their comeback single "Lemon" from their album No One Ever Really Dies.
Rihanna released several collaborations in 2017 . First she was the featured part in Future ' s " Selfish " , the lead single from the rapper ' s sixth studio album , Hndrxx . Summer 2017 saw the release of Rihanna ' s collaborations with record producer DJ Khaled , " Wild Thoughts " , which also featured Bryson Tiller and was a worldwide success , and Kendrick Lamar ' s single , " Loyalty " , which earned Rihanna her ninth Grammy Award at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards . In November 2017 , Rihanna was part of N . E . R . D ' s comeback single " Lemon " from the band ' s album No One Ever Really Dies .	Who did you collaborate with for the lead single from Future's sixth studio album?	I collaborated with Future for the lead single "Selfish" from his album Hndrxx.
Rihanna has an honorary title of Ambassador for Culture and Youth in Barbados . On February 22 , 2008 , former Barbados Prime Minister David Thompson launched the national " Rihanna Day " in their country . Although it is not a bank holiday , Barbadians celebrate it every year in honor of Rihanna . In February 2017 , Rihanna was named Harvard University ' s " Humanitarian of the Year " by the Harvard Foundation . During Rihanna ' s third annual " Diamond Ball " , former U . S . president Barack Obama , praised Rihanna ' s work and stated : " [ She ' s ] become a powerful force in the fight to give people dignity . " On September 20 , 2018 , Rihanna was appointed by the government of Barbados to be an Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary , with special duties of promoting " education , tourism and investment for the island . " As of 2021 , Rihanna is the world ' s wealthiest female musician with an estimated net worth of $ 1.7 billion . She was also listed among Forbes ' Top 100 Most Powerful Women of 2019 . In 2020 , she debuted on the Sunday Times Rich List , claiming third place on the list of Britain ' s richest musicians .	What honorary title do you have in Barbados?	I have the honorary title of Ambassador for Culture and Youth in Barbados.
A month after the release of her debut album , Rihanna began working on her second studio album . A Girl like Me was released in April 2006 . Rolling Stone felt that " the burning rock guitar " and haunted strings of some of the album ' s tracks made " A Girl like Me [ ... ] likable . " The album was a commercial success , charting in the top 10 in 13 countries . The album reached No . 1 in Canada and No . 5 in the United Kingdom and the United States , where it sold 115 , 000 copies in its first week . The album became Rihanna ' s first to be certified Platinum by the RIAA , after selling over 1 , 000 , 000 units . Its lead single , " SOS " , was an international success , charting in the top five in 11 countries . The song reached No . 1 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and in Australia , her first to reach this chart position . " Unfaithful " , the album ' s second single , reached the top 10 in 18 countries , including No . 1 in Canada and Switzerland . Two more singles were released from the album : " We Ride " and " Break It Off " .	When did you release your second studio album?	A Girl like Me was released in April 2006.
Rihanna released several collaborations in 2017 . First she was the featured part in Future ' s " Selfish " , the lead single from the rapper ' s sixth studio album , Hndrxx . Summer 2017 saw the release of Rihanna ' s collaborations with record producer DJ Khaled , " Wild Thoughts " , which also featured Bryson Tiller and was a worldwide success , and Kendrick Lamar ' s single , " Loyalty " , which earned Rihanna her ninth Grammy Award at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards . In November 2017 , Rihanna was part of N . E . R . D ' s comeback single " Lemon " from the band ' s album No One Ever Really Dies .	How many Grammy Awards did you win for your collaboration with Kendrick Lamar?	I won my ninth Grammy Award for my collaboration with Kendrick Lamar on the single "Loyalty" at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards.
Rihanna ' s seventh studio album , Unapologetic , was released in November 2012 . In the United States , the album debuted at No . 1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart , marking Rihanna ' s first No . 1 album in the country . The lead single from the album , " Diamonds " , reached No . 1 in more than 20 countries worldwide , including on the US Billboard Hot 100 , where it became Rihanna ' s 12 No . 1 on the chart . The album ' s second single , " Stay " , featuring Mikky Ekko , reached the top five in over twenty countries , including No . 3 on the Billboard Hot 100 . As promotion prior to the album ' s release , Rihanna embarked on the 777 Tour , a mini tour of seven shows in seven countries in seven days . On May 6 , 2013 , Fox aired a documentary about the tour , with a documentary DVD being released the following day as Rihanna ' s third live long - form video release .	Which song from your album reached No. 1 in more than 20 countries worldwide, including the US Billboard Hot 100?	The lead single from my album, "Diamonds", reached No. 1 in more than 20 countries worldwide, including the US Billboard Hot 100.
Rihanna released several collaborations in 2017 . First she was the featured part in Future ' s " Selfish " , the lead single from the rapper ' s sixth studio album , Hndrxx . Summer 2017 saw the release of Rihanna ' s collaborations with record producer DJ Khaled , " Wild Thoughts " , which also featured Bryson Tiller and was a worldwide success , and Kendrick Lamar ' s single , " Loyalty " , which earned Rihanna her ninth Grammy Award at the 60th Annual Grammy Awards . In November 2017 , Rihanna was part of N . E . R . D ' s comeback single " Lemon " from the band ' s album No One Ever Really Dies .	Who were the other artists featured in the collaboration "Wild Thoughts" with DJ Khaled?	Bryson Tiller was also featured in the collaboration "Wild Thoughts" with DJ Khaled and me.
In February 2013 , at the 55th Grammy Awards , Rihanna won her sixth Grammy Award , in the category Best Short Form Music Video for " We Found Love " ( 2011 ) . Also that month , the United Kingdom ' s Official Charts Company announced that Rihanna had sold 3 , 868 , 000 records in the past year in the country , ranking at No . 1 in the list of 2013 BRIT Awards artist nominees . Rihanna ' s fifth headlining concert tour , the Diamonds World Tour , began in March 2013 , in support of Unapologetic . Rihanna then appeared in the Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg comedy film This Is the End , which was released in June 2013 . That same month , American hip hop artist Wale released a remixed version of his single " Bad " featuring Rihanna . In October 2013 , Eminem released his Rihanna - assisted single , " The Monster " , as the fourth release from his eighth studio album The Marshall Mathers LP 2 ( 2013 ) .	Which category did you win your sixth Grammy Award in?	Best Short Form Music Video.
Rihanna was also influenced by Janet Jackson , Aaliyah , Tupac , Beyonc é and Destiny ' s Child . Other musical influences and idols include Celine Dion , Grace Jones , Lil ' Kim , Alicia Keys , Prince , Fefe Dobson , and Brandy . Rihanna takes influence from the different types of music she discovered when she came to America and revealed that rock music was one of the first genres she fell in love with . She commented , " as I grow older , I want to know more about music . I want to discover more types of music " . She cited Brandy ' s fourth studio album , Afrodisiac ( 2004 ) , as her main inspiration for her third album , Good Girl Gone Bad ( 2007 ) . In her early career , her music contained strong influences of Caribbean music , including reggae and dancehall . The music video of the song " Rude Boy " featured images inspired by her Caribbean roots .	What types of music did you discover when you came to America?	I discovered different types of music when I came to America.
Rihanna has an honorary title of Ambassador for Culture and Youth in Barbados . On February 22 , 2008 , former Barbados Prime Minister David Thompson launched the national " Rihanna Day " in their country . Although it is not a bank holiday , Barbadians celebrate it every year in honor of Rihanna . In February 2017 , Rihanna was named Harvard University ' s " Humanitarian of the Year " by the Harvard Foundation . During Rihanna ' s third annual " Diamond Ball " , former U . S . president Barack Obama , praised Rihanna ' s work and stated : " [ She ' s ] become a powerful force in the fight to give people dignity . " On September 20 , 2018 , Rihanna was appointed by the government of Barbados to be an Ambassador Extraordinary and Plenipotentiary , with special duties of promoting " education , tourism and investment for the island . " As of 2021 , Rihanna is the world ' s wealthiest female musician with an estimated net worth of $ 1.7 billion . She was also listed among Forbes ' Top 100 Most Powerful Women of 2019 . In 2020 , she debuted on the Sunday Times Rich List , claiming third place on the list of Britain ' s richest musicians .	Who named you as "Humanitarian of the Year" in February 2017?	I was named "Humanitarian of the Year" by the Harvard Foundation.
Rihanna is a mezzo - soprano , with a range spanning from B2 to C ♯ 6 . While recording tracks for her third studio album , Good Girl Gone Bad ( 2007 ) , Rihanna took vocal lessons from Ne - Yo . She said of the experience , " I ' ve never had vocal training , so when I ' m in the studio , he ' ll tell me how to breathe and stuff ... He ' ll call out these big fancy words : ' OK , I want you to do staccato . ' And I ' m like , ' OK , I don ' t know what that is . ' " Her vocal performance on Loud ( 2010 ) received positive reviews from music critics . James Skinner from BBC praised Rihanna ' s vocals on the song " Love the Way You Lie ( Part II ) " and wrote that her voice is powerful and that " it is Rihanna ' s vocal   – at once commanding , soulful and vulnerable   – that anchors the song , and Loud itself " . Andy Gill from The Independent feels that " California King Bed " features her best vocal performance . In a review of Unapologetic , Billboard magazine wrote , " Diamonds finds Rihanna doing one of her throatiest , most impassioned vocals to date , on this inspirational pop ballad . " Jon Caramanica of the New York Times stated , " over the years , as her game face froze in place , her voice cured into a weapon of emotional chill and strategic indifference . It ' s decidedly unfriendly , made to give orders " .	Which song on your "Loud" album was praised for its vocals?	My vocals on the song "Love the Way You Lie (Part II)" were highly praised by James Skinner from BBC.
Rihanna is a mezzo - soprano , with a range spanning from B2 to C ♯ 6 . While recording tracks for her third studio album , Good Girl Gone Bad ( 2007 ) , Rihanna took vocal lessons from Ne - Yo . She said of the experience , " I ' ve never had vocal training , so when I ' m in the studio , he ' ll tell me how to breathe and stuff ... He ' ll call out these big fancy words : ' OK , I want you to do staccato . ' And I ' m like , ' OK , I don ' t know what that is . ' " Her vocal performance on Loud ( 2010 ) received positive reviews from music critics . James Skinner from BBC praised Rihanna ' s vocals on the song " Love the Way You Lie ( Part II ) " and wrote that her voice is powerful and that " it is Rihanna ' s vocal   – at once commanding , soulful and vulnerable   – that anchors the song , and Loud itself " . Andy Gill from The Independent feels that " California King Bed " features her best vocal performance . In a review of Unapologetic , Billboard magazine wrote , " Diamonds finds Rihanna doing one of her throatiest , most impassioned vocals to date , on this inspirational pop ballad . " Jon Caramanica of the New York Times stated , " over the years , as her game face froze in place , her voice cured into a weapon of emotional chill and strategic indifference . It ' s decidedly unfriendly , made to give orders " .	Who did you take vocal lessons from while recording your third studio album?	I took vocal lessons from Ne-Yo while recording my third studio album.
A month after the release of her debut album , Rihanna began working on her second studio album . A Girl like Me was released in April 2006 . Rolling Stone felt that " the burning rock guitar " and haunted strings of some of the album ' s tracks made " A Girl like Me [ ... ] likable . " The album was a commercial success , charting in the top 10 in 13 countries . The album reached No . 1 in Canada and No . 5 in the United Kingdom and the United States , where it sold 115 , 000 copies in its first week . The album became Rihanna ' s first to be certified Platinum by the RIAA , after selling over 1 , 000 , 000 units . Its lead single , " SOS " , was an international success , charting in the top five in 11 countries . The song reached No . 1 on the US Billboard Hot 100 and in Australia , her first to reach this chart position . " Unfaithful " , the album ' s second single , reached the top 10 in 18 countries , including No . 1 in Canada and Switzerland . Two more singles were released from the album : " We Ride " and " Break It Off " .	How many copies of "A Girl like Me" were sold in the United States in your first week?	115,000 copies were sold in the United States in my album's first week.
Rihanna ' s seventh studio album , Unapologetic , was released in November 2012 . In the United States , the album debuted at No . 1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart , marking Rihanna ' s first No . 1 album in the country . The lead single from the album , " Diamonds " , reached No . 1 in more than 20 countries worldwide , including on the US Billboard Hot 100 , where it became Rihanna ' s 12 No . 1 on the chart . The album ' s second single , " Stay " , featuring Mikky Ekko , reached the top five in over twenty countries , including No . 3 on the Billboard Hot 100 . As promotion prior to the album ' s release , Rihanna embarked on the 777 Tour , a mini tour of seven shows in seven countries in seven days . On May 6 , 2013 , Fox aired a documentary about the tour , with a documentary DVD being released the following day as Rihanna ' s third live long - form video release .	What was the highest position your second single from Unapologetic, "Stay", reached on the Billboard Hot 100?	My single "Stay", featuring Mikky Ekko, reached No. 3 on the Billboard Hot 100.
In February 2013 , at the 55th Grammy Awards , Rihanna won her sixth Grammy Award , in the category Best Short Form Music Video for " We Found Love " ( 2011 ) . Also that month , the United Kingdom ' s Official Charts Company announced that Rihanna had sold 3 , 868 , 000 records in the past year in the country , ranking at No . 1 in the list of 2013 BRIT Awards artist nominees . Rihanna ' s fifth headlining concert tour , the Diamonds World Tour , began in March 2013 , in support of Unapologetic . Rihanna then appeared in the Seth Rogen and Evan Goldberg comedy film This Is the End , which was released in June 2013 . That same month , American hip hop artist Wale released a remixed version of his single " Bad " featuring Rihanna . In October 2013 , Eminem released his Rihanna - assisted single , " The Monster " , as the fourth release from his eighth studio album The Marshall Mathers LP 2 ( 2013 ) .	How many records did you sell in the past year in the United Kingdom?	3,868,000 records.
Rihanna is a mezzo - soprano , with a range spanning from B2 to C ♯ 6 . While recording tracks for her third studio album , Good Girl Gone Bad ( 2007 ) , Rihanna took vocal lessons from Ne - Yo . She said of the experience , " I ' ve never had vocal training , so when I ' m in the studio , he ' ll tell me how to breathe and stuff ... He ' ll call out these big fancy words : ' OK , I want you to do staccato . ' And I ' m like , ' OK , I don ' t know what that is . ' " Her vocal performance on Loud ( 2010 ) received positive reviews from music critics . James Skinner from BBC praised Rihanna ' s vocals on the song " Love the Way You Lie ( Part II ) " and wrote that her voice is powerful and that " it is Rihanna ' s vocal   – at once commanding , soulful and vulnerable   – that anchors the song , and Loud itself " . Andy Gill from The Independent feels that " California King Bed " features her best vocal performance . In a review of Unapologetic , Billboard magazine wrote , " Diamonds finds Rihanna doing one of her throatiest , most impassioned vocals to date , on this inspirational pop ballad . " Jon Caramanica of the New York Times stated , " over the years , as her game face froze in place , her voice cured into a weapon of emotional chill and strategic indifference . It ' s decidedly unfriendly , made to give orders " .	How did Billboard magazine describe your vocals in the song "Diamonds"?	Billboard magazine described my vocals in "Diamonds" as one of my throatiest and most impassioned performances to date.
Rihanna ' s seventh studio album , Unapologetic , was released in November 2012 . In the United States , the album debuted at No . 1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart , marking Rihanna ' s first No . 1 album in the country . The lead single from the album , " Diamonds " , reached No . 1 in more than 20 countries worldwide , including on the US Billboard Hot 100 , where it became Rihanna ' s 12 No . 1 on the chart . The album ' s second single , " Stay " , featuring Mikky Ekko , reached the top five in over twenty countries , including No . 3 on the Billboard Hot 100 . As promotion prior to the album ' s release , Rihanna embarked on the 777 Tour , a mini tour of seven shows in seven countries in seven days . On May 6 , 2013 , Fox aired a documentary about the tour , with a documentary DVD being released the following day as Rihanna ' s third live long - form video release .	How many No. 1 albums did you have in the country prior to Unapologetic?	Unapologetic became my first No. 1 album in the United States.
Rihanna ' s seventh studio album , Unapologetic , was released in November 2012 . In the United States , the album debuted at No . 1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart , marking Rihanna ' s first No . 1 album in the country . The lead single from the album , " Diamonds " , reached No . 1 in more than 20 countries worldwide , including on the US Billboard Hot 100 , where it became Rihanna ' s 12 No . 1 on the chart . The album ' s second single , " Stay " , featuring Mikky Ekko , reached the top five in over twenty countries , including No . 3 on the Billboard Hot 100 . As promotion prior to the album ' s release , Rihanna embarked on the 777 Tour , a mini tour of seven shows in seven countries in seven days . On May 6 , 2013 , Fox aired a documentary about the tour , with a documentary DVD being released the following day as Rihanna ' s third live long - form video release .	What was your album Unapologetic's debut position on the Billboard 200 albums chart in the United States?	My album Unapologetic debuted at No. 1 on the Billboard 200 albums chart in the United States.
