Years after the films , Janet Hirshenson revealed in an interview that Williams had expressed interest in portraying Rubeus Hagrid in the Harry Potter film series , but was rejected by director Chris Columbus due to the " British - only edict " . In 2006 , he starred in five movies , including Man of the Year , a political satire , and The Night Listener , a thriller about a radio show host who realizes that a child with whom he has developed a friendship may not exist . Four films starring Williams were released after his death in 2014 : Night at the Museum : Secret of the Tomb , A Merry Friggin ' Christmas , Boulevard , and Absolutely Anything .	In which year did you star in five movies including Man of the Year and The Night Listener?	In 2006.
His first major break came from his starring role in director Barry Levinson ' s Good Morning , Vietnam ( 1987 ) , which earned Williams a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actor . The film is set in 1965 during the Vietnam War , with Williams playing the role of Adrian Cronauer , a radio shock jock who keeps the troops entertained with comedy and sarcasm . Williams was allowed to play the role without a script , improvising most of his lines . Over the microphone , he created voice impressions of people , including Walter Cronkite , Gomer Pyle , Elvis Presley , Mr . Ed , and Richard Nixon . " We just let the cameras roll " , said producer Mark Johnson , and Williams " managed to create something new for every single take " .	What award nomination did you receive for your role in Good Morning, Vietnam?	I received a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actor for my role in Good Morning, Vietnam.
Years after the films , Janet Hirshenson revealed in an interview that Williams had expressed interest in portraying Rubeus Hagrid in the Harry Potter film series , but was rejected by director Chris Columbus due to the " British - only edict " . In 2006 , he starred in five movies , including Man of the Year , a political satire , and The Night Listener , a thriller about a radio show host who realizes that a child with whom he has developed a friendship may not exist . Four films starring Williams were released after his death in 2014 : Night at the Museum : Secret of the Tomb , A Merry Friggin ' Christmas , Boulevard , and Absolutely Anything .	How many films starring you were released after your death in 2014?	Four films.
His publicist , Mara Buxbaum , commented that he had severe depression before his death . His wife , Susan Schneider , said that in the period before his death , Williams had been sober , but was diagnosed with early - stage Parkinson ' s disease , which was information he was " not yet ready to share publicly " . An autopsy revealed that Williams had diffuse Lewy bodies ( which had been misdiagnosed as Parkinson ' s ) and this may have contributed to his depression .	What did your publicist say about your mental health before your death?	My publicist, Mara Buxbaum, commented that I had severe depression before my death.
While Williams voiced characters in several animated films , his voice role as the Genie in the animated musical Aladdin ( 1992 ) was written for him . The film ' s directors said they had taken a risk by writing the role . At first , Williams refused the role since it was a Disney movie , and he did not want the studio profiting by selling merchandise based on the movie . He accepted the role with certain conditions : " I ' m doing it basically because I want to be part of this animation tradition . I want something for my children . One deal is , I just don ' t want to sell anything — as in Burger King , as in toys , as in stuff . " Williams improvised much of his dialogue , recording approximately 30 hours of tape , and impersonated dozens of celebrities , including Ed Sullivan , Jack Nicholson , Robert De Niro , Groucho Marx , Rodney Dangerfield , William F . Buckley Jr . , Peter Lorre , Arnold Schwarzenegger , and Arsenio Hall . His role in Aladdin became one of his most recognized and best - loved , and the film was the highest - grossing of 1992 ; it won numerous awards , including a Special Golden Globe Award for Vocal Work in a Motion Picture for Williams . His performance paved the way for other animated films to incorporate actors with more star power . He was named a Disney Legend in 2009 .	What were the conditions that you had before accepting the role of the Genie in Aladdin?	I had a condition that I didn't want to sell anything associated with the movie, such as Burger King merchandise or toys.
Many of his subsequent roles were in comedies tinged with pathos , such as Mrs . Doubtfire and Patch Adams . Looking over most of his filmography , one writer was " struck by the breadth " and radical diversity of most of the roles Williams portrayed . In 1989 , Williams played a private - school English teacher in Dead Poets Society , which included a final , emotional scene that some critics said " inspired a generation " and became a part of pop culture . Similarly , his performance as a therapist in Good Will Hunting ( 1997 ) deeply affected even some real therapists . In Awakenings ( 1990 ) , Williams plays a doctor modeled after Oliver Sacks , who wrote the book on which the film is based . Sacks later said the way the actor ' s mind worked was a " form of genius " . In 1991 , he played an adult Peter Pan in the film Hook , although he had said he would have to lose 25 pounds for the role . Terry Gilliam , who directed Williams in two of his films , The Fisher King ( 1991 ) and The Adventures of Baron Munchausen ( 1988 ) , said in 1992 that Williams had the ability to " go from manic to mad to tender and vulnerable   ... [ Williams had ] the most unique mind on the planet . There ' s nobody like him out there . "	What are some of the films that you acted in?	Mrs. Doubtfire, Patch Adams, Dead Poets Society, Good Will Hunting, Awakenings, Hook, The Fisher King, The Adventures of Baron Munchausen.
Williams was found dead in his home in Paradise Cay , California , on August 11 , 2014 . The final autopsy report , released in November 2014 , concluded that Williams ' death was a suicide resulting from " asphyxia due to hanging " . Neither alcohol nor illegal drugs were involved , and prescription drugs present in his body were at therapeutic levels . The report also noted that Williams had depression and anxiety . An examination of his brain tissue suggested Williams had " diffuse Lewy body dementia " . Describing the disease as " the terrorist inside my husband ' s brain " , his widow Susan Schneider Williams said that " however you look at it — the presence of Lewy bodies took his life " , referring to his previous diagnosis of Parkinson ' s . She also revealed that in the year before his death , Williams had experienced a sudden and prolonged spike in fear and anxiety , depression , and insomnia , which worsened in severity to include memory loss , paranoia , and delusions . She noted " how we as a culture don ' t have the vocabulary to discuss brain disease in the way we do about depression . Depression is a symptom of LBD and it ' s not about psychology – it ' s rooted in neurology . His brain was falling apart . " Medical experts struggled to determine a cause , and eventually diagnosed him with Parkinson ' s disease .	When and where were you found dead?	I was found dead in my home in Paradise Cay, California, on August 11, 2014.
His publicist , Mara Buxbaum , commented that he had severe depression before his death . His wife , Susan Schneider , said that in the period before his death , Williams had been sober , but was diagnosed with early - stage Parkinson ' s disease , which was information he was " not yet ready to share publicly " . An autopsy revealed that Williams had diffuse Lewy bodies ( which had been misdiagnosed as Parkinson ' s ) and this may have contributed to his depression .	What did the autopsy reveal about your condition?	The autopsy revealed that I had diffuse Lewy bodies, which had been misdiagnosed as Parkinson's, and this may have contributed to my depression.
Mork became popular , featured on posters , coloring books , lunch - boxes , and other merchandise . Mork & Mindy was such a success in its first season that Williams appeared on the March 12 , 1979 , cover of Time magazine . The cover photo , taken by Michael Dressler in 1979 , is said to have " [ captured ] his different sides : the funnyman mugging for the camera , and a sweet , more thoughtful pose that appears on a small TV he holds in his hands " according to Mary Forgione of the Los Angeles Times . This photo was installed in the National Portrait Gallery in the Smithsonian Institution shortly after his death to allow visitors to pay their respects . Williams also appeared on the cover of the August 23 , 1979 , issue of Rolling Stone , photographed by Richard Avedon .	What did the cover photo capture about you?	The cover photo captured different sides of me, including the funnyman mugging for the camera and a sweet, more thoughtful pose that appears on a small TV I hold in my hands.
His publicist , Mara Buxbaum , commented that he had severe depression before his death . His wife , Susan Schneider , said that in the period before his death , Williams had been sober , but was diagnosed with early - stage Parkinson ' s disease , which was information he was " not yet ready to share publicly " . An autopsy revealed that Williams had diffuse Lewy bodies ( which had been misdiagnosed as Parkinson ' s ) and this may have contributed to his depression .	What did you say about your sobriety before your death?	I said that in the period before my death, I had been sober.
Mork became popular , featured on posters , coloring books , lunch - boxes , and other merchandise . Mork & Mindy was such a success in its first season that Williams appeared on the March 12 , 1979 , cover of Time magazine . The cover photo , taken by Michael Dressler in 1979 , is said to have " [ captured ] his different sides : the funnyman mugging for the camera , and a sweet , more thoughtful pose that appears on a small TV he holds in his hands " according to Mary Forgione of the Los Angeles Times . This photo was installed in the National Portrait Gallery in the Smithsonian Institution shortly after his death to allow visitors to pay their respects . Williams also appeared on the cover of the August 23 , 1979 , issue of Rolling Stone , photographed by Richard Avedon .	What made you popular?	I became popular due to being featured on posters, coloring books, lunch-boxes, and other merchandise.
Williams ' performances garnered him various accolades , including an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role in Good Will Hunting ; as well as two previous Academy Award nominations , for Dead Poets Society , and as a troubled homeless man in The Fisher King , respectively . Among the actors who helped him during his acting career , he credited Robert De Niro , from whom he learned the power of silence and economy of dialogue when acting . From Dustin Hoffman , with whom he co - starred in Hook , he learned to take on totally different character types , and to transform his characters by extreme preparation . Mike Medavoy , producer of Hook , told its director , Steven Spielberg , that he intentionally teamed up Hoffman and Williams for the film because he knew they wanted to work together , and that Williams welcomed the opportunity of working with Spielberg . Having Woody Allen , who directed him and Billy Crystal in Deconstructing Harry ( 1997 ) , helped Williams . Allen knew that Crystal and Williams had often worked together on stage .	Why did Mike Medavoy team me up with Hoffman for the film Hook?	Mike Medavoy teamed me up with Hoffman for the film Hook because he knew we wanted to work together and I welcomed the opportunity of working with Spielberg.
His publicist , Mara Buxbaum , commented that he had severe depression before his death . His wife , Susan Schneider , said that in the period before his death , Williams had been sober , but was diagnosed with early - stage Parkinson ' s disease , which was information he was " not yet ready to share publicly " . An autopsy revealed that Williams had diffuse Lewy bodies ( which had been misdiagnosed as Parkinson ' s ) and this may have contributed to his depression .	What was the reason for you not sharing the information about your Parkinson's disease publicly?	The reason for me not sharing the information about my Parkinson's disease publicly was because I wasn't ready to do so.
During the late 1970s and early 1980s , Williams had an addiction to cocaine . He was a casual friend of John Belushi , and the Saturday Night Live comic ' s death in 1982 from a drug overdose , which happened the morning after the two had partied together , along with the birth of his own son Zak , prompted him to quit drugs and alcohol : " Was it a wake - up call ? Oh yeah , on a huge level . The grand jury helped , too . " Williams later said of Belushi ' s death , " It sobered the shit out of me . " Williams turned to exercise and cycling to help alleviate his depression shortly after Belushi ' s death ; according to bicycle shop owner Tony Tom , Williams said , " cycling saved my life . "	When did you have an addiction to cocaine?	During the late 1970s and early 1980s.
During the late 1970s and early 1980s , Williams had an addiction to cocaine . He was a casual friend of John Belushi , and the Saturday Night Live comic ' s death in 1982 from a drug overdose , which happened the morning after the two had partied together , along with the birth of his own son Zak , prompted him to quit drugs and alcohol : " Was it a wake - up call ? Oh yeah , on a huge level . The grand jury helped , too . " Williams later said of Belushi ' s death , " It sobered the shit out of me . " Williams turned to exercise and cycling to help alleviate his depression shortly after Belushi ' s death ; according to bicycle shop owner Tony Tom , Williams said , " cycling saved my life . "	What did you turn to after Belushi's death to help alleviate your depression?	Exercise and cycling.
Mork became popular , featured on posters , coloring books , lunch - boxes , and other merchandise . Mork & Mindy was such a success in its first season that Williams appeared on the March 12 , 1979 , cover of Time magazine . The cover photo , taken by Michael Dressler in 1979 , is said to have " [ captured ] his different sides : the funnyman mugging for the camera , and a sweet , more thoughtful pose that appears on a small TV he holds in his hands " according to Mary Forgione of the Los Angeles Times . This photo was installed in the National Portrait Gallery in the Smithsonian Institution shortly after his death to allow visitors to pay their respects . Williams also appeared on the cover of the August 23 , 1979 , issue of Rolling Stone , photographed by Richard Avedon .	Where was the photo installed after your death?	The photo was installed in the National Portrait Gallery in the Smithsonian Institution shortly after my death.
During the late 1970s and early 1980s , Williams had an addiction to cocaine . He was a casual friend of John Belushi , and the Saturday Night Live comic ' s death in 1982 from a drug overdose , which happened the morning after the two had partied together , along with the birth of his own son Zak , prompted him to quit drugs and alcohol : " Was it a wake - up call ? Oh yeah , on a huge level . The grand jury helped , too . " Williams later said of Belushi ' s death , " It sobered the shit out of me . " Williams turned to exercise and cycling to help alleviate his depression shortly after Belushi ' s death ; according to bicycle shop owner Tony Tom , Williams said , " cycling saved my life . "	Who were you a casual friend of?	John Belushi.
During the 66th Primetime Emmy Awards on August 25 , 2014 , close friend and fellow comedian Billy Crystal presented a tribute to Williams , referring to him as " the brightest star in our comedy galaxy " . Afterwards , some of Williams ' s best comedy moments were shown , including his first ever The Tonight Show appearance , indicating his great life in making people laugh . Talk show hosts including David Letterman , Conan O ' Brien , Seth Meyers , Jimmy Kimmel , and Jimmy Fallon paid tribute to Williams on their respective shows .	How did Billy Crystal refer to you?	"The brightest star in our comedy galaxy."
His first major break came from his starring role in director Barry Levinson ' s Good Morning , Vietnam ( 1987 ) , which earned Williams a nomination for the Academy Award for Best Actor . The film is set in 1965 during the Vietnam War , with Williams playing the role of Adrian Cronauer , a radio shock jock who keeps the troops entertained with comedy and sarcasm . Williams was allowed to play the role without a script , improvising most of his lines . Over the microphone , he created voice impressions of people , including Walter Cronkite , Gomer Pyle , Elvis Presley , Mr . Ed , and Richard Nixon . " We just let the cameras roll " , said producer Mark Johnson , and Williams " managed to create something new for every single take " .	How did you prepare for your role in Good Morning, Vietnam?	I was allowed to play the role without a script and improvised most of my lines, creating voice impressions of people like Walter Cronkite, Gomer Pyle, Elvis Presley, Mr. Ed, and Richard Nixon.
Mork became popular , featured on posters , coloring books , lunch - boxes , and other merchandise . Mork & Mindy was such a success in its first season that Williams appeared on the March 12 , 1979 , cover of Time magazine . The cover photo , taken by Michael Dressler in 1979 , is said to have " [ captured ] his different sides : the funnyman mugging for the camera , and a sweet , more thoughtful pose that appears on a small TV he holds in his hands " according to Mary Forgione of the Los Angeles Times . This photo was installed in the National Portrait Gallery in the Smithsonian Institution shortly after his death to allow visitors to pay their respects . Williams also appeared on the cover of the August 23 , 1979 , issue of Rolling Stone , photographed by Richard Avedon .	Who took the cover photo for the Time magazine?	The cover photo for the Time magazine was taken by Michael Dressler.
During the late 1970s and early 1980s , Williams had an addiction to cocaine . He was a casual friend of John Belushi , and the Saturday Night Live comic ' s death in 1982 from a drug overdose , which happened the morning after the two had partied together , along with the birth of his own son Zak , prompted him to quit drugs and alcohol : " Was it a wake - up call ? Oh yeah , on a huge level . The grand jury helped , too . " Williams later said of Belushi ' s death , " It sobered the shit out of me . " Williams turned to exercise and cycling to help alleviate his depression shortly after Belushi ' s death ; according to bicycle shop owner Tony Tom , Williams said , " cycling saved my life . "	How did John Belushi die?	From a drug overdose.
Years after the films , Janet Hirshenson revealed in an interview that Williams had expressed interest in portraying Rubeus Hagrid in the Harry Potter film series , but was rejected by director Chris Columbus due to the " British - only edict " . In 2006 , he starred in five movies , including Man of the Year , a political satire , and The Night Listener , a thriller about a radio show host who realizes that a child with whom he has developed a friendship may not exist . Four films starring Williams were released after his death in 2014 : Night at the Museum : Secret of the Tomb , A Merry Friggin ' Christmas , Boulevard , and Absolutely Anything .	Who revealed in an interview that you had expressed interest in portraying Rubeus Hagrid in the Harry Potter film series?	Janet Hirshenson
During the 66th Primetime Emmy Awards on August 25 , 2014 , close friend and fellow comedian Billy Crystal presented a tribute to Williams , referring to him as " the brightest star in our comedy galaxy " . Afterwards , some of Williams ' s best comedy moments were shown , including his first ever The Tonight Show appearance , indicating his great life in making people laugh . Talk show hosts including David Letterman , Conan O ' Brien , Seth Meyers , Jimmy Kimmel , and Jimmy Fallon paid tribute to Williams on their respective shows .	What was shown during the tribute to you?	Some of my best comedy moments.
Many of his subsequent roles were in comedies tinged with pathos , such as Mrs . Doubtfire and Patch Adams . Looking over most of his filmography , one writer was " struck by the breadth " and radical diversity of most of the roles Williams portrayed . In 1989 , Williams played a private - school English teacher in Dead Poets Society , which included a final , emotional scene that some critics said " inspired a generation " and became a part of pop culture . Similarly , his performance as a therapist in Good Will Hunting ( 1997 ) deeply affected even some real therapists . In Awakenings ( 1990 ) , Williams plays a doctor modeled after Oliver Sacks , who wrote the book on which the film is based . Sacks later said the way the actor ' s mind worked was a " form of genius " . In 1991 , he played an adult Peter Pan in the film Hook , although he had said he would have to lose 25 pounds for the role . Terry Gilliam , who directed Williams in two of his films , The Fisher King ( 1991 ) and The Adventures of Baron Munchausen ( 1988 ) , said in 1992 that Williams had the ability to " go from manic to mad to tender and vulnerable   ... [ Williams had ] the most unique mind on the planet . There ' s nobody like him out there . "	What kind of roles do you often play in your films?	Comedies tinged with pathos.
Williams ' performances garnered him various accolades , including an Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for his role in Good Will Hunting ; as well as two previous Academy Award nominations , for Dead Poets Society , and as a troubled homeless man in The Fisher King , respectively . Among the actors who helped him during his acting career , he credited Robert De Niro , from whom he learned the power of silence and economy of dialogue when acting . From Dustin Hoffman , with whom he co - starred in Hook , he learned to take on totally different character types , and to transform his characters by extreme preparation . Mike Medavoy , producer of Hook , told its director , Steven Spielberg , that he intentionally teamed up Hoffman and Williams for the film because he knew they wanted to work together , and that Williams welcomed the opportunity of working with Spielberg . Having Woody Allen , who directed him and Billy Crystal in Deconstructing Harry ( 1997 ) , helped Williams . Allen knew that Crystal and Williams had often worked together on stage .	Which two actors did you receive Academy Award nominations for?	I received Academy Award nominations for my roles in Dead Poets Society and The Fisher King.
While Williams voiced characters in several animated films , his voice role as the Genie in the animated musical Aladdin ( 1992 ) was written for him . The film ' s directors said they had taken a risk by writing the role . At first , Williams refused the role since it was a Disney movie , and he did not want the studio profiting by selling merchandise based on the movie . He accepted the role with certain conditions : " I ' m doing it basically because I want to be part of this animation tradition . I want something for my children . One deal is , I just don ' t want to sell anything — as in Burger King , as in toys , as in stuff . " Williams improvised much of his dialogue , recording approximately 30 hours of tape , and impersonated dozens of celebrities , including Ed Sullivan , Jack Nicholson , Robert De Niro , Groucho Marx , Rodney Dangerfield , William F . Buckley Jr . , Peter Lorre , Arnold Schwarzenegger , and Arsenio Hall . His role in Aladdin became one of his most recognized and best - loved , and the film was the highest - grossing of 1992 ; it won numerous awards , including a Special Golden Globe Award for Vocal Work in a Motion Picture for Williams . His performance paved the way for other animated films to incorporate actors with more star power . He was named a Disney Legend in 2009 .	What award did you win for your vocal work in Aladdin?	I won a Special Golden Globe Award for Vocal Work in a Motion Picture for my performance as the Genie in Aladdin.
