Federer began his 2020 season at the 2020 Australian Open . He reached the semifinals after straight sets wins over Steve Johnson and Filip Krajinovi ć , a five - set win over John Millman and a four - set win over M á rton Fucsovics . Federer saved seven match points in his five - set quarterfinal win over Tennys Sandgren . Federer then lost his semifinal match to Djokovic in straight sets , having sustained a groin injury earlier in the tournament . In February , Federer underwent arthroscopic surgery for a right knee injury and subsequently withdrew from the Dubai Championships , Indian Wells , Miami Open , and the French Open to give time for his knee to recover , announcing that he would return in the grass season . On 10 June , due to a setback from his initial rehabilitation from the knee injury suffered earlier in the year , Federer announced that he had to have an additional arthroscopic procedure on his right knee . He officially shut down his season to take the necessary time to recover , vowing to return in 2021 . This was only the second year in Federer ' s career since he won his first title that he finished without a title .	When did you announce that you would return to tennis?	I announced on 10 June that I would return to tennis in 2021.
Federer reached the semifinal of the 2012 Australian Open , setting up a 27th career meeting with Nadal , a match he lost in four sets . He then won the Rotterdam Open for the first time since 2005 , defeating Juan Mart í n del Potro . Federer played in the 2012 Dubai Tennis Championships , where he defeated Andy Murray in the final and won the championship title for the fifth time in his career . Federer then moved on to the Indian Wells Masters , where he defeated Rafael Nadal in the semifinals , and John Isner in the final . Federer won the title for a record fourth time , and , in doing so , equalled Nadal ' s record of 19 ATP Masters titles .	How many ATP Masters titles do you have?	19
Tom á š Berdych and Federer played 26 times , with Federer leading 20 – 6 . Federer leads 12 – 5 on hard courts , 3 – 1 on grass courts , 4 – 0 on clay courts , and 1 – 0 on carpet . Berdych won their first professional match , notably upsetting then - No . 1 Federer at the 2004 Summer Olympics . Federer then went on to win their next eight meetings , before Berdych ended the losing streak in 2010 . Between 2010 and 2013 , Berdych won 5 of 8 meetings . Federer again dominated the matchup after 2014 , leading 9 – 0 since then . They met ten times in Grand Slam tournaments , with Federer leading 8 – 2 , and Berdych is one of five players , along with Arnaud Cl é ment , Á lex Corretja , David Nalbandian , and Jo - Wilfried Tsonga , to defeat Federer multiple times in majors before the semifinal stage . Their most notable Grand Slam matches took place in the 2009 Australian Open , when Federer prevailed in five sets after dropping the first two sets , the 2010 Wimbledon Championships and the 2012 US Open , both of which Berdych won in four sets . Berdych went on to reach the only Grand Slam final of his career after the Wimbledon quarterfinal victory , ending Federer ' s run of seven consecutive finals at Wimbledon dating back to 2003 .	How many times have you and Tomáš Berdych played against each other?	Tomáš Berdych and I have played 26 times.
Federer and his countryman Stan Wawrinka played each other 26 times , with Federer leading 23 – 3 . Federer leads 7 – 1 in majors , 17 – 0 on hard courts , 1 – 0 on grass courts and 5 – 3 on clay courts . The pair are 1 – 1 in finals . Their first meeting in a final came at 2014 Monte - Carlo Rolex Masters where Wawrinka defeated Federer in three sets to win his first Masters title before Federer avenged his loss at the 2017 BNP Paribas Open by beating him in the final . While the rivalry is one - sided in Federer ' s favour , the two contested some close matches . Wawrinka defeated Federer in straight sets during the 2015 French Open quarterfinals en route to winning his first French Open title , although Federer then won a straight - sets victory in the 2015 US Open semifinals . Other close matches include the 2012 Shanghai Masters and the 2013 Indian Wells Masters , both of which Federer won in three sets , the 2014 Wimbledon quarterfinal , which Federer won in four sets , the 2014 ATP Finals semifinal , which Federer won in three sets after saving four match points , and the 2017 Australian Open semifinal , which Federer won in five sets . Despite their on - court rivalry , they are friends off court , and played doubles together on numerous occasions , most notably when they won the doubles Olympic gold at the 2008 Beijing Olympics and when winning the 2014 Davis Cup .	How many times have you and Wawrinka played in finals?	Wawrinka and I have played in finals 2 times, with a score of 1-1.
At Wimbledon , Federer had a five - set match in the third round against Julien Benneteau on his way to the winning the tournament . Federer defeated Andy Murray in four sets in the 2012 Wimbledon final , regaining the No . 1 ranking in the process . " It ' s amazing . It equals me with Pete Sampras , who ' s my hero . It just feels amazing , " Federer said of winning his seventh Wimbledon championship , tying Sampras ' Open Era record . By defeating top - ranked Djokovic in the semifinals and winning in the finals , Federer returned to the top spot in the world rankings and , in doing so , broke Sampras ' record of 286 weeks atop the list .	How many sets did you play in your match against Julien Benneteau in the third round of Wimbledon?	I had a five-set match against Julien Benneteau in the third round of Wimbledon.
Federer won the Cincinnati open in August , beating Novak Djokovic in the final . In the US Open , five - time champ Federer was defeated by Tom á š Berdych in the quarterfinals . At the Shanghai Masters after defeating Wawrinka in the third round , Federer confirmed his 300th week at No . 1 . Federer made it to the finals of the ATP Finals , where he lost to Djokovic in two sets .	How many weeks did you confirm at No. 1 after the Shanghai Masters?	300 weeks
At Wimbledon , Federer had a five - set match in the third round against Julien Benneteau on his way to the winning the tournament . Federer defeated Andy Murray in four sets in the 2012 Wimbledon final , regaining the No . 1 ranking in the process . " It ' s amazing . It equals me with Pete Sampras , who ' s my hero . It just feels amazing , " Federer said of winning his seventh Wimbledon championship , tying Sampras ' Open Era record . By defeating top - ranked Djokovic in the semifinals and winning in the finals , Federer returned to the top spot in the world rankings and , in doing so , broke Sampras ' record of 286 weeks atop the list .	Whose record did you tie by winning your seventh Wimbledon championship?	I tied Pete Sampras' Open Era record by winning my seventh Wimbledon championship.
Federer reached the semifinal of the 2012 Australian Open , setting up a 27th career meeting with Nadal , a match he lost in four sets . He then won the Rotterdam Open for the first time since 2005 , defeating Juan Mart í n del Potro . Federer played in the 2012 Dubai Tennis Championships , where he defeated Andy Murray in the final and won the championship title for the fifth time in his career . Federer then moved on to the Indian Wells Masters , where he defeated Rafael Nadal in the semifinals , and John Isner in the final . Federer won the title for a record fourth time , and , in doing so , equalled Nadal ' s record of 19 ATP Masters titles .	Who did you play against in the semifinals of the 2012 Australian Open?	Nadal
Federer and his countryman Stan Wawrinka played each other 26 times , with Federer leading 23 – 3 . Federer leads 7 – 1 in majors , 17 – 0 on hard courts , 1 – 0 on grass courts and 5 – 3 on clay courts . The pair are 1 – 1 in finals . Their first meeting in a final came at 2014 Monte - Carlo Rolex Masters where Wawrinka defeated Federer in three sets to win his first Masters title before Federer avenged his loss at the 2017 BNP Paribas Open by beating him in the final . While the rivalry is one - sided in Federer ' s favour , the two contested some close matches . Wawrinka defeated Federer in straight sets during the 2015 French Open quarterfinals en route to winning his first French Open title , although Federer then won a straight - sets victory in the 2015 US Open semifinals . Other close matches include the 2012 Shanghai Masters and the 2013 Indian Wells Masters , both of which Federer won in three sets , the 2014 Wimbledon quarterfinal , which Federer won in four sets , the 2014 ATP Finals semifinal , which Federer won in three sets after saving four match points , and the 2017 Australian Open semifinal , which Federer won in five sets . Despite their on - court rivalry , they are friends off court , and played doubles together on numerous occasions , most notably when they won the doubles Olympic gold at the 2008 Beijing Olympics and when winning the 2014 Davis Cup .	How many times have you and Wawrinka played against each other?	Wawrinka and I have played against each other 26 times.
Federer won the Cincinnati open in August , beating Novak Djokovic in the final . In the US Open , five - time champ Federer was defeated by Tom á š Berdych in the quarterfinals . At the Shanghai Masters after defeating Wawrinka in the third round , Federer confirmed his 300th week at No . 1 . Federer made it to the finals of the ATP Finals , where he lost to Djokovic in two sets .	Who defeated you in the quarterfinals of the US Open?	Tomáš Berdych
Federer won the Cincinnati open in August , beating Novak Djokovic in the final . In the US Open , five - time champ Federer was defeated by Tom á š Berdych in the quarterfinals . At the Shanghai Masters after defeating Wawrinka in the third round , Federer confirmed his 300th week at No . 1 . Federer made it to the finals of the ATP Finals , where he lost to Djokovic in two sets .	Who did you defeat in the third round of the Shanghai Masters?	Wawrinka
In March , Federer entered the Indian Wells Masters as defending champion . He defeated Chung Hyeon in the quarterfinals , ensuring that he retained the world No . 1 ranking , and Borna Ć ori ć in the semifinals , solidifying a career - best start to a season at 17 – 0 . His previous best season start was n 16 – 0 during the 2006 season . Despite holding three championship points , Federer was defeated by Juan Mart í n del Potro in a close three - set final . At the Miami Open Federer received a first - round bye , but lost in the second round to Thanasi Kokkinakis . With this early exit from the tournament , Federer lost his No . 1 ranking to Nadal on 2 April . He announced that he would miss the clay court season , including the French Open , for the second consecutive season . Nevertheless , he regained the No . 1 ranking in May after Nadal failed to defend one of his Masters titles at the Madrid Open . He then lost the top spot the following week after Nadal won the title at the Italian Open .	How many championship points did you hold in the final of the Indian Wells Masters?	Three championship points.
In 2006 , Federer won three Grand Slam singles titles and reached the final of the other , with the only loss coming against Nadal in the French Open . This was Federer and Nadal ' s first meeting in a Grand Slam final . He was the first man to reach all four finals in a calendar year since Rod Laver in 1969 . Federer defeated Nadal in the Wimbledon Championships final . In the Australian Open , Federer defeated Marcos Baghdatis , and at the US Open , Federer defeated 2003 champion Roddick . In addition , Federer reached six Masters finals , winning four on hard surfaces and losing two on clay to Nadal . Federer , however , consistently pushed Nadal to the limit on clay throughout the season taking him to fourth - set tiebreakers in Monte - Carlo and Paris , and a thrilling match in Rome that went to a deciding fifth - set tiebreaker .	Who did you defeat in the Wimbledon Championships final in 2006?	I defeated Nadal in the Wimbledon Championships final in 2006.
Federer began his 2020 season at the 2020 Australian Open . He reached the semifinals after straight sets wins over Steve Johnson and Filip Krajinovi ć , a five - set win over John Millman and a four - set win over M á rton Fucsovics . Federer saved seven match points in his five - set quarterfinal win over Tennys Sandgren . Federer then lost his semifinal match to Djokovic in straight sets , having sustained a groin injury earlier in the tournament . In February , Federer underwent arthroscopic surgery for a right knee injury and subsequently withdrew from the Dubai Championships , Indian Wells , Miami Open , and the French Open to give time for his knee to recover , announcing that he would return in the grass season . On 10 June , due to a setback from his initial rehabilitation from the knee injury suffered earlier in the year , Federer announced that he had to have an additional arthroscopic procedure on his right knee . He officially shut down his season to take the necessary time to recover , vowing to return in 2021 . This was only the second year in Federer ' s career since he won his first title that he finished without a title .	Who did you defeat in the quarterfinals of the Australian Open?	I defeated Tennys Sandgren in the quarterfinals of the Australian Open.
In 2006 , Federer won three Grand Slam singles titles and reached the final of the other , with the only loss coming against Nadal in the French Open . This was Federer and Nadal ' s first meeting in a Grand Slam final . He was the first man to reach all four finals in a calendar year since Rod Laver in 1969 . Federer defeated Nadal in the Wimbledon Championships final . In the Australian Open , Federer defeated Marcos Baghdatis , and at the US Open , Federer defeated 2003 champion Roddick . In addition , Federer reached six Masters finals , winning four on hard surfaces and losing two on clay to Nadal . Federer , however , consistently pushed Nadal to the limit on clay throughout the season taking him to fourth - set tiebreakers in Monte - Carlo and Paris , and a thrilling match in Rome that went to a deciding fifth - set tiebreaker .	Who did you defeat in the US Open in 2006?	I defeated 2003 champion Roddick in the US Open in 2006.
Tom á š Berdych and Federer played 26 times , with Federer leading 20 – 6 . Federer leads 12 – 5 on hard courts , 3 – 1 on grass courts , 4 – 0 on clay courts , and 1 – 0 on carpet . Berdych won their first professional match , notably upsetting then - No . 1 Federer at the 2004 Summer Olympics . Federer then went on to win their next eight meetings , before Berdych ended the losing streak in 2010 . Between 2010 and 2013 , Berdych won 5 of 8 meetings . Federer again dominated the matchup after 2014 , leading 9 – 0 since then . They met ten times in Grand Slam tournaments , with Federer leading 8 – 2 , and Berdych is one of five players , along with Arnaud Cl é ment , Á lex Corretja , David Nalbandian , and Jo - Wilfried Tsonga , to defeat Federer multiple times in majors before the semifinal stage . Their most notable Grand Slam matches took place in the 2009 Australian Open , when Federer prevailed in five sets after dropping the first two sets , the 2010 Wimbledon Championships and the 2012 US Open , both of which Berdych won in four sets . Berdych went on to reach the only Grand Slam final of his career after the Wimbledon quarterfinal victory , ending Federer ' s run of seven consecutive finals at Wimbledon dating back to 2003 .	At which tournament did you lose to Berdych in your first professional match?	Berdych defeated me at the 2004 Summer Olympics.
In 2006 , Federer won three Grand Slam singles titles and reached the final of the other , with the only loss coming against Nadal in the French Open . This was Federer and Nadal ' s first meeting in a Grand Slam final . He was the first man to reach all four finals in a calendar year since Rod Laver in 1969 . Federer defeated Nadal in the Wimbledon Championships final . In the Australian Open , Federer defeated Marcos Baghdatis , and at the US Open , Federer defeated 2003 champion Roddick . In addition , Federer reached six Masters finals , winning four on hard surfaces and losing two on clay to Nadal . Federer , however , consistently pushed Nadal to the limit on clay throughout the season taking him to fourth - set tiebreakers in Monte - Carlo and Paris , and a thrilling match in Rome that went to a deciding fifth - set tiebreaker .	Who did you lose to in the French Open in 2006?	I lost to Nadal in the French Open in 2006.
In March , Federer entered the Indian Wells Masters as defending champion . He defeated Chung Hyeon in the quarterfinals , ensuring that he retained the world No . 1 ranking , and Borna Ć ori ć in the semifinals , solidifying a career - best start to a season at 17 – 0 . His previous best season start was n 16 – 0 during the 2006 season . Despite holding three championship points , Federer was defeated by Juan Mart í n del Potro in a close three - set final . At the Miami Open Federer received a first - round bye , but lost in the second round to Thanasi Kokkinakis . With this early exit from the tournament , Federer lost his No . 1 ranking to Nadal on 2 April . He announced that he would miss the clay court season , including the French Open , for the second consecutive season . Nevertheless , he regained the No . 1 ranking in May after Nadal failed to defend one of his Masters titles at the Madrid Open . He then lost the top spot the following week after Nadal won the title at the Italian Open .	Who defeated you in the final of the Indian Wells Masters?	Juan Martín del Potro defeated me.
At Wimbledon , Federer had a five - set match in the third round against Julien Benneteau on his way to the winning the tournament . Federer defeated Andy Murray in four sets in the 2012 Wimbledon final , regaining the No . 1 ranking in the process . " It ' s amazing . It equals me with Pete Sampras , who ' s my hero . It just feels amazing , " Federer said of winning his seventh Wimbledon championship , tying Sampras ' Open Era record . By defeating top - ranked Djokovic in the semifinals and winning in the finals , Federer returned to the top spot in the world rankings and , in doing so , broke Sampras ' record of 286 weeks atop the list .	Who did you defeat in the 2012 Wimbledon final?	I defeated Andy Murray in the 2012 Wimbledon final.
Federer reached the semifinal of the 2012 Australian Open , setting up a 27th career meeting with Nadal , a match he lost in four sets . He then won the Rotterdam Open for the first time since 2005 , defeating Juan Mart í n del Potro . Federer played in the 2012 Dubai Tennis Championships , where he defeated Andy Murray in the final and won the championship title for the fifth time in his career . Federer then moved on to the Indian Wells Masters , where he defeated Rafael Nadal in the semifinals , and John Isner in the final . Federer won the title for a record fourth time , and , in doing so , equalled Nadal ' s record of 19 ATP Masters titles .	Who did you defeat in the final of the 2012 Dubai Tennis Championships?	Andy Murray
In 2008 , Federer captured one Grand Slam , a singles title at the US Open over Andy Murray . Federer was defeated by Nadal in two Grand Slam finals , the French Open and Wimbledon , which was regarded as the best match of tennis history by many , when he was going for six straight wins to break Bj ö rn Borg ' s record . He came back from two sets down to force a fifth set , where he fell just two points from the title . At the Australian Open Federer lost in the semifinals to eventual winner Djokovic , which ended his record of 10 consecutive finals . He lost twice in Masters finals on clay to Nadal , at Monte Carlo and Hamburg . Federer captured three titles playing in 250 - level events at Estoril , Halle , and Basel .	Who defeated you in the Wimbledon final in 2008?	Nadal defeated me in the Wimbledon final in 2008.
Federer reached the semifinal of the 2012 Australian Open , setting up a 27th career meeting with Nadal , a match he lost in four sets . He then won the Rotterdam Open for the first time since 2005 , defeating Juan Mart í n del Potro . Federer played in the 2012 Dubai Tennis Championships , where he defeated Andy Murray in the final and won the championship title for the fifth time in his career . Federer then moved on to the Indian Wells Masters , where he defeated Rafael Nadal in the semifinals , and John Isner in the final . Federer won the title for a record fourth time , and , in doing so , equalled Nadal ' s record of 19 ATP Masters titles .	Who did you defeat in the final of the Indian Wells Masters?	John Isner
Federer reached the semifinal of the 2012 Australian Open , setting up a 27th career meeting with Nadal , a match he lost in four sets . He then won the Rotterdam Open for the first time since 2005 , defeating Juan Mart í n del Potro . Federer played in the 2012 Dubai Tennis Championships , where he defeated Andy Murray in the final and won the championship title for the fifth time in his career . Federer then moved on to the Indian Wells Masters , where he defeated Rafael Nadal in the semifinals , and John Isner in the final . Federer won the title for a record fourth time , and , in doing so , equalled Nadal ' s record of 19 ATP Masters titles .	How many times have you won the Rotterdam Open?	Twice
Federer and his countryman Stan Wawrinka played each other 26 times , with Federer leading 23 – 3 . Federer leads 7 – 1 in majors , 17 – 0 on hard courts , 1 – 0 on grass courts and 5 – 3 on clay courts . The pair are 1 – 1 in finals . Their first meeting in a final came at 2014 Monte - Carlo Rolex Masters where Wawrinka defeated Federer in three sets to win his first Masters title before Federer avenged his loss at the 2017 BNP Paribas Open by beating him in the final . While the rivalry is one - sided in Federer ' s favour , the two contested some close matches . Wawrinka defeated Federer in straight sets during the 2015 French Open quarterfinals en route to winning his first French Open title , although Federer then won a straight - sets victory in the 2015 US Open semifinals . Other close matches include the 2012 Shanghai Masters and the 2013 Indian Wells Masters , both of which Federer won in three sets , the 2014 Wimbledon quarterfinal , which Federer won in four sets , the 2014 ATP Finals semifinal , which Federer won in three sets after saving four match points , and the 2017 Australian Open semifinal , which Federer won in five sets . Despite their on - court rivalry , they are friends off court , and played doubles together on numerous occasions , most notably when they won the doubles Olympic gold at the 2008 Beijing Olympics and when winning the 2014 Davis Cup .	What is your lead on different court surfaces?	I lead with a score of 17-0 on hard courts, 1-0 on grass courts, and 5-3 on clay courts against Wawrinka.
Federer began his 2020 season at the 2020 Australian Open . He reached the semifinals after straight sets wins over Steve Johnson and Filip Krajinovi ć , a five - set win over John Millman and a four - set win over M á rton Fucsovics . Federer saved seven match points in his five - set quarterfinal win over Tennys Sandgren . Federer then lost his semifinal match to Djokovic in straight sets , having sustained a groin injury earlier in the tournament . In February , Federer underwent arthroscopic surgery for a right knee injury and subsequently withdrew from the Dubai Championships , Indian Wells , Miami Open , and the French Open to give time for his knee to recover , announcing that he would return in the grass season . On 10 June , due to a setback from his initial rehabilitation from the knee injury suffered earlier in the year , Federer announced that he had to have an additional arthroscopic procedure on his right knee . He officially shut down his season to take the necessary time to recover , vowing to return in 2021 . This was only the second year in Federer ' s career since he won his first title that he finished without a title .	What injury did you sustain during the Australian Open?	I sustained a groin injury during the Australian Open.
