Reagan did not run for the governorship in 1974 and it was won by Pat Brown ' s son , Jerry . Reagan ' s governorship , as professor Gary K . Clabaugh writes , saw public schools deteriorate due to his opposition to additional basic education funding . As for higher education , journalist William Trombley believed that the budget cuts Reagan enacted damaged Berkeley ' s student - faculty ratio and research . Additionally , the homicide rate doubled and armed robbery rates rose as well during Reagan ' s eight years , even with the many laws Reagan signed to try toughening criminal sentencing and reforming the criminal justice system . Reagan strongly supported capital punishment , but his efforts to enforce it were thwarted by People v . Anderson in 1972 . According to his son , Michael , Reagan said that he regretted signing the Family Law Act that granted no - fault divorces .	What did professor Gary K. Clabaugh write about your governorship?	Professor Gary K. Clabaugh wrote that my opposition to additional basic education funding caused public schools to deteriorate.
Reagan married Brother Rat ( 1938 ) co - star Jane Wyman in January 1940 . Together , they had two biological daughters : Maureen in 1941 , and Christine , born prematurely and dead the next day in 1947 . They adopted one son , Michael , in 1945 . Wyman filed to divorce Reagan in June 1948 . She was uninterested in politics , and occasionally recriminated , reconciled and separated with him . Although Reagan was unprepared , the divorce was finalized in July 1949 . Reagan would also remain close to his children . Later that year , Reagan met Nancy Davis after she contacted him in his capacity as the SAG president about her name appearing on a communist blacklist in Hollywood ; she had been mistaken for another Nancy Davis . They married in March 1952 and had two children , Patti in 1952 , and Ron in 1958 .	How many biological daughters did you and Jane Wyman have?	We had two biological daughters, Maureen in 1941 and Christine in 1947.
Reagan married Brother Rat ( 1938 ) co - star Jane Wyman in January 1940 . Together , they had two biological daughters : Maureen in 1941 , and Christine , born prematurely and dead the next day in 1947 . They adopted one son , Michael , in 1945 . Wyman filed to divorce Reagan in June 1948 . She was uninterested in politics , and occasionally recriminated , reconciled and separated with him . Although Reagan was unprepared , the divorce was finalized in July 1949 . Reagan would also remain close to his children . Later that year , Reagan met Nancy Davis after she contacted him in his capacity as the SAG president about her name appearing on a communist blacklist in Hollywood ; she had been mistaken for another Nancy Davis . They married in March 1952 and had two children , Patti in 1952 , and Ron in 1958 .	When did Jane Wyman file for divorce from you?	Jane Wyman filed to divorce me in June 1948.
Reagan ' s general election opponent , Pat Brown , attempted to label Reagan as an extremist and tout his own accomplishments . Reagan portrayed himself as a political outsider , and charged Brown as responsible for the Watts riots and lenient on crime . In numerous speeches , Reagan " hit the Brown administration about high taxes , uncontrolled spending , the radicals at the University of California , Berkeley , and the need for accountability in government " . Meanwhile , many in the press perceived Reagan as " monumentally ignorant of state issues " , though Lou Cannon said that Reagan benefited from an appearance he and Brown made on Meet the Press in September . Ultimately , Reagan won the governorship with 57 percent of the vote compared to Brown ' s 42 percent .	Who was your general election opponent?	Pat Brown.
Brown spent much of California ' s funds on new programs , prompting them to use accrual accounting to avoid raising taxes . Consequently , it generated a larger deficit , and Reagan would call for reduced government spending and tax hikes to balance the budget . He worked with Jesse M . Unruh on securing tax increases and promising future property tax cuts . This caused some conservatives to accuse Reagan of betraying his principles . As a result , taxes on sales , banks , corporate profits , inheritances , liquor , and cigarettes jumped . Kevin Starr states , Reagan " gave Californians the biggest tax hike in their history — and got away with it . " In the 1970 gubernatorial election , Unruh used Reagan ' s tax policy against him , saying it disproportionally favored the wealthy . Reagan countered that he was still committed to reducing property taxes . By 1973 , the budget had a surplus , which Reagan preferred " to give back to the people " .	How did you respond to accusations against his tax policy?	I countered that I was still committed to reducing property taxes.
Reagan emerged as a vocal critic of President Carter in 1977 . The Panama Canal Treaty ' s signing , the 1979 oil crisis , and rise in the inflation , interest and unemployment rates helped set up his 1980 presidential campaign , which he announced on November 13 , 1979 with an indictment of the federal government . His announcement stressed his fundamental principles of tax cuts to stimulate the economy and having both a small government and a strong national defense , since he believed the United States was behind the Soviet Union militarily . Heading into 1980 , his age became an issue among the press , and the United States was in a severe recession . In the primaries , Reagan lost Iowa to George H . W . Bush , but rebounded in New Hampshire . Soon thereafter , Reagan ' s opponents began dropping out of the primaries , including John B . Anderson , who left the party to become an independent candidate . Reagan easily captured the presidential nomination and chose Bush as his running mate at the Detroit convention in July .	Who did you lose to in the Iowa primaries?	I lost to George H. W. Bush in the Iowa primaries.
Reagan emerged as a vocal critic of President Carter in 1977 . The Panama Canal Treaty ' s signing , the 1979 oil crisis , and rise in the inflation , interest and unemployment rates helped set up his 1980 presidential campaign , which he announced on November 13 , 1979 with an indictment of the federal government . His announcement stressed his fundamental principles of tax cuts to stimulate the economy and having both a small government and a strong national defense , since he believed the United States was behind the Soviet Union militarily . Heading into 1980 , his age became an issue among the press , and the United States was in a severe recession . In the primaries , Reagan lost Iowa to George H . W . Bush , but rebounded in New Hampshire . Soon thereafter , Reagan ' s opponents began dropping out of the primaries , including John B . Anderson , who left the party to become an independent candidate . Reagan easily captured the presidential nomination and chose Bush as his running mate at the Detroit convention in July .	Why did you believe the United States was behind the Soviet Union militarily?	I believed the United States was behind the Soviet Union militarily.
Reagan did not run for the governorship in 1974 and it was won by Pat Brown ' s son , Jerry . Reagan ' s governorship , as professor Gary K . Clabaugh writes , saw public schools deteriorate due to his opposition to additional basic education funding . As for higher education , journalist William Trombley believed that the budget cuts Reagan enacted damaged Berkeley ' s student - faculty ratio and research . Additionally , the homicide rate doubled and armed robbery rates rose as well during Reagan ' s eight years , even with the many laws Reagan signed to try toughening criminal sentencing and reforming the criminal justice system . Reagan strongly supported capital punishment , but his efforts to enforce it were thwarted by People v . Anderson in 1972 . According to his son , Michael , Reagan said that he regretted signing the Family Law Act that granted no - fault divorces .	What happened to the homicide rate and armed robbery rates during your eight years?	The homicide rate doubled and armed robbery rates rose during my eight years.
Brown spent much of California ' s funds on new programs , prompting them to use accrual accounting to avoid raising taxes . Consequently , it generated a larger deficit , and Reagan would call for reduced government spending and tax hikes to balance the budget . He worked with Jesse M . Unruh on securing tax increases and promising future property tax cuts . This caused some conservatives to accuse Reagan of betraying his principles . As a result , taxes on sales , banks , corporate profits , inheritances , liquor , and cigarettes jumped . Kevin Starr states , Reagan " gave Californians the biggest tax hike in their history — and got away with it . " In the 1970 gubernatorial election , Unruh used Reagan ' s tax policy against him , saying it disproportionally favored the wealthy . Reagan countered that he was still committed to reducing property taxes . By 1973 , the budget had a surplus , which Reagan preferred " to give back to the people " .	Who did you work with on securing tax increases and promising future property tax cuts?	I worked with Jesse M. Unruh on securing tax increases and promising future property tax cuts.
Reagan became the host of MCA Inc . television production General Electric Theater at Wasserman ' s recommendation . It featured multiple guest stars , and Ronald and Nancy Reagan , continuing to use her stage name Nancy Davis , acted together in three episodes . When asked how Reagan was able to recruit such stars to appear on the show during television ' s infancy , he replied , " Good stories , top direction , production quality . " However , the viewership declined in the 1960s and the show was canceled in 1962 . In 1965 , Reagan became the host of another MCA production , Death Valley Days .	Who recommended you to become the host of General Electric Theater?	Wasserman recommended me to become the host of General Electric Theater.
Reagan emerged as a vocal critic of President Carter in 1977 . The Panama Canal Treaty ' s signing , the 1979 oil crisis , and rise in the inflation , interest and unemployment rates helped set up his 1980 presidential campaign , which he announced on November 13 , 1979 with an indictment of the federal government . His announcement stressed his fundamental principles of tax cuts to stimulate the economy and having both a small government and a strong national defense , since he believed the United States was behind the Soviet Union militarily . Heading into 1980 , his age became an issue among the press , and the United States was in a severe recession . In the primaries , Reagan lost Iowa to George H . W . Bush , but rebounded in New Hampshire . Soon thereafter , Reagan ' s opponents began dropping out of the primaries , including John B . Anderson , who left the party to become an independent candidate . Reagan easily captured the presidential nomination and chose Bush as his running mate at the Detroit convention in July .	What were the fundamental principles stressed in your campaign announcement?	I stressed the fundamental principles of tax cuts to stimulate the economy and having both a small government and a strong national defense.
Reagan became the host of MCA Inc . television production General Electric Theater at Wasserman ' s recommendation . It featured multiple guest stars , and Ronald and Nancy Reagan , continuing to use her stage name Nancy Davis , acted together in three episodes . When asked how Reagan was able to recruit such stars to appear on the show during television ' s infancy , he replied , " Good stories , top direction , production quality . " However , the viewership declined in the 1960s and the show was canceled in 1962 . In 1965 , Reagan became the host of another MCA production , Death Valley Days .	In what year did you become the host of Death Valley Days?	I became the host of Death Valley Days in 1965.
Brown spent much of California ' s funds on new programs , prompting them to use accrual accounting to avoid raising taxes . Consequently , it generated a larger deficit , and Reagan would call for reduced government spending and tax hikes to balance the budget . He worked with Jesse M . Unruh on securing tax increases and promising future property tax cuts . This caused some conservatives to accuse Reagan of betraying his principles . As a result , taxes on sales , banks , corporate profits , inheritances , liquor , and cigarettes jumped . Kevin Starr states , Reagan " gave Californians the biggest tax hike in their history — and got away with it . " In the 1970 gubernatorial election , Unruh used Reagan ' s tax policy against him , saying it disproportionally favored the wealthy . Reagan countered that he was still committed to reducing property taxes . By 1973 , the budget had a surplus , which Reagan preferred " to give back to the people " .	What did some conservatives accuse you of?	Some conservatives accused me of betraying my principles.
Reagan ' s general election opponent , Pat Brown , attempted to label Reagan as an extremist and tout his own accomplishments . Reagan portrayed himself as a political outsider , and charged Brown as responsible for the Watts riots and lenient on crime . In numerous speeches , Reagan " hit the Brown administration about high taxes , uncontrolled spending , the radicals at the University of California , Berkeley , and the need for accountability in government " . Meanwhile , many in the press perceived Reagan as " monumentally ignorant of state issues " , though Lou Cannon said that Reagan benefited from an appearance he and Brown made on Meet the Press in September . Ultimately , Reagan won the governorship with 57 percent of the vote compared to Brown ' s 42 percent .	What did you charge you as being responsible for?	The Watts riots and lenient on crime.
Reagan married Brother Rat ( 1938 ) co - star Jane Wyman in January 1940 . Together , they had two biological daughters : Maureen in 1941 , and Christine , born prematurely and dead the next day in 1947 . They adopted one son , Michael , in 1945 . Wyman filed to divorce Reagan in June 1948 . She was uninterested in politics , and occasionally recriminated , reconciled and separated with him . Although Reagan was unprepared , the divorce was finalized in July 1949 . Reagan would also remain close to his children . Later that year , Reagan met Nancy Davis after she contacted him in his capacity as the SAG president about her name appearing on a communist blacklist in Hollywood ; she had been mistaken for another Nancy Davis . They married in March 1952 and had two children , Patti in 1952 , and Ron in 1958 .	What happened to your daughter Christine?	Christine was born prematurely and died the next day in 1947.
