Two of Johansson ' s films in 2006 explored the world of stage magicians , both opposite Hugh Jackman . Allen cast her opposite Jackman and himself in the film Scoop ( 2006 ) , in which she played a journalism student . The film was a modest worldwide box office success , but polarized critics . Ebert was critical of the film , but found Johansson " lovely as always " , and LaSalle noted the freshness she brought to her part . She also appeared in Brian De Palma ' s The Black Dahlia , a film noir shot in Los Angeles and Bulgaria . Johansson later said she was a fan of De   Palma and had wanted to work with him on the film , but thought that she was unsuitable for the part . Anne Billson of The Daily Telegraph likewise found her miscast . However , CNN said that she " takes to the pulpy period atmosphere as if it were oxygen " .	How did critics feel about your performance in the film Scoop?	Ebert was critical of the film but found me "lovely as always," and LaSalle noted the freshness I brought to my part.
In her third collaboration with Woody Allen , the romantic comedy - drama Vicky Cristina Barcelona ( 2008 ) , which was filmed in Spain , Johansson plays one of the love interests of Javier Bardem ' s character alongside Pen é lope Cruz . The film was one of Allen ' s most profitable and received favorable reviews . A reviewer in Variety described Johansson as " open and malleable " compared to the other actors . She also played the femme fatale Silken Floss in The Spirit , based on the newspaper comic strip of the same name by Will Eisner . It received poor reviews from critics , who deemed it melodramatic , unoriginal , and sexist . Johansson ' s only role in 2009 was as Anna Marks , a yoga instructor , in the ensemble comedy - drama He ' s Just Not That into You ( 2009 ) . The film was released to tepid reviews , but was a box office success .	What was the critical reception of The Spirit?	It received poor reviews, with critics deeming it melodramatic, unoriginal, and sexist.
In Peter Webber ' s Girl with a Pearl Earring , which is based on the novel of the same name by Tracy Chevalier , Johansson played Griet , a young 17th - century servant in the household of the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer ( played by Colin Firth ) . Webber interviewed 150 actors before casting Johansson . Johansson found the character moving , but did not read the novel , as she thought it was better to approach the story with a fresh start . Girl with a Pearl Earring received positive reviews and was profitable . In his review for The New Yorker , Anthony Lane thought that her presence kept the film " alive " , writing , " She is often wordless and close to plain onscreen , but wait for the ardor with which she can summon a closeup and bloom under its gaze ; this is her film , not Vermeer ' s , all the way . " Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly noted her " nearly silent performance " , remarking , " The interplay on her face of fear , ignorance , curiosity , and sex is intensely dramatic . " She was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role and Golden Globe Awards for Best Actress [ a ] for both films in 2003 , winning the former for Lost in Translation .	Did you read the novel "Girl with a Pearl Earring" before taking on the role?	No, I did not read the novel. I thought it was better to approach the story with a fresh start.
Johansson played Motoko Kusanagi in Rupert Sanders ' s 2017 film adaptation of the Ghost in the Shell franchise . The film was praised for its visual style , acting , and cinematography , but was the subject of controversy for whitewashing the cast , particularly Johansson ' s character , a cyborg who was meant to hold the memories of a Japanese woman . Responding to the backlash , the actress asserted she would never play a non - white character , but wanted to take the rare opportunity to star in a female - led franchise . Ghost in the Shell grossed $ 169.8   million worldwide against a production budget of $ 110   million . In March 2017 , Johansson hosted Saturday Night Live for the fifth time , making her the 17th person and the fourth woman [ c ] to enter the NBC sketch comedy ' s prestigious Five - Timers Club . Johansson ' s next 2017 film was the comedy Rough Night , where she played Jess Thayer , one of the five friends — alongside Kate McKinnon , Jillian Bell , Ilana Glazer , and Zo ë Kravitz — whose bachelorette party goes wrong after a male stripper dies . The film had a mixed critical reception and moderate box office returns . In 2018 , Johansson voiced show dog Nutmeg in Wes Anderson ' s stop - motion animated film Isle of Dogs , released in March , and reprised her MCU role as Black Widow in Avengers : Infinity War , which followed the next month . Johansson was due to star in Rub & Tug , a biographical film in which she would have played Dante " Tex " Gill , a transgender man who operated a massage parlor and prostitution ring in the 1970s and 1980s . She dropped out of the project following backlash to the casting of a cisgender woman to play a transgender man .	What film did you voice a show dog named Nutmeg in?	I voiced the character of show dog Nutmeg in Wes Anderson's stop-motion animated film Isle of Dogs.
Two of Johansson ' s films in 2006 explored the world of stage magicians , both opposite Hugh Jackman . Allen cast her opposite Jackman and himself in the film Scoop ( 2006 ) , in which she played a journalism student . The film was a modest worldwide box office success , but polarized critics . Ebert was critical of the film , but found Johansson " lovely as always " , and LaSalle noted the freshness she brought to her part . She also appeared in Brian De Palma ' s The Black Dahlia , a film noir shot in Los Angeles and Bulgaria . Johansson later said she was a fan of De   Palma and had wanted to work with him on the film , but thought that she was unsuitable for the part . Anne Billson of The Daily Telegraph likewise found her miscast . However , CNN said that she " takes to the pulpy period atmosphere as if it were oxygen " .	Who did you star opposite in two of your films in 2006?	Hugh Jackman
Johansson played a supporting role in the film Chef ( 2014 ) , alongside Robert Downey , Jr . , Sof í a Vergara , and director Jon Favreau . It grossed over $ 45   million at the box office and was well received by critics . The Chicago Sun - Times writer Richard Roeper found the film " funny , quirky and insightful , with a bounty of interesting supporting characters " . In Luc Besson ' s science fiction action film Lucy ( 2014 ) , Johansson starred as the title character , who gains psychokinetic abilities when a nootropic drug is absorbed into her bloodstream . Besson discussed the role with several actresses , and cast Johansson based on her strong reaction to the script and her discipline . Critics generally praised the film ' s themes , visuals , and Johansson ' s performance ; some found the plot nonsensical . IGN ' s Jim Vejvoda attributed the film ' s success to her acting and Besson ' s style . The film grossed $ 458   million on a budget of $ 40   million to become the 18th highest - grossing film of 2014 .	What did Richard Roeper, writer for the Chicago Sun-Times, say about the film Chef (2014)?	Richard Roeper found the film "funny, quirky and insightful, with a bounty of interesting supporting characters."
Johansson transitioned from teen to adult roles with two films in 2003 : the romantic comedy - drama Lost in Translation and the drama Girl with a Pearl Earring . In the former , directed by Sofia Coppola , she plays Charlotte , a listless and lonely young wife , opposite Bill Murray . Coppola had first noticed Johansson in Manny & Lo , and compared her to a young Lauren Bacall ; Coppola based the film ' s story on the relationship between Bacall and Humphrey Bogart in The Big Sleep ( 1946 ) . Johansson found the experience of working with a female director different because of Coppola ' s ability to empathize with her . Made on a budget of $ 4   million , the film grossed $ 119   million at the box office and received critical acclaim . Roger Ebert was pleased with the film and described the lead actors ' performances as " wonderful " , and Entertainment Weekly wrote of Johansson ' s " embracing , restful serenity " . The New York Times praised Johansson , aged 17 at the time of filming , for playing an older character .	What was your character's name in Lost in Translation?	Charlotte.
Johansson transitioned from teen to adult roles with two films in 2003 : the romantic comedy - drama Lost in Translation and the drama Girl with a Pearl Earring . In the former , directed by Sofia Coppola , she plays Charlotte , a listless and lonely young wife , opposite Bill Murray . Coppola had first noticed Johansson in Manny & Lo , and compared her to a young Lauren Bacall ; Coppola based the film ' s story on the relationship between Bacall and Humphrey Bogart in The Big Sleep ( 1946 ) . Johansson found the experience of working with a female director different because of Coppola ' s ability to empathize with her . Made on a budget of $ 4   million , the film grossed $ 119   million at the box office and received critical acclaim . Roger Ebert was pleased with the film and described the lead actors ' performances as " wonderful " , and Entertainment Weekly wrote of Johansson ' s " embracing , restful serenity " . The New York Times praised Johansson , aged 17 at the time of filming , for playing an older character .	How much did Lost in Translation gross at the box office?	$119 million.
In her third collaboration with Woody Allen , the romantic comedy - drama Vicky Cristina Barcelona ( 2008 ) , which was filmed in Spain , Johansson plays one of the love interests of Javier Bardem ' s character alongside Pen é lope Cruz . The film was one of Allen ' s most profitable and received favorable reviews . A reviewer in Variety described Johansson as " open and malleable " compared to the other actors . She also played the femme fatale Silken Floss in The Spirit , based on the newspaper comic strip of the same name by Will Eisner . It received poor reviews from critics , who deemed it melodramatic , unoriginal , and sexist . Johansson ' s only role in 2009 was as Anna Marks , a yoga instructor , in the ensemble comedy - drama He ' s Just Not That into You ( 2009 ) . The film was released to tepid reviews , but was a box office success .	What was the reception of Woody Allen's film Vicky Cristina Barcelona?	It received favorable reviews and was one of Allen's most profitable films.
In Peter Webber ' s Girl with a Pearl Earring , which is based on the novel of the same name by Tracy Chevalier , Johansson played Griet , a young 17th - century servant in the household of the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer ( played by Colin Firth ) . Webber interviewed 150 actors before casting Johansson . Johansson found the character moving , but did not read the novel , as she thought it was better to approach the story with a fresh start . Girl with a Pearl Earring received positive reviews and was profitable . In his review for The New Yorker , Anthony Lane thought that her presence kept the film " alive " , writing , " She is often wordless and close to plain onscreen , but wait for the ardor with which she can summon a closeup and bloom under its gaze ; this is her film , not Vermeer ' s , all the way . " Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly noted her " nearly silent performance " , remarking , " The interplay on her face of fear , ignorance , curiosity , and sex is intensely dramatic . " She was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role and Golden Globe Awards for Best Actress [ a ] for both films in 2003 , winning the former for Lost in Translation .	Who did you play in "Girl with a Pearl Earring"?	I played Griet, a young 17th-century servant in the household of the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer.
Johansson played Motoko Kusanagi in Rupert Sanders ' s 2017 film adaptation of the Ghost in the Shell franchise . The film was praised for its visual style , acting , and cinematography , but was the subject of controversy for whitewashing the cast , particularly Johansson ' s character , a cyborg who was meant to hold the memories of a Japanese woman . Responding to the backlash , the actress asserted she would never play a non - white character , but wanted to take the rare opportunity to star in a female - led franchise . Ghost in the Shell grossed $ 169.8   million worldwide against a production budget of $ 110   million . In March 2017 , Johansson hosted Saturday Night Live for the fifth time , making her the 17th person and the fourth woman [ c ] to enter the NBC sketch comedy ' s prestigious Five - Timers Club . Johansson ' s next 2017 film was the comedy Rough Night , where she played Jess Thayer , one of the five friends — alongside Kate McKinnon , Jillian Bell , Ilana Glazer , and Zo ë Kravitz — whose bachelorette party goes wrong after a male stripper dies . The film had a mixed critical reception and moderate box office returns . In 2018 , Johansson voiced show dog Nutmeg in Wes Anderson ' s stop - motion animated film Isle of Dogs , released in March , and reprised her MCU role as Black Widow in Avengers : Infinity War , which followed the next month . Johansson was due to star in Rub & Tug , a biographical film in which she would have played Dante " Tex " Gill , a transgender man who operated a massage parlor and prostitution ring in the 1970s and 1980s . She dropped out of the project following backlash to the casting of a cisgender woman to play a transgender man .	In which film did you play Jess Thayer and what happened during the bachelorette party?	I played Jess Thayer in the comedy film Rough Night. During the bachelorette party, a male stripper dies, leading to a series of unexpected events.
Johansson played Motoko Kusanagi in Rupert Sanders ' s 2017 film adaptation of the Ghost in the Shell franchise . The film was praised for its visual style , acting , and cinematography , but was the subject of controversy for whitewashing the cast , particularly Johansson ' s character , a cyborg who was meant to hold the memories of a Japanese woman . Responding to the backlash , the actress asserted she would never play a non - white character , but wanted to take the rare opportunity to star in a female - led franchise . Ghost in the Shell grossed $ 169.8   million worldwide against a production budget of $ 110   million . In March 2017 , Johansson hosted Saturday Night Live for the fifth time , making her the 17th person and the fourth woman [ c ] to enter the NBC sketch comedy ' s prestigious Five - Timers Club . Johansson ' s next 2017 film was the comedy Rough Night , where she played Jess Thayer , one of the five friends — alongside Kate McKinnon , Jillian Bell , Ilana Glazer , and Zo ë Kravitz — whose bachelorette party goes wrong after a male stripper dies . The film had a mixed critical reception and moderate box office returns . In 2018 , Johansson voiced show dog Nutmeg in Wes Anderson ' s stop - motion animated film Isle of Dogs , released in March , and reprised her MCU role as Black Widow in Avengers : Infinity War , which followed the next month . Johansson was due to star in Rub & Tug , a biographical film in which she would have played Dante " Tex " Gill , a transgender man who operated a massage parlor and prostitution ring in the 1970s and 1980s . She dropped out of the project following backlash to the casting of a cisgender woman to play a transgender man .	How much did Ghost in the Shell gross worldwide and what was its production budget?	The film grossed $169.8 million worldwide and had a production budget of $110 million.
In 2013 , Johansson voiced the character Samantha , a self - aware computer operating system , in Spike Jonze ' s film Her , replacing Samantha Morton in the role . The film premiered at the 8th Rome International Film Festival , where Johansson won Best Actress ; she was also nominated for the Critics ' Choice Movie Award for Best Supporting Actress . Johansson was intimidated by the role ' s complexity , and found her recording sessions for the role challenging but liberating . Peter Travers believed Johansson ' s voice in the film was " sweet , sexy , caring , manipulative , scary [ and ] award - worthy " . Time ' s Richard Corliss called her performance " seductive and winning " , and Her was rated as one of the best films of 2013 .	What award did you win for your performance in Her?	I won the Best Actress award for my performance in Her.
She also won the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress at the 40th Saturn Awards in 2014 for her performance . Johansson was cast in Jonathan Glazer ' s science fiction film Under the Skin ( 2013 ) as an extraterrestrial creature disguised as a human femme fatale who preys on men in Scotland . The project , an adaptation of Michel Faber ' s novel of the same name , took nine years to complete . For the role , she learned to drive a van and speak in an English accent . Johansson improvised conversations with non - professional actors on the street , who did not know they were being filmed . It was released to generally positive reviews , with particular praise for Johansson . Erin Whitney , writing for The Huffington Post , considered it to be her finest performance to that point , and noted that it was her first fully nude role . Author Maureen Foster wrote , " How much depth , breadth , and range Johansson mines from her character ' s very limited allowance of emotional response is a testament to her acting prowess that is , as the film goes on , increasingly stunning . " It earned Johansson a BIFA Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a British Independent Film nomination .	What did you learn to do for your role in "Under the Skin"?	I learned to drive a van and speak in an English accent.
In 2013 , Johansson voiced the character Samantha , a self - aware computer operating system , in Spike Jonze ' s film Her , replacing Samantha Morton in the role . The film premiered at the 8th Rome International Film Festival , where Johansson won Best Actress ; she was also nominated for the Critics ' Choice Movie Award for Best Supporting Actress . Johansson was intimidated by the role ' s complexity , and found her recording sessions for the role challenging but liberating . Peter Travers believed Johansson ' s voice in the film was " sweet , sexy , caring , manipulative , scary [ and ] award - worthy " . Time ' s Richard Corliss called her performance " seductive and winning " , and Her was rated as one of the best films of 2013 .	Who did you replace in the role of Samantha?	I replaced Samantha Morton in the role of Samantha.
Johansson played a supporting role in the film Chef ( 2014 ) , alongside Robert Downey , Jr . , Sof í a Vergara , and director Jon Favreau . It grossed over $ 45   million at the box office and was well received by critics . The Chicago Sun - Times writer Richard Roeper found the film " funny , quirky and insightful , with a bounty of interesting supporting characters " . In Luc Besson ' s science fiction action film Lucy ( 2014 ) , Johansson starred as the title character , who gains psychokinetic abilities when a nootropic drug is absorbed into her bloodstream . Besson discussed the role with several actresses , and cast Johansson based on her strong reaction to the script and her discipline . Critics generally praised the film ' s themes , visuals , and Johansson ' s performance ; some found the plot nonsensical . IGN ' s Jim Vejvoda attributed the film ' s success to her acting and Besson ' s style . The film grossed $ 458   million on a budget of $ 40   million to become the 18th highest - grossing film of 2014 .	What role did you play in the film Chef (2014)?	I played a supporting role in the film Chef (2014).
Aspiring to appear on Broadway since childhood , Johansson made her debut in a 2010 revival of Arthur Miller ' s drama A View from the Bridge . Set in the 1950s in an Italian - American neighborhood in New York , it tells the tragic tale of Eddie ( Liev Schreiber ) , who has an inappropriate love for his wife ' s orphaned niece , Catherine ( Johansson ) . After initial reservations about playing a teenage character , Johansson was convinced by a friend to take on the part . Ben Brantley of The New York Times wrote Johansson " melts into her character so thoroughly that her nimbus of celebrity disappears " . Variety ' s David Rooney was impressed with the play and Johansson in particular , describing her as the chief performer . She won the 2010 Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Play . Some critics and Broadway actors criticized the award committee ' s decision to reward the work of mainstream Hollywood actors , including Johansson . In response , she said that she understood the frustration , but had worked hard for her accomplishments .	Who do you have an inappropriate love for?	I have an inappropriate love for Eddie, played by Liev Schreiber.
Aspiring to appear on Broadway since childhood , Johansson made her debut in a 2010 revival of Arthur Miller ' s drama A View from the Bridge . Set in the 1950s in an Italian - American neighborhood in New York , it tells the tragic tale of Eddie ( Liev Schreiber ) , who has an inappropriate love for his wife ' s orphaned niece , Catherine ( Johansson ) . After initial reservations about playing a teenage character , Johansson was convinced by a friend to take on the part . Ben Brantley of The New York Times wrote Johansson " melts into her character so thoroughly that her nimbus of celebrity disappears " . Variety ' s David Rooney was impressed with the play and Johansson in particular , describing her as the chief performer . She won the 2010 Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Play . Some critics and Broadway actors criticized the award committee ' s decision to reward the work of mainstream Hollywood actors , including Johansson . In response , she said that she understood the frustration , but had worked hard for her accomplishments .	What award did you win for your performance in the play?	I won the 2010 Tony Award for Best Performance by a Featured Actress in a Play.
In Peter Webber ' s Girl with a Pearl Earring , which is based on the novel of the same name by Tracy Chevalier , Johansson played Griet , a young 17th - century servant in the household of the Dutch painter Johannes Vermeer ( played by Colin Firth ) . Webber interviewed 150 actors before casting Johansson . Johansson found the character moving , but did not read the novel , as she thought it was better to approach the story with a fresh start . Girl with a Pearl Earring received positive reviews and was profitable . In his review for The New Yorker , Anthony Lane thought that her presence kept the film " alive " , writing , " She is often wordless and close to plain onscreen , but wait for the ardor with which she can summon a closeup and bloom under its gaze ; this is her film , not Vermeer ' s , all the way . " Owen Gleiberman of Entertainment Weekly noted her " nearly silent performance " , remarking , " The interplay on her face of fear , ignorance , curiosity , and sex is intensely dramatic . " She was nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Actress in a Leading Role and Golden Globe Awards for Best Actress [ a ] for both films in 2003 , winning the former for Lost in Translation .	How many actors were interviewed before you were cast?	Peter Webber interviewed 150 actors before casting me.
In her third collaboration with Woody Allen , the romantic comedy - drama Vicky Cristina Barcelona ( 2008 ) , which was filmed in Spain , Johansson plays one of the love interests of Javier Bardem ' s character alongside Pen é lope Cruz . The film was one of Allen ' s most profitable and received favorable reviews . A reviewer in Variety described Johansson as " open and malleable " compared to the other actors . She also played the femme fatale Silken Floss in The Spirit , based on the newspaper comic strip of the same name by Will Eisner . It received poor reviews from critics , who deemed it melodramatic , unoriginal , and sexist . Johansson ' s only role in 2009 was as Anna Marks , a yoga instructor , in the ensemble comedy - drama He ' s Just Not That into You ( 2009 ) . The film was released to tepid reviews , but was a box office success .	What was your role in He's Just Not That into You?	I played Anna Marks, a yoga instructor.
She also won the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress at the 40th Saturn Awards in 2014 for her performance . Johansson was cast in Jonathan Glazer ' s science fiction film Under the Skin ( 2013 ) as an extraterrestrial creature disguised as a human femme fatale who preys on men in Scotland . The project , an adaptation of Michel Faber ' s novel of the same name , took nine years to complete . For the role , she learned to drive a van and speak in an English accent . Johansson improvised conversations with non - professional actors on the street , who did not know they were being filmed . It was released to generally positive reviews , with particular praise for Johansson . Erin Whitney , writing for The Huffington Post , considered it to be her finest performance to that point , and noted that it was her first fully nude role . Author Maureen Foster wrote , " How much depth , breadth , and range Johansson mines from her character ' s very limited allowance of emotional response is a testament to her acting prowess that is , as the film goes on , increasingly stunning . " It earned Johansson a BIFA Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a British Independent Film nomination .	What award nomination did you receive for your performance in "Under the Skin"?	I received a BIFA Award nomination for Best Performance by an Actress in a British Independent Film.
In 2013 , Johansson voiced the character Samantha , a self - aware computer operating system , in Spike Jonze ' s film Her , replacing Samantha Morton in the role . The film premiered at the 8th Rome International Film Festival , where Johansson won Best Actress ; she was also nominated for the Critics ' Choice Movie Award for Best Supporting Actress . Johansson was intimidated by the role ' s complexity , and found her recording sessions for the role challenging but liberating . Peter Travers believed Johansson ' s voice in the film was " sweet , sexy , caring , manipulative , scary [ and ] award - worthy " . Time ' s Richard Corliss called her performance " seductive and winning " , and Her was rated as one of the best films of 2013 .	According to Peter Travers, how did your voice in the film Her sound?	According to Peter Travers, my voice in the film Her was described as "sweet, sexy, caring, manipulative, scary [and] award-worthy".
Johansson played Nola , an aspiring actress who begins an affair with a married man ( played by Jonathan Rhys Meyers ) in Woody Allen ' s drama Match Point in 2005 . After replacing Kate Winslet with Johansson for the role , Allen changed the character ' s nationality from British to American . An admirer of Allen ' s films , Johansson liked the idea of working with him , but felt nervous her first day on the set . The New York Times was impressed with the performances of Johansson and Rhys Meyers , and Mick LaSalle , writing for the San Francisco Chronicle , stated that Johansson " is a powerhouse from the word go " , with a performance that " borders on astonishing " . The film , a box office success , earned Johansson nominations for the Golden Globe and the Chicago Film Critics Association Award for Best Supporting Actress . Also that year , Johansson underwent a tonsillectomy and starred with Ewan McGregor in Michael Bay ' s science fiction film The Island , in dual roles as Sarah Jordan and her clone , Jordan Two Delta . Johansson found her filming schedule exhausting : she had to shoot for 14 hours a day , and she hit her head and injured herself . The film received mixed reviews and grossed $ 163   million against a $ 126   million budget .	What was your nationality in the movie?	American
Johansson played a supporting role in the film Chef ( 2014 ) , alongside Robert Downey , Jr . , Sof í a Vergara , and director Jon Favreau . It grossed over $ 45   million at the box office and was well received by critics . The Chicago Sun - Times writer Richard Roeper found the film " funny , quirky and insightful , with a bounty of interesting supporting characters " . In Luc Besson ' s science fiction action film Lucy ( 2014 ) , Johansson starred as the title character , who gains psychokinetic abilities when a nootropic drug is absorbed into her bloodstream . Besson discussed the role with several actresses , and cast Johansson based on her strong reaction to the script and her discipline . Critics generally praised the film ' s themes , visuals , and Johansson ' s performance ; some found the plot nonsensical . IGN ' s Jim Vejvoda attributed the film ' s success to her acting and Besson ' s style . The film grossed $ 458   million on a budget of $ 40   million to become the 18th highest - grossing film of 2014 .	How much money did the film Chef (2014) gross at the box office?	The film Chef (2014) grossed over $45 million at the box office.
She also won the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress at the 40th Saturn Awards in 2014 for her performance . Johansson was cast in Jonathan Glazer ' s science fiction film Under the Skin ( 2013 ) as an extraterrestrial creature disguised as a human femme fatale who preys on men in Scotland . The project , an adaptation of Michel Faber ' s novel of the same name , took nine years to complete . For the role , she learned to drive a van and speak in an English accent . Johansson improvised conversations with non - professional actors on the street , who did not know they were being filmed . It was released to generally positive reviews , with particular praise for Johansson . Erin Whitney , writing for The Huffington Post , considered it to be her finest performance to that point , and noted that it was her first fully nude role . Author Maureen Foster wrote , " How much depth , breadth , and range Johansson mines from her character ' s very limited allowance of emotional response is a testament to her acting prowess that is , as the film goes on , increasingly stunning . " It earned Johansson a BIFA Award for Best Performance by an Actress in a British Independent Film nomination .	What award did you win at the 40th Saturn Awards?	I won the Saturn Award for Best Supporting Actress.
