In October 2019 , Gomez released " Lose You to Love Me " as the lead single from her third studio album . The next day , she surprise - released the album ' s second single , " Look at Her Now " . " Lose You to Love Me " became her first number - one song in the U . S . and Canada , and reached the top five of various national charts worldwide , including Australia and the U . K . Rare was released in January 2020 , and debuted atop the U . S . Billboard 200 , earning 112 , 000 album - equivalent units in its first week . It became her third consecutive number - one album in the U . S . , and topped the charts in Australia , Canada , and several other territories , peaking at number two in the UK . The album received positive reviews from music critics , who praised its production and cohesiveness , with many calling it Gomez ' s best album to date ; Jem Aswad of Variety labeled Rare " one of the best pop albums to be released in recent memory " and described it as " sophisticated , precisely written and expertly produced music " . Other singles released from the album include " Rare " and " Boyfriend " .	What did music critics think of your album Rare?	Music critics praised Rare, with many calling it my best album to date.
In January 2020 , Gomez voiced a giraffe in the adventure film Dolittle , directed by Stephen Gaghan . The film , starring Robert Downey Jr . , was a box office disappointment , and received negative reviews from critics , who called it " too long [ and ] lifeless . " Gomez hosted and executive produced the HBO Max cooking show Selena + Chef , which features Gomez joined by a different chef each episode remotely due to the COVID - 19 pandemic . Each episode highlights a food - related charity . The show premiered in August 2020 , and was well - received by critics . It ran for four seasons till September 2022 , and was nominated for Outstanding Culinary Series at the 50th Daytime Emmy Awards . In June , Gomez featured in a remix of Trevor Daniel ' s song , " Past Life " . She executive produced two films that year ; the romantic comedy The Broken Hearts Gallery , released in September 2020 , to positive reviews , and the teen comedy - drama This Is the Year . In August , Gomez collaborated with South Korean girl group Blackpink for " Ice Cream " . The song peaked at number thirteen on the Billboard Hot 100 , and garnered 79.08 million views in its first 24 hours , marking the third biggest 24 - hour debut for a music video on YouTube at the time . That year , Gomez was honored by The Latin Recording Academy as one of the Leading Ladies of Entertainment . She was also named by Time as one of the 100 most influential people in the world .	When did your show Selena + Chef premiere?	My show Selena + Chef premiered in August 2020.
In October 2019 , Gomez released " Lose You to Love Me " as the lead single from her third studio album . The next day , she surprise - released the album ' s second single , " Look at Her Now " . " Lose You to Love Me " became her first number - one song in the U . S . and Canada , and reached the top five of various national charts worldwide , including Australia and the U . K . Rare was released in January 2020 , and debuted atop the U . S . Billboard 200 , earning 112 , 000 album - equivalent units in its first week . It became her third consecutive number - one album in the U . S . , and topped the charts in Australia , Canada , and several other territories , peaking at number two in the UK . The album received positive reviews from music critics , who praised its production and cohesiveness , with many calling it Gomez ' s best album to date ; Jem Aswad of Variety labeled Rare " one of the best pop albums to be released in recent memory " and described it as " sophisticated , precisely written and expertly produced music " . Other singles released from the album include " Rare " and " Boyfriend " .	Which countries did your album Rare top the charts in?	My album Rare topped the charts in Australia, Canada, and several other territories.
Gomez began her Stars Dance Tour in August 2013 . After playing shows in North America and Europe , Gomez canceled the Australian and Asian legs of the tour in December 2013 , claiming that she would be taking a hiatus to spend time with her family . In January 2014 , it was reported that Gomez had spent two weeks at Dawn at The Meadows , which is a treatment center in Wickenburg , Arizona that specializes in treating addiction and trauma in young people . Her representative stated that she had spent time there " voluntarily [ ... ] but not for substance abuse " . Gomez confirmed in 2015 that she had been diagnosed with lupus and that after canceling the tour she entered rehab to undergo chemotherapy . Gomez played Nina Pennington , an innocent straight - A student , in Behaving Badly ( 2014 ) . The project , filmed prior to Gomez ' s stint in rehab , was released in August to a generally negative critical and commercial reception . The author of the original autobiographical novel disavowed the film . However , critics deemed Gomez ' s performance superior to the film ; Stephen Dalton from The Hollywood Reporter wrote : " Gomez gives the one - dimensional Nina an emotional maturity that deserves a better movie than this " . Gomez also had a supporting role in the drama Rudderless ( 2014 ) , the directorial debut of William H . Macy . The independent film premiered at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival , and received a mixed reception from critics . Gomez recorded the song " Hold On " with Ben Kweller for the film ' s soundtrack . At the 2014 Teen Choice Awards , Gomez was honored with the Ultimate Choice Award for her " contributions to the entertainment world " .	When did you begin your Stars Dance Tour?	I began my Stars Dance Tour in August 2013.
Hoping to cross over into the music industry , Gomez formed the pop rock band Selena Gomez & the Scene through her record deal with Hollywood Records . The name of the band is an " ironic jab " at the people who called Gomez a " wannabe scene " . The group released their first studio album , Kiss & Tell , in August 2009 , which debuted at number nine on the Billboard 200 albums chart in the U . S . with first - week sales of 66 , 000 copies . The album received mixed reviews , with some critics praising its " fun " nature and others criticizing Gomez ' s vocal performance . Although the lead single was not commercially successful , the second single , " Naturally " , reached number twenty - nine in the U . S . and number seven in the United Kingdom , and was certified 4 × Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) . In July 2010 , Gomez starred alongside Joey King in Ramona and Beezus , a film adaptation of the children ' s novel series by Beverly Cleary , in which she portrayed Beezus Quimby . The film was well received by critics ; Roger Ebert described it as " a sweet salute , " and found both actresses " appealing " . Gomez later reprised the voice role of Princess Selenia in Arthur 3 : The War of the Two Worlds ( 2010 ) .	How did you form your band Selena Gomez & the Scene?	I formed the band through my record deal with Hollywood Records.
Selena Gomez & the Scene released their second studio album A Year Without Rain that same year , which debuted on the U . S . Billboard 200 at number four with sales of over 66 , 000 . The album received mixed to positive reviews , where some critics reacting negatively to Gomez ' s Auto - Tuned vocals . Both of the record ' s singles , " Round & Round " and " A Year Without Rain " , achieved moderate success . The band was awarded Favorite Breakout Artist at the 37th People ' s Choice Awards . Selena Gomez & the Scene released their third and final studio album , When the Sun Goes Down , in June 2011 , to mixed reviews . It debuted at number four on the U . S . Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 78 , 000 copies , and peaked at number three the following week . The album ' s lead single , " Who Says " , was the band ' s highest charting effort , peaking at number twenty - one in the U . S . Its second single , " Love You like a Love Song " , went on to become the band ' s highest performing single in the U . S . to date , peaking at number twenty - two on the Billboard Hot 100 , where it spent 38 weeks , and reached the top ten in Canada . The song was certified 5 × Platinum by the RIAA . In 2022 , Billboard ranked the song as the biggest song that peaked at number twenty - two . The band ' s three studio albums have all been certified gold by the RIAA , and all of the singles from the band ' s three albums have been certified gold or higher by the RIAA . For two years in a row ( 2010 – 2011 ) , Billboard magazine ranked Gomez third in their list of 21 Under 21 : Music ' s Hottest Minors , an annual ranking of the most popular musicians under the age of 21 .	What award did you win at the 37th People's Choice Awards?	I won Favorite Breakout Artist.
Gomez featured on Charlie Puth ' s single , " We Don ' t Talk Anymore " . The song was an international success , and reached the top ten in the U . S . , Australia , Canada , France , and topped the charts in Italy ; and was certified 5 × Platinum by the RIAA . The music video became the most - viewed music video published in 2016 on YouTube . Gomez had a supporting role in In Dubious Battle ( 2016 ) starring and directed by James Franco . The film had its world premiere at the 73rd Venice International Film Festival , and was met with underwhelming reviews . She also guest starred in the Comedy Central variety sketch series Inside Amy Schumer . Gomez and Canadian singer Tory Lanez were featured on Norwegian DJ Cashmere Cat ' s single , " Trust Nobody " .	In which film did you have a supporting role in 2016?	I had a supporting role in "In Dubious Battle" (2016), starring and directed by James Franco.
In January 2020 , Gomez voiced a giraffe in the adventure film Dolittle , directed by Stephen Gaghan . The film , starring Robert Downey Jr . , was a box office disappointment , and received negative reviews from critics , who called it " too long [ and ] lifeless . " Gomez hosted and executive produced the HBO Max cooking show Selena + Chef , which features Gomez joined by a different chef each episode remotely due to the COVID - 19 pandemic . Each episode highlights a food - related charity . The show premiered in August 2020 , and was well - received by critics . It ran for four seasons till September 2022 , and was nominated for Outstanding Culinary Series at the 50th Daytime Emmy Awards . In June , Gomez featured in a remix of Trevor Daniel ' s song , " Past Life " . She executive produced two films that year ; the romantic comedy The Broken Hearts Gallery , released in September 2020 , to positive reviews , and the teen comedy - drama This Is the Year . In August , Gomez collaborated with South Korean girl group Blackpink for " Ice Cream " . The song peaked at number thirteen on the Billboard Hot 100 , and garnered 79.08 million views in its first 24 hours , marking the third biggest 24 - hour debut for a music video on YouTube at the time . That year , Gomez was honored by The Latin Recording Academy as one of the Leading Ladies of Entertainment . She was also named by Time as one of the 100 most influential people in the world .	What is the name of the HBO Max cooking show that you hosted and executive produced?	The HBO Max cooking show that I hosted and executive produced is called Selena + Chef.
In May 2017 , Gomez released the single " Bad Liar " , alongside a vertical music video which was available for streaming only through Spotify ; it was the first - ever music video to premiere on Spotify . The song received universal acclaim from music critics , with some deeming it Gomez ' s best song to date ; Billboard ranked it as the best song of 2017 . Rolling Stone ranked " Bad Liar " at number 39 on its 2019 list of best songs of the 2010s . Winston Cook - Wilson of Spin magazine found Gomez ' s vocals pristine and the track " charmingly weird " , calling its lyrics and sample usage " harebrained but ultimately brilliant " . He appreciated " Bad Liar " for eschewing contemporary radio trends , concluding that it " mostly just sounds like itself , and there ' s no higher compliment to pay it . Gomez released the single " Fetish " featuring rapper Gucci Mane two month later . In October 2017 , Gomez and EDM producer Marshmello released the single " Wolves " . The song was a commercial success , and reached the top ten on charts in Australia , Canada , the U . K , and several European countries , peaking at number twenty in the U . S . Later that year , Gomez was named Billboard ' s Woman of the Year , in recognition of her influence and commercial success .	When did you release the single "Bad Liar"?	In May 2017.
In October 2019 , Gomez released " Lose You to Love Me " as the lead single from her third studio album . The next day , she surprise - released the album ' s second single , " Look at Her Now " . " Lose You to Love Me " became her first number - one song in the U . S . and Canada , and reached the top five of various national charts worldwide , including Australia and the U . K . Rare was released in January 2020 , and debuted atop the U . S . Billboard 200 , earning 112 , 000 album - equivalent units in its first week . It became her third consecutive number - one album in the U . S . , and topped the charts in Australia , Canada , and several other territories , peaking at number two in the UK . The album received positive reviews from music critics , who praised its production and cohesiveness , with many calling it Gomez ' s best album to date ; Jem Aswad of Variety labeled Rare " one of the best pop albums to be released in recent memory " and described it as " sophisticated , precisely written and expertly produced music " . Other singles released from the album include " Rare " and " Boyfriend " .	What is the name of your third studio album?	The name of my third studio album is Rare.
Gomez reprised the voice role of Mavis , and also served as an executive producer , for the fourth and final installment in the Hotel Transylvania franchise , Hotel Transylvania : Transformania ( 2022 ) . In response to the rising cases of the SARS - CoV - 2 Delta variant in the United States , Sony Pictures cancelled the film ' s theatrical plans . The film was released on Amazon Prime Video in January to mixed reviews . Gomez was nominated as executive producer for a Children ' s and Family Emmy Award . She collaborated with British band Coldplay on " Let Somebody Go " , released as a single in February . For her work as a featured artist on Coldplay ' s ninth studio album , Music of the Spheres , she was nominated for Album of the Year at the 65th Annual Grammy Awards . In May , Gomez hosted an episode of the NBC late - night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live . She later made a cameo appearance on the show in December . In July , Gomez executive produced the ViX + docuseries Mi Vecino , El Cartel . In August , Gomez was featured on the remix of Nigerian artist Rema ' s song , " Calm Down " . An international success , it peaked at number three on the Billboard Global 200 . The single became Gomez ' s fourth top - five and ninth top - ten in the U . S . , peaking at number five , and topped the Canadian Hot 100 for two weeks . It became the longest - running song at the top of the Billboard U . S . Afrobeats Songs chart , with 38 weeks at number one . " Calm Down " reached number one on the Billboard U . S . Pop Airplay chart .	What were the plans for the theatrical release of Hotel Transylvania: Transformania?	The theatrical plans for Hotel Transylvania: Transformania were cancelled by Sony Pictures due to the rising cases of the SARS-CoV-2 Delta variant.
Hoping to cross over into the music industry , Gomez formed the pop rock band Selena Gomez & the Scene through her record deal with Hollywood Records . The name of the band is an " ironic jab " at the people who called Gomez a " wannabe scene " . The group released their first studio album , Kiss & Tell , in August 2009 , which debuted at number nine on the Billboard 200 albums chart in the U . S . with first - week sales of 66 , 000 copies . The album received mixed reviews , with some critics praising its " fun " nature and others criticizing Gomez ' s vocal performance . Although the lead single was not commercially successful , the second single , " Naturally " , reached number twenty - nine in the U . S . and number seven in the United Kingdom , and was certified 4 × Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) . In July 2010 , Gomez starred alongside Joey King in Ramona and Beezus , a film adaptation of the children ' s novel series by Beverly Cleary , in which she portrayed Beezus Quimby . The film was well received by critics ; Roger Ebert described it as " a sweet salute , " and found both actresses " appealing " . Gomez later reprised the voice role of Princess Selenia in Arthur 3 : The War of the Two Worlds ( 2010 ) .	When did your band release their first studio album?	My group released our first studio album, Kiss & Tell, in August 2009.
Gomez starred in the comedy film Monte Carlo ( 2011 ) , with Leighton Meester and Katie Cassidy ; she played the lead role of Grace , a teenager " mistaken for a socialite " , Cordelia ( also Gomez ) , " while on a trip to Paris " . In preparation for the role , she learned to play polo and received dialect coaching to speak in two different British accents ; Gomez ' s accent was described as " unconvincing " . The film received mixed reviews from critic . Nick Schager from Slant Magazine found Gomez " cute , but too bland to lend the proceedings any vivid character , except for the few scenes that allow her to indulge her cold , sarcastic , nasty side as Cordelia " . That year , Gomez appeared in a cameo role in the film The Muppets . Gomez hosted in June the MuchMusic Video Awards in Toronto , Canada , and in November the MTV Europe Music Awards in Belfast , Northern Ireland .	Who were your co-stars in Monte Carlo?	My co-stars in Monte Carlo were Leighton Meester and Katie Cassidy.
Gomez began her Stars Dance Tour in August 2013 . After playing shows in North America and Europe , Gomez canceled the Australian and Asian legs of the tour in December 2013 , claiming that she would be taking a hiatus to spend time with her family . In January 2014 , it was reported that Gomez had spent two weeks at Dawn at The Meadows , which is a treatment center in Wickenburg , Arizona that specializes in treating addiction and trauma in young people . Her representative stated that she had spent time there " voluntarily [ ... ] but not for substance abuse " . Gomez confirmed in 2015 that she had been diagnosed with lupus and that after canceling the tour she entered rehab to undergo chemotherapy . Gomez played Nina Pennington , an innocent straight - A student , in Behaving Badly ( 2014 ) . The project , filmed prior to Gomez ' s stint in rehab , was released in August to a generally negative critical and commercial reception . The author of the original autobiographical novel disavowed the film . However , critics deemed Gomez ' s performance superior to the film ; Stephen Dalton from The Hollywood Reporter wrote : " Gomez gives the one - dimensional Nina an emotional maturity that deserves a better movie than this " . Gomez also had a supporting role in the drama Rudderless ( 2014 ) , the directorial debut of William H . Macy . The independent film premiered at the 2014 Sundance Film Festival , and received a mixed reception from critics . Gomez recorded the song " Hold On " with Ben Kweller for the film ' s soundtrack . At the 2014 Teen Choice Awards , Gomez was honored with the Ultimate Choice Award for her " contributions to the entertainment world " .	Where did you spend two weeks in January 2014?	I spent two weeks at Dawn at The Meadows, a treatment center in Wickenburg, Arizona that specializes in treating addiction and trauma in young people.
Gomez reprised the voice role of Mavis , and also served as an executive producer , for the fourth and final installment in the Hotel Transylvania franchise , Hotel Transylvania : Transformania ( 2022 ) . In response to the rising cases of the SARS - CoV - 2 Delta variant in the United States , Sony Pictures cancelled the film ' s theatrical plans . The film was released on Amazon Prime Video in January to mixed reviews . Gomez was nominated as executive producer for a Children ' s and Family Emmy Award . She collaborated with British band Coldplay on " Let Somebody Go " , released as a single in February . For her work as a featured artist on Coldplay ' s ninth studio album , Music of the Spheres , she was nominated for Album of the Year at the 65th Annual Grammy Awards . In May , Gomez hosted an episode of the NBC late - night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live . She later made a cameo appearance on the show in December . In July , Gomez executive produced the ViX + docuseries Mi Vecino , El Cartel . In August , Gomez was featured on the remix of Nigerian artist Rema ' s song , " Calm Down " . An international success , it peaked at number three on the Billboard Global 200 . The single became Gomez ' s fourth top - five and ninth top - ten in the U . S . , peaking at number five , and topped the Canadian Hot 100 for two weeks . It became the longest - running song at the top of the Billboard U . S . Afrobeats Songs chart , with 38 weeks at number one . " Calm Down " reached number one on the Billboard U . S . Pop Airplay chart .	What award were you nominated for as an executive producer?	I was nominated for a Children's and Family Emmy Award as an executive producer.
Gomez featured on Charlie Puth ' s single , " We Don ' t Talk Anymore " . The song was an international success , and reached the top ten in the U . S . , Australia , Canada , France , and topped the charts in Italy ; and was certified 5 × Platinum by the RIAA . The music video became the most - viewed music video published in 2016 on YouTube . Gomez had a supporting role in In Dubious Battle ( 2016 ) starring and directed by James Franco . The film had its world premiere at the 73rd Venice International Film Festival , and was met with underwhelming reviews . She also guest starred in the Comedy Central variety sketch series Inside Amy Schumer . Gomez and Canadian singer Tory Lanez were featured on Norwegian DJ Cashmere Cat ' s single , " Trust Nobody " .	Which single did you feature on with Charlie Puth?	I featured on Charlie Puth's single, "We Don't Talk Anymore".
Gomez reprised the voice role of Mavis , and also served as an executive producer , for the fourth and final installment in the Hotel Transylvania franchise , Hotel Transylvania : Transformania ( 2022 ) . In response to the rising cases of the SARS - CoV - 2 Delta variant in the United States , Sony Pictures cancelled the film ' s theatrical plans . The film was released on Amazon Prime Video in January to mixed reviews . Gomez was nominated as executive producer for a Children ' s and Family Emmy Award . She collaborated with British band Coldplay on " Let Somebody Go " , released as a single in February . For her work as a featured artist on Coldplay ' s ninth studio album , Music of the Spheres , she was nominated for Album of the Year at the 65th Annual Grammy Awards . In May , Gomez hosted an episode of the NBC late - night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live . She later made a cameo appearance on the show in December . In July , Gomez executive produced the ViX + docuseries Mi Vecino , El Cartel . In August , Gomez was featured on the remix of Nigerian artist Rema ' s song , " Calm Down " . An international success , it peaked at number three on the Billboard Global 200 . The single became Gomez ' s fourth top - five and ninth top - ten in the U . S . , peaking at number five , and topped the Canadian Hot 100 for two weeks . It became the longest - running song at the top of the Billboard U . S . Afrobeats Songs chart , with 38 weeks at number one . " Calm Down " reached number one on the Billboard U . S . Pop Airplay chart .	Who reprised the voice role of Mavis in Hotel Transylvania: Transformania?	I reprised the voice role of Mavis in Hotel Transylvania: Transformania.
Gomez reprised the voice role of Mavis , and also served as an executive producer , for the fourth and final installment in the Hotel Transylvania franchise , Hotel Transylvania : Transformania ( 2022 ) . In response to the rising cases of the SARS - CoV - 2 Delta variant in the United States , Sony Pictures cancelled the film ' s theatrical plans . The film was released on Amazon Prime Video in January to mixed reviews . Gomez was nominated as executive producer for a Children ' s and Family Emmy Award . She collaborated with British band Coldplay on " Let Somebody Go " , released as a single in February . For her work as a featured artist on Coldplay ' s ninth studio album , Music of the Spheres , she was nominated for Album of the Year at the 65th Annual Grammy Awards . In May , Gomez hosted an episode of the NBC late - night sketch comedy Saturday Night Live . She later made a cameo appearance on the show in December . In July , Gomez executive produced the ViX + docuseries Mi Vecino , El Cartel . In August , Gomez was featured on the remix of Nigerian artist Rema ' s song , " Calm Down " . An international success , it peaked at number three on the Billboard Global 200 . The single became Gomez ' s fourth top - five and ninth top - ten in the U . S . , peaking at number five , and topped the Canadian Hot 100 for two weeks . It became the longest - running song at the top of the Billboard U . S . Afrobeats Songs chart , with 38 weeks at number one . " Calm Down " reached number one on the Billboard U . S . Pop Airplay chart .	Who did you collaborate with on the single "Let Somebody Go"?	I collaborated with British band Coldplay on the single "Let Somebody Go".
Gomez starred in the comedy film Monte Carlo ( 2011 ) , with Leighton Meester and Katie Cassidy ; she played the lead role of Grace , a teenager " mistaken for a socialite " , Cordelia ( also Gomez ) , " while on a trip to Paris " . In preparation for the role , she learned to play polo and received dialect coaching to speak in two different British accents ; Gomez ' s accent was described as " unconvincing " . The film received mixed reviews from critic . Nick Schager from Slant Magazine found Gomez " cute , but too bland to lend the proceedings any vivid character , except for the few scenes that allow her to indulge her cold , sarcastic , nasty side as Cordelia " . That year , Gomez appeared in a cameo role in the film The Muppets . Gomez hosted in June the MuchMusic Video Awards in Toronto , Canada , and in November the MTV Europe Music Awards in Belfast , Northern Ireland .	In which film did you play the lead role?	I played the lead role in the comedy film Monte Carlo.
Selena Gomez & the Scene released their second studio album A Year Without Rain that same year , which debuted on the U . S . Billboard 200 at number four with sales of over 66 , 000 . The album received mixed to positive reviews , where some critics reacting negatively to Gomez ' s Auto - Tuned vocals . Both of the record ' s singles , " Round & Round " and " A Year Without Rain " , achieved moderate success . The band was awarded Favorite Breakout Artist at the 37th People ' s Choice Awards . Selena Gomez & the Scene released their third and final studio album , When the Sun Goes Down , in June 2011 , to mixed reviews . It debuted at number four on the U . S . Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 78 , 000 copies , and peaked at number three the following week . The album ' s lead single , " Who Says " , was the band ' s highest charting effort , peaking at number twenty - one in the U . S . Its second single , " Love You like a Love Song " , went on to become the band ' s highest performing single in the U . S . to date , peaking at number twenty - two on the Billboard Hot 100 , where it spent 38 weeks , and reached the top ten in Canada . The song was certified 5 × Platinum by the RIAA . In 2022 , Billboard ranked the song as the biggest song that peaked at number twenty - two . The band ' s three studio albums have all been certified gold by the RIAA , and all of the singles from the band ' s three albums have been certified gold or higher by the RIAA . For two years in a row ( 2010 – 2011 ) , Billboard magazine ranked Gomez third in their list of 21 Under 21 : Music ' s Hottest Minors , an annual ranking of the most popular musicians under the age of 21 .	How did your album debut on the U.S. Billboard 200?	It debuted at number four.
In May 2017 , Gomez released the single " Bad Liar " , alongside a vertical music video which was available for streaming only through Spotify ; it was the first - ever music video to premiere on Spotify . The song received universal acclaim from music critics , with some deeming it Gomez ' s best song to date ; Billboard ranked it as the best song of 2017 . Rolling Stone ranked " Bad Liar " at number 39 on its 2019 list of best songs of the 2010s . Winston Cook - Wilson of Spin magazine found Gomez ' s vocals pristine and the track " charmingly weird " , calling its lyrics and sample usage " harebrained but ultimately brilliant " . He appreciated " Bad Liar " for eschewing contemporary radio trends , concluding that it " mostly just sounds like itself , and there ' s no higher compliment to pay it . Gomez released the single " Fetish " featuring rapper Gucci Mane two month later . In October 2017 , Gomez and EDM producer Marshmello released the single " Wolves " . The song was a commercial success , and reached the top ten on charts in Australia , Canada , the U . K , and several European countries , peaking at number twenty in the U . S . Later that year , Gomez was named Billboard ' s Woman of the Year , in recognition of her influence and commercial success .	What was the position of "Bad Liar" on Rolling Stone's 2019 list of best songs of the 2010s?	"Bad Liar" was ranked at number 39 on Rolling Stone's 2019 list of best songs of the 2010s.
In May 2018 , Gomez released the single " Back to You " , from the 13 Reasons Why Season 2 Soundtrack . The song reached the top five on charts in Australia and Canada , and peaked at number eighteen in the U . S . Gomez once again voiced the character Mavis in Hotel Transylvania 3 : Summer Vacation , released in July of that year . With box office earnings of $ 528 million , the film was a commercial success , and received mixed to positive reviews . Gomez featured on DJ Snake ' s song " Taki Taki " alongside Ozuna and Cardi B , released in September 2018 . The single achieved global success , reaching the top ten in Canada , France , Germany , Italy , and topped the charts in Spain and several Latin American countries . It also peaked at number eleven in the U . S . The song received nominations for the Billboard Music Award and the iHeartRadio Music Award for Latin Song of the Year , but ultimately won Song of the Year at the 2019 Latin American Music Awards . From 2011 to 2018 , Gomez had a streak of 16 consecutive top 40 hits on the Billboard Hot 100 , which is the longest active run of any artist according to Billboard . Gomez also featured on Julia Michaels ' s single " Anxiety " , released in January 2019 , and released the following month a collaboration with Tainy , Benny Blanco and J Balvin , titled " I Can ' t Get Enough " .	At what position did your song "Back to You" peak in the U.S. charts?	Number eighteen
Hoping to cross over into the music industry , Gomez formed the pop rock band Selena Gomez & the Scene through her record deal with Hollywood Records . The name of the band is an " ironic jab " at the people who called Gomez a " wannabe scene " . The group released their first studio album , Kiss & Tell , in August 2009 , which debuted at number nine on the Billboard 200 albums chart in the U . S . with first - week sales of 66 , 000 copies . The album received mixed reviews , with some critics praising its " fun " nature and others criticizing Gomez ' s vocal performance . Although the lead single was not commercially successful , the second single , " Naturally " , reached number twenty - nine in the U . S . and number seven in the United Kingdom , and was certified 4 × Platinum by the Recording Industry Association of America ( RIAA ) . In July 2010 , Gomez starred alongside Joey King in Ramona and Beezus , a film adaptation of the children ' s novel series by Beverly Cleary , in which she portrayed Beezus Quimby . The film was well received by critics ; Roger Ebert described it as " a sweet salute , " and found both actresses " appealing " . Gomez later reprised the voice role of Princess Selenia in Arthur 3 : The War of the Two Worlds ( 2010 ) .	What is the reason behind the name of your band?	The name of my band is an "ironic jab" at the people who called me a "wannabe scene".
Gomez starred in the comedy film Monte Carlo ( 2011 ) , with Leighton Meester and Katie Cassidy ; she played the lead role of Grace , a teenager " mistaken for a socialite " , Cordelia ( also Gomez ) , " while on a trip to Paris " . In preparation for the role , she learned to play polo and received dialect coaching to speak in two different British accents ; Gomez ' s accent was described as " unconvincing " . The film received mixed reviews from critic . Nick Schager from Slant Magazine found Gomez " cute , but too bland to lend the proceedings any vivid character , except for the few scenes that allow her to indulge her cold , sarcastic , nasty side as Cordelia " . That year , Gomez appeared in a cameo role in the film The Muppets . Gomez hosted in June the MuchMusic Video Awards in Toronto , Canada , and in November the MTV Europe Music Awards in Belfast , Northern Ireland .	What did you learn to do for your role in Monte Carlo?	I learned to play polo and received dialect coaching for my role in Monte Carlo.
Selena Gomez & the Scene released their second studio album A Year Without Rain that same year , which debuted on the U . S . Billboard 200 at number four with sales of over 66 , 000 . The album received mixed to positive reviews , where some critics reacting negatively to Gomez ' s Auto - Tuned vocals . Both of the record ' s singles , " Round & Round " and " A Year Without Rain " , achieved moderate success . The band was awarded Favorite Breakout Artist at the 37th People ' s Choice Awards . Selena Gomez & the Scene released their third and final studio album , When the Sun Goes Down , in June 2011 , to mixed reviews . It debuted at number four on the U . S . Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 78 , 000 copies , and peaked at number three the following week . The album ' s lead single , " Who Says " , was the band ' s highest charting effort , peaking at number twenty - one in the U . S . Its second single , " Love You like a Love Song " , went on to become the band ' s highest performing single in the U . S . to date , peaking at number twenty - two on the Billboard Hot 100 , where it spent 38 weeks , and reached the top ten in Canada . The song was certified 5 × Platinum by the RIAA . In 2022 , Billboard ranked the song as the biggest song that peaked at number twenty - two . The band ' s three studio albums have all been certified gold by the RIAA , and all of the singles from the band ' s three albums have been certified gold or higher by the RIAA . For two years in a row ( 2010 – 2011 ) , Billboard magazine ranked Gomez third in their list of 21 Under 21 : Music ' s Hottest Minors , an annual ranking of the most popular musicians under the age of 21 .	What is the name of your & the Scene's third and final studio album?	When the Sun Goes Down
