On February 4 , 2012 , Snoop Dogg announced a documentary , Reincarnated , alongside his new upcoming studio album entitled Reincarnated . The film was released March 21 , 2013 , with the album slated for release April 23 , 2013 . On July 20 , 2012 , Snoop Dogg released a new reggae single , " La La La " under the pseudonym Snoop Lion . Three other songs were also announced to be on the album : " No Guns Allowed " , " Ashtrays and Heartbreaks " , and " Harder Times " .	When was the film "Reincarnated" released?	The film was released on March 21, 2013.
Snoop was appointed an executive position at Priority Records . His tenth studio album , Malice n Wonderland , was released on December 8 , 2009 . The first single from the album , " Gangsta Luv " , featuring The - Dream , peaked at No.35 on the Billboard Hot 100 . The album debuted at No.23 on the Billboard 200 , selling 61 , 000 copies its first week , making it his lowest charting album . His third single , " I Wanna Rock " , peaked at No.41 on the Billboard Hot 100 . The fourth single from Malice n Wonderland , titled " Pronto " , featuring Soulja Boy Tell ' Em , was released on iTunes on December 1 , 2009 . Snoop re - released the album under the name More Malice .	What was the peak position of your first single from the album, "Gangsta Luv"?	The first single from my album, "Gangsta Luv", peaked at No.35 on the Billboard Hot 100.
In July 2007 , Snoop Dogg made history by becoming the first artist to release a track as a ringtone before its release as a single , " It ' s the D . O . G . " On July 7 , 2007 , Snoop Dogg performed at the Live Earth concert , Hamburg . Snoop Dogg has ventured into singing for Bollywood with his first ever rap for an Indian movie , Singh Is Kinng ; the song title is also " Singh is Kinng " . He appears in the movie as himself . The album featuring the song was released on June 8 , 2008 , on Junglee Music Records . He released his ninth studio album , Ego Trippin ' ( selling 400 , 000 copies in the U . S . ) , along with the first single , " Sexual Eruption " . The single peaked at No . 7 on the Billboard 100 , featuring Snoop using autotune . The album featured production from QDT ( Quik - Dogg - Teddy ) .	What was your achievement in July 2007?	I became the first artist to release a track as a ringtone before its release as a single.
On February 4 , 2012 , Snoop Dogg announced a documentary , Reincarnated , alongside his new upcoming studio album entitled Reincarnated . The film was released March 21 , 2013 , with the album slated for release April 23 , 2013 . On July 20 , 2012 , Snoop Dogg released a new reggae single , " La La La " under the pseudonym Snoop Lion . Three other songs were also announced to be on the album : " No Guns Allowed " , " Ashtrays and Heartbreaks " , and " Harder Times " .	When did you announce the documentary "Reincarnated"?	On February 4, 2012.
Snoop Dogg is a lifelong fan of professional wrestling . On March 30 , 2008 , Snoop Dogg appeared at WrestleMania XXIV as a Master of Ceremonies for a tag team match between Maria and Ashley Massaro as they took on Beth Phoenix and Melina . On a March 23 , 2015 episode of Raw , Snoop Dogg appeared in a segment with Hulk Hogan and Curtis Axel . At WrestleMania 32 , he accompanied his cousin Sasha Banks to the ring for her match , rapping over her theme music . He was also inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2016 . Broadus made a special guest appearance in All Elite Wrestling on the January 6 , 2021 , episode of AEW Dynamite , titled New Year ' s Smash . During this appearance , Snoop appeared in the corner of Cody Rhodes during Rhodes ' s match with Matt Sydal . He later gave Serpentico a Frog Splash , with Rhodes then delivering a three - count . Snoop Dogg would join The Miz to host both nights of WrestleMania 39 . During Night 1 , he accompanied Rey Mysterio in a lowrider during his entrance , paying tribute to the late Eddie Guerrero . On Night 2 , he introduced Shane McMahon to face The Miz in another spontaneous match . McMahon would sustain a quad injury during the match prompting Snoop Dogg to improvise and finish the match himself , ultimately defeating Miz . Snoop Dogg ' s improvisational acts were lauded by wrestlers and executives , including WWE chief content officer Triple H .	When did you appear as a Master of Ceremonies at WrestleMania XXIV?	I appeared as a Master of Ceremonies at WrestleMania XXIV on March 30, 2008.
Snoop is an avid sports fan , including hometown teams Los Angeles Dodgers , Los Angeles Lakers , and USC Trojans , as well as the Pittsburgh Steelers . He has stated that he began following the Steelers in the 1970s while watching the team with his grandfather . He is also a fan of the Las Vegas Raiders , Los Angeles Rams , and Dallas Cowboys , often wearing a No . 5 jersey , and has been seen at Raiders training camps . He has shown affection for the New England Patriots , having been seen performing at Gillette Stadium . He is an avid ice hockey fan , sporting jerseys from the NHL ' s Los Angeles Kings , Pittsburgh Penguins , Toronto Maple Leafs , and the Boston Bruins as well at the AHL ' s Springfield Indians in his 1994 music video " Gin and Juice " . Snoop has been seen attending Los Angeles Kings games . On his reality show Snoop Dogg ' s Father Hood , Snoop and his family received hockey lessons from the Anaheim Ducks , then returned to the Honda Center to cheer on the Ducks against the Vancouver Canucks in the episode " Snow in da Hood " . Snoop appeared in the video game NHL 20 as both a guest commentator and a playable character in the " World of Chel " game mode .	How did you begin following the Pittsburgh Steelers?	I began following the Pittsburgh Steelers in the 1970s while watching the team with my grandfather.
In July 2007 , Snoop Dogg made history by becoming the first artist to release a track as a ringtone before its release as a single , " It ' s the D . O . G . " On July 7 , 2007 , Snoop Dogg performed at the Live Earth concert , Hamburg . Snoop Dogg has ventured into singing for Bollywood with his first ever rap for an Indian movie , Singh Is Kinng ; the song title is also " Singh is Kinng " . He appears in the movie as himself . The album featuring the song was released on June 8 , 2008 , on Junglee Music Records . He released his ninth studio album , Ego Trippin ' ( selling 400 , 000 copies in the U . S . ) , along with the first single , " Sexual Eruption " . The single peaked at No . 7 on the Billboard 100 , featuring Snoop using autotune . The album featured production from QDT ( Quik - Dogg - Teddy ) .	How many copies of your ninth studio album, Ego Trippin', were sold in the U.S.?	400,000 copies of my ninth studio album, Ego Trippin', were sold in the U.S.
In April 2016 , Broadus performed " Straight outta Compton " and " Fuck tha Police " at Coachella , during a reunion of N . W . A . members Dr . Dre , Ice Cube , and MC Ren .	What songs did you perform at Coachella?	I performed "Straight outta Compton" and "Fuck tha Police".
Snoop Dogg was featured on Lil Dicky ' s April 2019 single " Earth " , where he played the role of a marijuana plant in both the song ' s lyrics and animated video . On July 3 , 2019 , Snoop Dogg released the title track from his upcoming 17th studio album , I Wanna Thank Me . The album was released on August 16 , 2019 . Snoop Dogg collaborated with Vietnamese singer Son Tung M - TP in " H ã y trao cho anh " ( " Give it to Me " ) , which was officially released on July 1 , 2019 . As of October 3 , 2019 , the music video has amassed over 158 million views on YouTube .	What role did you play in the song "Earth"?	I played the role of a marijuana plant.
Snoop Dogg is a lifelong fan of professional wrestling . On March 30 , 2008 , Snoop Dogg appeared at WrestleMania XXIV as a Master of Ceremonies for a tag team match between Maria and Ashley Massaro as they took on Beth Phoenix and Melina . On a March 23 , 2015 episode of Raw , Snoop Dogg appeared in a segment with Hulk Hogan and Curtis Axel . At WrestleMania 32 , he accompanied his cousin Sasha Banks to the ring for her match , rapping over her theme music . He was also inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2016 . Broadus made a special guest appearance in All Elite Wrestling on the January 6 , 2021 , episode of AEW Dynamite , titled New Year ' s Smash . During this appearance , Snoop appeared in the corner of Cody Rhodes during Rhodes ' s match with Matt Sydal . He later gave Serpentico a Frog Splash , with Rhodes then delivering a three - count . Snoop Dogg would join The Miz to host both nights of WrestleMania 39 . During Night 1 , he accompanied Rey Mysterio in a lowrider during his entrance , paying tribute to the late Eddie Guerrero . On Night 2 , he introduced Shane McMahon to face The Miz in another spontaneous match . McMahon would sustain a quad injury during the match prompting Snoop Dogg to improvise and finish the match himself , ultimately defeating Miz . Snoop Dogg ' s improvisational acts were lauded by wrestlers and executives , including WWE chief content officer Triple H .	Who did you accompany to the ring at WrestleMania 32?	I accompanied my cousin Sasha Banks to the ring at WrestleMania 32.
In April 2016 , Broadus performed " Straight outta Compton " and " Fuck tha Police " at Coachella , during a reunion of N . W . A . members Dr . Dre , Ice Cube , and MC Ren .	What was the occasion for your reunion with N.W.A. members at Coachella?	The reunion occurred during Coachella.
In June 2004 , Snoop signed to Geffen Records / Star Trak Entertainment , both distributed by Interscope Records ; Star Trak is headed by producer duo the Neptunes , which produced several tracks for Snoop ' s 2004 release R & G ( Rhythm & Gangsta ) : The Masterpiece . " Drop It Like It ' s Hot " ( featuring Pharrell ) , the first single released from the album , was a hit and became Snoop Dogg ' s first single to reach number one . His third release was " Signs " , featuring Justin Timberlake and Charlie Wilson , which entered the UK chart at No . 2 . This was his highest entry ever in the UK chart . The album sold 1 , 730 , 000 copies in the U . S . alone , and most of its singles were heavily played on radio and television . Snoop Dogg joined Warren G and Nate Dogg to form the group 213 and released The Hard Way in 2004 . Debuting at No.4 on the Billboard 200 and No.1 on the Top R & B / Hip - Hop Albums , it included the single " Groupie Luv " . Snoop Dogg appeared in the music video for Korn ' s " Twisted Transistor " along with fellow rappers Lil Jon , Xzibit , and David Banner .	What was the highest position reached by my album "The Hard Way" on the Billboard 200 chart?	"The Hard Way" debuted at No.4 on the Billboard 200 chart.
In April 2016 , Broadus performed " Straight outta Compton " and " Fuck tha Police " at Coachella , during a reunion of N . W . A . members Dr . Dre , Ice Cube , and MC Ren .	When did you perform "Straight outta Compton" and "Fuck tha Police"?	In April 2016.
On February 4 , 2012 , Snoop Dogg announced a documentary , Reincarnated , alongside his new upcoming studio album entitled Reincarnated . The film was released March 21 , 2013 , with the album slated for release April 23 , 2013 . On July 20 , 2012 , Snoop Dogg released a new reggae single , " La La La " under the pseudonym Snoop Lion . Three other songs were also announced to be on the album : " No Guns Allowed " , " Ashtrays and Heartbreaks " , and " Harder Times " .	When did you release the reggae single "La La La"?	I released the reggae single "La La La" on July 20, 2012.
In July 2007 , Snoop Dogg made history by becoming the first artist to release a track as a ringtone before its release as a single , " It ' s the D . O . G . " On July 7 , 2007 , Snoop Dogg performed at the Live Earth concert , Hamburg . Snoop Dogg has ventured into singing for Bollywood with his first ever rap for an Indian movie , Singh Is Kinng ; the song title is also " Singh is Kinng " . He appears in the movie as himself . The album featuring the song was released on June 8 , 2008 , on Junglee Music Records . He released his ninth studio album , Ego Trippin ' ( selling 400 , 000 copies in the U . S . ) , along with the first single , " Sexual Eruption " . The single peaked at No . 7 on the Billboard 100 , featuring Snoop using autotune . The album featured production from QDT ( Quik - Dogg - Teddy ) .	Where did you perform on July 7, 2007?	I performed at the Live Earth concert in Hamburg.
Broadus is known to freestyle some of his lyrics on the spot   – in the book How to Rap , Lady of Rage says , " When I worked with him earlier in his career , that ' s how created his stuff ... he would freestyle , he wasn ' t a writer then , he was a freestyler " , and The D . O . C . states , " Snoop ' s [ rap ] was a one take willy , but his shit was all freestyle . He hadn ' t written nothing down . He just came in and started busting . The song was " Tha Shiznit " — that was all freestyle . He started busting and when we got to the break , Dre cut the machine off , did the chorus and told Snoop to come back in . He did that throughout the record . That ' s when Snoop was in the zone then . "	According to Lady of Rage, what were you like earlier in your career?	I would freestyle and wasn't a writer then, I was a freestyler.
Snoop Dogg is a lifelong fan of professional wrestling . On March 30 , 2008 , Snoop Dogg appeared at WrestleMania XXIV as a Master of Ceremonies for a tag team match between Maria and Ashley Massaro as they took on Beth Phoenix and Melina . On a March 23 , 2015 episode of Raw , Snoop Dogg appeared in a segment with Hulk Hogan and Curtis Axel . At WrestleMania 32 , he accompanied his cousin Sasha Banks to the ring for her match , rapping over her theme music . He was also inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2016 . Broadus made a special guest appearance in All Elite Wrestling on the January 6 , 2021 , episode of AEW Dynamite , titled New Year ' s Smash . During this appearance , Snoop appeared in the corner of Cody Rhodes during Rhodes ' s match with Matt Sydal . He later gave Serpentico a Frog Splash , with Rhodes then delivering a three - count . Snoop Dogg would join The Miz to host both nights of WrestleMania 39 . During Night 1 , he accompanied Rey Mysterio in a lowrider during his entrance , paying tribute to the late Eddie Guerrero . On Night 2 , he introduced Shane McMahon to face The Miz in another spontaneous match . McMahon would sustain a quad injury during the match prompting Snoop Dogg to improvise and finish the match himself , ultimately defeating Miz . Snoop Dogg ' s improvisational acts were lauded by wrestlers and executives , including WWE chief content officer Triple H .	Who did you join to host both nights of WrestleMania 39?	I joined The Miz to host both nights of WrestleMania 39.
Snoop Dogg was featured on Lil Dicky ' s April 2019 single " Earth " , where he played the role of a marijuana plant in both the song ' s lyrics and animated video . On July 3 , 2019 , Snoop Dogg released the title track from his upcoming 17th studio album , I Wanna Thank Me . The album was released on August 16 , 2019 . Snoop Dogg collaborated with Vietnamese singer Son Tung M - TP in " H ã y trao cho anh " ( " Give it to Me " ) , which was officially released on July 1 , 2019 . As of October 3 , 2019 , the music video has amassed over 158 million views on YouTube .	Who did you collaborate with in the song "Hãy trao cho anh"?	I collaborated with Vietnamese singer Son Tung M-TP.
Snoop is an avid sports fan , including hometown teams Los Angeles Dodgers , Los Angeles Lakers , and USC Trojans , as well as the Pittsburgh Steelers . He has stated that he began following the Steelers in the 1970s while watching the team with his grandfather . He is also a fan of the Las Vegas Raiders , Los Angeles Rams , and Dallas Cowboys , often wearing a No . 5 jersey , and has been seen at Raiders training camps . He has shown affection for the New England Patriots , having been seen performing at Gillette Stadium . He is an avid ice hockey fan , sporting jerseys from the NHL ' s Los Angeles Kings , Pittsburgh Penguins , Toronto Maple Leafs , and the Boston Bruins as well at the AHL ' s Springfield Indians in his 1994 music video " Gin and Juice " . Snoop has been seen attending Los Angeles Kings games . On his reality show Snoop Dogg ' s Father Hood , Snoop and his family received hockey lessons from the Anaheim Ducks , then returned to the Honda Center to cheer on the Ducks against the Vancouver Canucks in the episode " Snow in da Hood " . Snoop appeared in the video game NHL 20 as both a guest commentator and a playable character in the " World of Chel " game mode .	Which ice hockey teams do you support?	I support the NHL's Los Angeles Kings, Pittsburgh Penguins, Toronto Maple Leafs, Boston Bruins, and the AHL's Springfield Indians.
In June 2004 , Snoop signed to Geffen Records / Star Trak Entertainment , both distributed by Interscope Records ; Star Trak is headed by producer duo the Neptunes , which produced several tracks for Snoop ' s 2004 release R & G ( Rhythm & Gangsta ) : The Masterpiece . " Drop It Like It ' s Hot " ( featuring Pharrell ) , the first single released from the album , was a hit and became Snoop Dogg ' s first single to reach number one . His third release was " Signs " , featuring Justin Timberlake and Charlie Wilson , which entered the UK chart at No . 2 . This was his highest entry ever in the UK chart . The album sold 1 , 730 , 000 copies in the U . S . alone , and most of its singles were heavily played on radio and television . Snoop Dogg joined Warren G and Nate Dogg to form the group 213 and released The Hard Way in 2004 . Debuting at No.4 on the Billboard 200 and No.1 on the Top R & B / Hip - Hop Albums , it included the single " Groupie Luv " . Snoop Dogg appeared in the music video for Korn ' s " Twisted Transistor " along with fellow rappers Lil Jon , Xzibit , and David Banner .	When did you sign to Geffen Records / Star Trak Entertainment?	In June 2004.
In June 2004 , Snoop signed to Geffen Records / Star Trak Entertainment , both distributed by Interscope Records ; Star Trak is headed by producer duo the Neptunes , which produced several tracks for Snoop ' s 2004 release R & G ( Rhythm & Gangsta ) : The Masterpiece . " Drop It Like It ' s Hot " ( featuring Pharrell ) , the first single released from the album , was a hit and became Snoop Dogg ' s first single to reach number one . His third release was " Signs " , featuring Justin Timberlake and Charlie Wilson , which entered the UK chart at No . 2 . This was his highest entry ever in the UK chart . The album sold 1 , 730 , 000 copies in the U . S . alone , and most of its singles were heavily played on radio and television . Snoop Dogg joined Warren G and Nate Dogg to form the group 213 and released The Hard Way in 2004 . Debuting at No.4 on the Billboard 200 and No.1 on the Top R & B / Hip - Hop Albums , it included the single " Groupie Luv " . Snoop Dogg appeared in the music video for Korn ' s " Twisted Transistor " along with fellow rappers Lil Jon , Xzibit , and David Banner .	Who did you collaborate with for the song "Signs"?	I collaborated with Justin Timberlake and Charlie Wilson for the song "Signs".
Snoop is an avid sports fan , including hometown teams Los Angeles Dodgers , Los Angeles Lakers , and USC Trojans , as well as the Pittsburgh Steelers . He has stated that he began following the Steelers in the 1970s while watching the team with his grandfather . He is also a fan of the Las Vegas Raiders , Los Angeles Rams , and Dallas Cowboys , often wearing a No . 5 jersey , and has been seen at Raiders training camps . He has shown affection for the New England Patriots , having been seen performing at Gillette Stadium . He is an avid ice hockey fan , sporting jerseys from the NHL ' s Los Angeles Kings , Pittsburgh Penguins , Toronto Maple Leafs , and the Boston Bruins as well at the AHL ' s Springfield Indians in his 1994 music video " Gin and Juice " . Snoop has been seen attending Los Angeles Kings games . On his reality show Snoop Dogg ' s Father Hood , Snoop and his family received hockey lessons from the Anaheim Ducks , then returned to the Honda Center to cheer on the Ducks against the Vancouver Canucks in the episode " Snow in da Hood " . Snoop appeared in the video game NHL 20 as both a guest commentator and a playable character in the " World of Chel " game mode .	In which video game did you appear as a guest commentator and a playable character?	I appeared in the video game NHL 20 as both a guest commentator and a playable character in the "World of Chel" game mode.
Snoop Dogg was featured on Lil Dicky ' s April 2019 single " Earth " , where he played the role of a marijuana plant in both the song ' s lyrics and animated video . On July 3 , 2019 , Snoop Dogg released the title track from his upcoming 17th studio album , I Wanna Thank Me . The album was released on August 16 , 2019 . Snoop Dogg collaborated with Vietnamese singer Son Tung M - TP in " H ã y trao cho anh " ( " Give it to Me " ) , which was officially released on July 1 , 2019 . As of October 3 , 2019 , the music video has amassed over 158 million views on YouTube .	When did you release the title track from your upcoming 17th studio album?	On July 3, 2019.
Broadus is known to freestyle some of his lyrics on the spot   – in the book How to Rap , Lady of Rage says , " When I worked with him earlier in his career , that ' s how created his stuff ... he would freestyle , he wasn ' t a writer then , he was a freestyler " , and The D . O . C . states , " Snoop ' s [ rap ] was a one take willy , but his shit was all freestyle . He hadn ' t written nothing down . He just came in and started busting . The song was " Tha Shiznit " — that was all freestyle . He started busting and when we got to the break , Dre cut the machine off , did the chorus and told Snoop to come back in . He did that throughout the record . That ' s when Snoop was in the zone then . "	When were you in the zone?	I was in the zone when I was freestyling throughout the record.
Snoop Dogg is a lifelong fan of professional wrestling . On March 30 , 2008 , Snoop Dogg appeared at WrestleMania XXIV as a Master of Ceremonies for a tag team match between Maria and Ashley Massaro as they took on Beth Phoenix and Melina . On a March 23 , 2015 episode of Raw , Snoop Dogg appeared in a segment with Hulk Hogan and Curtis Axel . At WrestleMania 32 , he accompanied his cousin Sasha Banks to the ring for her match , rapping over her theme music . He was also inducted into the WWE Hall of Fame in 2016 . Broadus made a special guest appearance in All Elite Wrestling on the January 6 , 2021 , episode of AEW Dynamite , titled New Year ' s Smash . During this appearance , Snoop appeared in the corner of Cody Rhodes during Rhodes ' s match with Matt Sydal . He later gave Serpentico a Frog Splash , with Rhodes then delivering a three - count . Snoop Dogg would join The Miz to host both nights of WrestleMania 39 . During Night 1 , he accompanied Rey Mysterio in a lowrider during his entrance , paying tribute to the late Eddie Guerrero . On Night 2 , he introduced Shane McMahon to face The Miz in another spontaneous match . McMahon would sustain a quad injury during the match prompting Snoop Dogg to improvise and finish the match himself , ultimately defeating Miz . Snoop Dogg ' s improvisational acts were lauded by wrestlers and executives , including WWE chief content officer Triple H .	On what date did you make a special guest appearance in All Elite Wrestling?	I made a special guest appearance in All Elite Wrestling on January 6, 2021.
