In the late 1960s , Hawking ' s physical abilities declined : he began to use crutches and could no longer give lectures regularly . As he slowly lost the ability to write , he developed compensatory visual methods , including seeing equations in terms of geometry . The physicist Werner Israel later compared the achievements to Mozart composing an entire symphony in his head . Hawking was fiercely independent and unwilling to accept help or make concessions for his disabilities . He preferred to be regarded as " a scientist first , popular science writer second , and , in all the ways that matter , a normal human being with the same desires , drives , dreams , and ambitions as the next person . " His wife Jane later noted : " Some people would call it determination , some obstinacy . I ' ve called it both at one time or another . " He required much persuasion to accept the use of a wheelchair at the end of the 1960s , but ultimately became notorious for the wildness of his wheelchair driving . Hawking was a popular and witty colleague , but his illness , as well as his reputation for brashness , distanced him from some .	How did physicist Werner Israel compare your achievements?	He compared my achievements to Mozart composing an entire symphony in his head.
Hawking also maintained his public profile , including bringing science to a wider audience . A film version of A Brief History of Time , directed by Errol Morris and produced by Steven Spielberg , premiered in 1992 . Hawking had wanted the film to be scientific rather than biographical , but he was persuaded otherwise . The film , while a critical success , was not widely released . A popular - level collection of essays , interviews , and talks titled Black Holes and Baby Universes and Other Essays was published in 1993 , and a six - part television series Stephen Hawking ' s Universe and a companion book appeared in 1997 . As Hawking insisted , this time the focus was entirely on science .	Was the film widely released?	No, it was not widely released.
In 2006 , Hawking and Mason quietly divorced , and Hawking resumed closer relationships with Jane , his children , and his grandchildren . Reflecting on this happier period , a revised version of Jane ' s book , re - titled Travelling to Infinity : My Life with Stephen , appeared in 2007 , and was made into a film , The Theory of Everything , in 2014 .	What was the revised version of your book called?	Travelling to Infinity: My Life with Stephen.
For his communication , Hawking initially raised his eyebrows to choose letters on a spelling card , but in 1986 he received a computer program called the " Equalizer " from Walter Woltosz , CEO of Words Plus , who had developed an earlier version of the software to help his mother - in - law , who also had ALS and had lost her ability to speak and write . In a method he used for the rest of his life , Hawking could now simply press a switch to select phrases , words or letters from a bank of about 2 , 500 – 3 , 000 that were scanned . The program was originally run on a desktop computer . Elaine Mason ' s husband , David , a computer engineer , adapted a small computer and attached it to his wheelchair .	How do you select phrases, words, or letters using the "Equalizer" software?	I could simply press a switch to select phrases, words, or letters from a bank of about 2,500-3,000 that were scanned.
Hawking was concerned that he was viewed as a lazy and difficult student . So , when asked at the viva to describe his plans , he said , " If you award me a First , I will go to Cambridge . If I receive a Second , I shall stay in Oxford , so I expect you will give me a First . " He was held in higher regard than he believed ; as Berman commented , the examiners " were intelligent enough to realise they were talking to someone far cleverer than most of themselves " . After receiving a first - class BA degree in physics and completing a trip to Iran with a friend , he began his graduate work at Trinity Hall , Cambridge , in October 1962 .	What degree did you receive?	I received a first-class BA degree in physics.
Hawking ' s final broadcast interview , about the detection of gravitational waves resulting from the collision of two neutron stars , occurred in October 2017 . His final words to the world appeared posthumously , in April 2018 , in the form of a Smithsonian TV Channel documentary entitled , Leaving Earth : Or How to Colonize a Planet . One of his final research studies , entitled A smooth exit from eternal inflation ? , about the origin of the universe , was published in the Journal of High Energy Physics in May 2018 . Later , in October 2018 , another of his final research studies , entitled Black Hole Entropy and Soft Hair , was published , and dealt with the " mystery of what happens to the information held by objects once they disappear into a black hole " . Also in October 2018 , Hawking ' s last book , Brief Answers to the Big Questions , a popular science book presenting his final comments on the most important questions facing humankind , was published .	When was your last book "Brief Answers to the Big Questions" published?	In October 2018.
Hawking also maintained his public profile , including bringing science to a wider audience . A film version of A Brief History of Time , directed by Errol Morris and produced by Steven Spielberg , premiered in 1992 . Hawking had wanted the film to be scientific rather than biographical , but he was persuaded otherwise . The film , while a critical success , was not widely released . A popular - level collection of essays , interviews , and talks titled Black Holes and Baby Universes and Other Essays was published in 1993 , and a six - part television series Stephen Hawking ' s Universe and a companion book appeared in 1997 . As Hawking insisted , this time the focus was entirely on science .	When was the film version of A Brief History of Time premiered?	The film premiered in 1992.
By the 1980s , Hawking ' s marriage had been strained for many years . Jane felt overwhelmed by the intrusion into their family life of the required nurses and assistants . The impact of his celebrity status was challenging for colleagues and family members , while the prospect of living up to a worldwide fairytale image was daunting for the couple . Hawking ' s views of religion also contrasted with her strong Christian faith and resulted in tension . After a tracheotomy in 1985 , Hawking required a full - time nurse and nursing care was split across 3 shifts daily . In the late 1980s , Hawking grew close to one of his nurses , Elaine Mason , to the dismay of some colleagues , caregivers , and family members , who were disturbed by her strength of personality and protectiveness . In February 1990 , Hawking told Jane that he was leaving her for Mason , and departed the family home . After his divorce from Jane in 1995 , Hawking married Mason in September , declaring , " It ' s wonderful   – I have married the woman I love . "	What was challenging for your colleagues and family members?	The impact of my celebrity status was challenging for colleagues and family members.
His results , which Hawking presented from 1974 , showed that black holes emit radiation , known today as Hawking radiation , which may continue until they exhaust their energy and evaporate . Initially , Hawking radiation was controversial . By the late 1970s and following the publication of further research , the discovery was widely accepted as a significant breakthrough in theoretical physics . Hawking was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society ( FRS ) in 1974 , a few weeks after the announcement of Hawking radiation . At the time , he was one of the youngest scientists to become a Fellow .	How old were you when you became a Fellow of the Royal Society?	I was one of the youngest scientists to become a Fellow of the Royal Society.
In 2006 , Hawking and Mason quietly divorced , and Hawking resumed closer relationships with Jane , his children , and his grandchildren . Reflecting on this happier period , a revised version of Jane ' s book , re - titled Travelling to Infinity : My Life with Stephen , appeared in 2007 , and was made into a film , The Theory of Everything , in 2014 .	When did the revised version of your book appear?	In 2007.
Hawking also maintained his public profile , including bringing science to a wider audience . A film version of A Brief History of Time , directed by Errol Morris and produced by Steven Spielberg , premiered in 1992 . Hawking had wanted the film to be scientific rather than biographical , but he was persuaded otherwise . The film , while a critical success , was not widely released . A popular - level collection of essays , interviews , and talks titled Black Holes and Baby Universes and Other Essays was published in 1993 , and a six - part television series Stephen Hawking ' s Universe and a companion book appeared in 1997 . As Hawking insisted , this time the focus was entirely on science .	What was your goal for the film version of A Brief History of Time?	I wanted the film to be scientific rather than biographical.
In the late 1960s , Hawking ' s physical abilities declined : he began to use crutches and could no longer give lectures regularly . As he slowly lost the ability to write , he developed compensatory visual methods , including seeing equations in terms of geometry . The physicist Werner Israel later compared the achievements to Mozart composing an entire symphony in his head . Hawking was fiercely independent and unwilling to accept help or make concessions for his disabilities . He preferred to be regarded as " a scientist first , popular science writer second , and , in all the ways that matter , a normal human being with the same desires , drives , dreams , and ambitions as the next person . " His wife Jane later noted : " Some people would call it determination , some obstinacy . I ' ve called it both at one time or another . " He required much persuasion to accept the use of a wheelchair at the end of the 1960s , but ultimately became notorious for the wildness of his wheelchair driving . Hawking was a popular and witty colleague , but his illness , as well as his reputation for brashness , distanced him from some .	What is your attitude towards accepting help or making concessions for your disabilities?	I am fiercely independent and unwilling to accept help or make concessions for my disabilities.
For his communication , Hawking initially raised his eyebrows to choose letters on a spelling card , but in 1986 he received a computer program called the " Equalizer " from Walter Woltosz , CEO of Words Plus , who had developed an earlier version of the software to help his mother - in - law , who also had ALS and had lost her ability to speak and write . In a method he used for the rest of his life , Hawking could now simply press a switch to select phrases , words or letters from a bank of about 2 , 500 – 3 , 000 that were scanned . The program was originally run on a desktop computer . Elaine Mason ' s husband , David , a computer engineer , adapted a small computer and attached it to his wheelchair .	What was the purpose of the "Equalizer" software?	The "Equalizer" software was developed to help individuals with ALS who had lost their ability to speak and write.
In 1999 , Jane Hawking published a memoir , Music to Move the Stars , describing her marriage to Hawking and its breakdown . Its revelations caused a sensation in the media but , as was his usual practice regarding his personal life , Hawking made no public comment except to say that he did not read biographies about himself . After his second marriage , Hawking ' s family felt excluded and marginalized from his life . For a period of about five years in the early 2000s , his family and staff became increasingly worried that he was being physically abused . Police investigations took place , but were closed as Hawking refused to make a complaint .	What is the name of your memoir?	Music to Move the Stars.
Hawking was concerned that he was viewed as a lazy and difficult student . So , when asked at the viva to describe his plans , he said , " If you award me a First , I will go to Cambridge . If I receive a Second , I shall stay in Oxford , so I expect you will give me a First . " He was held in higher regard than he believed ; as Berman commented , the examiners " were intelligent enough to realise they were talking to someone far cleverer than most of themselves " . After receiving a first - class BA degree in physics and completing a trip to Iran with a friend , he began his graduate work at Trinity Hall , Cambridge , in October 1962 .	What did you say about your plans during the viva?	When asked at the viva to describe my plans, I said, "If you award me a First, I will go to Cambridge. If I receive a Second, I shall stay in Oxford, so I expect you will give me a First."
Hawking was concerned that he was viewed as a lazy and difficult student . So , when asked at the viva to describe his plans , he said , " If you award me a First , I will go to Cambridge . If I receive a Second , I shall stay in Oxford , so I expect you will give me a First . " He was held in higher regard than he believed ; as Berman commented , the examiners " were intelligent enough to realise they were talking to someone far cleverer than most of themselves " . After receiving a first - class BA degree in physics and completing a trip to Iran with a friend , he began his graduate work at Trinity Hall , Cambridge , in October 1962 .	When did you begin your graduate work at Trinity Hall, Cambridge?	I began my graduate work at Trinity Hall, Cambridge in October 1962.
In the early 1970s , Hawking ' s work with Carter , Werner Israel , and David C . Robinson strongly supported Wheeler ' s no - hair theorem , one that states that no matter what the original material from which a black hole is created , it can be completely described by the properties of mass , electrical charge and rotation . His essay titled " Black Holes " won the Gravity Research Foundation Award in January 1971 . Hawking ' s first book , The Large Scale Structure of Space - Time , written with George Ellis , was published in 1973 .	What did your work with Wheeler's no-hair theorem state about black holes?	My work supported Wheeler's no-hair theorem, which stated that no matter the original material from which a black hole is created, it can be completely described by its mass, electrical charge, and rotation.
His results , which Hawking presented from 1974 , showed that black holes emit radiation , known today as Hawking radiation , which may continue until they exhaust their energy and evaporate . Initially , Hawking radiation was controversial . By the late 1970s and following the publication of further research , the discovery was widely accepted as a significant breakthrough in theoretical physics . Hawking was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society ( FRS ) in 1974 , a few weeks after the announcement of Hawking radiation . At the time , he was one of the youngest scientists to become a Fellow .	What is your radiation?	My radiation is the radiation emitted by black holes.
Hawking also maintained his public profile , including bringing science to a wider audience . A film version of A Brief History of Time , directed by Errol Morris and produced by Steven Spielberg , premiered in 1992 . Hawking had wanted the film to be scientific rather than biographical , but he was persuaded otherwise . The film , while a critical success , was not widely released . A popular - level collection of essays , interviews , and talks titled Black Holes and Baby Universes and Other Essays was published in 1993 , and a six - part television series Stephen Hawking ' s Universe and a companion book appeared in 1997 . As Hawking insisted , this time the focus was entirely on science .	What other works did you release to bring science to a wider audience?	I published a popular-level collection of essays, interviews, and talks titled Black Holes and Baby Universes and Other Essays in 1993, and a six-part television series Stephen Hawking's Universe and a companion book appeared in 1997.
In the early 1970s , Hawking ' s work with Carter , Werner Israel , and David C . Robinson strongly supported Wheeler ' s no - hair theorem , one that states that no matter what the original material from which a black hole is created , it can be completely described by the properties of mass , electrical charge and rotation . His essay titled " Black Holes " won the Gravity Research Foundation Award in January 1971 . Hawking ' s first book , The Large Scale Structure of Space - Time , written with George Ellis , was published in 1973 .	When was your first book, "The Large Scale Structure of Space-Time," published?	My first book, "The Large Scale Structure of Space-Time," was published in 1973.
By the 1980s , Hawking ' s marriage had been strained for many years . Jane felt overwhelmed by the intrusion into their family life of the required nurses and assistants . The impact of his celebrity status was challenging for colleagues and family members , while the prospect of living up to a worldwide fairytale image was daunting for the couple . Hawking ' s views of religion also contrasted with her strong Christian faith and resulted in tension . After a tracheotomy in 1985 , Hawking required a full - time nurse and nursing care was split across 3 shifts daily . In the late 1980s , Hawking grew close to one of his nurses , Elaine Mason , to the dismay of some colleagues , caregivers , and family members , who were disturbed by her strength of personality and protectiveness . In February 1990 , Hawking told Jane that he was leaving her for Mason , and departed the family home . After his divorce from Jane in 1995 , Hawking married Mason in September , declaring , " It ' s wonderful   – I have married the woman I love . "	Who did you marry in the 1980s?	I married Jane in the 1980s.
For his communication , Hawking initially raised his eyebrows to choose letters on a spelling card , but in 1986 he received a computer program called the " Equalizer " from Walter Woltosz , CEO of Words Plus , who had developed an earlier version of the software to help his mother - in - law , who also had ALS and had lost her ability to speak and write . In a method he used for the rest of his life , Hawking could now simply press a switch to select phrases , words or letters from a bank of about 2 , 500 – 3 , 000 that were scanned . The program was originally run on a desktop computer . Elaine Mason ' s husband , David , a computer engineer , adapted a small computer and attached it to his wheelchair .	Who adapted a small computer and attached it to your wheelchair?	David Mason, a computer engineer and Elaine Mason's husband, adapted a small computer and attached it to my wheelchair.
By the 1980s , Hawking ' s marriage had been strained for many years . Jane felt overwhelmed by the intrusion into their family life of the required nurses and assistants . The impact of his celebrity status was challenging for colleagues and family members , while the prospect of living up to a worldwide fairytale image was daunting for the couple . Hawking ' s views of religion also contrasted with her strong Christian faith and resulted in tension . After a tracheotomy in 1985 , Hawking required a full - time nurse and nursing care was split across 3 shifts daily . In the late 1980s , Hawking grew close to one of his nurses , Elaine Mason , to the dismay of some colleagues , caregivers , and family members , who were disturbed by her strength of personality and protectiveness . In February 1990 , Hawking told Jane that he was leaving her for Mason , and departed the family home . After his divorce from Jane in 1995 , Hawking married Mason in September , declaring , " It ' s wonderful   – I have married the woman I love . "	Why did you feel overwhelmed?	I felt overwhelmed by the intrusion into our family life of the required nurses and assistants.
In 1999 , Jane Hawking published a memoir , Music to Move the Stars , describing her marriage to Hawking and its breakdown . Its revelations caused a sensation in the media but , as was his usual practice regarding his personal life , Hawking made no public comment except to say that he did not read biographies about himself . After his second marriage , Hawking ' s family felt excluded and marginalized from his life . For a period of about five years in the early 2000s , his family and staff became increasingly worried that he was being physically abused . Police investigations took place , but were closed as Hawking refused to make a complaint .	How did your family feel after your second marriage?	My family felt excluded and marginalized from my life.
In the early 1970s , Hawking ' s work with Carter , Werner Israel , and David C . Robinson strongly supported Wheeler ' s no - hair theorem , one that states that no matter what the original material from which a black hole is created , it can be completely described by the properties of mass , electrical charge and rotation . His essay titled " Black Holes " won the Gravity Research Foundation Award in January 1971 . Hawking ' s first book , The Large Scale Structure of Space - Time , written with George Ellis , was published in 1973 .	What award did your essay titled "Black Holes" win?	My essay titled "Black Holes" won the Gravity Research Foundation Award in January 1971.
