The revised , second generation NeXTcube was released in 1990 . Jobs touted it as the first " interpersonal " computer that would replace the personal computer . With its innovative NeXTMail multimedia email system , NeXTcube could share voice , image , graphics , and video in email for the first time . " Interpersonal computing is going to revolutionize human communications and groupwork " , Jobs told reporters . Jobs ran NeXT with an obsession for aesthetic perfection , as evidenced by the development of and attention to NeXTcube ' s magnesium case . This put considerable strain on NeXT ' s hardware division , and in 1993 , after having sold only 50 , 000 machines , NeXT transitioned fully to software development with the release of NeXTSTEP / Intel . The company reported its first yearly profit of $ 1.03   million in 1994 . In 1996 , NeXT Software , Inc . released WebObjects , a framework for Web application development . After NeXT was acquired by Apple Inc . in 1997 , WebObjects was used to build and run the Apple Store , MobileMe services , and the iTunes Store .	When did you transition fully to software development?	I transitioned fully to software development in 1993.
Jobs resisted his doctors ' recommendations for medical intervention for nine months , in favor of alternative medicine . According to Harvard researcher Ramzi Amri , this " led to an unnecessarily early death " . [ citation needed ] Other doctors agree that Jobs ' s diet was insufficient to address his disease . However , cancer researcher and alternative medicine critic David Gorski wrote that " it ' s impossible to know whether and by how much he might have decreased his chances of surviving his cancer through his flirtation with woo . My best guess was that Jobs probably only modestly decreased his chances of survival , if that . " Barrie R . Cassileth , the chief of Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center ' s integrative medicine department , on the other hand , said , " Jobs ' s faith in alternative medicine likely cost him his life   ... He had the only kind of pancreatic cancer that is treatable and curable   ... He essentially committed suicide " . According to biographer Walter Isaacson , " for nine months he refused to undergo surgery for his pancreatic cancer – a decision he later regretted as his health declined " . " Instead , he tried a vegan diet , acupuncture , herbal remedies , and other treatments he found online , and even consulted a psychic . He was also influenced by a doctor who ran a clinic that advised juice fasts , bowel cleansings and other unproven approaches , before finally having surgery in July 2004 . " He underwent a pancreaticoduodenectomy ( or " Whipple procedure " ) that appeared to remove the tumor successfully . Jobs did not receive chemotherapy or radiation therapy . During Jobs ' s absence , Tim Cook , head of worldwide sales and operations at Apple , ran the company .	What were your reasons for resisting medical intervention for nine months?	I resisted medical intervention for nine months in favor of alternative medicine.
A neighbor on Crist Drive recalled Jobs as an odd individual who would greet his clients " with his underwear hanging out , barefoot and hippie - like " . Another neighbor , Larry Waterland , who had just earned his PhD in chemical engineering at Stanford , recalled dismissing Jobs ' s budding business compared to the established industry of giant mainframe computers with big decks of punchcards : " Steve took me over to the garage . He had a circuit board with a chip on it , a DuMont TV set , a Panasonic cassette tape deck and a keyboard . He said , ' This is an Apple computer . ' I said , ' You ' ve got to be joking . ' I dismissed the whole idea . " Jobs ' s friend from Reed College and India , Daniel Kottke , recalled that as an early Apple employee , he " was the only person who worked in the garage … Woz would show up once a week with his latest code . Steve Jobs didn ' t get his hands dirty in that sense . " Kottke also stated that much of the early work took place in Jobs ' s kitchen , where he spent hours on the phone trying to find investors for the company .	Where did much of your early work for Apple take place?	Much of the early work for Apple took place in my kitchen.
The revised , second generation NeXTcube was released in 1990 . Jobs touted it as the first " interpersonal " computer that would replace the personal computer . With its innovative NeXTMail multimedia email system , NeXTcube could share voice , image , graphics , and video in email for the first time . " Interpersonal computing is going to revolutionize human communications and groupwork " , Jobs told reporters . Jobs ran NeXT with an obsession for aesthetic perfection , as evidenced by the development of and attention to NeXTcube ' s magnesium case . This put considerable strain on NeXT ' s hardware division , and in 1993 , after having sold only 50 , 000 machines , NeXT transitioned fully to software development with the release of NeXTSTEP / Intel . The company reported its first yearly profit of $ 1.03   million in 1994 . In 1996 , NeXT Software , Inc . released WebObjects , a framework for Web application development . After NeXT was acquired by Apple Inc . in 1997 , WebObjects was used to build and run the Apple Store , MobileMe services , and the iTunes Store .	When was the revised, second generation NeXTcube released?	The revised, second generation NeXTcube was released in 1990.
As Jobs became more successful with his new company , his relationship with Brennan grew more complex . In 1977 , the success of Apple was now a part of their relationship , and Brennan , Daniel Kottke , and Jobs moved into a house near the Apple office in Cupertino . [ citation needed ] Brennan eventually took a position in the shipping department at Apple . Brennan ' s relationship with Jobs deteriorated as his position with Apple grew , and she began to consider ending the relationship . In October 1977 , Brennan was approached by Rod Holt , who asked her to take " a paid apprenticeship designing blueprints for the Apples " . [ citation needed ] Both Holt and Jobs believed that it would be a good position for her , given her artistic abilities . Holt was particularly eager that she take the position , and puzzled by her ambivalence toward it . Brennan ' s decision , however , was overshadowed by the fact that she realized she was pregnant , and that Jobs was the father . It took her a few days to tell Jobs , whose face , according to Brennan , " turned ugly " at the news . At the same time , according to Brennan , at the beginning of her third trimester , Jobs said to her : " I never wanted to ask that you get an abortion . I just didn ' t want to do that . " [ citation needed ] He also refused to discuss the pregnancy with her . Brennan turned down the internship and decided to leave Apple . She stated that Jobs told her " If you give up this baby for adoption , you will be sorry " and " I am never going to help you " . [ citation needed ] According to Brennan , Jobs " started to seed people with the notion that I slept around , and he was infertile , which meant that this could not be his child " . A few weeks before she was due to give birth , Brennan was invited to deliver her baby at the All One Farm . She accepted the offer . [ citation needed ] When Jobs was 23 ( the same age as his biological parents when they had him ) Brennan gave birth to her baby , Lisa Brennan , on May 17 , 1978 . Jobs went there for the birth after he was contacted by Robert Friedland , their mutual friend and the farm owner . While distant , Jobs worked with her on a name for the baby , which they discussed while sitting in the fields on a blanket . Brennan suggested the name " Lisa " which Jobs also liked and notes that Jobs was very attached to the name " Lisa " while he " was also publicly denying paternity " . She would discover later that during this time , Jobs was preparing to unveil a new kind of computer that he wanted to give a female name ( his first choice was " Claire " after St . Clare ) . She stated that she never gave him permission to use the baby ' s name for a computer and he hid the plans from her . Jobs worked with his team to come up with the phrase , " Local Integrated Software Architecture " as an alternative explanation for the Apple Lisa . Decades later , however , Jobs admitted to his biographer Walter Isaacson that " obviously , it was named for my daughter " .	Why did you decide to leave Apple?	I decided to leave Apple because I realized I was pregnant with your child.
Shortly after leaving Apple , he formed the charitable Steven P . Jobs Foundation , led by Mark Vermilion , hired away from Apple ' s community leadership . Jobs wanted a focus on nutrition and vegetarianism but Vermilion wanted social entrepreneurship . That year , Jobs soon launched NeXT and closed the foundation with no results . Upon his 1997 return to Apple , Jobs optimized the failing company to the core , such as eliminating all philanthropic programs , never to be restored . In 2007 , Stanford Social Innovation Review magazine listed Apple among " America ’ s least philanthropic companies " . A few months after another unflattering news report , Apple started a program to match employees ' charitable gifts . Jobs has declined to sign The Giving Pledge , launched in 2010 by Warren Buffett and Bill Gates for fellow billionaires . He donated $ 50 million to Stanford hospital and contributed to efforts to cure AIDS . Bono reported " tens of millions of dollars " given by Apple while Jobs was CEO , to AIDS and HIV relief programs in Africa , which inspired other companies to join .	What did Vermilion want the foundation to focus on?	Social entrepreneurship.
In 1996 , Apple announced that it would buy NeXT for $ 400   million . The deal was finalized in February 1997 , bringing Jobs back to the company he had cofounded . Jobs became de facto chief after then - CEO Gil Amelio was ousted in July 1997 . He was formally named interim chief executive on September 16 . In March 1998 , to concentrate Apple ' s efforts on returning to profitability , Jobs terminated several projects , such as Newton , Cyberdog , and OpenDoc . In the coming months , many employees developed a fear of encountering Jobs while riding in the elevator , " afraid that they might not have a job when the doors opened . The reality was that Jobs ' s summary executions were rare , but a handful of victims was enough to terrorize a whole company . " Jobs changed the licensing program for Macintosh clones , making it too costly for the manufacturers to continue making machines .	When were you formally appointed as interim chief executive of Apple?	On September 16.
In 1996 , Apple announced that it would buy NeXT for $ 400   million . The deal was finalized in February 1997 , bringing Jobs back to the company he had cofounded . Jobs became de facto chief after then - CEO Gil Amelio was ousted in July 1997 . He was formally named interim chief executive on September 16 . In March 1998 , to concentrate Apple ' s efforts on returning to profitability , Jobs terminated several projects , such as Newton , Cyberdog , and OpenDoc . In the coming months , many employees developed a fear of encountering Jobs while riding in the elevator , " afraid that they might not have a job when the doors opened . The reality was that Jobs ' s summary executions were rare , but a handful of victims was enough to terrorize a whole company . " Jobs changed the licensing program for Macintosh clones , making it too costly for the manufacturers to continue making machines .	When did you announce your plan to buy NeXT?	In 1996.
California Governor Jerry Brown declared Sunday , October 16 , 2011 , to be " Steve Jobs Day " . On that day , an invitation - only memorial was held at Stanford University . Those in attendance included Apple and other tech company executives , members of the media , celebrities , politicians , and family and close friends of Jobs . Bono , Yo - Yo Ma , and Joan Baez performed at the service , which lasted longer than an hour . The service was highly secured , with guards at all of the university ' s gates , and a helicopter overhead from an area news station . Each attendee was given a small brown box as a " farewell gift " from Jobs , containing a copy of the Autobiography of a Yogi by Paramahansa Yogananda .	Who declared October 16, 2011, to be "your Day"?	I declared October 16, 2011, to be "Steve Jobs Day".
Jobs died at his Palo Alto , California , home around 3   p . m . ( PDT ) on October 5 , 2011 , due to complications from a relapse of his previously treated islet - cell pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor , which resulted in respiratory arrest . He had lost consciousness the day before and died with his wife , children , and sisters at his side . His sister , Mona Simpson , described his death thus : " Steve ' s final words , hours earlier , were monosyllables , repeated three times . Before embarking , he ' d looked at his sister Patty , then for a long time at his children , then at his life ' s partner , Laurene , and then over their shoulders past them . Steve ' s final words were : ' Oh wow . Oh wow . Oh wow . ' " He then lost consciousness and died several hours later . A small private funeral was held on October 7 , 2011 , the details of which , out of respect for Jobs ' s family , were not made public .	What was the cause of your death?	The cause of my death was complications from a relapse of my previously treated islet-cell pancreatic neuroendocrine tumor, which resulted in respiratory arrest.
As Jobs became more successful with his new company , his relationship with Brennan grew more complex . In 1977 , the success of Apple was now a part of their relationship , and Brennan , Daniel Kottke , and Jobs moved into a house near the Apple office in Cupertino . [ citation needed ] Brennan eventually took a position in the shipping department at Apple . Brennan ' s relationship with Jobs deteriorated as his position with Apple grew , and she began to consider ending the relationship . In October 1977 , Brennan was approached by Rod Holt , who asked her to take " a paid apprenticeship designing blueprints for the Apples " . [ citation needed ] Both Holt and Jobs believed that it would be a good position for her , given her artistic abilities . Holt was particularly eager that she take the position , and puzzled by her ambivalence toward it . Brennan ' s decision , however , was overshadowed by the fact that she realized she was pregnant , and that Jobs was the father . It took her a few days to tell Jobs , whose face , according to Brennan , " turned ugly " at the news . At the same time , according to Brennan , at the beginning of her third trimester , Jobs said to her : " I never wanted to ask that you get an abortion . I just didn ' t want to do that . " [ citation needed ] He also refused to discuss the pregnancy with her . Brennan turned down the internship and decided to leave Apple . She stated that Jobs told her " If you give up this baby for adoption , you will be sorry " and " I am never going to help you " . [ citation needed ] According to Brennan , Jobs " started to seed people with the notion that I slept around , and he was infertile , which meant that this could not be his child " . A few weeks before she was due to give birth , Brennan was invited to deliver her baby at the All One Farm . She accepted the offer . [ citation needed ] When Jobs was 23 ( the same age as his biological parents when they had him ) Brennan gave birth to her baby , Lisa Brennan , on May 17 , 1978 . Jobs went there for the birth after he was contacted by Robert Friedland , their mutual friend and the farm owner . While distant , Jobs worked with her on a name for the baby , which they discussed while sitting in the fields on a blanket . Brennan suggested the name " Lisa " which Jobs also liked and notes that Jobs was very attached to the name " Lisa " while he " was also publicly denying paternity " . She would discover later that during this time , Jobs was preparing to unveil a new kind of computer that he wanted to give a female name ( his first choice was " Claire " after St . Clare ) . She stated that she never gave him permission to use the baby ' s name for a computer and he hid the plans from her . Jobs worked with his team to come up with the phrase , " Local Integrated Software Architecture " as an alternative explanation for the Apple Lisa . Decades later , however , Jobs admitted to his biographer Walter Isaacson that " obviously , it was named for my daughter " .	What name did you suggest for our baby?	I suggested the name "Lisa" for our baby.
As Jobs became more successful with his new company , his relationship with Brennan grew more complex . In 1977 , the success of Apple was now a part of their relationship , and Brennan , Daniel Kottke , and Jobs moved into a house near the Apple office in Cupertino . [ citation needed ] Brennan eventually took a position in the shipping department at Apple . Brennan ' s relationship with Jobs deteriorated as his position with Apple grew , and she began to consider ending the relationship . In October 1977 , Brennan was approached by Rod Holt , who asked her to take " a paid apprenticeship designing blueprints for the Apples " . [ citation needed ] Both Holt and Jobs believed that it would be a good position for her , given her artistic abilities . Holt was particularly eager that she take the position , and puzzled by her ambivalence toward it . Brennan ' s decision , however , was overshadowed by the fact that she realized she was pregnant , and that Jobs was the father . It took her a few days to tell Jobs , whose face , according to Brennan , " turned ugly " at the news . At the same time , according to Brennan , at the beginning of her third trimester , Jobs said to her : " I never wanted to ask that you get an abortion . I just didn ' t want to do that . " [ citation needed ] He also refused to discuss the pregnancy with her . Brennan turned down the internship and decided to leave Apple . She stated that Jobs told her " If you give up this baby for adoption , you will be sorry " and " I am never going to help you " . [ citation needed ] According to Brennan , Jobs " started to seed people with the notion that I slept around , and he was infertile , which meant that this could not be his child " . A few weeks before she was due to give birth , Brennan was invited to deliver her baby at the All One Farm . She accepted the offer . [ citation needed ] When Jobs was 23 ( the same age as his biological parents when they had him ) Brennan gave birth to her baby , Lisa Brennan , on May 17 , 1978 . Jobs went there for the birth after he was contacted by Robert Friedland , their mutual friend and the farm owner . While distant , Jobs worked with her on a name for the baby , which they discussed while sitting in the fields on a blanket . Brennan suggested the name " Lisa " which Jobs also liked and notes that Jobs was very attached to the name " Lisa " while he " was also publicly denying paternity " . She would discover later that during this time , Jobs was preparing to unveil a new kind of computer that he wanted to give a female name ( his first choice was " Claire " after St . Clare ) . She stated that she never gave him permission to use the baby ' s name for a computer and he hid the plans from her . Jobs worked with his team to come up with the phrase , " Local Integrated Software Architecture " as an alternative explanation for the Apple Lisa . Decades later , however , Jobs admitted to his biographer Walter Isaacson that " obviously , it was named for my daughter " .	What position did you take at Apple?	I took a position in the shipping department at Apple.
In 1996 , Apple announced that it would buy NeXT for $ 400   million . The deal was finalized in February 1997 , bringing Jobs back to the company he had cofounded . Jobs became de facto chief after then - CEO Gil Amelio was ousted in July 1997 . He was formally named interim chief executive on September 16 . In March 1998 , to concentrate Apple ' s efforts on returning to profitability , Jobs terminated several projects , such as Newton , Cyberdog , and OpenDoc . In the coming months , many employees developed a fear of encountering Jobs while riding in the elevator , " afraid that they might not have a job when the doors opened . The reality was that Jobs ' s summary executions were rare , but a handful of victims was enough to terrorize a whole company . " Jobs changed the licensing program for Macintosh clones , making it too costly for the manufacturers to continue making machines .	When did you terminate several projects to focus on Apple's profitability?	In March 1998.
A neighbor on Crist Drive recalled Jobs as an odd individual who would greet his clients " with his underwear hanging out , barefoot and hippie - like " . Another neighbor , Larry Waterland , who had just earned his PhD in chemical engineering at Stanford , recalled dismissing Jobs ' s budding business compared to the established industry of giant mainframe computers with big decks of punchcards : " Steve took me over to the garage . He had a circuit board with a chip on it , a DuMont TV set , a Panasonic cassette tape deck and a keyboard . He said , ' This is an Apple computer . ' I said , ' You ' ve got to be joking . ' I dismissed the whole idea . " Jobs ' s friend from Reed College and India , Daniel Kottke , recalled that as an early Apple employee , he " was the only person who worked in the garage … Woz would show up once a week with his latest code . Steve Jobs didn ' t get his hands dirty in that sense . " Kottke also stated that much of the early work took place in Jobs ' s kitchen , where he spent hours on the phone trying to find investors for the company .	Who was the only person who worked in the garage as an early Apple employee?	Daniel Kottke was the only person who worked in the garage as an early Apple employee.
Jobs resisted his doctors ' recommendations for medical intervention for nine months , in favor of alternative medicine . According to Harvard researcher Ramzi Amri , this " led to an unnecessarily early death " . [ citation needed ] Other doctors agree that Jobs ' s diet was insufficient to address his disease . However , cancer researcher and alternative medicine critic David Gorski wrote that " it ' s impossible to know whether and by how much he might have decreased his chances of surviving his cancer through his flirtation with woo . My best guess was that Jobs probably only modestly decreased his chances of survival , if that . " Barrie R . Cassileth , the chief of Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center ' s integrative medicine department , on the other hand , said , " Jobs ' s faith in alternative medicine likely cost him his life   ... He had the only kind of pancreatic cancer that is treatable and curable   ... He essentially committed suicide " . According to biographer Walter Isaacson , " for nine months he refused to undergo surgery for his pancreatic cancer – a decision he later regretted as his health declined " . " Instead , he tried a vegan diet , acupuncture , herbal remedies , and other treatments he found online , and even consulted a psychic . He was also influenced by a doctor who ran a clinic that advised juice fasts , bowel cleansings and other unproven approaches , before finally having surgery in July 2004 . " He underwent a pancreaticoduodenectomy ( or " Whipple procedure " ) that appeared to remove the tumor successfully . Jobs did not receive chemotherapy or radiation therapy . During Jobs ' s absence , Tim Cook , head of worldwide sales and operations at Apple , ran the company .	Did you receive chemotherapy or radiation therapy?	No, I did not receive chemotherapy or radiation therapy.
Following his resignation from Apple in 1985 , Jobs founded NeXT Inc . with $ 7   million . A year later he was running out of money , and he sought venture capital with no product on the horizon . Eventually , Jobs attracted the attention of billionaire Ross Perot , who invested heavily in the company . The NeXT computer was shown to the world in what was considered Jobs ' s comeback event , a lavish invitation - only gala launch event that was described as a multimedia extravaganza . The celebration was held at the Louise M . Davies Symphony Hall , San Francisco , California , on Wednesday , October 12 , 1988 . Steve Wozniak said in a 2013 interview that while Jobs was at NeXT he was " really getting his head together " .	When did your gala launch event for the NeXT computer take place?	My gala launch event for the NeXT computer took place on Wednesday, October 12, 1988.
In February 1974 , Jobs returned to his parents ' home in Los Altos and began looking for a job . He was soon hired by Atari , Inc . in Los Gatos , California , as a computer technician . Back in 1973 , Steve Wozniak designed his own version of the classic video game Pong and gave its electronics board to Jobs . According to Wozniak , Atari only hired Jobs because he took the board down to the company , and they thought that he had built it himself . Atari ' s cofounder Nolan Bushnell later described him as " difficult but valuable " , pointing out that " he was very often the smartest guy in the room , and he would let people know that " .	How were you described by Atari's cofounder Nolan Bushnell?	I was described as "difficult but valuable" by Atari's cofounder Nolan Bushnell, who also mentioned that I was often the smartest person in the room and let people know about it.
The revised , second generation NeXTcube was released in 1990 . Jobs touted it as the first " interpersonal " computer that would replace the personal computer . With its innovative NeXTMail multimedia email system , NeXTcube could share voice , image , graphics , and video in email for the first time . " Interpersonal computing is going to revolutionize human communications and groupwork " , Jobs told reporters . Jobs ran NeXT with an obsession for aesthetic perfection , as evidenced by the development of and attention to NeXTcube ' s magnesium case . This put considerable strain on NeXT ' s hardware division , and in 1993 , after having sold only 50 , 000 machines , NeXT transitioned fully to software development with the release of NeXTSTEP / Intel . The company reported its first yearly profit of $ 1.03   million in 1994 . In 1996 , NeXT Software , Inc . released WebObjects , a framework for Web application development . After NeXT was acquired by Apple Inc . in 1997 , WebObjects was used to build and run the Apple Store , MobileMe services , and the iTunes Store .	What was the name of the framework for web application development released by NeXT Software, Inc.?	The framework for web application development released by NeXT Software, Inc. was called WebObjects.
In February 1974 , Jobs returned to his parents ' home in Los Altos and began looking for a job . He was soon hired by Atari , Inc . in Los Gatos , California , as a computer technician . Back in 1973 , Steve Wozniak designed his own version of the classic video game Pong and gave its electronics board to Jobs . According to Wozniak , Atari only hired Jobs because he took the board down to the company , and they thought that he had built it himself . Atari ' s cofounder Nolan Bushnell later described him as " difficult but valuable " , pointing out that " he was very often the smartest guy in the room , and he would let people know that " .	Why did Atari hire you?	Atari hired me because they thought I had built the electronics board myself and I had taken it down to the company.
In February 1974 , Jobs returned to his parents ' home in Los Altos and began looking for a job . He was soon hired by Atari , Inc . in Los Gatos , California , as a computer technician . Back in 1973 , Steve Wozniak designed his own version of the classic video game Pong and gave its electronics board to Jobs . According to Wozniak , Atari only hired Jobs because he took the board down to the company , and they thought that he had built it himself . Atari ' s cofounder Nolan Bushnell later described him as " difficult but valuable " , pointing out that " he was very often the smartest guy in the room , and he would let people know that " .	What did Steve Wozniak give to you in 1973?	Steve Wozniak gave his own version of the classic video game Pong's electronics board to me.
The revised , second generation NeXTcube was released in 1990 . Jobs touted it as the first " interpersonal " computer that would replace the personal computer . With its innovative NeXTMail multimedia email system , NeXTcube could share voice , image , graphics , and video in email for the first time . " Interpersonal computing is going to revolutionize human communications and groupwork " , Jobs told reporters . Jobs ran NeXT with an obsession for aesthetic perfection , as evidenced by the development of and attention to NeXTcube ' s magnesium case . This put considerable strain on NeXT ' s hardware division , and in 1993 , after having sold only 50 , 000 machines , NeXT transitioned fully to software development with the release of NeXTSTEP / Intel . The company reported its first yearly profit of $ 1.03   million in 1994 . In 1996 , NeXT Software , Inc . released WebObjects , a framework for Web application development . After NeXT was acquired by Apple Inc . in 1997 , WebObjects was used to build and run the Apple Store , MobileMe services , and the iTunes Store .	What did you tout the NeXTcube as?	I touted the NeXTcube as the first "interpersonal" computer that would replace the personal computer.
In February 1974 , Jobs returned to his parents ' home in Los Altos and began looking for a job . He was soon hired by Atari , Inc . in Los Gatos , California , as a computer technician . Back in 1973 , Steve Wozniak designed his own version of the classic video game Pong and gave its electronics board to Jobs . According to Wozniak , Atari only hired Jobs because he took the board down to the company , and they thought that he had built it himself . Atari ' s cofounder Nolan Bushnell later described him as " difficult but valuable " , pointing out that " he was very often the smartest guy in the room , and he would let people know that " .	When did you return to your parents' home and what did you do afterwards?	I returned to my parents' home in Los Altos in February 1974 and began looking for a job.
California Governor Jerry Brown declared Sunday , October 16 , 2011 , to be " Steve Jobs Day " . On that day , an invitation - only memorial was held at Stanford University . Those in attendance included Apple and other tech company executives , members of the media , celebrities , politicians , and family and close friends of Jobs . Bono , Yo - Yo Ma , and Joan Baez performed at the service , which lasted longer than an hour . The service was highly secured , with guards at all of the university ' s gates , and a helicopter overhead from an area news station . Each attendee was given a small brown box as a " farewell gift " from Jobs , containing a copy of the Autobiography of a Yogi by Paramahansa Yogananda .	Who were some of the attendees at your memorial?	Some of the attendees at my memorial included Apple and other tech company executives, members of the media, celebrities, politicians, and family and close friends of mine.
As Jobs became more successful with his new company , his relationship with Brennan grew more complex . In 1977 , the success of Apple was now a part of their relationship , and Brennan , Daniel Kottke , and Jobs moved into a house near the Apple office in Cupertino . [ citation needed ] Brennan eventually took a position in the shipping department at Apple . Brennan ' s relationship with Jobs deteriorated as his position with Apple grew , and she began to consider ending the relationship . In October 1977 , Brennan was approached by Rod Holt , who asked her to take " a paid apprenticeship designing blueprints for the Apples " . [ citation needed ] Both Holt and Jobs believed that it would be a good position for her , given her artistic abilities . Holt was particularly eager that she take the position , and puzzled by her ambivalence toward it . Brennan ' s decision , however , was overshadowed by the fact that she realized she was pregnant , and that Jobs was the father . It took her a few days to tell Jobs , whose face , according to Brennan , " turned ugly " at the news . At the same time , according to Brennan , at the beginning of her third trimester , Jobs said to her : " I never wanted to ask that you get an abortion . I just didn ' t want to do that . " [ citation needed ] He also refused to discuss the pregnancy with her . Brennan turned down the internship and decided to leave Apple . She stated that Jobs told her " If you give up this baby for adoption , you will be sorry " and " I am never going to help you " . [ citation needed ] According to Brennan , Jobs " started to seed people with the notion that I slept around , and he was infertile , which meant that this could not be his child " . A few weeks before she was due to give birth , Brennan was invited to deliver her baby at the All One Farm . She accepted the offer . [ citation needed ] When Jobs was 23 ( the same age as his biological parents when they had him ) Brennan gave birth to her baby , Lisa Brennan , on May 17 , 1978 . Jobs went there for the birth after he was contacted by Robert Friedland , their mutual friend and the farm owner . While distant , Jobs worked with her on a name for the baby , which they discussed while sitting in the fields on a blanket . Brennan suggested the name " Lisa " which Jobs also liked and notes that Jobs was very attached to the name " Lisa " while he " was also publicly denying paternity " . She would discover later that during this time , Jobs was preparing to unveil a new kind of computer that he wanted to give a female name ( his first choice was " Claire " after St . Clare ) . She stated that she never gave him permission to use the baby ' s name for a computer and he hid the plans from her . Jobs worked with his team to come up with the phrase , " Local Integrated Software Architecture " as an alternative explanation for the Apple Lisa . Decades later , however , Jobs admitted to his biographer Walter Isaacson that " obviously , it was named for my daughter " .	How did our relationship change as Apple became more successful?	Our relationship grew more complex.
In 1996 , Apple announced that it would buy NeXT for $ 400   million . The deal was finalized in February 1997 , bringing Jobs back to the company he had cofounded . Jobs became de facto chief after then - CEO Gil Amelio was ousted in July 1997 . He was formally named interim chief executive on September 16 . In March 1998 , to concentrate Apple ' s efforts on returning to profitability , Jobs terminated several projects , such as Newton , Cyberdog , and OpenDoc . In the coming months , many employees developed a fear of encountering Jobs while riding in the elevator , " afraid that they might not have a job when the doors opened . The reality was that Jobs ' s summary executions were rare , but a handful of victims was enough to terrorize a whole company . " Jobs changed the licensing program for Macintosh clones , making it too costly for the manufacturers to continue making machines .	When did Gil Amelio leave his position as CEO of Apple?	In July 1997.
