In 1982 , Stallone starred as Vietnam veteran John Rambo , a former Green Beret , in the action film First Blood , which was both a critical and box - office success . Critics praised Stallone ' s performance , saying he made Rambo seem human , as opposed to the way he is portrayed in the book of the same name . It launched the Rambo franchise . That year Rocky III was released in which Stallone wrote , directed , and starred . The third sequel became a box - office success . In preparation for these roles , Stallone embarked upon a vigorous training regimen , which often meant six days a week in the gym and further sit - ups in the evenings . Stallone claims to have reduced his body fat percentage to his all - time low of 2.8% for Rocky III .	When did you star as John Rambo?	I starred as John Rambo in 1982.
Stallone gained worldwide fame with his starring role in the smash hit Rocky ( 1976 ) , a sports drama about a struggling boxer , Rocky Balboa , taking on heavyweight champion Apollo Creed . On March 24 , 1975 , Stallone saw the Muhammad Ali vs . Chuck Wepner fight . That night Stallone went home , and after three days he had completed the first draft of Rocky . Stallone subsequently denied that Wepner provided any inspiration for the script ; however , Wepner filed a lawsuit which was eventually settled with Stallone for an undisclosed amount . Other possible inspirations for the film may have included Rocky Graziano ' s autobiography Somebody Up There Likes Me , and the movie of the same name . Stallone attempted to sell the script to multiple studios , with the intention of playing the lead role himself . Irwin Winkler and Robert Chartoff became interested and offered Stallone US $ 350 , 000 for the rights , but they had their own casting ideas for the lead role , including Robert Redford and Burt Reynolds . Stallone refused to sell unless he played the lead character – and , eventually , after a substantial budget cut to compromise , it was agreed he could be the star . Upon its release , critic Roger Ebert stated that Stallone could become the next Marlon Brando .	How much money did you receive from the settlement of the lawsuit filed by Chuck Wepner?	The amount of money I received from the settlement with Chuck Wepner was undisclosed.
In 2015 , Stallone reprised his role as Rocky Balboa in a spin - off - sequel film , Creed , which focused on Adonis " Donnie " Creed , the son of his deceased friend / rival , Apollo Creed , becoming a professional boxer , played by Michael B . Jordan . The film , directed by Ryan Coogler , received critical acclaim . Portraying the iconic cinematic boxer for the seventh time in a span of 40 years , Stallone ' s portrayal of the character received widespread acclaim and accolades , including the Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actor , and his third Academy Award nomination , this time for Best Supporting Actor .	Who played the role of Adonis "Donnie" Creed in the film Creed?	Michael B. Jordan.
In 1977 , for the first Rocky , Stallone became the third man in history to receive the two nominations for best actor and best screenplay , after Charlie Chaplin and Orson Welles . Like the aforementioned he wrote and took on the leading role in the film . Stallone is known for his recurring roles as Rocky Balboa , John Rambo , and Barney Ross . Stallone wrote and starred in all of six Rocky films , while taking on the task of directing in four of the sequels . Stallone starred and co - wrote the five films of the Rambo franchise , and the fourth one he also directed . Stallone wrote , directed and took the lead role in the first installment of The Expendables films . Stallone directed , starred and wrote in Paradise Alley . John Travolta starred in Staying Alive , a sequel of Saturday Night Fever , which Stallone wrote and directed . Stallone wrote and starred in Cobra , and Driven . Stallone co - wrote and starred in F . I . S . T . , Rhinestone , Over the Top , Cliffhanger , and Creed II .	Who are the two other individuals who have received nominations for best actor and best screenplay?	Charlie Chaplin and Orson Welles
After a three - year hiatus from films , Stallone had a comeback in 2006 with the sixth installment of his successful Rocky series , Rocky Balboa , which was a critical and commercial hit . After the critical and box - office failure of the previous installment Rocky V , Stallone had decided to write , direct and star in a sixth installment which would be a more appropriate climax to the series . The total domestic box office came to US $ 70.3   million ( and US $ 155.7   million worldwide ) . The budget of the movie was only US $ 24   million . His performance in Rocky Balboa has been praised and garnered mostly positive reviews . That year , the development Death Wish remake began , when Stallone announced that he would be directing and starring in a remake of the 1974 film . Stallone said , " Instead of the Charles Bronson character being an architect , my version would have him as a very good cop who had incredible success without ever using his gun . So when the attack on his family happens , he ' s really thrown into a moral dilemma in proceeding to carry out his revenge . " He later told the publication that he was no longer involved . In a 2009 interview with MTV , though , Stallone stated that he was again considering the project . However the role went to Bruce Willis with Eli Roth as director .	Who was initially supposed to direct and star in the Death Wish remake?	I was.
Also that year , Stallone wrote , directed and starred in the ensemble action film The Expendables . The movie , which was filmed during summer / winter 2009 , was released on August 13 , 2010 . Joining him in the film were fellow action stars Jason Statham , Jet Li , and Dolph Lundgren , as well as Terry Crews , Mickey Rourke , Randy Couture , Eric Roberts , and Stone Cold Steve Austin , and cameos by fellow ' 80s action icons Bruce Willis and Arnold Schwarzenegger . The movie took US $ 34 , 825 , 135 in its opening weekend , going straight in at No . 1 in the US box office . The figure marked the biggest opening weekend in Stallone ' s career . In summer 2010 , Brazilian company O2 Filmes released a statement saying it was still owed more than US $ 2   million for its work on the film . In 2011 , Stallone provided the voice of a lion in Kevin James ' comedy Zookeeper .	What company claimed to still be owed more than US $2 million for its work on The Expendables?	Brazilian company O2 Filmes.
After a three - year hiatus from films , Stallone had a comeback in 2006 with the sixth installment of his successful Rocky series , Rocky Balboa , which was a critical and commercial hit . After the critical and box - office failure of the previous installment Rocky V , Stallone had decided to write , direct and star in a sixth installment which would be a more appropriate climax to the series . The total domestic box office came to US $ 70.3   million ( and US $ 155.7   million worldwide ) . The budget of the movie was only US $ 24   million . His performance in Rocky Balboa has been praised and garnered mostly positive reviews . That year , the development Death Wish remake began , when Stallone announced that he would be directing and starring in a remake of the 1974 film . Stallone said , " Instead of the Charles Bronson character being an architect , my version would have him as a very good cop who had incredible success without ever using his gun . So when the attack on his family happens , he ' s really thrown into a moral dilemma in proceeding to carry out his revenge . " He later told the publication that he was no longer involved . In a 2009 interview with MTV , though , Stallone stated that he was again considering the project . However the role went to Bruce Willis with Eli Roth as director .	How much did my movie Rocky Balboa earn worldwide?	US $ 155.7 million.
Stallone gained worldwide fame with his starring role in the smash hit Rocky ( 1976 ) , a sports drama about a struggling boxer , Rocky Balboa , taking on heavyweight champion Apollo Creed . On March 24 , 1975 , Stallone saw the Muhammad Ali vs . Chuck Wepner fight . That night Stallone went home , and after three days he had completed the first draft of Rocky . Stallone subsequently denied that Wepner provided any inspiration for the script ; however , Wepner filed a lawsuit which was eventually settled with Stallone for an undisclosed amount . Other possible inspirations for the film may have included Rocky Graziano ' s autobiography Somebody Up There Likes Me , and the movie of the same name . Stallone attempted to sell the script to multiple studios , with the intention of playing the lead role himself . Irwin Winkler and Robert Chartoff became interested and offered Stallone US $ 350 , 000 for the rights , but they had their own casting ideas for the lead role , including Robert Redford and Burt Reynolds . Stallone refused to sell unless he played the lead character – and , eventually , after a substantial budget cut to compromise , it was agreed he could be the star . Upon its release , critic Roger Ebert stated that Stallone could become the next Marlon Brando .	Who were some of the casting ideas for the lead role in Rocky, other than you?	Some of the casting ideas for the lead role in Rocky were Robert Redford and Burt Reynolds.
Stallone happened to be acting in a play that a friend invited him to partake in , and an agent in attendance thought that Stallone fit the role of Stanley , a main character in The Lords of Flatbush , which had a start - stop schedule from 1972 to 1974 over budget issues . Stallone , around mid - 1973 , achieved his first proper starring role , in the independent film No Place to Hide , playing a man who is associated with a New York - based urban terrorist movement , with a jewelry - seller as his love interest . The film was re - cut and retitled Rebel years later , this second version featuring Stallone as its star . In 1990 , this film was re - edited with outtakes from the original movie and newly shot matching footage , then redubbed – in the style of Woody Allen ' s What ' s Up , Tiger Lily ? – into a parody of itself titled A Man Called ... Rainbo .	What happened to the film "No Place to Hide" years later?	The film "No Place to Hide" was re-cut and retitled "Rebel" years later.
Stallone formed a film studio named Balboa Productions with Braden Aftergood in March 2018 , where Stallone will serve as co - producer for each of their projects . The studio signed a multi - year collaboration deal with Starlight Culture Entertainment to develop projects for film and television . In May 2018 , a fifth installment in the Rambo franchise was announced , and in August 2018 , Adrian Gr ü nberg was confirmed as the director . Rambo : Last Blood began filming by September 2018 , with a script co - written by Stallone , who also reprised his role as Vietnam War veteran John Rambo . The plot centers around Rambo infiltrating a Mexican drug cartel to rescue a family friend ' s daughter . The film , which was released on September 20 , 2019 , in the United States , grossed $ 18.9 million in its opening weekend , the best debut of the franchise . The film grossed $ 91 million worldwide against a production budget of $ 50 million .	When was the fifth installment in your Rambo franchise announced?	The fifth installment in my Rambo franchise was announced in May 2018.
In 2017 , Stallone appeared in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol . 2 as Stakar Ogord / Starhawk , the leader of a Ravagers faction . In 2018 , he co - starred in Escape Plan 2 : Hades with Dave Bautista which was released straight to home - video . Upon wrapping production , he announced via his social media page that work on Escape Plan 3 : Devil ' s Station began immediately thereafter . In July , Stallone announced that he had finished a script for a sequel to Creed , with a plot including the return of Ivan Drago from Rocky IV . That year , Stallone was featured in Derek Wayne Johnson ' s John G . Avildsen : King of the Underdogs , a documentary about director John G . Avildsen .	What movie did you appear in as Stakar Ogord / Starhawk?	I appeared in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol. 2 as Stakar Ogord / Starhawk.
In 1993 , he made a comeback with Renny Harlin ' s action thriller Cliffhanger . which was a success in the US , grossing US $ 84   million , and worldwide , grossing US $ 171   million . Later that year , he starred in the futuristic action film Demolition Man directed by Marco Brambilla , co - starring Wesley Snipes and Sandra Bullock . On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 60% based on 42 reviews , with an average rating of 5.43 / 10 . The site ' s consensus reads : " A better - than - average sci - fi shoot - em - up with a satirical undercurrent , Demolition Man is bolstered by strong performances by Stallone , Snipes , and Bullock . " The film debuted at No . 1 at the box office . Demolition Man grossed $ 58 , 055 , 768 by the end of its box - office run in North America and $ 159 , 055 , 768 worldwide .	Who directed the futuristic action film Demolition Man?	Marco Brambilla directed Demolition Man.
Stallone formed a film studio named Balboa Productions with Braden Aftergood in March 2018 , where Stallone will serve as co - producer for each of their projects . The studio signed a multi - year collaboration deal with Starlight Culture Entertainment to develop projects for film and television . In May 2018 , a fifth installment in the Rambo franchise was announced , and in August 2018 , Adrian Gr ü nberg was confirmed as the director . Rambo : Last Blood began filming by September 2018 , with a script co - written by Stallone , who also reprised his role as Vietnam War veteran John Rambo . The plot centers around Rambo infiltrating a Mexican drug cartel to rescue a family friend ' s daughter . The film , which was released on September 20 , 2019 , in the United States , grossed $ 18.9 million in its opening weekend , the best debut of the franchise . The film grossed $ 91 million worldwide against a production budget of $ 50 million .	When was Rambo: Last Blood released in the United States?	Rambo: Last Blood was released on September 20, 2019, in the United States.
In 1977 , for the first Rocky , Stallone became the third man in history to receive the two nominations for best actor and best screenplay , after Charlie Chaplin and Orson Welles . Like the aforementioned he wrote and took on the leading role in the film . Stallone is known for his recurring roles as Rocky Balboa , John Rambo , and Barney Ross . Stallone wrote and starred in all of six Rocky films , while taking on the task of directing in four of the sequels . Stallone starred and co - wrote the five films of the Rambo franchise , and the fourth one he also directed . Stallone wrote , directed and took the lead role in the first installment of The Expendables films . Stallone directed , starred and wrote in Paradise Alley . John Travolta starred in Staying Alive , a sequel of Saturday Night Fever , which Stallone wrote and directed . Stallone wrote and starred in Cobra , and Driven . Stallone co - wrote and starred in F . I . S . T . , Rhinestone , Over the Top , Cliffhanger , and Creed II .	Who became the third man in history to receive nominations for best actor and best screenplay?	I did
In 1982 , Stallone starred as Vietnam veteran John Rambo , a former Green Beret , in the action film First Blood , which was both a critical and box - office success . Critics praised Stallone ' s performance , saying he made Rambo seem human , as opposed to the way he is portrayed in the book of the same name . It launched the Rambo franchise . That year Rocky III was released in which Stallone wrote , directed , and starred . The third sequel became a box - office success . In preparation for these roles , Stallone embarked upon a vigorous training regimen , which often meant six days a week in the gym and further sit - ups in the evenings . Stallone claims to have reduced his body fat percentage to his all - time low of 2.8% for Rocky III .	What other movie did you release in 1982?	I also released Rocky III in 1982.
In 1977 , for the first Rocky , Stallone became the third man in history to receive the two nominations for best actor and best screenplay , after Charlie Chaplin and Orson Welles . Like the aforementioned he wrote and took on the leading role in the film . Stallone is known for his recurring roles as Rocky Balboa , John Rambo , and Barney Ross . Stallone wrote and starred in all of six Rocky films , while taking on the task of directing in four of the sequels . Stallone starred and co - wrote the five films of the Rambo franchise , and the fourth one he also directed . Stallone wrote , directed and took the lead role in the first installment of The Expendables films . Stallone directed , starred and wrote in Paradise Alley . John Travolta starred in Staying Alive , a sequel of Saturday Night Fever , which Stallone wrote and directed . Stallone wrote and starred in Cobra , and Driven . Stallone co - wrote and starred in F . I . S . T . , Rhinestone , Over the Top , Cliffhanger , and Creed II .	How many Rocky films did you write and star in?	Six
Stallone gained worldwide fame with his starring role in the smash hit Rocky ( 1976 ) , a sports drama about a struggling boxer , Rocky Balboa , taking on heavyweight champion Apollo Creed . On March 24 , 1975 , Stallone saw the Muhammad Ali vs . Chuck Wepner fight . That night Stallone went home , and after three days he had completed the first draft of Rocky . Stallone subsequently denied that Wepner provided any inspiration for the script ; however , Wepner filed a lawsuit which was eventually settled with Stallone for an undisclosed amount . Other possible inspirations for the film may have included Rocky Graziano ' s autobiography Somebody Up There Likes Me , and the movie of the same name . Stallone attempted to sell the script to multiple studios , with the intention of playing the lead role himself . Irwin Winkler and Robert Chartoff became interested and offered Stallone US $ 350 , 000 for the rights , but they had their own casting ideas for the lead role , including Robert Redford and Burt Reynolds . Stallone refused to sell unless he played the lead character – and , eventually , after a substantial budget cut to compromise , it was agreed he could be the star . Upon its release , critic Roger Ebert stated that Stallone could become the next Marlon Brando .	What was your role in the film Rocky?	I played the lead character, Rocky Balboa.
In 2017 , Stallone appeared in Guardians of the Galaxy Vol . 2 as Stakar Ogord / Starhawk , the leader of a Ravagers faction . In 2018 , he co - starred in Escape Plan 2 : Hades with Dave Bautista which was released straight to home - video . Upon wrapping production , he announced via his social media page that work on Escape Plan 3 : Devil ' s Station began immediately thereafter . In July , Stallone announced that he had finished a script for a sequel to Creed , with a plot including the return of Ivan Drago from Rocky IV . That year , Stallone was featured in Derek Wayne Johnson ' s John G . Avildsen : King of the Underdogs , a documentary about director John G . Avildsen .	What was the plot of the sequel to Creed that you announced?	The plot of the sequel to Creed that I announced included the return of Ivan Drago from Rocky IV.
Stallone happened to be acting in a play that a friend invited him to partake in , and an agent in attendance thought that Stallone fit the role of Stanley , a main character in The Lords of Flatbush , which had a start - stop schedule from 1972 to 1974 over budget issues . Stallone , around mid - 1973 , achieved his first proper starring role , in the independent film No Place to Hide , playing a man who is associated with a New York - based urban terrorist movement , with a jewelry - seller as his love interest . The film was re - cut and retitled Rebel years later , this second version featuring Stallone as its star . In 1990 , this film was re - edited with outtakes from the original movie and newly shot matching footage , then redubbed – in the style of Woody Allen ' s What ' s Up , Tiger Lily ? – into a parody of itself titled A Man Called ... Rainbo .	What was the title of the independent film in which you had your first starring role?	The title of the independent film in which I had my first starring role is "No Place to Hide".
In 1993 , he made a comeback with Renny Harlin ' s action thriller Cliffhanger . which was a success in the US , grossing US $ 84   million , and worldwide , grossing US $ 171   million . Later that year , he starred in the futuristic action film Demolition Man directed by Marco Brambilla , co - starring Wesley Snipes and Sandra Bullock . On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 60% based on 42 reviews , with an average rating of 5.43 / 10 . The site ' s consensus reads : " A better - than - average sci - fi shoot - em - up with a satirical undercurrent , Demolition Man is bolstered by strong performances by Stallone , Snipes , and Bullock . " The film debuted at No . 1 at the box office . Demolition Man grossed $ 58 , 055 , 768 by the end of its box - office run in North America and $ 159 , 055 , 768 worldwide .	Who co-starred with you in Demolition Man?	Wesley Snipes and Sandra Bullock co-starred with me in Demolition Man.
In 1993 , he made a comeback with Renny Harlin ' s action thriller Cliffhanger . which was a success in the US , grossing US $ 84   million , and worldwide , grossing US $ 171   million . Later that year , he starred in the futuristic action film Demolition Man directed by Marco Brambilla , co - starring Wesley Snipes and Sandra Bullock . On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 60% based on 42 reviews , with an average rating of 5.43 / 10 . The site ' s consensus reads : " A better - than - average sci - fi shoot - em - up with a satirical undercurrent , Demolition Man is bolstered by strong performances by Stallone , Snipes , and Bullock . " The film debuted at No . 1 at the box office . Demolition Man grossed $ 58 , 055 , 768 by the end of its box - office run in North America and $ 159 , 055 , 768 worldwide .	How much did Cliffhanger gross worldwide?	It grossed US $171 million worldwide.
Stallone formed a film studio named Balboa Productions with Braden Aftergood in March 2018 , where Stallone will serve as co - producer for each of their projects . The studio signed a multi - year collaboration deal with Starlight Culture Entertainment to develop projects for film and television . In May 2018 , a fifth installment in the Rambo franchise was announced , and in August 2018 , Adrian Gr ü nberg was confirmed as the director . Rambo : Last Blood began filming by September 2018 , with a script co - written by Stallone , who also reprised his role as Vietnam War veteran John Rambo . The plot centers around Rambo infiltrating a Mexican drug cartel to rescue a family friend ' s daughter . The film , which was released on September 20 , 2019 , in the United States , grossed $ 18.9 million in its opening weekend , the best debut of the franchise . The film grossed $ 91 million worldwide against a production budget of $ 50 million .	Who was confirmed as the director for Rambo: Last Blood?	Adrian Grünberg was confirmed as the director for Rambo: Last Blood.
In 1982 , Stallone starred as Vietnam veteran John Rambo , a former Green Beret , in the action film First Blood , which was both a critical and box - office success . Critics praised Stallone ' s performance , saying he made Rambo seem human , as opposed to the way he is portrayed in the book of the same name . It launched the Rambo franchise . That year Rocky III was released in which Stallone wrote , directed , and starred . The third sequel became a box - office success . In preparation for these roles , Stallone embarked upon a vigorous training regimen , which often meant six days a week in the gym and further sit - ups in the evenings . Stallone claims to have reduced his body fat percentage to his all - time low of 2.8% for Rocky III .	What did critics say about your performance in First Blood?	Critics praised my performance, saying I made Rambo seem human.
Stallone formed a film studio named Balboa Productions with Braden Aftergood in March 2018 , where Stallone will serve as co - producer for each of their projects . The studio signed a multi - year collaboration deal with Starlight Culture Entertainment to develop projects for film and television . In May 2018 , a fifth installment in the Rambo franchise was announced , and in August 2018 , Adrian Gr ü nberg was confirmed as the director . Rambo : Last Blood began filming by September 2018 , with a script co - written by Stallone , who also reprised his role as Vietnam War veteran John Rambo . The plot centers around Rambo infiltrating a Mexican drug cartel to rescue a family friend ' s daughter . The film , which was released on September 20 , 2019 , in the United States , grossed $ 18.9 million in its opening weekend , the best debut of the franchise . The film grossed $ 91 million worldwide against a production budget of $ 50 million .	When did you form a film studio named Balboa Productions and with whom?	I formed a film studio named Balboa Productions with Braden Aftergood in March 2018.
Also that year , Stallone wrote , directed and starred in the ensemble action film The Expendables . The movie , which was filmed during summer / winter 2009 , was released on August 13 , 2010 . Joining him in the film were fellow action stars Jason Statham , Jet Li , and Dolph Lundgren , as well as Terry Crews , Mickey Rourke , Randy Couture , Eric Roberts , and Stone Cold Steve Austin , and cameos by fellow ' 80s action icons Bruce Willis and Arnold Schwarzenegger . The movie took US $ 34 , 825 , 135 in its opening weekend , going straight in at No . 1 in the US box office . The figure marked the biggest opening weekend in Stallone ' s career . In summer 2010 , Brazilian company O2 Filmes released a statement saying it was still owed more than US $ 2   million for its work on the film . In 2011 , Stallone provided the voice of a lion in Kevin James ' comedy Zookeeper .	What film did you write, direct, and star in during that year?	The Expendables.
