Swift released her seventh studio album , Lover , on August 23 , 2019 . Besides Jack Antonoff , Swift worked with new producers Louis Bell , Frank Dukes , and Joel Little . Lover made Swift the first female artist to have a sixth consecutive album sell more than 500 , 000 copies in one week in the U . S . Critics commended the album ' s free - spirited mood and emotional intimacy . The lead single , " Me ! " , peaked at number two on the Hot 100 . Other singles from Lover were the U . S . top - 10 singles " You Need to Calm Down " and " Lover " , and U . S . top - 40 single " The Man " . Lover was the world ' s best - selling album by a solo artist of 2019 , selling 3.2   million copies . Lover and its singles earned nominations at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards in 2020 . At the 2019 MTV Video Music Awards , " Me ! " won Best Visual Effects , and " You Need to Calm Down " won Video of the Year and Video for Good . Swift was the first female and second artist overall to win Video of the Year for a video that they directed .	Who are some of the producers you worked with on the album "Lover"?	Besides Jack Antonoff, I worked with new producers Louis Bell, Frank Dukes, and Joel Little on the album "Lover".
Swift has been referred to as one of the greatest songwriters of all time by several publications . She told The New Yorker in 2011 that she identifies as a songwriter first : " I write songs , and my voice is just a way to get those lyrics across " . Swift ' s personal experiences were a common inspiration for her early songs , which helped her navigate life . Her " diaristic " technique began with identifying an emotion , followed by a corresponding melody . On her first three studio albums , love , heartbreak , and insecurities , from an adolescent perspective , were dominant themes . She delved into the tumult of toxic relationships on Red , and embraced nostalgia and post - romance positivity on 1989 . Reputation was inspired by the downsides of Swift ' s fame , and Lover detailed her realization of the " full spectrum of love " . Other themes in Swift ' s music include family dynamics , friendship , alienation , self - awareness , and tackling vitriol , especially sexism .	What inspired your early songs?	My personal experiences.
Amidst the COVID - 19 pandemic , Swift released two surprise albums : Folklore on July 24 , and Evermore on December 11 , 2020 . Both explore indie folk and alternative rock with a more muted production compared to her previous upbeat pop songs . Swift wrote and recorded the albums with producers Jack Antonoff and Aaron Dessner from the National . Alwyn co - wrote and co - produced select songs under the pseudonym William Bowery . The albums garnered widespread critical acclaim . The Guardian and Vox opined that Folklore and Evermore emphasized Swift ' s work ethic and increased her artistic credibility . Three singles supported each of the albums , catering the U . S . mainstream radio , country radio , and triple A radio . The singles , in that order , were " Cardigan " , " Betty " , and " Exile " from Folklore , and " Willow " , " No Body , No Crime " , and " Coney Island " from Evermore . Swift became the first artist to debut a U . S . number - one album and a number - one song at the same time with Folklore ' s " Cardigan " and Evermore ' s " Willow " . Folklore was 2020 ' s best - selling album in the U . S . with 1.2   million copies . It won Album of the Year at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards , making Swift the first woman to win the award thrice . At the 2020 American Music Awards , Swift won three awards , including Artist of the Year for a record third consecutive time . She was 2020 ' s highest - paid musician in the U . S . , and the world ' s highest - paid solo musician .	Who were the producers you worked with for the albums Folklore and Evermore?	Jack Antonoff and Aaron Dessner from the National.
One of Swift ' s earliest memories of music is listening to her grandmother , Marjorie Finlay , sing in church . As a child , she enjoyed Disney film soundtracks : " My parents noticed that , once I had run out of words , I would just make up my own . " Swift said she owes her confidence to her mother , who helped her prepare for class presentations as a child . She also attributes her " fascination with writing and storytelling " to her mother . Swift was drawn to the storytelling aspect of country music , and was introduced to the genre listening to " the great female country artists " of the 1990s — Shania Twain , Faith Hill , and the Dixie Chicks . Twain , both as a songwriter and performer , was her biggest musical influence . Hill was Swift ' s childhood role model , and she would often imitate her . She admired the Dixie Chicks ' defiant attitude and their ability to play their own instruments . Swift also explored the music of older country stars such as Patsy Cline , Loretta Lynn , Tammy Wynette , and Dolly Parton , the last of whom she believes is exemplary to female songwriters , and alt - country artists like Patty Griffin and Lori McKenna . As a songwriter , Swift was influenced by Joni Mitchell , citing especially how Mitchell ' s autobiographical lyrics convey the deepest emotions : " I think [ Blue ] is my favorite because it explores somebody ' s soul so deeply . "	Who were some of the country music artists that influenced you?	Shania Twain, Faith Hill, Dixie Chicks, Patsy Cline, Loretta Lynn, Tammy Wynette, and Dolly Parton.
Amidst the COVID - 19 pandemic , Swift released two surprise albums : Folklore on July 24 , and Evermore on December 11 , 2020 . Both explore indie folk and alternative rock with a more muted production compared to her previous upbeat pop songs . Swift wrote and recorded the albums with producers Jack Antonoff and Aaron Dessner from the National . Alwyn co - wrote and co - produced select songs under the pseudonym William Bowery . The albums garnered widespread critical acclaim . The Guardian and Vox opined that Folklore and Evermore emphasized Swift ' s work ethic and increased her artistic credibility . Three singles supported each of the albums , catering the U . S . mainstream radio , country radio , and triple A radio . The singles , in that order , were " Cardigan " , " Betty " , and " Exile " from Folklore , and " Willow " , " No Body , No Crime " , and " Coney Island " from Evermore . Swift became the first artist to debut a U . S . number - one album and a number - one song at the same time with Folklore ' s " Cardigan " and Evermore ' s " Willow " . Folklore was 2020 ' s best - selling album in the U . S . with 1.2   million copies . It won Album of the Year at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards , making Swift the first woman to win the award thrice . At the 2020 American Music Awards , Swift won three awards , including Artist of the Year for a record third consecutive time . She was 2020 ' s highest - paid musician in the U . S . , and the world ' s highest - paid solo musician .	Which singles were released for the albums Folklore and Evermore?	For Folklore: "Cardigan", "Betty", and "Exile". For Evermore: "Willow", "No Body, No Crime", and "Coney Island".
Swift released her seventh studio album , Lover , on August 23 , 2019 . Besides Jack Antonoff , Swift worked with new producers Louis Bell , Frank Dukes , and Joel Little . Lover made Swift the first female artist to have a sixth consecutive album sell more than 500 , 000 copies in one week in the U . S . Critics commended the album ' s free - spirited mood and emotional intimacy . The lead single , " Me ! " , peaked at number two on the Hot 100 . Other singles from Lover were the U . S . top - 10 singles " You Need to Calm Down " and " Lover " , and U . S . top - 40 single " The Man " . Lover was the world ' s best - selling album by a solo artist of 2019 , selling 3.2   million copies . Lover and its singles earned nominations at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards in 2020 . At the 2019 MTV Video Music Awards , " Me ! " won Best Visual Effects , and " You Need to Calm Down " won Video of the Year and Video for Good . Swift was the first female and second artist overall to win Video of the Year for a video that they directed .	When did you release your seventh studio album "Lover"?	I released my seventh studio album "Lover" on August 23, 2019.
Swift ' s tenth studio album , Midnights , was released on October 21 , 2022 . She experimented with electronica and chill - out music styles on it . Rolling Stone critics dubbed the album an " instant classic " . Commercially , Billboard described the album as a blockbuster , and CNBC called it Swift ' s biggest success yet . Breaking records across all formats of music consumption , Midnights and its lead single , " Anti - Hero " , became Spotify ' s most - streamed album and song in one day with 185   million and 17.4   million plays , and the US ' best - selling album and digital song of 2022 , respectively . The album debuted atop the Billboard 200 with 1.57   million units , marking Swift ' s fifth album to open with over one million sales . She tied Barbra Streisand for the most number - one albums among women ( 11 ) , and became the first artist in history to monopolize the Hot 100 ' s entire top 10 . " Lavender Haze " , which had peaked at number two , became the second single in November 2022 . Beginning in 2023 , Swift embarked on the Eras Tour , which broke the record for most concert tickets ever sold in a single day ; however , Ticketmaster was widely castigated for its mishandling of the ticket sale , triggering government investigations into the company . In April 2023 , it was reported that Swift and Alwyn had ended their relationship .	How did you describe the album commercially?	I described the album as a blockbuster.
Amidst the COVID - 19 pandemic , Swift released two surprise albums : Folklore on July 24 , and Evermore on December 11 , 2020 . Both explore indie folk and alternative rock with a more muted production compared to her previous upbeat pop songs . Swift wrote and recorded the albums with producers Jack Antonoff and Aaron Dessner from the National . Alwyn co - wrote and co - produced select songs under the pseudonym William Bowery . The albums garnered widespread critical acclaim . The Guardian and Vox opined that Folklore and Evermore emphasized Swift ' s work ethic and increased her artistic credibility . Three singles supported each of the albums , catering the U . S . mainstream radio , country radio , and triple A radio . The singles , in that order , were " Cardigan " , " Betty " , and " Exile " from Folklore , and " Willow " , " No Body , No Crime " , and " Coney Island " from Evermore . Swift became the first artist to debut a U . S . number - one album and a number - one song at the same time with Folklore ' s " Cardigan " and Evermore ' s " Willow " . Folklore was 2020 ' s best - selling album in the U . S . with 1.2   million copies . It won Album of the Year at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards , making Swift the first woman to win the award thrice . At the 2020 American Music Awards , Swift won three awards , including Artist of the Year for a record third consecutive time . She was 2020 ' s highest - paid musician in the U . S . , and the world ' s highest - paid solo musician .	Which genres did your albums Folklore and Evermore explore?	Indie folk and alternative rock.
One of Swift ' s earliest memories of music is listening to her grandmother , Marjorie Finlay , sing in church . As a child , she enjoyed Disney film soundtracks : " My parents noticed that , once I had run out of words , I would just make up my own . " Swift said she owes her confidence to her mother , who helped her prepare for class presentations as a child . She also attributes her " fascination with writing and storytelling " to her mother . Swift was drawn to the storytelling aspect of country music , and was introduced to the genre listening to " the great female country artists " of the 1990s — Shania Twain , Faith Hill , and the Dixie Chicks . Twain , both as a songwriter and performer , was her biggest musical influence . Hill was Swift ' s childhood role model , and she would often imitate her . She admired the Dixie Chicks ' defiant attitude and their ability to play their own instruments . Swift also explored the music of older country stars such as Patsy Cline , Loretta Lynn , Tammy Wynette , and Dolly Parton , the last of whom she believes is exemplary to female songwriters , and alt - country artists like Patty Griffin and Lori McKenna . As a songwriter , Swift was influenced by Joni Mitchell , citing especially how Mitchell ' s autobiographical lyrics convey the deepest emotions : " I think [ Blue ] is my favorite because it explores somebody ' s soul so deeply . "	What kind of music did you enjoy as a child?	I enjoyed Disney film soundtracks.
In August 2012 , Swift released " We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together " , the lead single from her fourth studio album , Red . It became her first number one in the U . S . and New Zealand , and reached the top slot on iTunes ' digital song sales chart 50 minutes after its release , earning the Fastest Selling Single in Digital History Guinness World Record . Other singles released from the album include " Begin Again " , " I Knew You Were Trouble " , " 22 " , " Everything Has Changed " , " The Last Time " , and " Red " . " I Knew You Were Trouble " reached the top five on charts in Australia , Canada , Denmark , Ireland , New Zealand , the U . K . and the U . S . Three singles , " Begin Again " , " 22 " , and " Red " , reached the top 20 in the U . S . Red was released on October 22 , 2012 . On Red , Swift worked with longtime collaborators Nathan Chapman and Liz Rose , as well as new producers such as Max Martin and Shellback . The album incorporated many pop and rock styles such as heartland rock , dubstep and dance - pop . Randall Roberts of Los Angeles Times said Swift " strives for something much more grand and accomplished " with Red . It debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 1.21   million copies , making Swift the first female to have two million - selling album openings — a Guinness World Records . Red was Swift ' s first number - one album in the U . K .	Which album is "We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together" from?	It is from my fourth studio album, Red.
After a one - year hiatus from public spotlight , Swift cleared her social media accounts and released " Look What You Made Me Do " as the lead single from her sixth album , Reputation . The single was Swift ' s first U . K . number - one single . It topped charts in Australia , Ireland , New Zealand , and the U . S . Reputation was released on November 10 , 2017 . It incorporated a heavy electropop sound , along with hip hop , R & B , and EDM influences . Reviewers praised Swift ' s mature artistry , but some denounced the themes of fame and gossip . The album debuted atop the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 1.21   million copies . Swift became the first act to have four albums sell one million copies within one week in the U . S . The album topped the charts in the UK , Australia , and Canada , and had sold over 4.5   million copies worldwide as of 2018 . It spawned three other international singles , including the U . S . top - five entry " ... Ready for It ? " , and two U . S . top - 20 singles — " End Game " ( featuring Ed Sheeran and rapper Future ) and " Delicate " . Swift launched the short - lived The Swift Life mobile app for fans in late 2017 . Reputation was nominated for Best Pop Vocal Album at the 61st Annual Grammy Awards in 2019 . At the American Music Awards of 2018 , Swift won four awards , including Artist of the Year and Favorite Pop / Rock Female Artist . After the 2018 AMAs , Swift garnered a total of 23 awards , becoming the most awarded female musician in AMA history , a record previously held by Whitney Houston . In April 2018 , Swift featured on country duo Sugarland ' s " Babe " . [ note 4 ] In support of Reputation , she embarked on her Reputation Stadium Tour from May to November 2018 . In the U . S . , the tour grossed $ 266.1   million in box office and sold over two million tickets , breaking many records , the most prominent being the highest - grossing North American concert tour in history . It grossed $ 345.7   million worldwide . It was followed up with an accompanying concert film on Netflix .	Which singles from Reputation did you release internationally?	"...Ready for It?", "End Game" (featuring Ed Sheeran and rapper Future), and "Delicate"
Swift has been referred to as one of the greatest songwriters of all time by several publications . She told The New Yorker in 2011 that she identifies as a songwriter first : " I write songs , and my voice is just a way to get those lyrics across " . Swift ' s personal experiences were a common inspiration for her early songs , which helped her navigate life . Her " diaristic " technique began with identifying an emotion , followed by a corresponding melody . On her first three studio albums , love , heartbreak , and insecurities , from an adolescent perspective , were dominant themes . She delved into the tumult of toxic relationships on Red , and embraced nostalgia and post - romance positivity on 1989 . Reputation was inspired by the downsides of Swift ' s fame , and Lover detailed her realization of the " full spectrum of love " . Other themes in Swift ' s music include family dynamics , friendship , alienation , self - awareness , and tackling vitriol , especially sexism .	According to you, what do you identify as first?	A songwriter.
In August 2010 , Swift released " Mine " , the lead single from her third studio album , Speak Now . It entered the Hot 100 at number three . Swift wrote the album alone and co - produced every track . Speak Now , released on October 25 , 2010 , debuted atop the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of one million copies . It became the fastest - selling digital album by a female artist , with 278 , 000 downloads in a week , earning Swift an entry in the 2010 Guinness World Records . Critics appreciated Swift ’ s grown - up perspectives ; Rob Sheffield of Rolling Stone wrote , " in a mere four years , the 20 - year - old Nashville firecracker has put her name on three dozen or so of the smartest songs released by anyone in pop , rock or country . " The songs " Mine " , " Back to December " , " Mean " , " The Story of Us " , " Sparks Fly " , and " Ours " were released as singles , with the latter two reaching number one . " Back to December " and " Mean " peaked in the top ten in Canada . She briefly dated actor Jake Gyllenhaal in 2010 .	What record did your album "Speak Now" set?	It became the fastest-selling digital album by a female artist, with 278,000 downloads in a week, earning me an entry in the 2010 Guinness World Records.
One of Swift ' s earliest memories of music is listening to her grandmother , Marjorie Finlay , sing in church . As a child , she enjoyed Disney film soundtracks : " My parents noticed that , once I had run out of words , I would just make up my own . " Swift said she owes her confidence to her mother , who helped her prepare for class presentations as a child . She also attributes her " fascination with writing and storytelling " to her mother . Swift was drawn to the storytelling aspect of country music , and was introduced to the genre listening to " the great female country artists " of the 1990s — Shania Twain , Faith Hill , and the Dixie Chicks . Twain , both as a songwriter and performer , was her biggest musical influence . Hill was Swift ' s childhood role model , and she would often imitate her . She admired the Dixie Chicks ' defiant attitude and their ability to play their own instruments . Swift also explored the music of older country stars such as Patsy Cline , Loretta Lynn , Tammy Wynette , and Dolly Parton , the last of whom she believes is exemplary to female songwriters , and alt - country artists like Patty Griffin and Lori McKenna . As a songwriter , Swift was influenced by Joni Mitchell , citing especially how Mitchell ' s autobiographical lyrics convey the deepest emotions : " I think [ Blue ] is my favorite because it explores somebody ' s soul so deeply . "	Who is your biggest musical influence as a songwriter and performer?	Shania Twain.
In March 2014 , Swift began living in New York City . [ note 2 ] She worked on her fifth studio album , 1989 , with producers Jack Antonoff , Max Martin , Shellback , Imogen Heap , Ryan Tedder , and Ali Payami . She promoted the album through various campaigns , including inviting fans , called " Swifties " , to secret album - listening sessions for the first time . The album was released on October 27 , 2014 , and debuted atop the U . S . Billboard 200 with sales of 1.28   million copies in its first week . Its singles " Shake It Off " , " Blank Space " and " Bad Blood " reached number one in Australia , Canada and the U . S . , the first two making Swift the first woman to replace herself at the Hot 100 top spot ; other singles include " Style " , " Wildest Dreams " , " Out of the Woods " and " New Romantics " . The 1989 World Tour ran from May to December 2015 and was the highest - grossing tour of the year with $ 250   million in total revenue .	Who did you work with on your fifth studio album, 1989?	I worked with producers Jack Antonoff, Max Martin, Shellback, Imogen Heap, Ryan Tedder, and Ali Payami on my fifth studio album, 1989.
In March 2014 , Swift began living in New York City . [ note 2 ] She worked on her fifth studio album , 1989 , with producers Jack Antonoff , Max Martin , Shellback , Imogen Heap , Ryan Tedder , and Ali Payami . She promoted the album through various campaigns , including inviting fans , called " Swifties " , to secret album - listening sessions for the first time . The album was released on October 27 , 2014 , and debuted atop the U . S . Billboard 200 with sales of 1.28   million copies in its first week . Its singles " Shake It Off " , " Blank Space " and " Bad Blood " reached number one in Australia , Canada and the U . S . , the first two making Swift the first woman to replace herself at the Hot 100 top spot ; other singles include " Style " , " Wildest Dreams " , " Out of the Woods " and " New Romantics " . The 1989 World Tour ran from May to December 2015 and was the highest - grossing tour of the year with $ 250   million in total revenue .	How much did your album, 1989, sell in its first week?	My album, 1989, sold 1.28 million copies in its first week.
Swift ' s second studio album , Fearless , was released on November 11 , 2008 , in North America , and in March 2009 , in other markets . Critics lauded Swift ' s honest and vulnerable songwriting in contrast to other teenage singers . Five singles were released in 2008 through 2009 : " Love Story " , " White Horse " , " You Belong with Me " , " Fifteen " , and " Fearless " . " Love Story " , the lead single , peaked at number four on the Billboard Hot 100 and number one in Australia . It was the first country song to top Billboard ' s Pop Songs chart . " You Belong with Me " was the album ' s highest - charting single on the Billboard Hot 100 , peaking at number two , and was the first country song to top Billboard ' s all - genre Radio Songs chart . All five singles were Hot Country Songs top - 10 entries , with " Love Story " and " You Belong with Me " topping the chart . Fearless became her first number - one album on the Billboard 200 and 2009 ' s top - selling album in the U . S . The Fearless Tour , Swift ' s first headlining concert tour , grossed over $ 63   million . Journey to Fearless , a three - part documentary miniseries , aired on television and was later released on DVD and Blu - ray . Swift also performed as a supporting act for Keith Urban ' s Escape Together World Tour in 2009 .	Which singles did you release from the album in 2008 through 2009?	The singles I released from the album in 2008 through 2009 were "Love Story," "White Horse," "You Belong with Me," "Fifteen," and "Fearless."
Swift ' s second studio album , Fearless , was released on November 11 , 2008 , in North America , and in March 2009 , in other markets . Critics lauded Swift ' s honest and vulnerable songwriting in contrast to other teenage singers . Five singles were released in 2008 through 2009 : " Love Story " , " White Horse " , " You Belong with Me " , " Fifteen " , and " Fearless " . " Love Story " , the lead single , peaked at number four on the Billboard Hot 100 and number one in Australia . It was the first country song to top Billboard ' s Pop Songs chart . " You Belong with Me " was the album ' s highest - charting single on the Billboard Hot 100 , peaking at number two , and was the first country song to top Billboard ' s all - genre Radio Songs chart . All five singles were Hot Country Songs top - 10 entries , with " Love Story " and " You Belong with Me " topping the chart . Fearless became her first number - one album on the Billboard 200 and 2009 ' s top - selling album in the U . S . The Fearless Tour , Swift ' s first headlining concert tour , grossed over $ 63   million . Journey to Fearless , a three - part documentary miniseries , aired on television and was later released on DVD and Blu - ray . Swift also performed as a supporting act for Keith Urban ' s Escape Together World Tour in 2009 .	How did Fearless perform commercially?	Fearless became my first number-one album on the Billboard 200 and was the top-selling album in the U.S. in 2009.
Swift released her seventh studio album , Lover , on August 23 , 2019 . Besides Jack Antonoff , Swift worked with new producers Louis Bell , Frank Dukes , and Joel Little . Lover made Swift the first female artist to have a sixth consecutive album sell more than 500 , 000 copies in one week in the U . S . Critics commended the album ' s free - spirited mood and emotional intimacy . The lead single , " Me ! " , peaked at number two on the Hot 100 . Other singles from Lover were the U . S . top - 10 singles " You Need to Calm Down " and " Lover " , and U . S . top - 40 single " The Man " . Lover was the world ' s best - selling album by a solo artist of 2019 , selling 3.2   million copies . Lover and its singles earned nominations at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards in 2020 . At the 2019 MTV Video Music Awards , " Me ! " won Best Visual Effects , and " You Need to Calm Down " won Video of the Year and Video for Good . Swift was the first female and second artist overall to win Video of the Year for a video that they directed .	How many copies did "Lover" sell and what recognition did you receive?	"Lover" was the world's best-selling album by a solo artist of 2019, selling 3.2 million copies. The album and its singles earned nominations at the 62nd Annual Grammy Awards in 2020. At the 2019 MTV Video Music Awards, "Me!" won Best Visual Effects, and "You Need to Calm Down" won Video of the Year and Video for Good. I was the first female and second artist overall to win Video of the Year for a video that I directed.
Amidst the COVID - 19 pandemic , Swift released two surprise albums : Folklore on July 24 , and Evermore on December 11 , 2020 . Both explore indie folk and alternative rock with a more muted production compared to her previous upbeat pop songs . Swift wrote and recorded the albums with producers Jack Antonoff and Aaron Dessner from the National . Alwyn co - wrote and co - produced select songs under the pseudonym William Bowery . The albums garnered widespread critical acclaim . The Guardian and Vox opined that Folklore and Evermore emphasized Swift ' s work ethic and increased her artistic credibility . Three singles supported each of the albums , catering the U . S . mainstream radio , country radio , and triple A radio . The singles , in that order , were " Cardigan " , " Betty " , and " Exile " from Folklore , and " Willow " , " No Body , No Crime " , and " Coney Island " from Evermore . Swift became the first artist to debut a U . S . number - one album and a number - one song at the same time with Folklore ' s " Cardigan " and Evermore ' s " Willow " . Folklore was 2020 ' s best - selling album in the U . S . with 1.2   million copies . It won Album of the Year at the 63rd Annual Grammy Awards , making Swift the first woman to win the award thrice . At the 2020 American Music Awards , Swift won three awards , including Artist of the Year for a record third consecutive time . She was 2020 ' s highest - paid musician in the U . S . , and the world ' s highest - paid solo musician .	What were the names of the surprise albums you released amidst the COVID-19 pandemic?	Folklore and Evermore.
Swift has been referred to as one of the greatest songwriters of all time by several publications . She told The New Yorker in 2011 that she identifies as a songwriter first : " I write songs , and my voice is just a way to get those lyrics across " . Swift ' s personal experiences were a common inspiration for her early songs , which helped her navigate life . Her " diaristic " technique began with identifying an emotion , followed by a corresponding melody . On her first three studio albums , love , heartbreak , and insecurities , from an adolescent perspective , were dominant themes . She delved into the tumult of toxic relationships on Red , and embraced nostalgia and post - romance positivity on 1989 . Reputation was inspired by the downsides of Swift ' s fame , and Lover detailed her realization of the " full spectrum of love " . Other themes in Swift ' s music include family dynamics , friendship , alienation , self - awareness , and tackling vitriol , especially sexism .	What have you been referred to as by several publications?	One of the greatest songwriters of all time.
In August 2012 , Swift released " We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together " , the lead single from her fourth studio album , Red . It became her first number one in the U . S . and New Zealand , and reached the top slot on iTunes ' digital song sales chart 50 minutes after its release , earning the Fastest Selling Single in Digital History Guinness World Record . Other singles released from the album include " Begin Again " , " I Knew You Were Trouble " , " 22 " , " Everything Has Changed " , " The Last Time " , and " Red " . " I Knew You Were Trouble " reached the top five on charts in Australia , Canada , Denmark , Ireland , New Zealand , the U . K . and the U . S . Three singles , " Begin Again " , " 22 " , and " Red " , reached the top 20 in the U . S . Red was released on October 22 , 2012 . On Red , Swift worked with longtime collaborators Nathan Chapman and Liz Rose , as well as new producers such as Max Martin and Shellback . The album incorporated many pop and rock styles such as heartland rock , dubstep and dance - pop . Randall Roberts of Los Angeles Times said Swift " strives for something much more grand and accomplished " with Red . It debuted at number one on the Billboard 200 with first - week sales of 1.21   million copies , making Swift the first female to have two million - selling album openings — a Guinness World Records . Red was Swift ' s first number - one album in the U . K .	How long did it take for "We Are Never Ever Getting Back Together" to reach the top slot on iTunes' digital song sales chart?	It took 50 minutes after its release to reach the top slot on iTunes' digital song sales chart.
In March 2014 , Swift began living in New York City . [ note 2 ] She worked on her fifth studio album , 1989 , with producers Jack Antonoff , Max Martin , Shellback , Imogen Heap , Ryan Tedder , and Ali Payami . She promoted the album through various campaigns , including inviting fans , called " Swifties " , to secret album - listening sessions for the first time . The album was released on October 27 , 2014 , and debuted atop the U . S . Billboard 200 with sales of 1.28   million copies in its first week . Its singles " Shake It Off " , " Blank Space " and " Bad Blood " reached number one in Australia , Canada and the U . S . , the first two making Swift the first woman to replace herself at the Hot 100 top spot ; other singles include " Style " , " Wildest Dreams " , " Out of the Woods " and " New Romantics " . The 1989 World Tour ran from May to December 2015 and was the highest - grossing tour of the year with $ 250   million in total revenue .	When did you begin living in New York City?	In March 2014.
Swift ' s tenth studio album , Midnights , was released on October 21 , 2022 . She experimented with electronica and chill - out music styles on it . Rolling Stone critics dubbed the album an " instant classic " . Commercially , Billboard described the album as a blockbuster , and CNBC called it Swift ' s biggest success yet . Breaking records across all formats of music consumption , Midnights and its lead single , " Anti - Hero " , became Spotify ' s most - streamed album and song in one day with 185   million and 17.4   million plays , and the US ' best - selling album and digital song of 2022 , respectively . The album debuted atop the Billboard 200 with 1.57   million units , marking Swift ' s fifth album to open with over one million sales . She tied Barbra Streisand for the most number - one albums among women ( 11 ) , and became the first artist in history to monopolize the Hot 100 ' s entire top 10 . " Lavender Haze " , which had peaked at number two , became the second single in November 2022 . Beginning in 2023 , Swift embarked on the Eras Tour , which broke the record for most concert tickets ever sold in a single day ; however , Ticketmaster was widely castigated for its mishandling of the ticket sale , triggering government investigations into the company . In April 2023 , it was reported that Swift and Alwyn had ended their relationship .	What music styles did you experiment with on the album?	I experimented with electronica and chill-out music styles on Midnights.
One of Swift ' s earliest memories of music is listening to her grandmother , Marjorie Finlay , sing in church . As a child , she enjoyed Disney film soundtracks : " My parents noticed that , once I had run out of words , I would just make up my own . " Swift said she owes her confidence to her mother , who helped her prepare for class presentations as a child . She also attributes her " fascination with writing and storytelling " to her mother . Swift was drawn to the storytelling aspect of country music , and was introduced to the genre listening to " the great female country artists " of the 1990s — Shania Twain , Faith Hill , and the Dixie Chicks . Twain , both as a songwriter and performer , was her biggest musical influence . Hill was Swift ' s childhood role model , and she would often imitate her . She admired the Dixie Chicks ' defiant attitude and their ability to play their own instruments . Swift also explored the music of older country stars such as Patsy Cline , Loretta Lynn , Tammy Wynette , and Dolly Parton , the last of whom she believes is exemplary to female songwriters , and alt - country artists like Patty Griffin and Lori McKenna . As a songwriter , Swift was influenced by Joni Mitchell , citing especially how Mitchell ' s autobiographical lyrics convey the deepest emotions : " I think [ Blue ] is my favorite because it explores somebody ' s soul so deeply . "	Which artist do you believe is exemplary to female songwriters?	Dolly Parton.
