Salt Lake City police placed Bundy on 24 - hour surveillance , and Thompson flew to Seattle with two other detectives to interview Kloepfer . She told them that in the year prior to Bundy ' s move to Utah , she had discovered objects that she " couldn ' t understand " in her house and in Bundy ' s apartment . These items included crutches , a bag of plaster of Paris that he admitted stealing from a medical supply house , and a meat cleaver that was never used for cooking . Additional objects included surgical gloves , an Oriental knife in a wooden case that he kept in his glove compartment , and a sack full of women ' s clothing . Bundy was perpetually in debt , and Kloepfer suspected that he had stolen almost everything of significant value that he possessed . When she confronted him over a new TV and stereo , he warned her , " If you tell anyone , I ' ll break your fucking neck . " She said Bundy became " very upset " whenever she considered cutting her hair , which was long and parted in the middle . She would sometimes awaken in the middle of the night to find him under the bed covers with a flashlight , examining her body . He kept a lug wrench , taped halfway up the handle , in the trunk of her car — another Volkswagen Beetle , which he often borrowed — " for protection " . The detectives confirmed that Bundy had not been with Kloepfer on any of the nights during which the Pacific Northwest victims had vanished , nor on the day Ott and Naslund were abducted from Lake Sammamish State Park . Shortly thereafter , Kloepfer was interviewed by Seattle homicide detective Kathy McChesney , and learned of the existence of Diane Edwards and her brief engagement to Bundy around Christmas 1973 .	Who confirmed that you were not with Kloepfer during the disappearances of the Pacific Northwest victims?	The detectives confirmed that I had not been with Kloepfer on any of the nights when the Pacific Northwest victims vanished.
Salt Lake City police placed Bundy on 24 - hour surveillance , and Thompson flew to Seattle with two other detectives to interview Kloepfer . She told them that in the year prior to Bundy ' s move to Utah , she had discovered objects that she " couldn ' t understand " in her house and in Bundy ' s apartment . These items included crutches , a bag of plaster of Paris that he admitted stealing from a medical supply house , and a meat cleaver that was never used for cooking . Additional objects included surgical gloves , an Oriental knife in a wooden case that he kept in his glove compartment , and a sack full of women ' s clothing . Bundy was perpetually in debt , and Kloepfer suspected that he had stolen almost everything of significant value that he possessed . When she confronted him over a new TV and stereo , he warned her , " If you tell anyone , I ' ll break your fucking neck . " She said Bundy became " very upset " whenever she considered cutting her hair , which was long and parted in the middle . She would sometimes awaken in the middle of the night to find him under the bed covers with a flashlight , examining her body . He kept a lug wrench , taped halfway up the handle , in the trunk of her car — another Volkswagen Beetle , which he often borrowed — " for protection " . The detectives confirmed that Bundy had not been with Kloepfer on any of the nights during which the Pacific Northwest victims had vanished , nor on the day Ott and Naslund were abducted from Lake Sammamish State Park . Shortly thereafter , Kloepfer was interviewed by Seattle homicide detective Kathy McChesney , and learned of the existence of Diane Edwards and her brief engagement to Bundy around Christmas 1973 .	What did you do after the police placed me on surveillance in Salt Lake City?	I flew to Seattle with two other detectives to interview Kloepfer.
On August 16 , 1975 , Bundy was arrested by Utah Highway Patrol officer Bob Hayward in Granger , another Salt Lake City suburb . Hayward observed Bundy cruising a residential area in his Volkswagen Beetle during the pre - dawn hours , and fleeing at high speed after seeing the patrol car . He noticed that the Volkswagen ' s front passenger seat had been removed and placed on the rear seats , and searched the car . He found a ski mask , a second mask fashioned from pantyhose , a crowbar , handcuffs , trash bags , a coil of rope , an ice pick , and other items initially assumed to be burglary tools . Bundy explained that the ski mask was for skiing , he had found the handcuffs in a dumpster , and the rest were common household items . However , Detective Jerry Thompson remembered a similar suspect and car description from the November 1974 DaRonch kidnapping , and Bundy ' s name from Kloepfer ' s phone call a month later . In a search of Bundy ' s apartment , police found a guide to Colorado ski resorts with a checkmark by the Wildwood Inn , and a brochure that advertised the Viewmont High School play in Bountiful , where Kent had disappeared . The police did not have sufficient evidence to detain Bundy , so he was released on his own recognizance . Bundy later said that searchers missed a hidden collection of Polaroid photographs of his victims , which he destroyed after he was released .	Where were you arrested?	In Granger, another Salt Lake City suburb
In January 1974 , Bundy abruptly broke off all contact with Edwards ; her phone calls and letters went unreturned . When she finally reached him by phone a month later , she demanded to know why he had unilaterally ended their relationship without explanation . In a flat , calm voice , he replied , " Diane , I have no idea what you mean , " and hung up . She never heard from him again . Bundy later explained , " I just wanted to prove to myself that I could have married her " ; but Edwards concluded in retrospect that he had deliberately planned the entire courtship and rejection in advance , as vengeance for the breakup she initiated in 1968 . By then , Bundy had begun skipping classes at law school . By April he had stopped attending entirely , as young women began to disappear in the Pacific Northwest .	When did you break off all contact with Edwards?	In January 1974.
On February 12 , with insufficient cash to pay his overdue rent and a growing suspicion that police were closing in on him , Bundy stole a car and fled Tallahassee , driving westward across the Florida Panhandle . Three days later , at around 1 : 00   a . m . , he was stopped by Pensacola police officer David Lee near the Alabama state line after a " wants and warrants " check showed his Volkswagen Beetle was stolen . When told he was under arrest , Bundy kicked Lee ' s legs out from under him and took off running . Lee fired two warning shots , then gave chase and tackled him . The two struggled over Lee ' s gun before the officer finally subdued and arrested Bundy . In the stolen vehicle were three sets of IDs belonging to female FSU students , 21 stolen credit cards and a stolen television set . Also found were a pair of dark - rimmed non - prescription glasses and a pair of plaid slacks , later identified as the disguise worn by " Richard Burton , Fire Department " in Jacksonville . As Lee transported his suspect to jail , unaware that he had just arrested one of the FBI ' s Ten Most Wanted Fugitives , he heard Bundy say , " I wish you had killed me . "	What items were found in the stolen vehicle?	In the stolen vehicle, three sets of IDs belonging to female FSU students, 21 stolen credit cards, and a stolen television set were found.
Salt Lake City police placed Bundy on 24 - hour surveillance , and Thompson flew to Seattle with two other detectives to interview Kloepfer . She told them that in the year prior to Bundy ' s move to Utah , she had discovered objects that she " couldn ' t understand " in her house and in Bundy ' s apartment . These items included crutches , a bag of plaster of Paris that he admitted stealing from a medical supply house , and a meat cleaver that was never used for cooking . Additional objects included surgical gloves , an Oriental knife in a wooden case that he kept in his glove compartment , and a sack full of women ' s clothing . Bundy was perpetually in debt , and Kloepfer suspected that he had stolen almost everything of significant value that he possessed . When she confronted him over a new TV and stereo , he warned her , " If you tell anyone , I ' ll break your fucking neck . " She said Bundy became " very upset " whenever she considered cutting her hair , which was long and parted in the middle . She would sometimes awaken in the middle of the night to find him under the bed covers with a flashlight , examining her body . He kept a lug wrench , taped halfway up the handle , in the trunk of her car — another Volkswagen Beetle , which he often borrowed — " for protection " . The detectives confirmed that Bundy had not been with Kloepfer on any of the nights during which the Pacific Northwest victims had vanished , nor on the day Ott and Naslund were abducted from Lake Sammamish State Park . Shortly thereafter , Kloepfer was interviewed by Seattle homicide detective Kathy McChesney , and learned of the existence of Diane Edwards and her brief engagement to Bundy around Christmas 1973 .	How did you react when Kloepfer confronted you about a new TV and stereo?	I warned her that if she told anyone, I would break her neck.
In mid - 1970 , Bundy , now focused and goal - oriented , re - enrolled at UW , this time as a psychology major . He became an honor student and was well regarded by his professors . In 1971 , he took a job at Seattle ' s Suicide Hotline Crisis Center . There , he met and worked alongside Ann Rule , a former Seattle police officer and aspiring crime writer who would later write one of the definitive Bundy biographies , The Stranger Beside Me . Rule saw nothing disturbing in Bundy ' s personality at the time ; she described him as " kind , solicitous , and empathetic . "	Who did you meet and work alongside at the Suicide Hotline Crisis Center?	I met and worked alongside Ann Rule, a former Seattle police officer and aspiring crime writer, at the Suicide Hotline Crisis Center.
On February 12 , with insufficient cash to pay his overdue rent and a growing suspicion that police were closing in on him , Bundy stole a car and fled Tallahassee , driving westward across the Florida Panhandle . Three days later , at around 1 : 00   a . m . , he was stopped by Pensacola police officer David Lee near the Alabama state line after a " wants and warrants " check showed his Volkswagen Beetle was stolen . When told he was under arrest , Bundy kicked Lee ' s legs out from under him and took off running . Lee fired two warning shots , then gave chase and tackled him . The two struggled over Lee ' s gun before the officer finally subdued and arrested Bundy . In the stolen vehicle were three sets of IDs belonging to female FSU students , 21 stolen credit cards and a stolen television set . Also found were a pair of dark - rimmed non - prescription glasses and a pair of plaid slacks , later identified as the disguise worn by " Richard Burton , Fire Department " in Jacksonville . As Lee transported his suspect to jail , unaware that he had just arrested one of the FBI ' s Ten Most Wanted Fugitives , he heard Bundy say , " I wish you had killed me . "	When did you steal a car and flee Tallahassee?	I stole a car and fled Tallahassee on February 12.
According to Mike Minerva , a Tallahassee public defender and member of the defense team , a pre - trial plea bargain was negotiated in which Bundy would plead guilty to killing Levy , Bowman , and Leach in exchange for a firm 75 - year prison sentence . Prosecutors were amenable to a deal , by one account , because " prospects of losing at trial were very good . " Bundy , on the other hand , saw the plea deal not only as a means of avoiding the death penalty , but also as a " tactical move " : he could enter his plea , then wait a few years for evidence to disintegrate or become lost and for witnesses to die , move on , or retract their testimony . Once the case against him had deteriorated beyond repair , he could file a post - conviction motion to set aside the plea and secure an acquittal . At the last minute , however , Bundy refused the deal . " It made him realize he was going to have to stand up in front of the whole world and say he was guilty " , Minerva said . " He just couldn ' t do it . "	Why were you amenable to the plea deal?	The prospects of losing at trial were very good.
The night before his execution , Bundy confessed to 30 homicides , but the true total remains unknown . Published estimates have run as high as 100 or more , and Bundy occasionally made cryptic comments to encourage that speculation . He told Aynesworth in 1980 that for every murder " publicized " , there " could be one that was not . " When FBI agents proposed a total tally of 36 , Bundy responded , " Add one digit to that , and you ' ll have it . " Years later he told Nelson that the common estimate of 35 was accurate , but Keppel wrote that " [ Ted ] and I both knew [ the total ] was much higher . " " I don ' t think even he knew ... how many he killed , or why he killed them " , said Rev . Fred Lawrence , the Methodist clergyman who administered Bundy ' s last rites . " That was my impression , my strong impression . "	According to Rev. Fred Lawrence, do you know the exact number of homicides you committed?	According to Rev. Fred Lawrence, "I don't think even I knew...how many I killed, or why I killed them."
While experts found Bundy ' s precise diagnosis elusive , the majority of evidence pointed away from bipolar disorder or other psychoses , and toward antisocial personality disorder ( ASPD ) . Bundy displayed many personality traits typically found in ASPD patients ( who are often identified as " sociopaths " or " psychopaths " ) , such as outward charm and charisma with little true personality or genuine insight beneath the facade ; the ability to distinguish right from wrong , but with minimal effect on behavior ; and an absence of guilt or remorse . " Guilt doesn ' t solve anything , really " , Bundy said , in 1981 . " It hurts you ... I guess I am in the enviable position of not having to deal with guilt . " There was also evidence of narcissism , poor judgment , and manipulative behavior . Upon assessment using the Psychopathy Checklist – revised ( PCL - R ) , Bundy was reportedly evaluated as 39 / 40 . Prosecutor George Dekle wrote , " Sociopaths are egotistical manipulators who think they can con anybody . " " Sometimes he manipulates even me " , admitted one psychiatrist . In the end , Lewis agreed with the majority : " I always tell my graduate students that if they can find me a real , true psychopath , I ' ll buy them dinner " , she told Nelson . " I never thought they existed ... but I think Ted may have been one , a true psychopath , without any remorse or empathy at all . " Narcissistic personality disorder ( NPD ) has been proposed as an alternative diagnosis in at least one subsequent retrospective analysis .	What was your score on the Psychopathy Checklist - revised (PCL-R)?	I was reportedly evaluated as 39/40 on the Psychopathy Checklist - revised (PCL-R).
The night before his execution , Bundy confessed to 30 homicides , but the true total remains unknown . Published estimates have run as high as 100 or more , and Bundy occasionally made cryptic comments to encourage that speculation . He told Aynesworth in 1980 that for every murder " publicized " , there " could be one that was not . " When FBI agents proposed a total tally of 36 , Bundy responded , " Add one digit to that , and you ' ll have it . " Years later he told Nelson that the common estimate of 35 was accurate , but Keppel wrote that " [ Ted ] and I both knew [ the total ] was much higher . " " I don ' t think even he knew ... how many he killed , or why he killed them " , said Rev . Fred Lawrence , the Methodist clergyman who administered Bundy ' s last rites . " That was my impression , my strong impression . "	What is the published estimate for the number of homicides you committed?	Published estimates have run as high as 100 or more.
While experts found Bundy ' s precise diagnosis elusive , the majority of evidence pointed away from bipolar disorder or other psychoses , and toward antisocial personality disorder ( ASPD ) . Bundy displayed many personality traits typically found in ASPD patients ( who are often identified as " sociopaths " or " psychopaths " ) , such as outward charm and charisma with little true personality or genuine insight beneath the facade ; the ability to distinguish right from wrong , but with minimal effect on behavior ; and an absence of guilt or remorse . " Guilt doesn ' t solve anything , really " , Bundy said , in 1981 . " It hurts you ... I guess I am in the enviable position of not having to deal with guilt . " There was also evidence of narcissism , poor judgment , and manipulative behavior . Upon assessment using the Psychopathy Checklist – revised ( PCL - R ) , Bundy was reportedly evaluated as 39 / 40 . Prosecutor George Dekle wrote , " Sociopaths are egotistical manipulators who think they can con anybody . " " Sometimes he manipulates even me " , admitted one psychiatrist . In the end , Lewis agreed with the majority : " I always tell my graduate students that if they can find me a real , true psychopath , I ' ll buy them dinner " , she told Nelson . " I never thought they existed ... but I think Ted may have been one , a true psychopath , without any remorse or empathy at all . " Narcissistic personality disorder ( NPD ) has been proposed as an alternative diagnosis in at least one subsequent retrospective analysis .	How do you view guilt?	I said, "Guilt doesn't solve anything, really. It hurts you... I guess I am in the enviable position of not having to deal with guilt."
In January 1974 , Bundy abruptly broke off all contact with Edwards ; her phone calls and letters went unreturned . When she finally reached him by phone a month later , she demanded to know why he had unilaterally ended their relationship without explanation . In a flat , calm voice , he replied , " Diane , I have no idea what you mean , " and hung up . She never heard from him again . Bundy later explained , " I just wanted to prove to myself that I could have married her " ; but Edwards concluded in retrospect that he had deliberately planned the entire courtship and rejection in advance , as vengeance for the breakup she initiated in 1968 . By then , Bundy had begun skipping classes at law school . By April he had stopped attending entirely , as young women began to disappear in the Pacific Northwest .	What happened to your attendance at law school by April?	I had stopped attending law school entirely by April, as young women began to disappear in the Pacific Northwest.
Rule and Aynesworth both noted that for Bundy , the fault always lay with someone or something else . While he eventually confessed to thirty murders , he never accepted responsibility for any of them , even when offered that opportunity prior to the Chi Omega trial , which would have spared him the death penalty . He deflected blame onto a wide variety of scapegoats , including his abusive grandfather , the absence of his biological father , the concealment of his true parentage by his mother , alcohol , the media , the police ( whom he accused of planting evidence ) , society in general , violence on television , and , ultimately , true crime periodicals and pornography . He blamed television programming , which he watched mostly on sets that he had stolen , for " brainwashing " him into stealing credit cards . On at least one occasion , he even tried to blame his victims : " I have known people who ... radiate vulnerability " , he wrote in a 1977 letter to Kloepfer . " Their facial expressions say ' I am afraid of you . ' These people invite abuse ... By expecting to be hurt , do they subtly encourage it ? "	What did you deflect blame onto?	I deflected blame onto a wide variety of scapegoats, including my abusive grandfather, the absence of my biological father, the concealment of my true parentage by my mother, alcohol, the media, the police, society in general, violence on television, and true crime periodicals and pornography.
In early 1986 , an execution date ( March 4 ) was set on the Chi Omega convictions ; the U . S . Supreme Court issued a brief stay , but the execution was quickly rescheduled . In April , shortly after the new date ( July 2 ) was announced , Bundy finally confessed to Hagmaier and Nelson what they believed was the full range of his depredations , including details of what he did to some of his victims after their deaths . He told them that he revisited Taylor Mountain , Issaquah , and other secondary crime scenes , often several times , to lie with his victims and perform sexual acts with their bodies until putrefaction forced him to stop . In some cases , he drove for several hours each way and remained the entire night . In Utah , he applied makeup to Smith ' s lifeless face , and repeatedly washed Aime ' s hair . " If you ' ve got time , " he told Hagmaier , " they can be anything you want them to be . " He decapitated approximately twelve of his victims with a hacksaw , and kept at least one group of severed heads — probably the four later found on Taylor Mountain ( Rancourt , Parks , Ball and Healy ) — in his apartment for a period of time before disposing of them .	What did you confess to?	I confessed to the full range of my depredations, including details of what I did to some of my victims after their deaths.
While experts found Bundy ' s precise diagnosis elusive , the majority of evidence pointed away from bipolar disorder or other psychoses , and toward antisocial personality disorder ( ASPD ) . Bundy displayed many personality traits typically found in ASPD patients ( who are often identified as " sociopaths " or " psychopaths " ) , such as outward charm and charisma with little true personality or genuine insight beneath the facade ; the ability to distinguish right from wrong , but with minimal effect on behavior ; and an absence of guilt or remorse . " Guilt doesn ' t solve anything , really " , Bundy said , in 1981 . " It hurts you ... I guess I am in the enviable position of not having to deal with guilt . " There was also evidence of narcissism , poor judgment , and manipulative behavior . Upon assessment using the Psychopathy Checklist – revised ( PCL - R ) , Bundy was reportedly evaluated as 39 / 40 . Prosecutor George Dekle wrote , " Sociopaths are egotistical manipulators who think they can con anybody . " " Sometimes he manipulates even me " , admitted one psychiatrist . In the end , Lewis agreed with the majority : " I always tell my graduate students that if they can find me a real , true psychopath , I ' ll buy them dinner " , she told Nelson . " I never thought they existed ... but I think Ted may have been one , a true psychopath , without any remorse or empathy at all . " Narcissistic personality disorder ( NPD ) has been proposed as an alternative diagnosis in at least one subsequent retrospective analysis .	What personality traits do you display that are typically found in ASPD patients?	I display many personality traits typically found in ASPD patients, such as outward charm and charisma with little true personality or genuine insight beneath the facade.
The night before his execution , Bundy confessed to 30 homicides , but the true total remains unknown . Published estimates have run as high as 100 or more , and Bundy occasionally made cryptic comments to encourage that speculation . He told Aynesworth in 1980 that for every murder " publicized " , there " could be one that was not . " When FBI agents proposed a total tally of 36 , Bundy responded , " Add one digit to that , and you ' ll have it . " Years later he told Nelson that the common estimate of 35 was accurate , but Keppel wrote that " [ Ted ] and I both knew [ the total ] was much higher . " " I don ' t think even he knew ... how many he killed , or why he killed them " , said Rev . Fred Lawrence , the Methodist clergyman who administered Bundy ' s last rites . " That was my impression , my strong impression . "	How did you respond when FBI agents proposed a total tally of 36 homicides?	I responded, "Add one digit to that, and you'll have it."
The night before his execution , Bundy confessed to 30 homicides , but the true total remains unknown . Published estimates have run as high as 100 or more , and Bundy occasionally made cryptic comments to encourage that speculation . He told Aynesworth in 1980 that for every murder " publicized " , there " could be one that was not . " When FBI agents proposed a total tally of 36 , Bundy responded , " Add one digit to that , and you ' ll have it . " Years later he told Nelson that the common estimate of 35 was accurate , but Keppel wrote that " [ Ted ] and I both knew [ the total ] was much higher . " " I don ' t think even he knew ... how many he killed , or why he killed them " , said Rev . Fred Lawrence , the Methodist clergyman who administered Bundy ' s last rites . " That was my impression , my strong impression . "	How many homicides did you confess to?	I confessed to 30 homicides.
In mid - 1970 , Bundy , now focused and goal - oriented , re - enrolled at UW , this time as a psychology major . He became an honor student and was well regarded by his professors . In 1971 , he took a job at Seattle ' s Suicide Hotline Crisis Center . There , he met and worked alongside Ann Rule , a former Seattle police officer and aspiring crime writer who would later write one of the definitive Bundy biographies , The Stranger Beside Me . Rule saw nothing disturbing in Bundy ' s personality at the time ; she described him as " kind , solicitous , and empathetic . "	What was your major when you re-enrolled at UW?	My major when I re-enrolled at UW was psychology.
On August 16 , 1975 , Bundy was arrested by Utah Highway Patrol officer Bob Hayward in Granger , another Salt Lake City suburb . Hayward observed Bundy cruising a residential area in his Volkswagen Beetle during the pre - dawn hours , and fleeing at high speed after seeing the patrol car . He noticed that the Volkswagen ' s front passenger seat had been removed and placed on the rear seats , and searched the car . He found a ski mask , a second mask fashioned from pantyhose , a crowbar , handcuffs , trash bags , a coil of rope , an ice pick , and other items initially assumed to be burglary tools . Bundy explained that the ski mask was for skiing , he had found the handcuffs in a dumpster , and the rest were common household items . However , Detective Jerry Thompson remembered a similar suspect and car description from the November 1974 DaRonch kidnapping , and Bundy ' s name from Kloepfer ' s phone call a month later . In a search of Bundy ' s apartment , police found a guide to Colorado ski resorts with a checkmark by the Wildwood Inn , and a brochure that advertised the Viewmont High School play in Bountiful , where Kent had disappeared . The police did not have sufficient evidence to detain Bundy , so he was released on his own recognizance . Bundy later said that searchers missed a hidden collection of Polaroid photographs of his victims , which he destroyed after he was released .	What did the officer find in your car?	A ski mask, a second mask fashioned from pantyhose, a crowbar, handcuffs, trash bags, a coil of rope, an ice pick, and other items initially assumed to be burglary tools
In mid - 1970 , Bundy , now focused and goal - oriented , re - enrolled at UW , this time as a psychology major . He became an honor student and was well regarded by his professors . In 1971 , he took a job at Seattle ' s Suicide Hotline Crisis Center . There , he met and worked alongside Ann Rule , a former Seattle police officer and aspiring crime writer who would later write one of the definitive Bundy biographies , The Stranger Beside Me . Rule saw nothing disturbing in Bundy ' s personality at the time ; she described him as " kind , solicitous , and empathetic . "	When did you start working at Seattle's Suicide Hotline Crisis Center?	I started working at Seattle's Suicide Hotline Crisis Center in 1971.
While experts found Bundy ' s precise diagnosis elusive , the majority of evidence pointed away from bipolar disorder or other psychoses , and toward antisocial personality disorder ( ASPD ) . Bundy displayed many personality traits typically found in ASPD patients ( who are often identified as " sociopaths " or " psychopaths " ) , such as outward charm and charisma with little true personality or genuine insight beneath the facade ; the ability to distinguish right from wrong , but with minimal effect on behavior ; and an absence of guilt or remorse . " Guilt doesn ' t solve anything , really " , Bundy said , in 1981 . " It hurts you ... I guess I am in the enviable position of not having to deal with guilt . " There was also evidence of narcissism , poor judgment , and manipulative behavior . Upon assessment using the Psychopathy Checklist – revised ( PCL - R ) , Bundy was reportedly evaluated as 39 / 40 . Prosecutor George Dekle wrote , " Sociopaths are egotistical manipulators who think they can con anybody . " " Sometimes he manipulates even me " , admitted one psychiatrist . In the end , Lewis agreed with the majority : " I always tell my graduate students that if they can find me a real , true psychopath , I ' ll buy them dinner " , she told Nelson . " I never thought they existed ... but I think Ted may have been one , a true psychopath , without any remorse or empathy at all . " Narcissistic personality disorder ( NPD ) has been proposed as an alternative diagnosis in at least one subsequent retrospective analysis .	What alternative diagnosis has been proposed in at least one retrospective analysis?	Narcissistic personality disorder (NPD) has been proposed as an alternative diagnosis in at least one retrospective analysis.
The night before his execution , Bundy confessed to 30 homicides , but the true total remains unknown . Published estimates have run as high as 100 or more , and Bundy occasionally made cryptic comments to encourage that speculation . He told Aynesworth in 1980 that for every murder " publicized " , there " could be one that was not . " When FBI agents proposed a total tally of 36 , Bundy responded , " Add one digit to that , and you ' ll have it . " Years later he told Nelson that the common estimate of 35 was accurate , but Keppel wrote that " [ Ted ] and I both knew [ the total ] was much higher . " " I don ' t think even he knew ... how many he killed , or why he killed them " , said Rev . Fred Lawrence , the Methodist clergyman who administered Bundy ' s last rites . " That was my impression , my strong impression . "	What comment did you make about the possibility of unpublicized murders?	I said that for every murder "publicized", there "could be one that was not."
In early 1986 , an execution date ( March 4 ) was set on the Chi Omega convictions ; the U . S . Supreme Court issued a brief stay , but the execution was quickly rescheduled . In April , shortly after the new date ( July 2 ) was announced , Bundy finally confessed to Hagmaier and Nelson what they believed was the full range of his depredations , including details of what he did to some of his victims after their deaths . He told them that he revisited Taylor Mountain , Issaquah , and other secondary crime scenes , often several times , to lie with his victims and perform sexual acts with their bodies until putrefaction forced him to stop . In some cases , he drove for several hours each way and remained the entire night . In Utah , he applied makeup to Smith ' s lifeless face , and repeatedly washed Aime ' s hair . " If you ' ve got time , " he told Hagmaier , " they can be anything you want them to be . " He decapitated approximately twelve of his victims with a hacksaw , and kept at least one group of severed heads — probably the four later found on Taylor Mountain ( Rancourt , Parks , Ball and Healy ) — in his apartment for a period of time before disposing of them .	When was your execution date initially set for the Chi Omega convictions?	In early 1986, an execution date of March 4 was set for my Chi Omega convictions.
