Following his WWF Championship win at WrestleMania 13 , Paul Bearer attempted to rejoin The Undertaker as his manager . After The Undertaker refused and attacked Bearer , Bearer had Mankind set a fireball to the Undertaker ' s face , leading up to a match at In Your House 14 : Revenge of the ' Taker , for which The Undertaker was victorious . Evening the score at " Revenge of the ' Taker " , The Undertaker set a fireball to Bearer ' s face directly following the match . Following the event , Bearer bandaged up from fire burns , likened The Undertaker ' s assault to a past incident he described as The Undertaker ' s " deepest , darkest secret " . Through giving The Undertaker the ultimatum of revealing his deepest , darkest secret to the world , Bearer was able to reunite with him as manager and prot é g é . After only a few months of abrasive behaviors from Bearer , however , The Undertaker lost his patience and rejected Bearer as his manager . In retaliation , Bearer disclosed that The Undertaker had intentionally killed his family by burning down his parents ' family funeral home for which they raised him and his younger brother . ( Note that the younger brother , Kane , was not revealed to be The Undertaker ' s half - brother until the following year , April 1998 , when Bearer disclosed to the world that he is Kane ' s father , The Undertaker ' s mother having had an affair with him . Bearer later verified this with DNA test results ) . At this point in his career , The Undertaker denied the charges of committing the arson murder that killed his family ; however , Bearer claimed to have proof in the form of The Undertaker ' s alive and well younger brother , Kane , who had survived though scarred and burned . Bearer raised Kane after the fire , having him institutionalized from the date of the fire into adulthood . Ever since the fire , Kane had been awaiting to exact vengeance on his older half - brother . In defense , Undertaker responded that Kane , a " pyromaniac " , had been the one to set the fire and , as a result , could not have possibly even survived . ( Note that it would not be until a year and a half later from this point , in latter 1998 , in which The Undertaker would shamelessly confess to intentional acts of arson to the funeral home that killed his parents and scarred his brother ) .	What was the ultimatum given by Bearer to you?	The ultimatum given by Bearer to me was to reveal my deepest, darkest secret to the world in order to reunite with him as manager and protégé.
Following his WWF Championship win at WrestleMania 13 , Paul Bearer attempted to rejoin The Undertaker as his manager . After The Undertaker refused and attacked Bearer , Bearer had Mankind set a fireball to the Undertaker ' s face , leading up to a match at In Your House 14 : Revenge of the ' Taker , for which The Undertaker was victorious . Evening the score at " Revenge of the ' Taker " , The Undertaker set a fireball to Bearer ' s face directly following the match . Following the event , Bearer bandaged up from fire burns , likened The Undertaker ' s assault to a past incident he described as The Undertaker ' s " deepest , darkest secret " . Through giving The Undertaker the ultimatum of revealing his deepest , darkest secret to the world , Bearer was able to reunite with him as manager and prot é g é . After only a few months of abrasive behaviors from Bearer , however , The Undertaker lost his patience and rejected Bearer as his manager . In retaliation , Bearer disclosed that The Undertaker had intentionally killed his family by burning down his parents ' family funeral home for which they raised him and his younger brother . ( Note that the younger brother , Kane , was not revealed to be The Undertaker ' s half - brother until the following year , April 1998 , when Bearer disclosed to the world that he is Kane ' s father , The Undertaker ' s mother having had an affair with him . Bearer later verified this with DNA test results ) . At this point in his career , The Undertaker denied the charges of committing the arson murder that killed his family ; however , Bearer claimed to have proof in the form of The Undertaker ' s alive and well younger brother , Kane , who had survived though scarred and burned . Bearer raised Kane after the fire , having him institutionalized from the date of the fire into adulthood . Ever since the fire , Kane had been awaiting to exact vengeance on his older half - brother . In defense , Undertaker responded that Kane , a " pyromaniac " , had been the one to set the fire and , as a result , could not have possibly even survived . ( Note that it would not be until a year and a half later from this point , in latter 1998 , in which The Undertaker would shamelessly confess to intentional acts of arson to the funeral home that killed his parents and scarred his brother ) .	What did you do in retaliation after I attacked you?	In retaliation, you had Mankind set a fireball to my face, which led to a match at In Your House 14: Revenge of the 'Taker, where I emerged victorious.
The Undertaker returned at Super ShowDown in Saudi Arabia on February 27 , 2020 , as a surprise replacement in a gauntlet match . He entered the match last , replacing Rey Mysterio and defeating AJ Styles to win the Tuwaiq Mountain Trophy . At Elimination Chamber during a natch between Styles and Aleister Black , Undertaker made another surprise appearance with an attack on Styles . The following night on Raw , Styles challenged Undertaker to a match at WrestleMania 36 . Over the following weeks that led up to WrestleMania , a resentful Styles made unprecedented efforts to expose Undertaker , going so far as departing from bashing his Deadman gimmick , instead taking to a metafiction form of bashing Calaway himself . The feud saw Styles solely referring to Undertaker by his real name , Mark Calaway , referencing his age and his wife , Michelle McCool . In response , Undertaker cut promos of ominous warning against Styles in which for the first time in years , he broke from the Deadman gimmick by presenting as himself out of character . In doing so , elements of his American Badass gimmick were reflected with Calaway making appearances in his biker gear . At WrestleMania 36 , Undertaker presented his third and final identity , " The Unholy Trinity , " a combination of The Deadman , American Badass , and himself as Mark Calaway , this blend allowing him to trash talk Styles over real life matters during their encounter , while also able to maintain his superhuman horror capabilities . In what was subsequently learned to be Undertaker ' s final match , he and Styles fought in a cemetery at a secluded rural locale , competing in what was a cinematic , narrative - heavy brawl similar to " Buried Alive matches " , named the " Boneyard match " . Despite the assistance of Gallows and Anderson , The Undertaker buried Styles in the grave to win this match and ride off on motorcycle into the sunset , scoring his 25th WrestleMania victory to complete his professional wrestling career .	Who did you defeat to win the Tuwaiq Mountain Trophy?	I defeated AJ Styles to win the Tuwaiq Mountain Trophy.
In February 1992 , The Undertaker ' s ally Jake " The Snake " Roberts tried to attack " Macho Man " Randy Savage ' s manager / wife Miss Elizabeth with a steel chair when Undertaker stopped him , turning him ( and Paul Bearer ) face for the first time . Their face turn was solidified on the February 29 edition of Superstars when Roberts confronted The Undertaker on the Funeral Parlor set over the matter ( aired on Saturday Night ' s Main Event XXX ) . After demanding to know whose side The Undertaker was on and getting the reply , " Not yours " , Roberts attacked both Bearer and The Undertaker , only for The Undertaker to stand his ground and run Roberts off . The Undertaker defeated Roberts at WrestleMania VIII . He then feuded extensively with wrestlers managed by Harvey Wippleman throughout 1992 and 1993 , such as Kamala and Giant Gonz á lez . Also during this time , The Undertaker headlined the first ever episode of Monday Night Raw on January 11 , 1993 , with a victory over Damien Demento . According to Calaway , working with Gonz á lez " ... was survival every night trying to figure out what he could do " and " took years off my career " . He faced Gonz á lez at WrestleMania IX , which is notable as The Undertaker ' s only disqualification win at WrestleMania after the use of chloroform . The Undertaker ' s next rivalry initiated at Survivor Series with Yokozuna when a clash between the two lost control , causing them to be counted out in an elimination tag match . In the weeks following , The Undertaker and Bearer spooked Yokozuna with multiple segments from their wintery and remote rural area workshop . There , Bearer presented The Undertaker hard at work carpentering Yokozuna what would eventually become a " double wide , double deep casket " custom - built for Yokozuna ' s immensely overweight size . The feud culminated in a WWF Championship casket match at the Royal Rumble in January 1994 . During the match , Yokozuna sealed The Undertaker in the casket with the assistance of a multitude of heel wrestlers ( some of them Whippleman - managed ) hired by Yokozuna ' s vindictive managers Jim Cornette and Mr . Fuji , which was in retaliation for Bearer ' s casket match stipulation that he snuck into their Royal Rumble match contract . After being trapped inside the casket by the pack , green vapor emitted from the casket and the arena lights went out . Undertaker then appeared from inside the casket on the video screen , representing the spirit of his dead corpse , warning that he would produce a future " rebirth " of himself , explaining to his antagonists that he cannot and will not Rest in Peace . The Undertaker did not appear in the WWF for seven months after his loss to Yokozuna . In reality , he was given time off to allow a back injury to heal .	Who did you face in a casket match at the Royal Rumble in January 1994?	I faced Yokozuna in a WWF Championship casket match at the Royal Rumble in January 1994.
In the storyline leading up to WrestleMania XX , Kane was tormented by horror - themed mind games , paranormal activities , and spooking vignettes proclaiming The Undertaker ' s Deadman return . The first was during the Royal Rumble when The Undertaker ' s bells tolled , distracting Kane and allowing Booker T to eliminate him . Accompanied by Paul Bearer at WrestleMania XX , The Undertaker resurrected his Deadman identity , defeating Kane in a singles match . Introduced was a more dramatic , theatrical and supernatural Deadman than in years past , his presence , mannerisms , and entrances significantly elaborated on as well , such as with more intensity , special effects and rising and falling flames . At the same time , The Undertaker maintained elements of his American Badass identity , thus a composite character more humanized than all of his previous Deadman incarnations ( Undertaker would present in this particular hybrid Deadman form until No Mercy 2005 when Randy Orton sealed him in a casket and set it on fire ) . At Judgment Day , The Undertaker defeated Booker T . One week later , Paul Heyman ordered The Dudley Boyz to kidnap Bearer . Thus , Heyman " took control " of Undertaker . At The Great American Bash , Undertaker fought a handicap match against The Dudley Boyz , with the stipulation that if he did not lay down and purposely lose , Heyman would bury Paul Bearer in cement . The Undertaker won and stopped Heyman from burying Bearer , but after claiming Bearer was merely a liability he had no use for , buried him himself .	Who did you defeat at WrestleMania XX?	Kane.
In February 1992 , The Undertaker ' s ally Jake " The Snake " Roberts tried to attack " Macho Man " Randy Savage ' s manager / wife Miss Elizabeth with a steel chair when Undertaker stopped him , turning him ( and Paul Bearer ) face for the first time . Their face turn was solidified on the February 29 edition of Superstars when Roberts confronted The Undertaker on the Funeral Parlor set over the matter ( aired on Saturday Night ' s Main Event XXX ) . After demanding to know whose side The Undertaker was on and getting the reply , " Not yours " , Roberts attacked both Bearer and The Undertaker , only for The Undertaker to stand his ground and run Roberts off . The Undertaker defeated Roberts at WrestleMania VIII . He then feuded extensively with wrestlers managed by Harvey Wippleman throughout 1992 and 1993 , such as Kamala and Giant Gonz á lez . Also during this time , The Undertaker headlined the first ever episode of Monday Night Raw on January 11 , 1993 , with a victory over Damien Demento . According to Calaway , working with Gonz á lez " ... was survival every night trying to figure out what he could do " and " took years off my career " . He faced Gonz á lez at WrestleMania IX , which is notable as The Undertaker ' s only disqualification win at WrestleMania after the use of chloroform . The Undertaker ' s next rivalry initiated at Survivor Series with Yokozuna when a clash between the two lost control , causing them to be counted out in an elimination tag match . In the weeks following , The Undertaker and Bearer spooked Yokozuna with multiple segments from their wintery and remote rural area workshop . There , Bearer presented The Undertaker hard at work carpentering Yokozuna what would eventually become a " double wide , double deep casket " custom - built for Yokozuna ' s immensely overweight size . The feud culminated in a WWF Championship casket match at the Royal Rumble in January 1994 . During the match , Yokozuna sealed The Undertaker in the casket with the assistance of a multitude of heel wrestlers ( some of them Whippleman - managed ) hired by Yokozuna ' s vindictive managers Jim Cornette and Mr . Fuji , which was in retaliation for Bearer ' s casket match stipulation that he snuck into their Royal Rumble match contract . After being trapped inside the casket by the pack , green vapor emitted from the casket and the arena lights went out . Undertaker then appeared from inside the casket on the video screen , representing the spirit of his dead corpse , warning that he would produce a future " rebirth " of himself , explaining to his antagonists that he cannot and will not Rest in Peace . The Undertaker did not appear in the WWF for seven months after his loss to Yokozuna . In reality , he was given time off to allow a back injury to heal .	When did you headline the first ever episode of Monday Night Raw?	I headlined the first ever episode of Monday Night Raw on January 11, 1993.
Following his WWF Championship win at WrestleMania 13 , Paul Bearer attempted to rejoin The Undertaker as his manager . After The Undertaker refused and attacked Bearer , Bearer had Mankind set a fireball to the Undertaker ' s face , leading up to a match at In Your House 14 : Revenge of the ' Taker , for which The Undertaker was victorious . Evening the score at " Revenge of the ' Taker " , The Undertaker set a fireball to Bearer ' s face directly following the match . Following the event , Bearer bandaged up from fire burns , likened The Undertaker ' s assault to a past incident he described as The Undertaker ' s " deepest , darkest secret " . Through giving The Undertaker the ultimatum of revealing his deepest , darkest secret to the world , Bearer was able to reunite with him as manager and prot é g é . After only a few months of abrasive behaviors from Bearer , however , The Undertaker lost his patience and rejected Bearer as his manager . In retaliation , Bearer disclosed that The Undertaker had intentionally killed his family by burning down his parents ' family funeral home for which they raised him and his younger brother . ( Note that the younger brother , Kane , was not revealed to be The Undertaker ' s half - brother until the following year , April 1998 , when Bearer disclosed to the world that he is Kane ' s father , The Undertaker ' s mother having had an affair with him . Bearer later verified this with DNA test results ) . At this point in his career , The Undertaker denied the charges of committing the arson murder that killed his family ; however , Bearer claimed to have proof in the form of The Undertaker ' s alive and well younger brother , Kane , who had survived though scarred and burned . Bearer raised Kane after the fire , having him institutionalized from the date of the fire into adulthood . Ever since the fire , Kane had been awaiting to exact vengeance on his older half - brother . In defense , Undertaker responded that Kane , a " pyromaniac " , had been the one to set the fire and , as a result , could not have possibly even survived . ( Note that it would not be until a year and a half later from this point , in latter 1998 , in which The Undertaker would shamelessly confess to intentional acts of arson to the funeral home that killed his parents and scarred his brother ) .	How did you even the score at "Revenge of the 'Taker"?	I evened the score at "Revenge of the 'Taker" by setting a fireball to Bearer's face directly following the match.
The Undertaker ' s next feud commenced the next night on Raw when Mankind , a twisted and tortured soul , made his debut and randomly interfered in Undertaker ' s match against Justin " Hawk " Bradshaw . For the next few months , Mankind viciously ambushed The Undertaker and cost him multiple matches . Among them , Mankind cost The Undertaker the WWF Intercontinental Championship by interfering in his casket match against Goldust at In Your House 8 : Beware of Dog . In interfering in this match , Mankind proved to have mystifying horror tactic capabilities that matched The Undertaker ' s , mysteriously appearing from inside the casket and sealing The Undertaker inside . The Undertaker , however , had vanished amid a cloud of smoke once the casket lid was opened . As a result of the interference and repeated ambushes from Mankind on The Undertaker throughout the ensuing weeks , The Undertaker and Mankind competed in their very first on - screen bout at the 1996 King of the Ring , a heated encounter in which The Undertaker presented as uncharacteristically intense . During the match , Bearer inadvertently hit The Undertaker with the urn , allowing Mankind to incapacitate The Undertaker with his finisher , the Mandible Claw , and score the win . With Mankind insatiably continuing to cost The Undertaker matches even following their King of the Ring encounter , The Undertaker began firing back with rage and the feud spiraled out of control : the two routinely interrupted other matches already in progress , battling each other at random intervals outside of having arranged matches — their chaos also spilling into audiences , arena backstage communal areas , and arena boiler rooms , all of this unprecedented at the time . As a result , the first ever Boiler Room Brawl ( Mankind ' s specialty match ) was booked between the two at SummerSlam . After more than 20 minutes of brawling with Mankind in the Cleveland Gund Arena ' s boiler room , the arena corridors , the SummerSlam entrance area and aisleway to the ring , The Undertaker reached for Paul Bearer ' s urn in an attempt to win the match , but Bearer struck him with it , betraying The Undertaker . This followed with Bearer allowing Mankind to take hold of the urn , thus winning this match . After Bearer ' s betrayal , The Undertaker grew more aggressive , resolving his feud against Goldust ( Mankind ' s comrade in tormenting The Undertaker ) at In Your House 10 : Mind Games . The Undertaker then took his rivalry with Mankind to new lengths in a specialty match of his own , and at that time unprecedented Buried Alive match to take place in the main event of In Your House 11 : Buried Alive . The Undertaker won the match after chokeslamming Mankind into the open grave and subsequently shoveling enough dirt on him so that he was covered . However , after interference from the debuting Executioner , as well as the help of several other heel wrestlers apparently enlisted by Bearer , Mankind escaped the grave and together the mob all shoveled dirt onto The Undertaker to the point that the grave was completely filled , resulting in The Undertaker fully buried alive . Not without a parting message for the pack , however , The Undertaker ' s purple glove fit hand emerged from his burying place amid a bolt of lightning that had erupted over the gravesite . The scene sent all of his antagonists fleeing .	What move did you use to defeat me at the 1996 King of the Ring?	I used the Mandible Claw to defeat you at the 1996 King of the Ring.
After the buildup to his second heel run in the latter part of 1998 , The Undertaker introduced an updated version of his Deadman identity by January 1999 — a dark priest - like character who in the initial period of this persona reigned over a stable known as The Ministry of Darkness . In this form , he took on a wicked , demonic presence , much more so than ever before . He often proclaimed to be invoking and taking orders from a " Higher Power " . Moreover , he often appeared in a hooded black robe and sat on a throne with a towering backrest specially designed into his crucifix - like logo . With the help of his minions , he often performed sacrifices on select WWF wrestlers , using various incantations and magic words with intent to extract out the dark side of the wrestlers in question to recruit them into his Ministry . The completed Ministry of Darkness consisted of The Brood ( Christian , Edge and Gangrel ) , The Acolytes ( Bradshaw and Faarooq ) , Mideon and Viscera . Calaway himself did not wrestle for a period , having undergone a hip replacement . As part of the angle , Undertaker had his Ministry members fight his battles , carry out his evil wishes and do all his dirty deeds . In this manner , he expressed his desires to take over the World Wrestling Federation , displacing its owner , Mr . McMahon . These ambitions culminated into a rivalry between The Ministry and The Corporation , ultimately resulting in a match between Undertaker and Corporation enforcer , Big Boss Man . The two faced off in a Hell in a Cell match at WrestleMania XV , which Undertaker won . At Backlash : In Your House , Undertaker defeated Corporation member Ken Shamrock after interference from Ministry member Bradshaw .	When did you introduce your updated version of your Deadman identity?	By January 1999.
After being buried alive and a following month - long hiatus , The Undertaker returned at the Survivor Series again pitting him against Mankind , but with a unique stipulation : Hanging 6.1   m ( 20   ft ) above the ring would be Paul Bearer , enclosed in a steel cage . And if The Undertaker were to win the match , he would be rewarded the opportunity to assault Bearer however he pleased . Even though The Undertaker won this match , interference from The Executioner enabled Bearer to escape Undertaker ' s clutches . It was also at this event that The Undertaker had developed a comparatively more humanized and more informal yet still superhuman " Deadman " incarnation . In this then new form , he took on a Goth appearance and persona , with a brash , rebelling , Championship - driven mean streak ( perhaps to better fit in with the then - budding , more adult - oriented Attitude Era ) . This delivering , dubbed " The Lord of Darkness " , was the 3rd incarnation of his Deadman persona . Following Survivor Series , The Undertaker briefly turned his attention to The Executioner , who had been interfering in his matches since his arrival . At In Your House 12 : It ' s Time , The Undertaker defeated The Executioner in an Armageddon Rules match even with Mankind heavily involved throughout the entire encounter . The Undertaker then moved on to feud with Vader , whom he faced in January 1997 at the Royal Rumble in a singles match , which The Undertaker lost after Bearer interfered on behalf of his new prot é g é . The two then clashed in the Royal Rumble match itself as they made it to the final moments of the match , but both were eliminated by Stone Cold Steve Austin , who had crept back into the match after his elimination was unseen . He faced both Vader and Austin in a four - corners elimination match for the vacant WWF Championship at In Your House 13 : Final Four , but Bret Hart won . However , the following month , The Undertaker managed to win the WWF Championship for the second time by defeating Sycho Sid at WrestleMania 13 . Reviving his first Deadman incarnation for that night only , The Undertaker appeared as the " Old West Mortician " , donning the trademarked gray wrestling gear accessories ( boot spats , tie , gloves ) , along with a pitch - black entrance with only a white spotlight shined over him , contrasted from the purple / blue semidarkness associated with the rest of his Deadman incarnations .	Who interfered in your match against The Executioner?	Mankind heavily involved throughout my entire encounter.
Following his WWF Championship win at WrestleMania 13 , Paul Bearer attempted to rejoin The Undertaker as his manager . After The Undertaker refused and attacked Bearer , Bearer had Mankind set a fireball to the Undertaker ' s face , leading up to a match at In Your House 14 : Revenge of the ' Taker , for which The Undertaker was victorious . Evening the score at " Revenge of the ' Taker " , The Undertaker set a fireball to Bearer ' s face directly following the match . Following the event , Bearer bandaged up from fire burns , likened The Undertaker ' s assault to a past incident he described as The Undertaker ' s " deepest , darkest secret " . Through giving The Undertaker the ultimatum of revealing his deepest , darkest secret to the world , Bearer was able to reunite with him as manager and prot é g é . After only a few months of abrasive behaviors from Bearer , however , The Undertaker lost his patience and rejected Bearer as his manager . In retaliation , Bearer disclosed that The Undertaker had intentionally killed his family by burning down his parents ' family funeral home for which they raised him and his younger brother . ( Note that the younger brother , Kane , was not revealed to be The Undertaker ' s half - brother until the following year , April 1998 , when Bearer disclosed to the world that he is Kane ' s father , The Undertaker ' s mother having had an affair with him . Bearer later verified this with DNA test results ) . At this point in his career , The Undertaker denied the charges of committing the arson murder that killed his family ; however , Bearer claimed to have proof in the form of The Undertaker ' s alive and well younger brother , Kane , who had survived though scarred and burned . Bearer raised Kane after the fire , having him institutionalized from the date of the fire into adulthood . Ever since the fire , Kane had been awaiting to exact vengeance on his older half - brother . In defense , Undertaker responded that Kane , a " pyromaniac " , had been the one to set the fire and , as a result , could not have possibly even survived . ( Note that it would not be until a year and a half later from this point , in latter 1998 , in which The Undertaker would shamelessly confess to intentional acts of arson to the funeral home that killed his parents and scarred his brother ) .	What did you disclose about my family?	You disclosed that I had intentionally killed my family by burning down my parents' family funeral home, for which they raised me and my younger brother, Kane.
Seeking retribution , The Undertaker revisited his feud with Yokozuna and eventually faced him in a casket rematch at Survivor Series . Chuck Norris ( portraying his Walker , Texas Ranger persona ) was involved in the match as special guest enforcer , preventing interference from wrestlers that Yokozuna , Jim Cornette and Mr . Fuji had again enlisted for help . Unable to rely on much as far as interference this time around ( only Irwin R . Schyster able to get in a brief ambush ) due to Norris averting the attempts of several heel wrestlers , Yokozuna was defeated by The Undertaker and sealed in the casket . Throughout most of 1995 , Undertaker feuded with members of Ted DiBiase ' s Million Dollar Corporation . The chain of wrestlers DiBiase enlisted to do away with The Undertaker started with Irwin R . Schyster at the Royal Rumble for which The Undertaker was victorious , but assaulted by another member of the Million Dollar Team , King Kong Bundy . In the process of being assaulted , Bearer was deprived of his urn by the Corporation . At WrestleMania XI , The Undertaker made short work of Bundy in a singles match . This edition of WrestleMania is noteworthy in that it produced the first mention of The Undertaker ' s historic WrestleMania - winning Streak , acknowledged on commentary by Vince McMahon as Undertaker made his entrance : " The Undertaker , on his way to the ring — a man who ' s never lost at WrestleMania . " During The Undertaker ' s WrestleMania encounter , DiBiase issued him with yet another antagonist in " The Supreme Fighting Machine " Kama , who had stolen the briefly recaptured urn from Bearer during the match . Kama followed this up with a series of malicious acts , including destroying the stolen urn and recycling it into bling . While sporting the flashy bling around his neck , he repeatedly cost The Undertaker matches and attacked diehard Undertaker fans , dubbed " Creatures of the Night " . In August , Undertaker settled the score with Kama , defeating him in a casket match at SummerSlam . Several weeks later , Undertaker suffered a serious orbital bone injury when King Mabel unintentionally struck him in the eye with his fist during a house show , forcing The Undertaker into a period of absence for surgery . Due to the incident happening at a house show , Vince McMahon had it presented to the audience as though it had occurred from Mabel and Yokozuna ' s exchange of leg drops and splashes on The Undertaker on the Monday Night Raw that had aired 2 days prior . The Undertaker returned a couple months later at Survivor Series , in which he single - handedly eliminated an entire team of wrestlers led by King Mabel , The Undertaker leading his own team to victory . It was at that Survivor Series return in which he began wearing a Phantom of the Opera - like , gray upper - face mask to safeguard his orbital injury while it healed . The following month in December , The Undertaker defeated Mabel in a casket match at In Your House , finally retrieving back the urn ( though still in its bling form ) in the process , which had been traded around between several of The Undertaker ' s antagonists over the entire course of that year .	Who was the first member of Ted DiBiase's Million Dollar Corporation that you faced?	Irwin R. Schyster
Undertaker took part in the Raw 25 Years edition of Raw on January 22 , 2018 , his first post - WrestleMania 33 appearance . In the months prior to WrestleMania 34 , John Cena challenged Undertaker to a singles match . At WrestleMania , after Elias confronted Cena and was beaten down , Undertaker ' s hat and coat appeared in the center of the ring and were struck by lightning . Undertaker then appeared and beat Cena in a three - minute squash match . Three weeks later , Undertaker defeated Rusev at WWE ' s Greatest Royal Rumble event in a casket match . At Super Show - Down in Australia on October 6 , Undertaker faced Triple H in a no disqualification match billed as the " Last Time Ever " ; they were accompanied by Kane and Shawn Michaels , respectively . Undertaker lost the match after interference from Michaels . After the match , the four men shook hands as a sign of respect , however , Undertaker and Kane would follow this by attacking them . As a result , the duos reunited their respective tag teams — the Brothers of Destruction and D - Generation X — and faced each other at Crown Jewel on November 2 , where Undertaker and Kane lost their final match as a tag team .	What happened in the ring at WrestleMania before you appeared?	Elias confronted John Cena and was beaten down in the ring before I appeared.
The Undertaker returned at Super ShowDown in Saudi Arabia on February 27 , 2020 , as a surprise replacement in a gauntlet match . He entered the match last , replacing Rey Mysterio and defeating AJ Styles to win the Tuwaiq Mountain Trophy . At Elimination Chamber during a natch between Styles and Aleister Black , Undertaker made another surprise appearance with an attack on Styles . The following night on Raw , Styles challenged Undertaker to a match at WrestleMania 36 . Over the following weeks that led up to WrestleMania , a resentful Styles made unprecedented efforts to expose Undertaker , going so far as departing from bashing his Deadman gimmick , instead taking to a metafiction form of bashing Calaway himself . The feud saw Styles solely referring to Undertaker by his real name , Mark Calaway , referencing his age and his wife , Michelle McCool . In response , Undertaker cut promos of ominous warning against Styles in which for the first time in years , he broke from the Deadman gimmick by presenting as himself out of character . In doing so , elements of his American Badass gimmick were reflected with Calaway making appearances in his biker gear . At WrestleMania 36 , Undertaker presented his third and final identity , " The Unholy Trinity , " a combination of The Deadman , American Badass , and himself as Mark Calaway , this blend allowing him to trash talk Styles over real life matters during their encounter , while also able to maintain his superhuman horror capabilities . In what was subsequently learned to be Undertaker ' s final match , he and Styles fought in a cemetery at a secluded rural locale , competing in what was a cinematic , narrative - heavy brawl similar to " Buried Alive matches " , named the " Boneyard match " . Despite the assistance of Gallows and Anderson , The Undertaker buried Styles in the grave to win this match and ride off on motorcycle into the sunset , scoring his 25th WrestleMania victory to complete his professional wrestling career .	Who did you attack during the match at Elimination Chamber?	I attacked AJ Styles during the match at Elimination Chamber.
The Undertaker ' s next feud commenced the next night on Raw when Mankind , a twisted and tortured soul , made his debut and randomly interfered in Undertaker ' s match against Justin " Hawk " Bradshaw . For the next few months , Mankind viciously ambushed The Undertaker and cost him multiple matches . Among them , Mankind cost The Undertaker the WWF Intercontinental Championship by interfering in his casket match against Goldust at In Your House 8 : Beware of Dog . In interfering in this match , Mankind proved to have mystifying horror tactic capabilities that matched The Undertaker ' s , mysteriously appearing from inside the casket and sealing The Undertaker inside . The Undertaker , however , had vanished amid a cloud of smoke once the casket lid was opened . As a result of the interference and repeated ambushes from Mankind on The Undertaker throughout the ensuing weeks , The Undertaker and Mankind competed in their very first on - screen bout at the 1996 King of the Ring , a heated encounter in which The Undertaker presented as uncharacteristically intense . During the match , Bearer inadvertently hit The Undertaker with the urn , allowing Mankind to incapacitate The Undertaker with his finisher , the Mandible Claw , and score the win . With Mankind insatiably continuing to cost The Undertaker matches even following their King of the Ring encounter , The Undertaker began firing back with rage and the feud spiraled out of control : the two routinely interrupted other matches already in progress , battling each other at random intervals outside of having arranged matches — their chaos also spilling into audiences , arena backstage communal areas , and arena boiler rooms , all of this unprecedented at the time . As a result , the first ever Boiler Room Brawl ( Mankind ' s specialty match ) was booked between the two at SummerSlam . After more than 20 minutes of brawling with Mankind in the Cleveland Gund Arena ' s boiler room , the arena corridors , the SummerSlam entrance area and aisleway to the ring , The Undertaker reached for Paul Bearer ' s urn in an attempt to win the match , but Bearer struck him with it , betraying The Undertaker . This followed with Bearer allowing Mankind to take hold of the urn , thus winning this match . After Bearer ' s betrayal , The Undertaker grew more aggressive , resolving his feud against Goldust ( Mankind ' s comrade in tormenting The Undertaker ) at In Your House 10 : Mind Games . The Undertaker then took his rivalry with Mankind to new lengths in a specialty match of his own , and at that time unprecedented Buried Alive match to take place in the main event of In Your House 11 : Buried Alive . The Undertaker won the match after chokeslamming Mankind into the open grave and subsequently shoveling enough dirt on him so that he was covered . However , after interference from the debuting Executioner , as well as the help of several other heel wrestlers apparently enlisted by Bearer , Mankind escaped the grave and together the mob all shoveled dirt onto The Undertaker to the point that the grave was completely filled , resulting in The Undertaker fully buried alive . Not without a parting message for the pack , however , The Undertaker ' s purple glove fit hand emerged from his burying place amid a bolt of lightning that had erupted over the gravesite . The scene sent all of his antagonists fleeing .	What specialty match was booked between you and Mankind at SummerSlam?	The first ever Boiler Room Brawl was booked between me and Mankind at SummerSlam.
In the storyline leading up to WrestleMania XX , Kane was tormented by horror - themed mind games , paranormal activities , and spooking vignettes proclaiming The Undertaker ' s Deadman return . The first was during the Royal Rumble when The Undertaker ' s bells tolled , distracting Kane and allowing Booker T to eliminate him . Accompanied by Paul Bearer at WrestleMania XX , The Undertaker resurrected his Deadman identity , defeating Kane in a singles match . Introduced was a more dramatic , theatrical and supernatural Deadman than in years past , his presence , mannerisms , and entrances significantly elaborated on as well , such as with more intensity , special effects and rising and falling flames . At the same time , The Undertaker maintained elements of his American Badass identity , thus a composite character more humanized than all of his previous Deadman incarnations ( Undertaker would present in this particular hybrid Deadman form until No Mercy 2005 when Randy Orton sealed him in a casket and set it on fire ) . At Judgment Day , The Undertaker defeated Booker T . One week later , Paul Heyman ordered The Dudley Boyz to kidnap Bearer . Thus , Heyman " took control " of Undertaker . At The Great American Bash , Undertaker fought a handicap match against The Dudley Boyz , with the stipulation that if he did not lay down and purposely lose , Heyman would bury Paul Bearer in cement . The Undertaker won and stopped Heyman from burying Bearer , but after claiming Bearer was merely a liability he had no use for , buried him himself .	What happened to your Deadman identity at WrestleMania XX?	I resurrected my Deadman identity.
Undertaker took part in the Raw 25 Years edition of Raw on January 22 , 2018 , his first post - WrestleMania 33 appearance . In the months prior to WrestleMania 34 , John Cena challenged Undertaker to a singles match . At WrestleMania , after Elias confronted Cena and was beaten down , Undertaker ' s hat and coat appeared in the center of the ring and were struck by lightning . Undertaker then appeared and beat Cena in a three - minute squash match . Three weeks later , Undertaker defeated Rusev at WWE ' s Greatest Royal Rumble event in a casket match . At Super Show - Down in Australia on October 6 , Undertaker faced Triple H in a no disqualification match billed as the " Last Time Ever " ; they were accompanied by Kane and Shawn Michaels , respectively . Undertaker lost the match after interference from Michaels . After the match , the four men shook hands as a sign of respect , however , Undertaker and Kane would follow this by attacking them . As a result , the duos reunited their respective tag teams — the Brothers of Destruction and D - Generation X — and faced each other at Crown Jewel on November 2 , where Undertaker and Kane lost their final match as a tag team .	Who did you face in a no disqualification match at Super Show-Down in Australia?	I faced Triple H in a no disqualification match at Super Show-Down in Australia.
The Undertaker ' s next feud commenced the next night on Raw when Mankind , a twisted and tortured soul , made his debut and randomly interfered in Undertaker ' s match against Justin " Hawk " Bradshaw . For the next few months , Mankind viciously ambushed The Undertaker and cost him multiple matches . Among them , Mankind cost The Undertaker the WWF Intercontinental Championship by interfering in his casket match against Goldust at In Your House 8 : Beware of Dog . In interfering in this match , Mankind proved to have mystifying horror tactic capabilities that matched The Undertaker ' s , mysteriously appearing from inside the casket and sealing The Undertaker inside . The Undertaker , however , had vanished amid a cloud of smoke once the casket lid was opened . As a result of the interference and repeated ambushes from Mankind on The Undertaker throughout the ensuing weeks , The Undertaker and Mankind competed in their very first on - screen bout at the 1996 King of the Ring , a heated encounter in which The Undertaker presented as uncharacteristically intense . During the match , Bearer inadvertently hit The Undertaker with the urn , allowing Mankind to incapacitate The Undertaker with his finisher , the Mandible Claw , and score the win . With Mankind insatiably continuing to cost The Undertaker matches even following their King of the Ring encounter , The Undertaker began firing back with rage and the feud spiraled out of control : the two routinely interrupted other matches already in progress , battling each other at random intervals outside of having arranged matches — their chaos also spilling into audiences , arena backstage communal areas , and arena boiler rooms , all of this unprecedented at the time . As a result , the first ever Boiler Room Brawl ( Mankind ' s specialty match ) was booked between the two at SummerSlam . After more than 20 minutes of brawling with Mankind in the Cleveland Gund Arena ' s boiler room , the arena corridors , the SummerSlam entrance area and aisleway to the ring , The Undertaker reached for Paul Bearer ' s urn in an attempt to win the match , but Bearer struck him with it , betraying The Undertaker . This followed with Bearer allowing Mankind to take hold of the urn , thus winning this match . After Bearer ' s betrayal , The Undertaker grew more aggressive , resolving his feud against Goldust ( Mankind ' s comrade in tormenting The Undertaker ) at In Your House 10 : Mind Games . The Undertaker then took his rivalry with Mankind to new lengths in a specialty match of his own , and at that time unprecedented Buried Alive match to take place in the main event of In Your House 11 : Buried Alive . The Undertaker won the match after chokeslamming Mankind into the open grave and subsequently shoveling enough dirt on him so that he was covered . However , after interference from the debuting Executioner , as well as the help of several other heel wrestlers apparently enlisted by Bearer , Mankind escaped the grave and together the mob all shoveled dirt onto The Undertaker to the point that the grave was completely filled , resulting in The Undertaker fully buried alive . Not without a parting message for the pack , however , The Undertaker ' s purple glove fit hand emerged from his burying place amid a bolt of lightning that had erupted over the gravesite . The scene sent all of his antagonists fleeing .	What championship did you lose due to Mankind's interference?	I lost the WWF Intercontinental Championship due to Mankind's interference in my casket match against Goldust.
The Undertaker ' s next feud commenced the next night on Raw when Mankind , a twisted and tortured soul , made his debut and randomly interfered in Undertaker ' s match against Justin " Hawk " Bradshaw . For the next few months , Mankind viciously ambushed The Undertaker and cost him multiple matches . Among them , Mankind cost The Undertaker the WWF Intercontinental Championship by interfering in his casket match against Goldust at In Your House 8 : Beware of Dog . In interfering in this match , Mankind proved to have mystifying horror tactic capabilities that matched The Undertaker ' s , mysteriously appearing from inside the casket and sealing The Undertaker inside . The Undertaker , however , had vanished amid a cloud of smoke once the casket lid was opened . As a result of the interference and repeated ambushes from Mankind on The Undertaker throughout the ensuing weeks , The Undertaker and Mankind competed in their very first on - screen bout at the 1996 King of the Ring , a heated encounter in which The Undertaker presented as uncharacteristically intense . During the match , Bearer inadvertently hit The Undertaker with the urn , allowing Mankind to incapacitate The Undertaker with his finisher , the Mandible Claw , and score the win . With Mankind insatiably continuing to cost The Undertaker matches even following their King of the Ring encounter , The Undertaker began firing back with rage and the feud spiraled out of control : the two routinely interrupted other matches already in progress , battling each other at random intervals outside of having arranged matches — their chaos also spilling into audiences , arena backstage communal areas , and arena boiler rooms , all of this unprecedented at the time . As a result , the first ever Boiler Room Brawl ( Mankind ' s specialty match ) was booked between the two at SummerSlam . After more than 20 minutes of brawling with Mankind in the Cleveland Gund Arena ' s boiler room , the arena corridors , the SummerSlam entrance area and aisleway to the ring , The Undertaker reached for Paul Bearer ' s urn in an attempt to win the match , but Bearer struck him with it , betraying The Undertaker . This followed with Bearer allowing Mankind to take hold of the urn , thus winning this match . After Bearer ' s betrayal , The Undertaker grew more aggressive , resolving his feud against Goldust ( Mankind ' s comrade in tormenting The Undertaker ) at In Your House 10 : Mind Games . The Undertaker then took his rivalry with Mankind to new lengths in a specialty match of his own , and at that time unprecedented Buried Alive match to take place in the main event of In Your House 11 : Buried Alive . The Undertaker won the match after chokeslamming Mankind into the open grave and subsequently shoveling enough dirt on him so that he was covered . However , after interference from the debuting Executioner , as well as the help of several other heel wrestlers apparently enlisted by Bearer , Mankind escaped the grave and together the mob all shoveled dirt onto The Undertaker to the point that the grave was completely filled , resulting in The Undertaker fully buried alive . Not without a parting message for the pack , however , The Undertaker ' s purple glove fit hand emerged from his burying place amid a bolt of lightning that had erupted over the gravesite . The scene sent all of his antagonists fleeing .	Who interfered in your match against Justin "Hawk" Bradshaw?	Mankind interfered in my match against Justin "Hawk" Bradshaw.
The Undertaker ' s next feud commenced the next night on Raw when Mankind , a twisted and tortured soul , made his debut and randomly interfered in Undertaker ' s match against Justin " Hawk " Bradshaw . For the next few months , Mankind viciously ambushed The Undertaker and cost him multiple matches . Among them , Mankind cost The Undertaker the WWF Intercontinental Championship by interfering in his casket match against Goldust at In Your House 8 : Beware of Dog . In interfering in this match , Mankind proved to have mystifying horror tactic capabilities that matched The Undertaker ' s , mysteriously appearing from inside the casket and sealing The Undertaker inside . The Undertaker , however , had vanished amid a cloud of smoke once the casket lid was opened . As a result of the interference and repeated ambushes from Mankind on The Undertaker throughout the ensuing weeks , The Undertaker and Mankind competed in their very first on - screen bout at the 1996 King of the Ring , a heated encounter in which The Undertaker presented as uncharacteristically intense . During the match , Bearer inadvertently hit The Undertaker with the urn , allowing Mankind to incapacitate The Undertaker with his finisher , the Mandible Claw , and score the win . With Mankind insatiably continuing to cost The Undertaker matches even following their King of the Ring encounter , The Undertaker began firing back with rage and the feud spiraled out of control : the two routinely interrupted other matches already in progress , battling each other at random intervals outside of having arranged matches — their chaos also spilling into audiences , arena backstage communal areas , and arena boiler rooms , all of this unprecedented at the time . As a result , the first ever Boiler Room Brawl ( Mankind ' s specialty match ) was booked between the two at SummerSlam . After more than 20 minutes of brawling with Mankind in the Cleveland Gund Arena ' s boiler room , the arena corridors , the SummerSlam entrance area and aisleway to the ring , The Undertaker reached for Paul Bearer ' s urn in an attempt to win the match , but Bearer struck him with it , betraying The Undertaker . This followed with Bearer allowing Mankind to take hold of the urn , thus winning this match . After Bearer ' s betrayal , The Undertaker grew more aggressive , resolving his feud against Goldust ( Mankind ' s comrade in tormenting The Undertaker ) at In Your House 10 : Mind Games . The Undertaker then took his rivalry with Mankind to new lengths in a specialty match of his own , and at that time unprecedented Buried Alive match to take place in the main event of In Your House 11 : Buried Alive . The Undertaker won the match after chokeslamming Mankind into the open grave and subsequently shoveling enough dirt on him so that he was covered . However , after interference from the debuting Executioner , as well as the help of several other heel wrestlers apparently enlisted by Bearer , Mankind escaped the grave and together the mob all shoveled dirt onto The Undertaker to the point that the grave was completely filled , resulting in The Undertaker fully buried alive . Not without a parting message for the pack , however , The Undertaker ' s purple glove fit hand emerged from his burying place amid a bolt of lightning that had erupted over the gravesite . The scene sent all of his antagonists fleeing .	How did you win the Buried Alive match against Mankind?	I won the Buried Alive match against Mankind by chokeslamming him into the open grave and shoveling enough dirt on him until he was covered.
Undertaker took part in the Raw 25 Years edition of Raw on January 22 , 2018 , his first post - WrestleMania 33 appearance . In the months prior to WrestleMania 34 , John Cena challenged Undertaker to a singles match . At WrestleMania , after Elias confronted Cena and was beaten down , Undertaker ' s hat and coat appeared in the center of the ring and were struck by lightning . Undertaker then appeared and beat Cena in a three - minute squash match . Three weeks later , Undertaker defeated Rusev at WWE ' s Greatest Royal Rumble event in a casket match . At Super Show - Down in Australia on October 6 , Undertaker faced Triple H in a no disqualification match billed as the " Last Time Ever " ; they were accompanied by Kane and Shawn Michaels , respectively . Undertaker lost the match after interference from Michaels . After the match , the four men shook hands as a sign of respect , however , Undertaker and Kane would follow this by attacking them . As a result , the duos reunited their respective tag teams — the Brothers of Destruction and D - Generation X — and faced each other at Crown Jewel on November 2 , where Undertaker and Kane lost their final match as a tag team .	When did you make your first post-WrestleMania 33 appearance?	I made my first post-WrestleMania 33 appearance on January 22, 2018.
In the storyline leading up to WrestleMania XX , Kane was tormented by horror - themed mind games , paranormal activities , and spooking vignettes proclaiming The Undertaker ' s Deadman return . The first was during the Royal Rumble when The Undertaker ' s bells tolled , distracting Kane and allowing Booker T to eliminate him . Accompanied by Paul Bearer at WrestleMania XX , The Undertaker resurrected his Deadman identity , defeating Kane in a singles match . Introduced was a more dramatic , theatrical and supernatural Deadman than in years past , his presence , mannerisms , and entrances significantly elaborated on as well , such as with more intensity , special effects and rising and falling flames . At the same time , The Undertaker maintained elements of his American Badass identity , thus a composite character more humanized than all of his previous Deadman incarnations ( Undertaker would present in this particular hybrid Deadman form until No Mercy 2005 when Randy Orton sealed him in a casket and set it on fire ) . At Judgment Day , The Undertaker defeated Booker T . One week later , Paul Heyman ordered The Dudley Boyz to kidnap Bearer . Thus , Heyman " took control " of Undertaker . At The Great American Bash , Undertaker fought a handicap match against The Dudley Boyz , with the stipulation that if he did not lay down and purposely lose , Heyman would bury Paul Bearer in cement . The Undertaker won and stopped Heyman from burying Bearer , but after claiming Bearer was merely a liability he had no use for , buried him himself .	What kind of mind games was Kane tormented by?	Horror-themed mind games.
After being buried alive and a following month - long hiatus , The Undertaker returned at the Survivor Series again pitting him against Mankind , but with a unique stipulation : Hanging 6.1   m ( 20   ft ) above the ring would be Paul Bearer , enclosed in a steel cage . And if The Undertaker were to win the match , he would be rewarded the opportunity to assault Bearer however he pleased . Even though The Undertaker won this match , interference from The Executioner enabled Bearer to escape Undertaker ' s clutches . It was also at this event that The Undertaker had developed a comparatively more humanized and more informal yet still superhuman " Deadman " incarnation . In this then new form , he took on a Goth appearance and persona , with a brash , rebelling , Championship - driven mean streak ( perhaps to better fit in with the then - budding , more adult - oriented Attitude Era ) . This delivering , dubbed " The Lord of Darkness " , was the 3rd incarnation of his Deadman persona . Following Survivor Series , The Undertaker briefly turned his attention to The Executioner , who had been interfering in his matches since his arrival . At In Your House 12 : It ' s Time , The Undertaker defeated The Executioner in an Armageddon Rules match even with Mankind heavily involved throughout the entire encounter . The Undertaker then moved on to feud with Vader , whom he faced in January 1997 at the Royal Rumble in a singles match , which The Undertaker lost after Bearer interfered on behalf of his new prot é g é . The two then clashed in the Royal Rumble match itself as they made it to the final moments of the match , but both were eliminated by Stone Cold Steve Austin , who had crept back into the match after his elimination was unseen . He faced both Vader and Austin in a four - corners elimination match for the vacant WWF Championship at In Your House 13 : Final Four , but Bret Hart won . However , the following month , The Undertaker managed to win the WWF Championship for the second time by defeating Sycho Sid at WrestleMania 13 . Reviving his first Deadman incarnation for that night only , The Undertaker appeared as the " Old West Mortician " , donning the trademarked gray wrestling gear accessories ( boot spats , tie , gloves ) , along with a pitch - black entrance with only a white spotlight shined over him , contrasted from the purple / blue semidarkness associated with the rest of his Deadman incarnations .	Did you win the match at the Survivor Series?	Yes, I won the match.
After being buried alive and a following month - long hiatus , The Undertaker returned at the Survivor Series again pitting him against Mankind , but with a unique stipulation : Hanging 6.1   m ( 20   ft ) above the ring would be Paul Bearer , enclosed in a steel cage . And if The Undertaker were to win the match , he would be rewarded the opportunity to assault Bearer however he pleased . Even though The Undertaker won this match , interference from The Executioner enabled Bearer to escape Undertaker ' s clutches . It was also at this event that The Undertaker had developed a comparatively more humanized and more informal yet still superhuman " Deadman " incarnation . In this then new form , he took on a Goth appearance and persona , with a brash , rebelling , Championship - driven mean streak ( perhaps to better fit in with the then - budding , more adult - oriented Attitude Era ) . This delivering , dubbed " The Lord of Darkness " , was the 3rd incarnation of his Deadman persona . Following Survivor Series , The Undertaker briefly turned his attention to The Executioner , who had been interfering in his matches since his arrival . At In Your House 12 : It ' s Time , The Undertaker defeated The Executioner in an Armageddon Rules match even with Mankind heavily involved throughout the entire encounter . The Undertaker then moved on to feud with Vader , whom he faced in January 1997 at the Royal Rumble in a singles match , which The Undertaker lost after Bearer interfered on behalf of his new prot é g é . The two then clashed in the Royal Rumble match itself as they made it to the final moments of the match , but both were eliminated by Stone Cold Steve Austin , who had crept back into the match after his elimination was unseen . He faced both Vader and Austin in a four - corners elimination match for the vacant WWF Championship at In Your House 13 : Final Four , but Bret Hart won . However , the following month , The Undertaker managed to win the WWF Championship for the second time by defeating Sycho Sid at WrestleMania 13 . Reviving his first Deadman incarnation for that night only , The Undertaker appeared as the " Old West Mortician " , donning the trademarked gray wrestling gear accessories ( boot spats , tie , gloves ) , along with a pitch - black entrance with only a white spotlight shined over him , contrasted from the purple / blue semidarkness associated with the rest of his Deadman incarnations .	What was the stipulation of your match at the Survivor Series?	Hanging 6.1 m (20 ft) above the ring was Paul Bearer, enclosed in a steel cage.
Seeking retribution , The Undertaker revisited his feud with Yokozuna and eventually faced him in a casket rematch at Survivor Series . Chuck Norris ( portraying his Walker , Texas Ranger persona ) was involved in the match as special guest enforcer , preventing interference from wrestlers that Yokozuna , Jim Cornette and Mr . Fuji had again enlisted for help . Unable to rely on much as far as interference this time around ( only Irwin R . Schyster able to get in a brief ambush ) due to Norris averting the attempts of several heel wrestlers , Yokozuna was defeated by The Undertaker and sealed in the casket . Throughout most of 1995 , Undertaker feuded with members of Ted DiBiase ' s Million Dollar Corporation . The chain of wrestlers DiBiase enlisted to do away with The Undertaker started with Irwin R . Schyster at the Royal Rumble for which The Undertaker was victorious , but assaulted by another member of the Million Dollar Team , King Kong Bundy . In the process of being assaulted , Bearer was deprived of his urn by the Corporation . At WrestleMania XI , The Undertaker made short work of Bundy in a singles match . This edition of WrestleMania is noteworthy in that it produced the first mention of The Undertaker ' s historic WrestleMania - winning Streak , acknowledged on commentary by Vince McMahon as Undertaker made his entrance : " The Undertaker , on his way to the ring — a man who ' s never lost at WrestleMania . " During The Undertaker ' s WrestleMania encounter , DiBiase issued him with yet another antagonist in " The Supreme Fighting Machine " Kama , who had stolen the briefly recaptured urn from Bearer during the match . Kama followed this up with a series of malicious acts , including destroying the stolen urn and recycling it into bling . While sporting the flashy bling around his neck , he repeatedly cost The Undertaker matches and attacked diehard Undertaker fans , dubbed " Creatures of the Night " . In August , Undertaker settled the score with Kama , defeating him in a casket match at SummerSlam . Several weeks later , Undertaker suffered a serious orbital bone injury when King Mabel unintentionally struck him in the eye with his fist during a house show , forcing The Undertaker into a period of absence for surgery . Due to the incident happening at a house show , Vince McMahon had it presented to the audience as though it had occurred from Mabel and Yokozuna ' s exchange of leg drops and splashes on The Undertaker on the Monday Night Raw that had aired 2 days prior . The Undertaker returned a couple months later at Survivor Series , in which he single - handedly eliminated an entire team of wrestlers led by King Mabel , The Undertaker leading his own team to victory . It was at that Survivor Series return in which he began wearing a Phantom of the Opera - like , gray upper - face mask to safeguard his orbital injury while it healed . The following month in December , The Undertaker defeated Mabel in a casket match at In Your House , finally retrieving back the urn ( though still in its bling form ) in the process , which had been traded around between several of The Undertaker ' s antagonists over the entire course of that year .	Who assaulted you at the Royal Rumble?	King Kong Bundy
