Cruise was converted to Scientology by his first wife Mimi Rogers in 1986 , becoming an outspoken advocate for the Church of Scientology in the 2000s . His involvement in the organization was leaked by the tabloid Star in 1990 , and he publicly admitted to following Scientology in a 1992 interview with Barbara Walters . According to the book Inside Scientology : The Story of America ' s Most Secretive Religion by Janet Reitman , seven years after Cruise started studying Scientology , the organization ' s leaders promised to share Scientology secrets , such as the prophet Xenu . According to Reitman ' s book , Cruise " freaked out " and took a step back . He removed himself from the Church and worked on the film Eyes Wide Shut until 1999 when David Miscavige sent Marty Rathbun to successfully " retrieve " Cruise and convince him to continue training . Cruise had become a full - on zealot after a couple of years . Cruise is friends with the Scientology organization ' s chairman David Miscavige . Cruise struggled with dyslexia at an early age and has said that Scientology , specifically the L . Ron Hubbard Study Tech , helped him overcome dyslexia .	Who convinced you to continue training in Scientology after you removed yourself from the Church?	David Miscavige sent Marty Rathbun to successfully "retrieve" me and convince me to continue training.
In March 2010 , Cruise completed filming the action - comedy Knight and Day , in which he re - teamed with former costar Cameron Diaz ; the film was released on June 23 , 2010 . On February 9 , 2010 , Cruise confirmed that he would star in Mission : Impossible – Ghost Protocol , the fourth installment in the Mission : Impossible series . The film was released in December 2011 to high critical acclaim and box office success . Unadjusted for ticket price inflation , it was Cruise ' s biggest commercial success to that date .	How was Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol received?	It was released to high critical acclaim and box office success.
In 2003 , he starred in Edward Zwick ' s period action drama The Last Samurai , for which he received a Golden Globe nomination for best actor . In 2004 , Cruise received critical acclaim for his performance as Vincent in Collateral . The critical consensus states that " Driven by director Michael Mann ' s trademark visuals and a lean , villainous performance from Tom Cruise , Collateral is a stylish and compelling noir thriller . " In 2005 , Cruise worked again with Steven Spielberg in War of the Worlds , a loose adaptation of the H . G . Wells novel of the same name , which became the fourth highest - grossing film of the year with US $ 591.4   million worldwide . Also in 2005 , he was a nominee for the People ' s Choice Award for Favorite Male Movie Star and the winner of the MTV Generation Award . Cruise was nominated for seven Saturn Awards between 2002 and 2009 , winning once . Nine of the ten films he starred in during the decade made over $ 100   million at the box office .	What film did you star in for which you received a Golden Globe nomination?	The Last Samurai.
In 2015 , Cruise returned as Ethan Hunt in the fifth installment of the Mission : Impossible series , Mission : Impossible – Rogue Nation , which he also produced . Returning cast members included Simon Pegg as Benji and Jeremy Renner as William Brandt , with Christopher McQuarrie as director . The film earned high critical acclaim and was a commercial success . Cruise starred in the 2017 reboot of Boris Karloff ' s 1932 horror movie The Mummy . The new film , also titled The Mummy received negative reviews and flopped at the box office . In 2018 , Cruise again reprised Ethan Hunt , in the sixth film in his franchise , Mission : Impossible – Fallout . The film was more positively received by critics than the previous films in the series , and grossed over $ 791 million at the box office . Unadjusted for ticket price inflation , it was Cruise ' s biggest commercial success to date .	Who did you play in the fifth installment of the Mission: Impossible series?	I played Ethan Hunt.
Cruise ' s next films were Days of Thunder ( 1990 ) and Far and Away ( 1992 ) , both of which co - starred then - wife Nicole Kidman as his love interest , followed by the legal thriller The Firm , which was a critical and commercial success . In 1994 , Cruise starred along with Brad Pitt , Antonio Banderas and Christian Slater in Neil Jordan ' s Interview with the Vampire , a gothic drama / horror film that was based on Anne Rice ' s best - selling novel . The film was well - received , although Rice was initially quite outspoken in her criticism of Cruise having been cast in the film , as Julian Sands was her first choice . Upon seeing the film , however , she paid $ 7 , 740 for a two - page ad in Daily Variety praising his performance and apologizing for her previous doubts about him .	Which Neil Jordan film did you star in?	I starred in Neil Jordan's Interview with the Vampire.
In 1996 , Cruise appeared as superspy Ethan Hunt in the reboot of Mission : Impossible , which he produced . The film was directed by Brian De Palma and was a box office success , although it received criticism regarding the Jim Phelps character being a villain despite being a protagonist of the original television series . Film critic Stephen Holden of The New York Times praised Cruise ' s performance , declaring " Tom Cruise has found the perfect superhero character on which to graft his breathlessly gung - ho screen personality . " In the same year , Cruise took on the title role in Cameron Crowe ' s sports drama Jerry Maguire playing a sports agent in search of love . He stars opposite Renee Zellweger , and Cuba Gooding Jr . The film was a massive financial success with Cruise earning a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy and his second nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actor .	Who directed the film Mission: Impossible?	Brian De Palma directed the film Mission: Impossible.
In 2003 , he starred in Edward Zwick ' s period action drama The Last Samurai , for which he received a Golden Globe nomination for best actor . In 2004 , Cruise received critical acclaim for his performance as Vincent in Collateral . The critical consensus states that " Driven by director Michael Mann ' s trademark visuals and a lean , villainous performance from Tom Cruise , Collateral is a stylish and compelling noir thriller . " In 2005 , Cruise worked again with Steven Spielberg in War of the Worlds , a loose adaptation of the H . G . Wells novel of the same name , which became the fourth highest - grossing film of the year with US $ 591.4   million worldwide . Also in 2005 , he was a nominee for the People ' s Choice Award for Favorite Male Movie Star and the winner of the MTV Generation Award . Cruise was nominated for seven Saturn Awards between 2002 and 2009 , winning once . Nine of the ten films he starred in during the decade made over $ 100   million at the box office .	How much money did the film War of the Worlds make worldwide?	$591.4 million.
In 2006 , he returned to his role as Ethan Hunt in the third installment of the Mission Impossible film series , Mission : Impossible III . The film was more positively received by critics than the previous films in the series , and grossed nearly $ 400   million at the box office . In 2007 , Cruise took a rare supporting role for the second time in Lions for Lambs , which was a commercial disappointment . This was followed by an unrecognizable appearance as " Les Grossman " in the 2008 comedy Tropic Thunder with Ben Stiller , Jack Black , and Robert Downey Jr . This performance earned Cruise a Golden Globe nomination . Cruise played the central role in the historical thriller Valkyrie released on December 25 , 2008 , to box office success .	What role did you return to in 2006?	I returned to my role as Ethan Hunt.
Cruise was converted to Scientology by his first wife Mimi Rogers in 1986 , becoming an outspoken advocate for the Church of Scientology in the 2000s . His involvement in the organization was leaked by the tabloid Star in 1990 , and he publicly admitted to following Scientology in a 1992 interview with Barbara Walters . According to the book Inside Scientology : The Story of America ' s Most Secretive Religion by Janet Reitman , seven years after Cruise started studying Scientology , the organization ' s leaders promised to share Scientology secrets , such as the prophet Xenu . According to Reitman ' s book , Cruise " freaked out " and took a step back . He removed himself from the Church and worked on the film Eyes Wide Shut until 1999 when David Miscavige sent Marty Rathbun to successfully " retrieve " Cruise and convince him to continue training . Cruise had become a full - on zealot after a couple of years . Cruise is friends with the Scientology organization ' s chairman David Miscavige . Cruise struggled with dyslexia at an early age and has said that Scientology , specifically the L . Ron Hubbard Study Tech , helped him overcome dyslexia .	Who converted you to Scientology?	I was converted to Scientology by my first wife Mimi Rogers.
In April 2005 , Cruise began dating actress Katie Holmes . On April 27 that year , Cruise and Holmes — dubbed TomKat by the media — made their first public appearance together in Rome . A month later , Cruise publicly declared his love for Holmes on The Oprah Winfrey Show ; he jumped on Winfrey ' s yellow couch and stood there . Media coverage at the time implied that Oprah was somewhat taken aback by Cruise ' s outburst , which distracted from the intended promotion of Cruise ' s current film , War of the Worlds . [ citation needed ] On October 6 , 2005 , Cruise and Holmes announced they were expecting a child . In April 2006 , their daughter Suri was born . On November 18 , Holmes and Cruise were married at the 15th - century Odescalchi Castle in Bracciano , in a Scientologist ceremony attended by many Hollywood stars . Their publicists said the couple had " officialized " their marriage in Los Angeles the day before the Italian ceremony . There has been widespread speculation that their marriage was arranged by the Church of Scientology . David Miscavige , the head of Scientology , served as Cruise ' s best man . On June 29 , 2012 , Holmes filed for divorce from Cruise . On July 9 , the couple signed a divorce settlement worked out by their lawyers . New York law requires all divorce documents remain sealed , so the exact terms of the settlement are not publicly available . Cruise stated that ex - wife Katie Holmes divorced him in part to protect the couple ' s daughter Suri from Scientology and that Suri is no longer a practicing member of the organization .	When did Katie Holmes file for divorce from you?	On June 29, 2012.
Cruise ' s next films were Days of Thunder ( 1990 ) and Far and Away ( 1992 ) , both of which co - starred then - wife Nicole Kidman as his love interest , followed by the legal thriller The Firm , which was a critical and commercial success . In 1994 , Cruise starred along with Brad Pitt , Antonio Banderas and Christian Slater in Neil Jordan ' s Interview with the Vampire , a gothic drama / horror film that was based on Anne Rice ' s best - selling novel . The film was well - received , although Rice was initially quite outspoken in her criticism of Cruise having been cast in the film , as Julian Sands was her first choice . Upon seeing the film , however , she paid $ 7 , 740 for a two - page ad in Daily Variety praising his performance and apologizing for her previous doubts about him .	How did you initially feel about me being cast in Interview with the Vampire?	I was initially quite outspoken in my criticism of you being cast in the film.
In 2006 , he returned to his role as Ethan Hunt in the third installment of the Mission Impossible film series , Mission : Impossible III . The film was more positively received by critics than the previous films in the series , and grossed nearly $ 400   million at the box office . In 2007 , Cruise took a rare supporting role for the second time in Lions for Lambs , which was a commercial disappointment . This was followed by an unrecognizable appearance as " Les Grossman " in the 2008 comedy Tropic Thunder with Ben Stiller , Jack Black , and Robert Downey Jr . This performance earned Cruise a Golden Globe nomination . Cruise played the central role in the historical thriller Valkyrie released on December 25 , 2008 , to box office success .	What was the third installment of your Mission Impossible film series called?	The third installment of my Mission Impossible film series was called Mission: Impossible III.
In 1999 , Cruise costarred with Kidman in Stanley Kubrick ' s erotic and psychological drama film Eyes Wide Shut . Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian praised both Cruise and Kidman on their performances writing , " Cruise in particular lays himself open in that fiercely committed way that he tries everything as an actor " . That same year he took a rare supporting role , as a motivational speaker , Frank T . J . Mackey , in Paul Thomas Anderson ' s Magnolia ( 1999 ) . Rolling Stone film critic Peter Travers heaped praise on Cruise writing , " Cruise is a revelation , fully deserving of the shower of superlatives coming his way   ... Cruise seethes with the chaotic energy of a wounded animal – he ' s devastating . " For his performance he received another Golden Globe and nomination for an Academy Award .	What did Rolling Stone film critic Peter Travers say about your performance in Magnolia?	Rolling Stone film critic Peter Travers heaped praise on me, saying that I am a revelation and fully deserving of the shower of superlatives coming my way. Travers also described me as seething with the chaotic energy of a wounded animal and devastating.
In 2015 , Cruise returned as Ethan Hunt in the fifth installment of the Mission : Impossible series , Mission : Impossible – Rogue Nation , which he also produced . Returning cast members included Simon Pegg as Benji and Jeremy Renner as William Brandt , with Christopher McQuarrie as director . The film earned high critical acclaim and was a commercial success . Cruise starred in the 2017 reboot of Boris Karloff ' s 1932 horror movie The Mummy . The new film , also titled The Mummy received negative reviews and flopped at the box office . In 2018 , Cruise again reprised Ethan Hunt , in the sixth film in his franchise , Mission : Impossible – Fallout . The film was more positively received by critics than the previous films in the series , and grossed over $ 791 million at the box office . Unadjusted for ticket price inflation , it was Cruise ' s biggest commercial success to date .	Who directed Mission: Impossible - Rogue Nation?	Christopher McQuarrie
In 1996 , Cruise appeared as superspy Ethan Hunt in the reboot of Mission : Impossible , which he produced . The film was directed by Brian De Palma and was a box office success , although it received criticism regarding the Jim Phelps character being a villain despite being a protagonist of the original television series . Film critic Stephen Holden of The New York Times praised Cruise ' s performance , declaring " Tom Cruise has found the perfect superhero character on which to graft his breathlessly gung - ho screen personality . " In the same year , Cruise took on the title role in Cameron Crowe ' s sports drama Jerry Maguire playing a sports agent in search of love . He stars opposite Renee Zellweger , and Cuba Gooding Jr . The film was a massive financial success with Cruise earning a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy and his second nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actor .	Who co-starred with you in the film Jerry Maguire?	Renee Zellweger and Cuba Gooding Jr. co-starred with me in the film Jerry Maguire.
Cruise was converted to Scientology by his first wife Mimi Rogers in 1986 , becoming an outspoken advocate for the Church of Scientology in the 2000s . His involvement in the organization was leaked by the tabloid Star in 1990 , and he publicly admitted to following Scientology in a 1992 interview with Barbara Walters . According to the book Inside Scientology : The Story of America ' s Most Secretive Religion by Janet Reitman , seven years after Cruise started studying Scientology , the organization ' s leaders promised to share Scientology secrets , such as the prophet Xenu . According to Reitman ' s book , Cruise " freaked out " and took a step back . He removed himself from the Church and worked on the film Eyes Wide Shut until 1999 when David Miscavige sent Marty Rathbun to successfully " retrieve " Cruise and convince him to continue training . Cruise had become a full - on zealot after a couple of years . Cruise is friends with the Scientology organization ' s chairman David Miscavige . Cruise struggled with dyslexia at an early age and has said that Scientology , specifically the L . Ron Hubbard Study Tech , helped him overcome dyslexia .	How did Scientology, specifically the L. Ron Hubbard Study Tech, help you overcome dyslexia?	I have said that Scientology, specifically the L. Ron Hubbard Study Tech, helped me overcome dyslexia.
Production began in 2007 of Valkyrie , a thriller based on the July 20 , 1944 , assassination attempt against Adolf Hitler . The film was acquired in March 2007 by United Artists . On March 21 , 2007 , Cruise signed to play Claus von Stauffenberg , the protagonist . This project marked the second production to be greenlighted since Cruise and Wagner took control of United Artists . The first was its inaugural film , Lions for Lambs , directed by Robert Redford and starring Redford , Meryl Streep and Cruise . Lambs was released on November 9 , 2007 , [ citation needed ] opening to unimpressive box office revenue and critical reception .	When did production of Valkyrie begin?	In 2007
In 1996 , Cruise appeared as superspy Ethan Hunt in the reboot of Mission : Impossible , which he produced . The film was directed by Brian De Palma and was a box office success , although it received criticism regarding the Jim Phelps character being a villain despite being a protagonist of the original television series . Film critic Stephen Holden of The New York Times praised Cruise ' s performance , declaring " Tom Cruise has found the perfect superhero character on which to graft his breathlessly gung - ho screen personality . " In the same year , Cruise took on the title role in Cameron Crowe ' s sports drama Jerry Maguire playing a sports agent in search of love . He stars opposite Renee Zellweger , and Cuba Gooding Jr . The film was a massive financial success with Cruise earning a Golden Globe Award for Best Actor – Motion Picture Musical or Comedy and his second nomination for an Academy Award for Best Actor .	Which film critic praised your performance in Mission: Impossible?	Film critic Stephen Holden of The New York Times praised my performance in Mission: Impossible.
In 2006 , he returned to his role as Ethan Hunt in the third installment of the Mission Impossible film series , Mission : Impossible III . The film was more positively received by critics than the previous films in the series , and grossed nearly $ 400   million at the box office . In 2007 , Cruise took a rare supporting role for the second time in Lions for Lambs , which was a commercial disappointment . This was followed by an unrecognizable appearance as " Les Grossman " in the 2008 comedy Tropic Thunder with Ben Stiller , Jack Black , and Robert Downey Jr . This performance earned Cruise a Golden Globe nomination . Cruise played the central role in the historical thriller Valkyrie released on December 25 , 2008 , to box office success .	How much money did your movie Mission: Impossible III gross at the box office?	My movie Mission: Impossible III grossed nearly $400 million at the box office.
Production began in 2007 of Valkyrie , a thriller based on the July 20 , 1944 , assassination attempt against Adolf Hitler . The film was acquired in March 2007 by United Artists . On March 21 , 2007 , Cruise signed to play Claus von Stauffenberg , the protagonist . This project marked the second production to be greenlighted since Cruise and Wagner took control of United Artists . The first was its inaugural film , Lions for Lambs , directed by Robert Redford and starring Redford , Meryl Streep and Cruise . Lambs was released on November 9 , 2007 , [ citation needed ] opening to unimpressive box office revenue and critical reception .	Which studio acquired the film Valkyrie in March 2007?	United Artists
In 1999 , Cruise costarred with Kidman in Stanley Kubrick ' s erotic and psychological drama film Eyes Wide Shut . Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian praised both Cruise and Kidman on their performances writing , " Cruise in particular lays himself open in that fiercely committed way that he tries everything as an actor " . That same year he took a rare supporting role , as a motivational speaker , Frank T . J . Mackey , in Paul Thomas Anderson ' s Magnolia ( 1999 ) . Rolling Stone film critic Peter Travers heaped praise on Cruise writing , " Cruise is a revelation , fully deserving of the shower of superlatives coming his way   ... Cruise seethes with the chaotic energy of a wounded animal – he ' s devastating . " For his performance he received another Golden Globe and nomination for an Academy Award .	What recognition did you receive for your performance in Magnolia?	I received another Golden Globe and a nomination for an Academy Award for my performance in Magnolia.
In 1999 , Cruise costarred with Kidman in Stanley Kubrick ' s erotic and psychological drama film Eyes Wide Shut . Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian praised both Cruise and Kidman on their performances writing , " Cruise in particular lays himself open in that fiercely committed way that he tries everything as an actor " . That same year he took a rare supporting role , as a motivational speaker , Frank T . J . Mackey , in Paul Thomas Anderson ' s Magnolia ( 1999 ) . Rolling Stone film critic Peter Travers heaped praise on Cruise writing , " Cruise is a revelation , fully deserving of the shower of superlatives coming his way   ... Cruise seethes with the chaotic energy of a wounded animal – he ' s devastating . " For his performance he received another Golden Globe and nomination for an Academy Award .	What did Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian praise both you and Kidman for?	Peter Bradshaw of The Guardian praised both me and Kidman on our performances.
In March 2010 , Cruise completed filming the action - comedy Knight and Day , in which he re - teamed with former costar Cameron Diaz ; the film was released on June 23 , 2010 . On February 9 , 2010 , Cruise confirmed that he would star in Mission : Impossible – Ghost Protocol , the fourth installment in the Mission : Impossible series . The film was released in December 2011 to high critical acclaim and box office success . Unadjusted for ticket price inflation , it was Cruise ' s biggest commercial success to that date .	What was your biggest commercial success up to that date?	Unadjusted for ticket price inflation, Mission: Impossible - Ghost Protocol was my biggest commercial success.
Production began in 2007 of Valkyrie , a thriller based on the July 20 , 1944 , assassination attempt against Adolf Hitler . The film was acquired in March 2007 by United Artists . On March 21 , 2007 , Cruise signed to play Claus von Stauffenberg , the protagonist . This project marked the second production to be greenlighted since Cruise and Wagner took control of United Artists . The first was its inaugural film , Lions for Lambs , directed by Robert Redford and starring Redford , Meryl Streep and Cruise . Lambs was released on November 9 , 2007 , [ citation needed ] opening to unimpressive box office revenue and critical reception .	What is the name of the film based on the assassination attempt against Adolf Hitler?	Valkyrie
In April 2005 , Cruise began dating actress Katie Holmes . On April 27 that year , Cruise and Holmes — dubbed TomKat by the media — made their first public appearance together in Rome . A month later , Cruise publicly declared his love for Holmes on The Oprah Winfrey Show ; he jumped on Winfrey ' s yellow couch and stood there . Media coverage at the time implied that Oprah was somewhat taken aback by Cruise ' s outburst , which distracted from the intended promotion of Cruise ' s current film , War of the Worlds . [ citation needed ] On October 6 , 2005 , Cruise and Holmes announced they were expecting a child . In April 2006 , their daughter Suri was born . On November 18 , Holmes and Cruise were married at the 15th - century Odescalchi Castle in Bracciano , in a Scientologist ceremony attended by many Hollywood stars . Their publicists said the couple had " officialized " their marriage in Los Angeles the day before the Italian ceremony . There has been widespread speculation that their marriage was arranged by the Church of Scientology . David Miscavige , the head of Scientology , served as Cruise ' s best man . On June 29 , 2012 , Holmes filed for divorce from Cruise . On July 9 , the couple signed a divorce settlement worked out by their lawyers . New York law requires all divorce documents remain sealed , so the exact terms of the settlement are not publicly available . Cruise stated that ex - wife Katie Holmes divorced him in part to protect the couple ' s daughter Suri from Scientology and that Suri is no longer a practicing member of the organization .	When did you and Katie Holmes start dating?	In April 2005.
