In 2014 , Hardy appeared in the crime film The Drop alongside James Gandolfini , in what would be the latter ' s final appearance in a feature film before his death . Hardy also joined the cast of the BBC crime drama Peaky Blinders in its second series . He portrays Alfie Solomons , the head of a Jewish gang and runner of a distillery which disguises itself as a bakery . [ citation needed ]	Which crime drama did you join in its second series?	I joined the cast of Peaky Blinders in its second series.
In 2018 , Hardy starred in the film Venom as the title comic book sometime hero , Eddie Brock , and the symbiote Venom . Based on the Marvel source material , the film was released on 5 October , and is the first installment in Sony ' s Spider - Man Universe . In 2019 , Hardy served as an executive producer in the 2019 BBC / FX three - part miniseries A Christmas Carol . In 2020 , Hardy starred in Josh Trank ' s Al Capone biopic Capone .	When was the film Venom released?	On 5 October 2018.
Hardy married producer Sarah Ward in 1999 , and they divorced in 2004 . He met and began dating assistant director Rachael Speed on the set of The Virgin Queen in 2005 , and they later had a son before separating in 2009 . That year , he began a relationship with actress Charlotte Riley after they met on the set of Wuthering Heights , and they were married in July 2014 . Together , they have a daughter and a son . They had two rescue dogs , Max and Woodstock , and Hardy appeared with Woodstock in a PETA advert to promote pet adoption . Woodstock died on 5 June 2017 due to an aggressive case of polymyositis .	Who did you begin dating in 2005?	I began dating assistant director Rachael Speed in 2005.
In 2014 , Hardy appeared in the crime film The Drop alongside James Gandolfini , in what would be the latter ' s final appearance in a feature film before his death . Hardy also joined the cast of the BBC crime drama Peaky Blinders in its second series . He portrays Alfie Solomons , the head of a Jewish gang and runner of a distillery which disguises itself as a bakery . [ citation needed ]	What was significant about your appearance in The Drop?	The Drop was the final feature film appearance for me before my death.
While portraying prisoner Charles Bronson during the production of Bronson , Hardy met Bronson several times and the two became friends . Bronson was impressed with how Hardy managed to match his muscularity and how well he could mimic Bronson ' s personality and voice ; stating that he believed Hardy was the only person who could play him , he also shaved off his trademark moustache and sent it to Hardy in the hopes that Hardy would wear it in the film .	What impressed you about my portrayal?	I was impressed with how you managed to match my muscularity and how well you could mimic my personality and voice.
Hardy is attached to star as British war photographer Don McCullin in a film based on McCullin ' s autobiography , Unreasonable Behaviour . Hardy reprised the role of Eddie Brock and Venom in the sequel Venom : Let There Be Carnage and co - wrote the story for the film . He is also slated to star as the Antarctic explorer Sir Ernest Shackleton in a biopic being created by the same makers of Taboo . The Shackleton film , which will cover one of the most harrowing stories of survival in exploration history , is also being produced by Hardy ' s production company Hardy Son & Baker .	What is the name of the autobiography that the film is based on?	The film is based on McCullin's autobiography, Unreasonable Behaviour.
Hardy starred in five films in 2015 . The first , Child 44 , set in 1950s Soviet Union , saw him playing Leo Demidov , a Soviet secret police agent who investigates a series of child murders . Despite mild praise for his acting , Child 44 was reviewed negatively by critics and was a box office failure . Hardy then played the title character , Max Rockatansky , in the action film Mad Max : Fury Road ( 2015 ) . His performance was praised by critics and overall the film received critical acclaim and became a box office success , grossing over $ 378   million against a $ 150   million budget , becoming the highest - grossing film in the Mad Max franchise . He played a dual role as London gangsters Reggie and Ronnie Kray in the crime thriller Legend ( 2015 ) . On 7 December 2015 , Hardy won Best Actor at the British Independent Film Awards for his portrayal of the Kray twins , and on the same night attended the premiere of the biographical western thriller The Revenant , in which he reunited with his Inception co - star Leonardo DiCaprio , at Leicester Square , London . On 14 January 2016 , Hardy received his first Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in The Revenant .	In which film did you play Leo Demidov?	I played Leo Demidov in the film Child 44.
Hardy married producer Sarah Ward in 1999 , and they divorced in 2004 . He met and began dating assistant director Rachael Speed on the set of The Virgin Queen in 2005 , and they later had a son before separating in 2009 . That year , he began a relationship with actress Charlotte Riley after they met on the set of Wuthering Heights , and they were married in July 2014 . Together , they have a daughter and a son . They had two rescue dogs , Max and Woodstock , and Hardy appeared with Woodstock in a PETA advert to promote pet adoption . Woodstock died on 5 June 2017 due to an aggressive case of polymyositis .	When did you and Sarah Ward get divorced?	I and Sarah Ward divorced in 2004.
In 2018 , Hardy starred in the film Venom as the title comic book sometime hero , Eddie Brock , and the symbiote Venom . Based on the Marvel source material , the film was released on 5 October , and is the first installment in Sony ' s Spider - Man Universe . In 2019 , Hardy served as an executive producer in the 2019 BBC / FX three - part miniseries A Christmas Carol . In 2020 , Hardy starred in Josh Trank ' s Al Capone biopic Capone .	Who did you star as in the film Venom?	I starred as Eddie Brock and the symbiote Venom.
Hardy married producer Sarah Ward in 1999 , and they divorced in 2004 . He met and began dating assistant director Rachael Speed on the set of The Virgin Queen in 2005 , and they later had a son before separating in 2009 . That year , he began a relationship with actress Charlotte Riley after they met on the set of Wuthering Heights , and they were married in July 2014 . Together , they have a daughter and a son . They had two rescue dogs , Max and Woodstock , and Hardy appeared with Woodstock in a PETA advert to promote pet adoption . Woodstock died on 5 June 2017 due to an aggressive case of polymyositis .	Who did you marry in 1999?	I married producer Sarah Ward in 1999.
In 2018 , Hardy starred in the film Venom as the title comic book sometime hero , Eddie Brock , and the symbiote Venom . Based on the Marvel source material , the film was released on 5 October , and is the first installment in Sony ' s Spider - Man Universe . In 2019 , Hardy served as an executive producer in the 2019 BBC / FX three - part miniseries A Christmas Carol . In 2020 , Hardy starred in Josh Trank ' s Al Capone biopic Capone .	In which universe is Sony's Spider-Man Universe set?	Marvel.
Hardy is attached to star as British war photographer Don McCullin in a film based on McCullin ' s autobiography , Unreasonable Behaviour . Hardy reprised the role of Eddie Brock and Venom in the sequel Venom : Let There Be Carnage and co - wrote the story for the film . He is also slated to star as the Antarctic explorer Sir Ernest Shackleton in a biopic being created by the same makers of Taboo . The Shackleton film , which will cover one of the most harrowing stories of survival in exploration history , is also being produced by Hardy ' s production company Hardy Son & Baker .	Are you attached to star as British war photographer Don McCullin in a film?	I am attached to star as British war photographer Don McCullin in a film.
Hardy starred in five films in 2015 . The first , Child 44 , set in 1950s Soviet Union , saw him playing Leo Demidov , a Soviet secret police agent who investigates a series of child murders . Despite mild praise for his acting , Child 44 was reviewed negatively by critics and was a box office failure . Hardy then played the title character , Max Rockatansky , in the action film Mad Max : Fury Road ( 2015 ) . His performance was praised by critics and overall the film received critical acclaim and became a box office success , grossing over $ 378   million against a $ 150   million budget , becoming the highest - grossing film in the Mad Max franchise . He played a dual role as London gangsters Reggie and Ronnie Kray in the crime thriller Legend ( 2015 ) . On 7 December 2015 , Hardy won Best Actor at the British Independent Film Awards for his portrayal of the Kray twins , and on the same night attended the premiere of the biographical western thriller The Revenant , in which he reunited with his Inception co - star Leonardo DiCaprio , at Leicester Square , London . On 14 January 2016 , Hardy received his first Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in The Revenant .	What award did you win for your portrayal of the Kray twins?	I won Best Actor at the British Independent Film Awards for my portrayal of the Kray twins.
Hardy appeared on a 2016 Debrett ' s list of the most influential people in the United Kingdom . He was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire ( CBE ) in the 2018 Birthday Honours for services to drama .	In what country did you receive your recognition?	I received my recognition in the United Kingdom.
Hardy is attached to star as British war photographer Don McCullin in a film based on McCullin ' s autobiography , Unreasonable Behaviour . Hardy reprised the role of Eddie Brock and Venom in the sequel Venom : Let There Be Carnage and co - wrote the story for the film . He is also slated to star as the Antarctic explorer Sir Ernest Shackleton in a biopic being created by the same makers of Taboo . The Shackleton film , which will cover one of the most harrowing stories of survival in exploration history , is also being produced by Hardy ' s production company Hardy Son & Baker .	In which film did you reprise the role of Eddie Brock and Venom?	I reprised the role of Eddie Brock and Venom in the sequel Venom: Let There Be Carnage.
In 2010 , Hardy became an ambassador for the Prince ' s Trust , a UK youth charity which provides training , personal development , business start - up support , mentoring , and advice . In 2012 , he and his then - girlfriend ( now - wife ) Charlotte Riley became patrons of Bowel Cancer UK . Prior to the inaugural Invictus Games held in London in September 2014 , he , along with other entertainers and athletes , read the poem " Invictus " in a promotional video .	What types of support does the Prince's Trust provide?	The Prince's Trust provides training, personal development, business start-up support, mentoring, and advice.
In 2010 , Hardy became an ambassador for the Prince ' s Trust , a UK youth charity which provides training , personal development , business start - up support , mentoring , and advice . In 2012 , he and his then - girlfriend ( now - wife ) Charlotte Riley became patrons of Bowel Cancer UK . Prior to the inaugural Invictus Games held in London in September 2014 , he , along with other entertainers and athletes , read the poem " Invictus " in a promotional video .	What poem did you and other entertainers and athletes read in a promotional video?	I and other entertainers and athletes read the poem "Invictus" in a promotional video.
Hardy is attached to star as British war photographer Don McCullin in a film based on McCullin ' s autobiography , Unreasonable Behaviour . Hardy reprised the role of Eddie Brock and Venom in the sequel Venom : Let There Be Carnage and co - wrote the story for the film . He is also slated to star as the Antarctic explorer Sir Ernest Shackleton in a biopic being created by the same makers of Taboo . The Shackleton film , which will cover one of the most harrowing stories of survival in exploration history , is also being produced by Hardy ' s production company Hardy Son & Baker .	Who are you slated to star as in a biopic being created by the same makers of Taboo?	I am slated to star as the Antarctic explorer Sir Ernest Shackleton in a biopic being created by the same makers of Taboo.
An avid practitioner of Brazilian jiu - jitsu , Hardy has been seen training at Roger Gracie ' s affiliate schools and with John Danaher . As of December 2020 , he holds the rank of blue belt . He has won a number of jiu - jitsu competitions , with one such occurrence being at the UMAC Brazilian Jiu - Jitsu Open Championships in September 2022 . He is the lead ambassador for the REORG Brazilian Jiu - Jitsu Foundation , a Royal Marines - backed charity allowing current and former military personnel to learn the martial art as part of their recovery and to combat physical and mental challenges .	Where have you been seen training?	At Roger Gracie's affiliate schools and with John Danaher.
Hardy played a Royal Air Force fighter pilot in Christopher Nolan ' s action - thriller Dunkirk ( 2017 ) , based on the British military evacuation of the French port of Dunkirk in 1940 during the Second World War . He appeared alongside Mark Rylance , Kenneth Branagh , Cillian Murphy and Harry Styles . Hardy also co - produced and starred in the eight - part BBC One television drama series Taboo . It was created by Hardy , Steven Knight , and Hardy ' s father , Edward " Chips " Hardy . Taboo was aired in the United States by FX .	Who did you play in the movie Dunkirk?	I played a Royal Air Force fighter pilot.
In 2014 , Hardy appeared in the crime film The Drop alongside James Gandolfini , in what would be the latter ' s final appearance in a feature film before his death . Hardy also joined the cast of the BBC crime drama Peaky Blinders in its second series . He portrays Alfie Solomons , the head of a Jewish gang and runner of a distillery which disguises itself as a bakery . [ citation needed ]	When did you appear in the crime film The Drop?	I appeared in the crime film The Drop in 2014.
In 2010 , Hardy became an ambassador for the Prince ' s Trust , a UK youth charity which provides training , personal development , business start - up support , mentoring , and advice . In 2012 , he and his then - girlfriend ( now - wife ) Charlotte Riley became patrons of Bowel Cancer UK . Prior to the inaugural Invictus Games held in London in September 2014 , he , along with other entertainers and athletes , read the poem " Invictus " in a promotional video .	What charity organization did you become an ambassador for in 2010?	I became an ambassador for the Prince's Trust in 2010.
Hardy appeared on a 2016 Debrett ' s list of the most influential people in the United Kingdom . He was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire ( CBE ) in the 2018 Birthday Honours for services to drama .	What were you recognized for in the 2018 Birthday Honours?	I was recognized for my services to drama in the 2018 Birthday Honours.
Hardy starred in five films in 2015 . The first , Child 44 , set in 1950s Soviet Union , saw him playing Leo Demidov , a Soviet secret police agent who investigates a series of child murders . Despite mild praise for his acting , Child 44 was reviewed negatively by critics and was a box office failure . Hardy then played the title character , Max Rockatansky , in the action film Mad Max : Fury Road ( 2015 ) . His performance was praised by critics and overall the film received critical acclaim and became a box office success , grossing over $ 378   million against a $ 150   million budget , becoming the highest - grossing film in the Mad Max franchise . He played a dual role as London gangsters Reggie and Ronnie Kray in the crime thriller Legend ( 2015 ) . On 7 December 2015 , Hardy won Best Actor at the British Independent Film Awards for his portrayal of the Kray twins , and on the same night attended the premiere of the biographical western thriller The Revenant , in which he reunited with his Inception co - star Leonardo DiCaprio , at Leicester Square , London . On 14 January 2016 , Hardy received his first Academy Award nomination for Best Supporting Actor for his performance in The Revenant .	How many films did you star in in 2015?	I starred in five films in 2015.
Hardy appeared on a 2016 Debrett ' s list of the most influential people in the United Kingdom . He was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire ( CBE ) in the 2018 Birthday Honours for services to drama .	What title were you appointed in 2018?	I was appointed Commander of the Order of the British Empire (CBE) in 2018.
