Hanks ' next endeavor , released on May 15 , 2009 , was a film adaptation of Angels & Demons , based on the novel of the same name by Dan Brown . Its April 11 , 2007 announcement revealed that Hanks would reprise his role as Robert Langdon , and that he would reportedly receive the highest salary ever for an actor . The following day he made his 10th appearance on NBC ' s Saturday Night Live , impersonating himself for the Celebrity Jeopardy sketch . Hanks produced the Spike Jonze film Where The Wild Things Are , based on the children ' s book by Maurice Sendak in 2009 .	What was the significance of your appearance on NBC's Saturday Night Live?	I made my 10th appearance on NBC's Saturday Night Live, impersonating myself for the Celebrity Jeopardy sketch.
Hanks ' next endeavor , released on May 15 , 2009 , was a film adaptation of Angels & Demons , based on the novel of the same name by Dan Brown . Its April 11 , 2007 announcement revealed that Hanks would reprise his role as Robert Langdon , and that he would reportedly receive the highest salary ever for an actor . The following day he made his 10th appearance on NBC ' s Saturday Night Live , impersonating himself for the Celebrity Jeopardy sketch . Hanks produced the Spike Jonze film Where The Wild Things Are , based on the children ' s book by Maurice Sendak in 2009 .	What film did you produce in 2009?	I produced the Spike Jonze film Where The Wild Things Are, based on the children's book by Maurice Sendak in 2009.
Hanks ' next endeavor , released on May 15 , 2009 , was a film adaptation of Angels & Demons , based on the novel of the same name by Dan Brown . Its April 11 , 2007 announcement revealed that Hanks would reprise his role as Robert Langdon , and that he would reportedly receive the highest salary ever for an actor . The following day he made his 10th appearance on NBC ' s Saturday Night Live , impersonating himself for the Celebrity Jeopardy sketch . Hanks produced the Spike Jonze film Where The Wild Things Are , based on the children ' s book by Maurice Sendak in 2009 .	When was your film adaptation of Angels & Demons released?	My film adaptation of Angels & Demons was released on May 15, 2009.
In 1981 , Hanks met actress Rita Wilson on the set of TV comedy Bosom Buddies ( 1980 – 1982 ) . They were reunited in 1985 on the set of Volunteers . Wilson is of Greek and Bulgarian descent , and a member of the Greek Orthodox Church . Before marrying her , Hanks converted to her faith . Hanks and Wilson married in 1988 and have two sons . The older , Chet , released a rap song in 2011 and had recurring roles in Empire and Shameless . Their younger , Truman , was born in 1995 . Hanks lives with his family in Los Angeles , California , and Ketchum , Idaho .	When did you and Wilson get married?	We got married in 1988.
Hanks had two films released in 2020 . In July 2020 , Hanks starred in Greyhound , a war film which he also wrote the screenplay for . Initially set to be theatrically released in June 2020 by Sony Pictures , due to the COVID - 19 pandemic , distribution rights to the film were bought by Apple TV + , where it was released in July 2020 . Later that year , Hanks starred in the western drama film News of the World , re - teaming with director Paul Greengrass , which was released on December 23 , 2020 . Film critic David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter praised Hanks ' performance in his review writing , " Hanks has built a career out of playing thoroughly decent men , so his casting here is entirely to type . But the soulfulness and sorrow , the innate compassion that ripple through his characterization make this an enormously pleasurable performance to watch , with new depths of both kindness and regret that keep revealing themselves . "	When was News of the World released?	News of the World was released on December 23, 2020.
With Nothing in Common ( 1986 ) — a story of a young man alienated from his father ( played by Jackie Gleason ) — Hanks began to extend himself from comedic roles to dramatic roles . In an interview with Rolling Stone magazine , Hanks commented on his experience : " It changed my desires about working in movies . Part of it was the nature of the material , what we were trying to say . But besides that , it focused on people ' s relationships . The story was about a guy and his father , unlike , say , The Money Pit , where the story is really about a guy and his house . " In 1987 , he had signed an agreement with The Walt Disney Studios where he had starred to a talent pool in an acting / producing pact . After a few more flops and a moderate success with the comedy Dragnet , Hanks ' stature in the film industry rose .	What magazine did you give an interview to?	Rolling Stone magazine
In Philadelphia , he played a gay lawyer with AIDS who sues his firm for discrimination . Hanks lost 35 pounds ( 16   kg ) and thinned his hair in order to appear sickly for the role . In a review for People , Leah Rozen stated , " Above all , credit for Philadelphia ' s success belongs to Hanks , who makes sure that he plays a character , not a saint . He is flat - out terrific , giving a deeply felt , carefully nuanced performance that deserves an Oscar . " Hanks won the 1993 Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Philadelphia . During his acceptance speech , he revealed that his high school drama teacher Rawley Farnsworth and former classmate John Gilkerson , two people with whom he was close , were gay .	Who did you mention in your acceptance speech for your award?	I mentioned my high school drama teacher Rawley Farnsworth and former classmate John Gilkerson, who were both gay.
Hanks ' next endeavor , released on May 15 , 2009 , was a film adaptation of Angels & Demons , based on the novel of the same name by Dan Brown . Its April 11 , 2007 announcement revealed that Hanks would reprise his role as Robert Langdon , and that he would reportedly receive the highest salary ever for an actor . The following day he made his 10th appearance on NBC ' s Saturday Night Live , impersonating himself for the Celebrity Jeopardy sketch . Hanks produced the Spike Jonze film Where The Wild Things Are , based on the children ' s book by Maurice Sendak in 2009 .	What role did you reprise in the film Angels & Demons?	I reprised my role as Robert Langdon in the film Angels & Demons.
Hanks had two films released in 2020 . In July 2020 , Hanks starred in Greyhound , a war film which he also wrote the screenplay for . Initially set to be theatrically released in June 2020 by Sony Pictures , due to the COVID - 19 pandemic , distribution rights to the film were bought by Apple TV + , where it was released in July 2020 . Later that year , Hanks starred in the western drama film News of the World , re - teaming with director Paul Greengrass , which was released on December 23 , 2020 . Film critic David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter praised Hanks ' performance in his review writing , " Hanks has built a career out of playing thoroughly decent men , so his casting here is entirely to type . But the soulfulness and sorrow , the innate compassion that ripple through his characterization make this an enormously pleasurable performance to watch , with new depths of both kindness and regret that keep revealing themselves . "	Who wrote the screenplay for Greyhound?	I wrote the screenplay for Greyhound.
In Philadelphia , he played a gay lawyer with AIDS who sues his firm for discrimination . Hanks lost 35 pounds ( 16   kg ) and thinned his hair in order to appear sickly for the role . In a review for People , Leah Rozen stated , " Above all , credit for Philadelphia ' s success belongs to Hanks , who makes sure that he plays a character , not a saint . He is flat - out terrific , giving a deeply felt , carefully nuanced performance that deserves an Oscar . " Hanks won the 1993 Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Philadelphia . During his acceptance speech , he revealed that his high school drama teacher Rawley Farnsworth and former classmate John Gilkerson , two people with whom he was close , were gay .	What award did you win for your role in Philadelphia?	I won the 1993 Academy Award for Best Actor.
In 1981 , Hanks met actress Rita Wilson on the set of TV comedy Bosom Buddies ( 1980 – 1982 ) . They were reunited in 1985 on the set of Volunteers . Wilson is of Greek and Bulgarian descent , and a member of the Greek Orthodox Church . Before marrying her , Hanks converted to her faith . Hanks and Wilson married in 1988 and have two sons . The older , Chet , released a rap song in 2011 and had recurring roles in Empire and Shameless . Their younger , Truman , was born in 1995 . Hanks lives with his family in Los Angeles , California , and Ketchum , Idaho .	Who did you meet in 1981 on the set of TV comedy Bosom Buddies?	I met actress Rita Wilson.
In 2004 , he appeared in three films : The Coen brothers ' The Ladykillers , another Spielberg film , The Terminal , and The Polar Express , a family film from Zemeckis for which Hanks played multiple motion capture roles . In a USA Weekend interview , Hanks discussed how he chooses projects : " [ Since ] A League of Their Own , it can ' t be just another movie for me . It has to get me going somehow   ... There has to be some all - encompassing desire or feeling about wanting to do that particular movie . I ' d like to assume that I ' m willing to go down any avenue in order to do it right " . In August 2005 , Hanks was voted in as vice president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences .	Who directed The Polar Express?	Zemeckis
In 2004 , he appeared in three films : The Coen brothers ' The Ladykillers , another Spielberg film , The Terminal , and The Polar Express , a family film from Zemeckis for which Hanks played multiple motion capture roles . In a USA Weekend interview , Hanks discussed how he chooses projects : " [ Since ] A League of Their Own , it can ' t be just another movie for me . It has to get me going somehow   ... There has to be some all - encompassing desire or feeling about wanting to do that particular movie . I ' d like to assume that I ' m willing to go down any avenue in order to do it right " . In August 2005 , Hanks was voted in as vice president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences .	Who directed The Terminal?	Spielberg
Hanks ' next role as astronaut and commander Jim Lovell in the 1995 film Apollo 13 reunited him with Ron Howard . Critics generally applauded the film and the performances of the entire cast , which included actors Kevin Bacon , Bill Paxton , Gary Sinise , Ed Harris , and Kathleen Quinlan . The movie also earned nine Academy Award nominations , winning two . Later that year , Hanks starred in Disney / Pixar ' s CGI - animated hit film Toy Story , as the voice of Sheriff Woody .	Who were some of the other actors in Apollo 13?	Kevin Bacon, Bill Paxton, Gary Sinise, Ed Harris, Kathleen Quinlan
Hanks next starred in the highly anticipated film The Da Vinci Code , based on the bestselling novel by Dan Brown . The film was released May 19 , 2006 in the U . S . , and grossed over US $ 750   million worldwide . He followed the film with Ken Burns ' s 2007 documentary The War . For the documentary , Hanks did voice work , reading excerpts from World War II - era columns by Al McIntosh . In 2006 , Hanks topped a 1 , 500 - strong list of " most trusted celebrities " compiled by Forbes magazine . Hanks also produced the animated children ' s movie The Ant Bully in 2006 .	What was the title of the highly anticipated film you starred in?	The Da Vinci Code
Hanks had two films released in 2020 . In July 2020 , Hanks starred in Greyhound , a war film which he also wrote the screenplay for . Initially set to be theatrically released in June 2020 by Sony Pictures , due to the COVID - 19 pandemic , distribution rights to the film were bought by Apple TV + , where it was released in July 2020 . Later that year , Hanks starred in the western drama film News of the World , re - teaming with director Paul Greengrass , which was released on December 23 , 2020 . Film critic David Rooney of The Hollywood Reporter praised Hanks ' performance in his review writing , " Hanks has built a career out of playing thoroughly decent men , so his casting here is entirely to type . But the soulfulness and sorrow , the innate compassion that ripple through his characterization make this an enormously pleasurable performance to watch , with new depths of both kindness and regret that keep revealing themselves . "	Which film did you star in with director Paul Greengrass?	I starred in the western drama film News of the World with director Paul Greengrass.
With Nothing in Common ( 1986 ) — a story of a young man alienated from his father ( played by Jackie Gleason ) — Hanks began to extend himself from comedic roles to dramatic roles . In an interview with Rolling Stone magazine , Hanks commented on his experience : " It changed my desires about working in movies . Part of it was the nature of the material , what we were trying to say . But besides that , it focused on people ' s relationships . The story was about a guy and his father , unlike , say , The Money Pit , where the story is really about a guy and his house . " In 1987 , he had signed an agreement with The Walt Disney Studios where he had starred to a talent pool in an acting / producing pact . After a few more flops and a moderate success with the comedy Dragnet , Hanks ' stature in the film industry rose .	Who played the father role in the movie "With Nothing in Common"?	Jackie Gleason
Hanks next starred in the highly anticipated film The Da Vinci Code , based on the bestselling novel by Dan Brown . The film was released May 19 , 2006 in the U . S . , and grossed over US $ 750   million worldwide . He followed the film with Ken Burns ' s 2007 documentary The War . For the documentary , Hanks did voice work , reading excerpts from World War II - era columns by Al McIntosh . In 2006 , Hanks topped a 1 , 500 - strong list of " most trusted celebrities " compiled by Forbes magazine . Hanks also produced the animated children ' s movie The Ant Bully in 2006 .	Who wrote the bestselling novel that The Da Vinci Code was based on?	Dan Brown
In Philadelphia , he played a gay lawyer with AIDS who sues his firm for discrimination . Hanks lost 35 pounds ( 16   kg ) and thinned his hair in order to appear sickly for the role . In a review for People , Leah Rozen stated , " Above all , credit for Philadelphia ' s success belongs to Hanks , who makes sure that he plays a character , not a saint . He is flat - out terrific , giving a deeply felt , carefully nuanced performance that deserves an Oscar . " Hanks won the 1993 Academy Award for Best Actor for his role in Philadelphia . During his acceptance speech , he revealed that his high school drama teacher Rawley Farnsworth and former classmate John Gilkerson , two people with whom he was close , were gay .	How did Leah Rozen describe your performance in Philadelphia?	Leah Rozen stated that I was "flat-out terrific" and gave a deeply felt, carefully nuanced performance deserving of an Oscar.
Hanks ' next endeavor , released on May 15 , 2009 , was a film adaptation of Angels & Demons , based on the novel of the same name by Dan Brown . Its April 11 , 2007 announcement revealed that Hanks would reprise his role as Robert Langdon , and that he would reportedly receive the highest salary ever for an actor . The following day he made his 10th appearance on NBC ' s Saturday Night Live , impersonating himself for the Celebrity Jeopardy sketch . Hanks produced the Spike Jonze film Where The Wild Things Are , based on the children ' s book by Maurice Sendak in 2009 .	What was the novel that the film Angels & Demons was based on?	The film Angels & Demons was based on the novel of the same name by Dan Brown.
In 1981 , Hanks met actress Rita Wilson on the set of TV comedy Bosom Buddies ( 1980 – 1982 ) . They were reunited in 1985 on the set of Volunteers . Wilson is of Greek and Bulgarian descent , and a member of the Greek Orthodox Church . Before marrying her , Hanks converted to her faith . Hanks and Wilson married in 1988 and have two sons . The older , Chet , released a rap song in 2011 and had recurring roles in Empire and Shameless . Their younger , Truman , was born in 1995 . Hanks lives with his family in Los Angeles , California , and Ketchum , Idaho .	How many sons do you and Wilson have?	We have two sons.
With Nothing in Common ( 1986 ) — a story of a young man alienated from his father ( played by Jackie Gleason ) — Hanks began to extend himself from comedic roles to dramatic roles . In an interview with Rolling Stone magazine , Hanks commented on his experience : " It changed my desires about working in movies . Part of it was the nature of the material , what we were trying to say . But besides that , it focused on people ' s relationships . The story was about a guy and his father , unlike , say , The Money Pit , where the story is really about a guy and his house . " In 1987 , he had signed an agreement with The Walt Disney Studios where he had starred to a talent pool in an acting / producing pact . After a few more flops and a moderate success with the comedy Dragnet , Hanks ' stature in the film industry rose .	According to you, what changed your desires about working in movies?	The experience of working on "With Nothing in Common"
With Nothing in Common ( 1986 ) — a story of a young man alienated from his father ( played by Jackie Gleason ) — Hanks began to extend himself from comedic roles to dramatic roles . In an interview with Rolling Stone magazine , Hanks commented on his experience : " It changed my desires about working in movies . Part of it was the nature of the material , what we were trying to say . But besides that , it focused on people ' s relationships . The story was about a guy and his father , unlike , say , The Money Pit , where the story is really about a guy and his house . " In 1987 , he had signed an agreement with The Walt Disney Studios where he had starred to a talent pool in an acting / producing pact . After a few more flops and a moderate success with the comedy Dragnet , Hanks ' stature in the film industry rose .	What is the title of the movie that you acted in which you began to extend yourself from comedic roles to dramatic roles?	With Nothing in Common (1986)
In 2001 , Hanks helped direct and produce the Emmy Award - winning HBO miniseries Band of Brothers . He also appeared in the September 11 television special America : A Tribute to Heroes and the documentary Rescued From the Closet . He then teamed up with American Beauty director Sam Mendes for the adaptation of Max Allan Collins ' s and Richard Piers Rayner ' s DC Comics graphic novel Road to Perdition , in which he played an anti - hero role as a hitman on the run with his son . That same year , Hanks collaborated once again with director Spielberg , starring opposite Leonardo DiCaprio in the hit biographical crime drama Catch Me If You Can , based on the true story of Frank Abagnale , Jr . The same year , Hanks and his wife Rita Wilson produced the hit movie My Big Fat Greek Wedding . In August 2007 , he along with co - producers Rita Wilson and Gary Goetzman , and writer and star Nia Vardalos , initiated a legal action against the production company Gold Circle Films for their share of profits from the movie . At the age of 45 , Hanks became the youngest - ever recipient of the American Film Institute ' s Life Achievement Award on June 12 , 2002 .	What is the name of the HBO miniseries that you directed and produced?	Band of Brothers
In 2004 , he appeared in three films : The Coen brothers ' The Ladykillers , another Spielberg film , The Terminal , and The Polar Express , a family film from Zemeckis for which Hanks played multiple motion capture roles . In a USA Weekend interview , Hanks discussed how he chooses projects : " [ Since ] A League of Their Own , it can ' t be just another movie for me . It has to get me going somehow   ... There has to be some all - encompassing desire or feeling about wanting to do that particular movie . I ' d like to assume that I ' m willing to go down any avenue in order to do it right " . In August 2005 , Hanks was voted in as vice president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences .	What position were you voted into in August 2005?	Vice president of the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences
