In a 1995 interview with Vibe , Shakur accused Sean Combs , Jimmy Henchman , and the Notorious B . I . G , - who were at Quad Studios at the time - among others , of setting up or being privy to the November 1994 robbery and shooting . Vibe alerted the names of the accused . The accusations were significant to the East - West Coast rivalry in hip - hop ; in 1995 , months after the robbery , Combs and B . I . G . released the track " Who Shot Ya ? " , which Shakur took as a mockery of his shooting and thought they could be responsible , so he released a diss song , " Hit ' Em Up " , in which he targeted B . I . G . , Combs , their record label , Junior M . A . F . I . A . , and at the end of " Hit ' Em Up " , he mentions rivals Mobb Deep and Chino XL .	What were the names of the accused individuals that Vibe alerted?	Vibe alerted the names of Sean Combs, Jimmy Henchman, and the Notorious B.I.G., among others.
On November 30 , 1994 , while in New York recording verses for a mixtape of Ron G , Shakur was repeatedly distracted by his beeper . Music manager James " Jimmy Henchman " Rosemond , reportedly offered Shakur $ 7 , 000 to stop by Quad Studios , in Times Square , that night to record a verse for his client Little Shawn . Shakur was unsure , but agreed to the session as he needed the cash to offset legal costs . He arrived with Stretch and one or two others . In the lobby , three men robbed and beat him at gunpoint ; Shakur resisted and was shot . Shakur speculated that the shooting had been a set - up .	Why did you agree to the session at Quad Studios?	I needed the cash to offset legal costs.
In a 1995 interview with Vibe , Shakur accused Sean Combs , Jimmy Henchman , and the Notorious B . I . G , - who were at Quad Studios at the time - among others , of setting up or being privy to the November 1994 robbery and shooting . Vibe alerted the names of the accused . The accusations were significant to the East - West Coast rivalry in hip - hop ; in 1995 , months after the robbery , Combs and B . I . G . released the track " Who Shot Ya ? " , which Shakur took as a mockery of his shooting and thought they could be responsible , so he released a diss song , " Hit ' Em Up " , in which he targeted B . I . G . , Combs , their record label , Junior M . A . F . I . A . , and at the end of " Hit ' Em Up " , he mentions rivals Mobb Deep and Chino XL .	Who did you accuse of setting up or being privy to the November 1994 robbery and shooting?	I accused Sean Combs, Jimmy Henchman, and the Notorious B.I.G., among others.
In 2014 , BET explained that " his confounding mixture of ladies ' man , thug , revolutionary and poet has forever altered our perception of what a rapper should look like , sound like and act like . In 50 Cent , Ja Rule , Lil Wayne , newcomers like Freddie Gibbs and even his friend - turned - rival B . I . G . , it ' s easy to see that Pac is the most copied MC of all time . There are murals bearing his likeness in New York , Brazil , Sierra Leone , Bulgaria and countless other places ; he even has statues in Atlanta and Germany . Quite simply , no other rapper has captured the world ' s attention the way Tupac did and still does . " More simply , his writings , published after his death , inspired rapper YG to return to school and get his GED . In 2020 , former California Senator and current Vice - president Kamala Harris called Shakur the " best rapper alive " , which she explained because " West Coast girls think 2Pac lives on " .	Who did BET mention as rappers who have copied you?	BET mentioned rappers like 50 Cent, Ja Rule, Lil Wayne, newcomers like Freddie Gibbs, and even my friend-turned-rival B.I.G. as individuals who have copied me.
On November 30 , 1994 , while in New York recording verses for a mixtape of Ron G , Shakur was repeatedly distracted by his beeper . Music manager James " Jimmy Henchman " Rosemond , reportedly offered Shakur $ 7 , 000 to stop by Quad Studios , in Times Square , that night to record a verse for his client Little Shawn . Shakur was unsure , but agreed to the session as he needed the cash to offset legal costs . He arrived with Stretch and one or two others . In the lobby , three men robbed and beat him at gunpoint ; Shakur resisted and was shot . Shakur speculated that the shooting had been a set - up .	When did this incident happen?	On November 30, 1994.
In 1997 , Shakur ' s mother founded the Shakur Family Foundation . Later renamed the Tupac Amaru Shakur Foundation , or TASF , it launched with a stated mission to " provide training and support for students who aspire to enhance their creative talents . " The TASF sponsors essay contests , charity events , a performing arts day camp for teenagers , and undergraduate scholarships . In June 2005 , the TASF opened the Tupac Amaru Shakur Center for the Arts , or TASCA , in Stone Mountain , Georgia . It closed in 2015 .	When was your Family Foundation founded?	In 1997.
On April 15 , 2012 , at the Coachella Music Festival , rappers Snoop Dogg and Dr . Dre joined a Shakur " hologram " ( Although the media referred to the technology as a hologram , technically it was a projection created with the Musion Eyeliner ) , and , as a partly virtual trio , performed the Shakur songs " Hail Mary " and " 2 of Amerikaz Most Wanted " . There were talks of a tour , but Dre refused . Meanwhile , the Greatest Hits album , released in 1998 , and which in 2000 had left the pop albums chart , the Billboard 200 , returned to the chart and reached No . 129 , while also other Shakur albums and singles drew sales gains .	What technology was used to create the "hologram"?	The "hologram" was actually a projection created with the Musion Eyeliner technology.
In 2005 , Death Row released on DVD , Tupac : Live at the House of Blues , his final recorded live performance , an event on July 4 , 1996 . In August 2006 , Tupac Shakur Legacy , an " interactive biography " by Jamal Joseph , arrived with previously unpublished family photographs , intimate stories , and over 20 detachable copies of his handwritten song lyrics , contracts , scripts , poetry , and other papers . In 2006 , the Shakur album Pac ' s Life was released and , like the previous , was among the recording industry ' s most popular releases . In 2008 , his estate made about $ 15   million .	What were some of the contents included in your Legacy?	Previously unpublished family photographs, intimate stories, and over 20 detachable copies of my handwritten song lyrics, contracts, scripts, poetry, and other papers.
In 1997 , Shakur ' s mother founded the Shakur Family Foundation . Later renamed the Tupac Amaru Shakur Foundation , or TASF , it launched with a stated mission to " provide training and support for students who aspire to enhance their creative talents . " The TASF sponsors essay contests , charity events , a performing arts day camp for teenagers , and undergraduate scholarships . In June 2005 , the TASF opened the Tupac Amaru Shakur Center for the Arts , or TASCA , in Stone Mountain , Georgia . It closed in 2015 .	Where was the TASCA located?	Stone Mountain, Georgia.
In its vinyl release , side A , tracks 1 to 8 , is labeled the " Black Side " , while side B , tracks 9 to 16 , is the " Dark Side " . [ citation needed ] Nonetheless , the album carries the single " I Get Around " , a party anthem featuring Digital Underground ' s Shock G and Money - B , which became Shakur ' s breakthrough , reaching No . 11 on the pop singles chart , the Billboard Hot 100 . And it carries the optimistic compassion of another hit , " Keep Ya Head Up " , an anthem for women ' s empowerment . The album was certified Platinum , with a million copies sold . As of 2004 , among Shakur albums , including posthumous and compilation albums , Strictly 4 My N . I . G . G . A . Z ... was 10th in sales at about 1 , 366 , 000 copies .	What is the certification of your album?	My album was certified Platinum.
In 2005 , Death Row released on DVD , Tupac : Live at the House of Blues , his final recorded live performance , an event on July 4 , 1996 . In August 2006 , Tupac Shakur Legacy , an " interactive biography " by Jamal Joseph , arrived with previously unpublished family photographs , intimate stories , and over 20 detachable copies of his handwritten song lyrics , contracts , scripts , poetry , and other papers . In 2006 , the Shakur album Pac ' s Life was released and , like the previous , was among the recording industry ' s most popular releases . In 2008 , his estate made about $ 15   million .	What was the title of the "interactive biography" you released in August 2006?	My legacy is titled "Tupac Shakur Legacy".
In 2014 , BET explained that " his confounding mixture of ladies ' man , thug , revolutionary and poet has forever altered our perception of what a rapper should look like , sound like and act like . In 50 Cent , Ja Rule , Lil Wayne , newcomers like Freddie Gibbs and even his friend - turned - rival B . I . G . , it ' s easy to see that Pac is the most copied MC of all time . There are murals bearing his likeness in New York , Brazil , Sierra Leone , Bulgaria and countless other places ; he even has statues in Atlanta and Germany . Quite simply , no other rapper has captured the world ' s attention the way Tupac did and still does . " More simply , his writings , published after his death , inspired rapper YG to return to school and get his GED . In 2020 , former California Senator and current Vice - president Kamala Harris called Shakur the " best rapper alive " , which she explained because " West Coast girls think 2Pac lives on " .	Whose writings did your published works inspire?	My writings, published after my death, inspired rapper YG to return to school and get his GED.
In 2005 , Death Row released on DVD , Tupac : Live at the House of Blues , his final recorded live performance , an event on July 4 , 1996 . In August 2006 , Tupac Shakur Legacy , an " interactive biography " by Jamal Joseph , arrived with previously unpublished family photographs , intimate stories , and over 20 detachable copies of his handwritten song lyrics , contracts , scripts , poetry , and other papers . In 2006 , the Shakur album Pac ' s Life was released and , like the previous , was among the recording industry ' s most popular releases . In 2008 , his estate made about $ 15   million .	When was your album Pac's Life released?	In 2006.
On November 30 , 1994 , while in New York recording verses for a mixtape of Ron G , Shakur was repeatedly distracted by his beeper . Music manager James " Jimmy Henchman " Rosemond , reportedly offered Shakur $ 7 , 000 to stop by Quad Studios , in Times Square , that night to record a verse for his client Little Shawn . Shakur was unsure , but agreed to the session as he needed the cash to offset legal costs . He arrived with Stretch and one or two others . In the lobby , three men robbed and beat him at gunpoint ; Shakur resisted and was shot . Shakur speculated that the shooting had been a set - up .	How did the incident at Quad Studios unfold?	I was robbed and beaten at gunpoint in the lobby, and I resisted before being shot.
In 1997 , Shakur ' s mother founded the Shakur Family Foundation . Later renamed the Tupac Amaru Shakur Foundation , or TASF , it launched with a stated mission to " provide training and support for students who aspire to enhance their creative talents . " The TASF sponsors essay contests , charity events , a performing arts day camp for teenagers , and undergraduate scholarships . In June 2005 , the TASF opened the Tupac Amaru Shakur Center for the Arts , or TASCA , in Stone Mountain , Georgia . It closed in 2015 .	What is the mission of your Foundation?	To provide training and support for students who aspire to enhance their creative talents.
Shakur ' s second album , Strictly 4 My N . I . G . G . A . Z ... , was released in February 1993 . A critical and commercial success , it debuted at No . 24 on the pop albums chart , the Billboard 200 . An overall more hardcore album , it emphasizes Tupac ' s sociopolitical views , and has a metallic production quality . The song " Last Wordz " features Ice Cube , co - writer of N . W . A ' s " Fuck tha Police " , who in his own solo albums had newly gone militantly political , and gangsta rapper Ice - T , who in June 1992 had sparked controversy with his band Body Count ' s track " Cop Killer " .	What is the overall tone of your second album?	It is more hardcore and emphasizes my sociopolitical views.
On April 5 , 1993 , charged with felonious assault , Shakur allegedly threw a microphone and swung a baseball bat at rapper Chauncey Wynn , of the group M . A . D . , at a concert at Michigan State University . Shakur claimed the bat was a part of his show and there was no criminal intent . Nonetheless , on September 14 , 1994 , Shakur pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor , and was sentenced to 30 days in jail , twenty of them suspended , and ordered to 35 hours of community service .	Who did you allegedly throw a microphone and swing a baseball bat at?	I allegedly threw a microphone and swung a baseball bat at rapper Chauncey Wynn, of the group M.A.D., at a concert at Michigan State University.
In 2014 , BET explained that " his confounding mixture of ladies ' man , thug , revolutionary and poet has forever altered our perception of what a rapper should look like , sound like and act like . In 50 Cent , Ja Rule , Lil Wayne , newcomers like Freddie Gibbs and even his friend - turned - rival B . I . G . , it ' s easy to see that Pac is the most copied MC of all time . There are murals bearing his likeness in New York , Brazil , Sierra Leone , Bulgaria and countless other places ; he even has statues in Atlanta and Germany . Quite simply , no other rapper has captured the world ' s attention the way Tupac did and still does . " More simply , his writings , published after his death , inspired rapper YG to return to school and get his GED . In 2020 , former California Senator and current Vice - president Kamala Harris called Shakur the " best rapper alive " , which she explained because " West Coast girls think 2Pac lives on " .	What did you say about me in 2020?	I, the former California Senator and current Vice President, called you the "best rapper alive" in 2020. I explained this by saying that "West Coast girls think 2Pac lives on."
Shakur ' s second album , Strictly 4 My N . I . G . G . A . Z ... , was released in February 1993 . A critical and commercial success , it debuted at No . 24 on the pop albums chart , the Billboard 200 . An overall more hardcore album , it emphasizes Tupac ' s sociopolitical views , and has a metallic production quality . The song " Last Wordz " features Ice Cube , co - writer of N . W . A ' s " Fuck tha Police " , who in his own solo albums had newly gone militantly political , and gangsta rapper Ice - T , who in June 1992 had sparked controversy with his band Body Count ' s track " Cop Killer " .	When was your second album released?	In February 1993.
On November 30 , 1994 , while in New York recording verses for a mixtape of Ron G , Shakur was repeatedly distracted by his beeper . Music manager James " Jimmy Henchman " Rosemond , reportedly offered Shakur $ 7 , 000 to stop by Quad Studios , in Times Square , that night to record a verse for his client Little Shawn . Shakur was unsure , but agreed to the session as he needed the cash to offset legal costs . He arrived with Stretch and one or two others . In the lobby , three men robbed and beat him at gunpoint ; Shakur resisted and was shot . Shakur speculated that the shooting had been a set - up .	Where were you while this incident took place?	I was in New York.
In 2002 , investigative journalist Chuck Philips , after a year of work , reported in the Los Angeles Times that Anderson , a Southside Compton Crip , having been attacked by Suge and Shakur ' s entourage at the MGM Hotel after the boxing match , had fired the fatal gunshots , but that Las Vegas police had interviewed him only once , briefly , before his death in an unrelated shooting . Philips ' s 2002 article also alleges the involvement of Christopher " Notorious B . I . G . " Wallace and several within New York City ' s criminal underworld . Both Anderson and Wallace denied involvement , while Wallace offered a confirmed alibi . [ unreliable source ? ] Music journalist John Leland , in The New York Times , called the evidence " inconclusive " .	When did Chuck Philips report his findings?	In 2002.
In 2002 , investigative journalist Chuck Philips , after a year of work , reported in the Los Angeles Times that Anderson , a Southside Compton Crip , having been attacked by Suge and Shakur ' s entourage at the MGM Hotel after the boxing match , had fired the fatal gunshots , but that Las Vegas police had interviewed him only once , briefly , before his death in an unrelated shooting . Philips ' s 2002 article also alleges the involvement of Christopher " Notorious B . I . G . " Wallace and several within New York City ' s criminal underworld . Both Anderson and Wallace denied involvement , while Wallace offered a confirmed alibi . [ unreliable source ? ] Music journalist John Leland , in The New York Times , called the evidence " inconclusive " .	Where did the attack by your and Suge's entourage on Anderson take place?	At the MGM Hotel.
On April 5 , 1993 , charged with felonious assault , Shakur allegedly threw a microphone and swung a baseball bat at rapper Chauncey Wynn , of the group M . A . D . , at a concert at Michigan State University . Shakur claimed the bat was a part of his show and there was no criminal intent . Nonetheless , on September 14 , 1994 , Shakur pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor , and was sentenced to 30 days in jail , twenty of them suspended , and ordered to 35 hours of community service .	When were you charged with felonious assault?	I was charged with felonious assault on April 5, 1993.
In its vinyl release , side A , tracks 1 to 8 , is labeled the " Black Side " , while side B , tracks 9 to 16 , is the " Dark Side " . [ citation needed ] Nonetheless , the album carries the single " I Get Around " , a party anthem featuring Digital Underground ' s Shock G and Money - B , which became Shakur ' s breakthrough , reaching No . 11 on the pop singles chart , the Billboard Hot 100 . And it carries the optimistic compassion of another hit , " Keep Ya Head Up " , an anthem for women ' s empowerment . The album was certified Platinum , with a million copies sold . As of 2004 , among Shakur albums , including posthumous and compilation albums , Strictly 4 My N . I . G . G . A . Z ... was 10th in sales at about 1 , 366 , 000 copies .	How many copies of the album were sold as of 2004?	As of 2004, about 1,366,000 copies of the album were sold.
In 2002 , investigative journalist Chuck Philips , after a year of work , reported in the Los Angeles Times that Anderson , a Southside Compton Crip , having been attacked by Suge and Shakur ' s entourage at the MGM Hotel after the boxing match , had fired the fatal gunshots , but that Las Vegas police had interviewed him only once , briefly , before his death in an unrelated shooting . Philips ' s 2002 article also alleges the involvement of Christopher " Notorious B . I . G . " Wallace and several within New York City ' s criminal underworld . Both Anderson and Wallace denied involvement , while Wallace offered a confirmed alibi . [ unreliable source ? ] Music journalist John Leland , in The New York Times , called the evidence " inconclusive " .	Who else did Chuck Philips allege to be involved in the incident?	Christopher "Notorious B.I.G." Wallace and several individuals within New York City's criminal underworld.
