A significant proportion of the money trail leads to Putin ' s best friend Sergei Roldugin . Although a musician , and in his own words , not a businessman , it appears he has accumulated assets valued at $ 100m , and possibly more . It has been suggested he was picked for the role because of his low profile . There have been speculations that Putin , in fact , owns the funds , and Roldugin just acted as a proxy . Garry Kasparov said that " [ Putin ] controls enough money , probably more than any other individual in the history of human race " .	What is Sergei Roldugin's profession?	Musician.
Putin has promoted explicitly conservative policies in social , cultural , and political matters , both at home and abroad . Putin has attacked globalism and neoliberalism , and is identified by scholars with Russian conservatism . Putin has promoted new think tanks that bring together like - minded intellectuals and writers . For example , the Izborsky Club , founded in 2012 by the conservative right - wing journalist Alexander Prokhanov , stresses ( i ) Russian nationalism , ( ii ) the restoration of Russia ' s historical greatness , and ( iii ) systematic opposition to liberal ideas and policies . Vladislav Surkov , a senior government official , has been one of the key economics consultants during Putin ' s presidency .	Who founded the Izborsky Club?	The Izborsky Club was founded by the conservative right-wing journalist Alexander Prokhanov.
Scott Gehlbach , a professor of Political Science at the University of Wisconsin – Madison , has claimed that since 1999 , Putin has systematically punished journalists who challenge his official point of view . Maria Lipman , an American writing in Foreign Affairs claims , " The crackdown that followed Putin ' s return to the Kremlin in 2012 extended to the liberal media , which had until then been allowed to operate fairly independently . " The Internet has attracted Putin ' s attention because his critics have tried to use it to challenge his control of information . Marian K . Leighton , who worked for the CIA as a Soviet analyst in the 1980s says , " Having muzzled Russia ' s print and broadcast media , Putin focused his energies on the Internet . "	What have you claimed about me?	I have claimed that since 1999, you have systematically punished journalists who challenge your official point of view.
Under Putin , Russia ' s relationships with NATO and the U . S . have passed through several stages . When he first became president , relations were cautious , but after the 9 / 11 attacks Putin quickly supported the U . S . in the War on Terror and the opportunity for partnership appeared . According to Stephen F . Cohen , the U . S . " repaid by further expansion of NATO to Russia ' s borders and by unilateral withdrawal from the 1972 Anti - Ballistic Missile Treaty " , but others pointed out the applications from new countries willing to join NATO was driven primarily by Russian ' s behavior in Chechnya , Transnistria , Abkhazia , Yanayev putsch as well as calls to restore USSR in its previous borders by prominent Russian politicians .	How would you describe the initial relationship between Russia and NATO when you became president?	The initial relationship between Russia and NATO when I became president was cautious.
A significant proportion of the money trail leads to Putin ' s best friend Sergei Roldugin . Although a musician , and in his own words , not a businessman , it appears he has accumulated assets valued at $ 100m , and possibly more . It has been suggested he was picked for the role because of his low profile . There have been speculations that Putin , in fact , owns the funds , and Roldugin just acted as a proxy . Garry Kasparov said that " [ Putin ] controls enough money , probably more than any other individual in the history of human race " .	What has been suggested about your involvement in the funds?	It has been suggested that I own the funds and Roldugin acted as a proxy.
The near 10 - year period prior to the rise of Putin after the dissolution of Soviet rule was a time of upheaval in Russia . In a 2005 Kremlin speech , Putin characterized the collapse of the Soviet Union as the " greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the Twentieth Century . " Putin elaborated , " Moreover , the epidemic of disintegration infected Russia itself . " The country ' s cradle - to - grave social safety net was gone and life expectancy declined in the period preceding Putin ' s rule . In 2005 , the National Priority Projects were launched to improve Russia ' s health care , education , housing , and agriculture .	What were the National Priority Projects launched for in 2005?	The National Priority Projects were launched in 2005 to improve Russia's health care, education, housing, and agriculture.
A significant proportion of the money trail leads to Putin ' s best friend Sergei Roldugin . Although a musician , and in his own words , not a businessman , it appears he has accumulated assets valued at $ 100m , and possibly more . It has been suggested he was picked for the role because of his low profile . There have been speculations that Putin , in fact , owns the funds , and Roldugin just acted as a proxy . Garry Kasparov said that " [ Putin ] controls enough money , probably more than any other individual in the history of human race " .	Who does a significant proportion of the money trail lead to?	Sergei Roldugin.
Scott Gehlbach , a professor of Political Science at the University of Wisconsin – Madison , has claimed that since 1999 , Putin has systematically punished journalists who challenge his official point of view . Maria Lipman , an American writing in Foreign Affairs claims , " The crackdown that followed Putin ' s return to the Kremlin in 2012 extended to the liberal media , which had until then been allowed to operate fairly independently . " The Internet has attracted Putin ' s attention because his critics have tried to use it to challenge his control of information . Marian K . Leighton , who worked for the CIA as a Soviet analyst in the 1980s says , " Having muzzled Russia ' s print and broadcast media , Putin focused his energies on the Internet . "	What did you state about your focus on the Internet?	I, who worked for the CIA as a Soviet analyst in the 1980s, stated that after muzzling Russia's print and broadcast media, I focused my energies on the Internet.
In 2000 , Putin launched the " Programme for the Socio - Economic Development of the Russian Federation for the Period 2000 – 2010 " , but it was abandoned in 2008 when it was 30% complete . Fueled by the 2000s commodities boom including record - high oil prices , under the Putin administration from 2000 to 2016 , an increase in income in USD terms was 4.5 times . During Putin ' s first eight years in office , industry grew substantially , as did production , construction , real incomes , credit , and the middle class . A fund for oil revenue allowed Russia to repay all of the Soviet Union ' s debts by 2005 . [ citation needed ] Russia joined the World Trade Organization on 22 August 2012 .	When did Russia join the World Trade Organization?	Russia joined the World Trade Organization on August 22, 2012.
Under Putin , the Hasidic Federation of Jewish Communities of Russia became increasingly influential within the Jewish community , partly due to the influence of Federation - supporting businessmen mediated through their alliances with Putin , notably Lev Leviev and Roman Abramovich . According to the Jewish Telegraphic Agency , Putin is popular amongst the Russian Jewish community , who see him as a force for stability . Russia ' s chief rabbi , Berel Lazar , said Putin " paid great attention to the needs of our community and related to us with a deep respect " . In 2016 , Ronald S . Lauder , the president of the World Jewish Congress , also praised Putin for making Russia " a country where Jews are welcome " .	What was the reason for the increasing influence of the Hasidic Federation?	The influence of Federation-supporting businessmen, Lev Leviev and Roman Abramovich, who mediated through their alliances with me, partly contributed to the increasing influence of the Hasidic Federation.
Scott Gehlbach , a professor of Political Science at the University of Wisconsin – Madison , has claimed that since 1999 , Putin has systematically punished journalists who challenge his official point of view . Maria Lipman , an American writing in Foreign Affairs claims , " The crackdown that followed Putin ' s return to the Kremlin in 2012 extended to the liberal media , which had until then been allowed to operate fairly independently . " The Internet has attracted Putin ' s attention because his critics have tried to use it to challenge his control of information . Marian K . Leighton , who worked for the CIA as a Soviet analyst in the 1980s says , " Having muzzled Russia ' s print and broadcast media , Putin focused his energies on the Internet . "	Who is Scott Gehlbach?	Scott Gehlbach is a professor of Political Science at the University of Wisconsin – Madison.
A significant proportion of the money trail leads to Putin ' s best friend Sergei Roldugin . Although a musician , and in his own words , not a businessman , it appears he has accumulated assets valued at $ 100m , and possibly more . It has been suggested he was picked for the role because of his low profile . There have been speculations that Putin , in fact , owns the funds , and Roldugin just acted as a proxy . Garry Kasparov said that " [ Putin ] controls enough money , probably more than any other individual in the history of human race " .	How much are the accumulated assets of Sergei Roldugin valued at?	$100m, and possibly more.
In May 2014 , Putin ' s approval rating hit 83% , its highest since 2008 . After EU and U . S . sanctions against Russian officials as a result of the crisis in Ukraine , Putin ' s approval rating reached 87% , in a survey published on 6 August 2014 . In February 2015 , based on new domestic polling , Putin was ranked the world ' s most popular politician . In June 2015 , Putin ' s approval rating climbed to 89% , an all - time high . In 2016 , his approval rating was 81% .	When did your approval rating hit its highest level since 2008?	In May 2014.
Leonid Bershidsky analyzed Putin ' s interview with the Financial Times and concluded , " Putin is an imperialist of the old Soviet school , rather than a nationalist or a racist , and he has cooperated with , and promoted , people who are known to be gay . " Putin spoke favorably of artificial intelligence in regards to foreign policy , " Artificial intelligence is the future , not only for Russia , but for all humankind . It comes with colossal opportunities , but also threats that are difficult to predict . Whoever becomes the leader in this sphere will become the ruler of the world . "	How do you feel about artificial intelligence in relation to foreign policy?	I spoke favorably of artificial intelligence, stating that it is the future not just for Russia, but for all humankind.
Leonid Bershidsky analyzed Putin ' s interview with the Financial Times and concluded , " Putin is an imperialist of the old Soviet school , rather than a nationalist or a racist , and he has cooperated with , and promoted , people who are known to be gay . " Putin spoke favorably of artificial intelligence in regards to foreign policy , " Artificial intelligence is the future , not only for Russia , but for all humankind . It comes with colossal opportunities , but also threats that are difficult to predict . Whoever becomes the leader in this sphere will become the ruler of the world . "	What are your views towards nationalism and racism, according to Bershidsky?	Bershidsky concluded that I am neither a nationalist nor a racist.
In 2000 , Putin launched the " Programme for the Socio - Economic Development of the Russian Federation for the Period 2000 – 2010 " , but it was abandoned in 2008 when it was 30% complete . Fueled by the 2000s commodities boom including record - high oil prices , under the Putin administration from 2000 to 2016 , an increase in income in USD terms was 4.5 times . During Putin ' s first eight years in office , industry grew substantially , as did production , construction , real incomes , credit , and the middle class . A fund for oil revenue allowed Russia to repay all of the Soviet Union ' s debts by 2005 . [ citation needed ] Russia joined the World Trade Organization on 22 August 2012 .	What fueled the economic growth under your administration from 2000 to 2016?	The economic growth under my administration was fueled by the 2000s commodities boom, including record-high oil prices.
Leonid Bershidsky analyzed Putin ' s interview with the Financial Times and concluded , " Putin is an imperialist of the old Soviet school , rather than a nationalist or a racist , and he has cooperated with , and promoted , people who are known to be gay . " Putin spoke favorably of artificial intelligence in regards to foreign policy , " Artificial intelligence is the future , not only for Russia , but for all humankind . It comes with colossal opportunities , but also threats that are difficult to predict . Whoever becomes the leader in this sphere will become the ruler of the world . "	What opportunities and threats do you believe come with artificial intelligence?	I believe that artificial intelligence comes with colossal opportunities, but also with unpredictable threats. I also mentioned that whoever becomes the leader in this sphere will become the ruler of the world.
Scott Gehlbach , a professor of Political Science at the University of Wisconsin – Madison , has claimed that since 1999 , Putin has systematically punished journalists who challenge his official point of view . Maria Lipman , an American writing in Foreign Affairs claims , " The crackdown that followed Putin ' s return to the Kremlin in 2012 extended to the liberal media , which had until then been allowed to operate fairly independently . " The Internet has attracted Putin ' s attention because his critics have tried to use it to challenge his control of information . Marian K . Leighton , who worked for the CIA as a Soviet analyst in the 1980s says , " Having muzzled Russia ' s print and broadcast media , Putin focused his energies on the Internet . "	According to Maria Lipman, what happened to the liberal media after your return to the Kremlin in 2012?	According to Maria Lipman, the liberal media, which had until then been allowed to operate fairly independently, faced a crackdown after my return to the Kremlin in 2012.
In 2000 , Putin launched the " Programme for the Socio - Economic Development of the Russian Federation for the Period 2000 – 2010 " , but it was abandoned in 2008 when it was 30% complete . Fueled by the 2000s commodities boom including record - high oil prices , under the Putin administration from 2000 to 2016 , an increase in income in USD terms was 4.5 times . During Putin ' s first eight years in office , industry grew substantially , as did production , construction , real incomes , credit , and the middle class . A fund for oil revenue allowed Russia to repay all of the Soviet Union ' s debts by 2005 . [ citation needed ] Russia joined the World Trade Organization on 22 August 2012 .	How much did the income in USD terms increase during your first eight years in office?	The income in USD terms increased by 4.5 times during my first eight years in office.
In May 2014 , Putin ' s approval rating hit 83% , its highest since 2008 . After EU and U . S . sanctions against Russian officials as a result of the crisis in Ukraine , Putin ' s approval rating reached 87% , in a survey published on 6 August 2014 . In February 2015 , based on new domestic polling , Putin was ranked the world ' s most popular politician . In June 2015 , Putin ' s approval rating climbed to 89% , an all - time high . In 2016 , his approval rating was 81% .	What was your approval rating in 2016?	81%.
Under Putin , Russia ' s relationships with NATO and the U . S . have passed through several stages . When he first became president , relations were cautious , but after the 9 / 11 attacks Putin quickly supported the U . S . in the War on Terror and the opportunity for partnership appeared . According to Stephen F . Cohen , the U . S . " repaid by further expansion of NATO to Russia ' s borders and by unilateral withdrawal from the 1972 Anti - Ballistic Missile Treaty " , but others pointed out the applications from new countries willing to join NATO was driven primarily by Russian ' s behavior in Chechnya , Transnistria , Abkhazia , Yanayev putsch as well as calls to restore USSR in its previous borders by prominent Russian politicians .	What was your stance on the War on Terror?	I quickly supported the U.S. in the War on Terror.
Leonid Bershidsky analyzed Putin ' s interview with the Financial Times and concluded , " Putin is an imperialist of the old Soviet school , rather than a nationalist or a racist , and he has cooperated with , and promoted , people who are known to be gay . " Putin spoke favorably of artificial intelligence in regards to foreign policy , " Artificial intelligence is the future , not only for Russia , but for all humankind . It comes with colossal opportunities , but also threats that are difficult to predict . Whoever becomes the leader in this sphere will become the ruler of the world . "	According to Leonid Bershidsky, how would I describe your ideology?	Leonid Bershidsky described me as an imperialist of the old Soviet school.
The near 10 - year period prior to the rise of Putin after the dissolution of Soviet rule was a time of upheaval in Russia . In a 2005 Kremlin speech , Putin characterized the collapse of the Soviet Union as the " greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the Twentieth Century . " Putin elaborated , " Moreover , the epidemic of disintegration infected Russia itself . " The country ' s cradle - to - grave social safety net was gone and life expectancy declined in the period preceding Putin ' s rule . In 2005 , the National Priority Projects were launched to improve Russia ' s health care , education , housing , and agriculture .	What happened to Russia's social safety net in the period before your rule?	Russia's cradle-to-grave social safety net was gone in the period preceding my rule.
The near 10 - year period prior to the rise of Putin after the dissolution of Soviet rule was a time of upheaval in Russia . In a 2005 Kremlin speech , Putin characterized the collapse of the Soviet Union as the " greatest geopolitical catastrophe of the Twentieth Century . " Putin elaborated , " Moreover , the epidemic of disintegration infected Russia itself . " The country ' s cradle - to - grave social safety net was gone and life expectancy declined in the period preceding Putin ' s rule . In 2005 , the National Priority Projects were launched to improve Russia ' s health care , education , housing , and agriculture .	What did you say in your Kremlin speech about the collapse of the Soviet Union?	I elaborated that the collapse of the Soviet Union infected Russia itself.
In May 2014 , Putin ' s approval rating hit 83% , its highest since 2008 . After EU and U . S . sanctions against Russian officials as a result of the crisis in Ukraine , Putin ' s approval rating reached 87% , in a survey published on 6 August 2014 . In February 2015 , based on new domestic polling , Putin was ranked the world ' s most popular politician . In June 2015 , Putin ' s approval rating climbed to 89% , an all - time high . In 2016 , his approval rating was 81% .	When were you ranked as the world's most popular politician?	In February 2015.
