Shakespeare conformed to the official state religion , [ j ] but his private views on religion have been the subject of debate . Shakespeare ' s will uses a Protestant formula , and he was a confirmed member of the Church of England , where he was married , his children were baptised , and where he is buried . Some scholars claim that members of Shakespeare ' s family were Catholics , at a time when practising Catholicism in England was against the law . Shakespeare ' s mother , Mary Arden , certainly came from a pious Catholic family . The strongest evidence might be a Catholic statement of faith signed by his father , John Shakespeare , found in 1757 in the rafters of his former house in Henley Street . However , the document is now lost and scholars differ as to its authenticity . In 1591 , the authorities reported that John Shakespeare had missed church " for fear of process for debt " , a common Catholic excuse . In 1606 , the name of William ' s daughter Susanna appears on a list of those who failed to attend Easter communion in Stratford . Other authors argue that there is a lack of evidence about Shakespeare ' s religious beliefs . Scholars find evidence both for and against Shakespeare ' s Catholicism , Protestantism , or lack of belief in his plays , but the truth may be impossible to prove .	Did your family have any ties to Catholicism?	Some scholars claim that members of my family were Catholics.
Alfred Pollard termed some of the pre - 1623 versions as " bad quartos " because of their adapted , paraphrased or garbled texts , which may in places have been reconstructed from memory . Where several versions of a play survive , each differs from the other . The differences may stem from copying or printing errors , from notes by actors or audience members , or from Shakespeare ' s own papers . In some cases , for example , Hamlet , Troilus and Cressida , and Othello , Shakespeare could have revised the texts between the quarto and folio editions . In the case of King Lear , however , while most modern editions do conflate them , the 1623 folio version is so different from the 1608 quarto that the Oxford Shakespeare prints them both , arguing that they cannot be conflated without confusion .	What are the possible reasons for the differences between versions of a play?	The differences between versions of a play may stem from copying or printing errors, notes by actors or audience members, or from my own papers.
Nicholas Rowe was the first biographer to record the tradition , repeated by Samuel Johnson , that Shakespeare retired to Stratford " some years before his death " . He was still working as an actor in London in 1608 ; in an answer to the sharers ' petition in 1635 , Cuthbert Burbage stated that after purchasing the lease of the Blackfriars Theatre in 1608 from Henry Evans , the King ' s Men " placed men players " there , " which were Heminges , Condell , Shakespeare , etc . " . However , it is perhaps relevant that the bubonic plague raged in London throughout 1609 . The London public playhouses were repeatedly closed during extended outbreaks of the plague ( a total of over 60 months closure between May 1603 and February 1610 ) , which meant there was often no acting work . Retirement from all work was uncommon at that time . Shakespeare continued to visit London during the years 1611 – 1614 . In 1612 , he was called as a witness in Bellott v Mountjoy , a court case concerning the marriage settlement of Mountjoy ' s daughter , Mary . In March 1613 , he bought a gatehouse in the former Blackfriars priory ; and from November 1614 , he was in London for several weeks with his son - in - law , John Hall . After 1610 , Shakespeare wrote fewer plays , and none are attributed to him after 1613 . His last three plays were collaborations , probably with John Fletcher , who succeeded him as the house playwright of the King ' s Men . He retired in 1613 , before the Globe Theatre burned down during the performance of Henry VIII on 29 June .	Who was the first biographer to record the tradition about you retiring to Stratford?	Nicholas Rowe.
Nicholas Rowe was the first biographer to record the tradition , repeated by Samuel Johnson , that Shakespeare retired to Stratford " some years before his death " . He was still working as an actor in London in 1608 ; in an answer to the sharers ' petition in 1635 , Cuthbert Burbage stated that after purchasing the lease of the Blackfriars Theatre in 1608 from Henry Evans , the King ' s Men " placed men players " there , " which were Heminges , Condell , Shakespeare , etc . " . However , it is perhaps relevant that the bubonic plague raged in London throughout 1609 . The London public playhouses were repeatedly closed during extended outbreaks of the plague ( a total of over 60 months closure between May 1603 and February 1610 ) , which meant there was often no acting work . Retirement from all work was uncommon at that time . Shakespeare continued to visit London during the years 1611 – 1614 . In 1612 , he was called as a witness in Bellott v Mountjoy , a court case concerning the marriage settlement of Mountjoy ' s daughter , Mary . In March 1613 , he bought a gatehouse in the former Blackfriars priory ; and from November 1614 , he was in London for several weeks with his son - in - law , John Hall . After 1610 , Shakespeare wrote fewer plays , and none are attributed to him after 1613 . His last three plays were collaborations , probably with John Fletcher , who succeeded him as the house playwright of the King ' s Men . He retired in 1613 , before the Globe Theatre burned down during the performance of Henry VIII on 29 June .	When did you purchase the lease of the Blackfriars Theatre?	In 1608.
It is not clear for which companies Shakespeare wrote his early plays . The title page of the 1594 edition of Titus Andronicus reveals that the play had been acted by three different troupes . After the plagues of 1592 – 93 , Shakespeare ' s plays were performed by his own company at The Theatre and the Curtain in Shoreditch , north of the Thames . Londoners flocked there to see the first part of Henry IV , Leonard Digges recording , " Let but Falstaff come , Hal , Poins , the rest   ... and you scarce shall have a room " . When the company found themselves in dispute with their landlord , they pulled The Theatre down and used the timbers to construct the Globe Theatre , the first playhouse built by actors for actors , on the south bank of the Thames at Southwark . The Globe opened in autumn 1599 , with Julius Caesar one of the first plays staged . Most of Shakespeare ' s greatest post - 1599 plays were written for the Globe , including Hamlet , Othello , and King Lear .	When did your theatre open and what was one of the first plays staged?	My theatre opened in autumn 1599 and one of the first plays staged was Julius Caesar.
Shakespeare died on 23 April 1616 , at the age of 52 . [ e ] He died within a month of signing his will , a document which he begins by describing himself as being in " perfect health " . No extant contemporary source explains how or why he died . Half a century later , John Ward , the vicar of Stratford , wrote in his notebook : " Shakespeare , Drayton , and Ben Jonson had a merry meeting and , it seems , drank too hard , for Shakespeare died of a fever there contracted " , not an impossible scenario since Shakespeare knew Jonson and Drayton . Of the tributes from fellow authors , one refers to his relatively sudden death : " We wondered , Shakespeare , that thou went ' st so soon / From the world ' s stage to the grave ' s tiring room . " [ f ]	Do you know how or why I died?	No extant contemporary source explains how or why I died.
In the early 17th century , Shakespeare wrote the so - called " problem plays " Measure for Measure , Troilus and Cressida , and All ' s Well That Ends Well and a number of his best known tragedies . Many critics believe that Shakespeare ' s greatest tragedies represent the peak of his art . The titular hero of one of Shakespeare ' s greatest tragedies , Hamlet , has probably been discussed more than any other Shakespearean character , especially for his famous soliloquy which begins " To be or not to be ; that is the question " . Unlike the introverted Hamlet , whose fatal flaw is hesitation , the heroes of the tragedies that followed , Othello and King Lear , are undone by hasty errors of judgement . The plots of Shakespeare ' s tragedies often hinge on such fatal errors or flaws , which overturn order and destroy the hero and those he loves . In Othello , the villain Iago stokes Othello ' s sexual jealousy to the point where he murders the innocent wife who loves him . In King Lear , the old king commits the tragic error of giving up his powers , initiating the events which lead to the torture and blinding of the Earl of Gloucester and the murder of Lear ' s youngest daughter Cordelia . According to the critic Frank Kermode , " the play ... offers neither its good characters nor its audience any relief from its cruelty " . In Macbeth , the shortest and most compressed of Shakespeare ' s tragedies , uncontrollable ambition incites Macbeth and his wife , Lady Macbeth , to murder the rightful king and usurp the throne until their own guilt destroys them in turn . In this play , Shakespeare adds a supernatural element to the tragic structure . His last major tragedies , Antony and Cleopatra and Coriolanus , contain some of Shakespeare ' s finest poetry and were considered his most successful tragedies by the poet and critic T . S . Eliot .	What fatal flaw do you possess?	My fatal flaw is hesitation.
Shakespeare ' s early classical and Italianate comedies , containing tight double plots and precise comic sequences , give way in the mid - 1590s to the romantic atmosphere of his most acclaimed comedies . A Midsummer Night ' s Dream is a witty mixture of romance , fairy magic , and comic lowlife scenes . Shakespeare ' s next comedy , the equally romantic Merchant of Venice , contains a portrayal of the vengeful Jewish moneylender Shylock , which reflects dominant Elizabethan views but may appear derogatory to modern audiences . The wit and wordplay of Much Ado About Nothing , the charming rural setting of As You Like It , and the lively merrymaking of Twelfth Night complete Shakespeare ' s sequence of great comedies . After the lyrical Richard II , written almost entirely in verse , Shakespeare introduced prose comedy into the histories of the late 1590s , Henry IV , parts 1 and 2 , and Henry V . His characters become more complex and tender as he switches deftly between comic and serious scenes , prose and poetry , and achieves the narrative variety of his mature work . This period begins and ends with two tragedies : Romeo and Juliet , the famous romantic tragedy of sexually charged adolescence , love , and death ; and Julius Caesar — based on Sir Thomas North ' s 1579 translation of Plutarch ' s Parallel Lives — which introduced a new kind of drama . According to Shakespearean scholar James Shapiro , in Julius Caesar , " the various strands of politics , character , inwardness , contemporary events , even Shakespeare ' s own reflections on the act of writing , began to infuse each other " .	What are the characteristics of Much Ado About Nothing?	Much Ado About Nothing is known for its wit and wordplay.
Shakespeare influenced novelists such as Thomas Hardy , William Faulkner , and Charles Dickens . The American novelist Herman Melville ' s soliloquies owe much to Shakespeare ; his Captain Ahab in Moby - Dick is a classic tragic hero , inspired by King Lear . Scholars have identified 20 , 000 pieces of music linked to Shakespeare ' s works . These include three operas by Giuseppe Verdi , Macbeth , Otello and Falstaff , whose critical standing compares with that of the source plays . Shakespeare has also inspired many painters , including the Romantics and the Pre - Raphaelites , while William Hogarth ' s 1745 painting of actor David Garrick playing Richard III was decisive in establishing the genre of theatrical portraiture in Britain . The Swiss Romantic artist Henry Fuseli , a friend of William Blake , even translated Macbeth into German . The psychoanalyst Sigmund Freud drew on Shakespearean psychology , in particular , that of Hamlet , for his theories of human nature . Shakespeare has been a rich source for filmmakers ; Akira Kurosawa adapted Macbeth and King Lear as Throne of Blood and Ran , respectively . Other examples of Shakespeare on film include Max Reinhardt ' s A Midsummer Night ' s Dream , Laurence Olivier ' s Hamlet and Al Pacino ' s documentary Looking For Richard . Orson Welles , a lifelong lover of Shakespeare , directed and starred in films of Macbeth and Othello , and Chimes at Midnight , in which he plays John Falstaff , which Welles himself called his best work .	How many pieces of music linked to your works have scholars identified?	20,000.
After Hamlet , Shakespeare varied his poetic style further , particularly in the more emotional passages of the late tragedies . The literary critic A . C . Bradley described this style as " more concentrated , rapid , varied , and , in construction , less regular , not seldom twisted or elliptical " . In the last phase of his career , Shakespeare adopted many techniques to achieve these effects . These included run - on lines , irregular pauses and stops , and extreme variations in sentence structure and length . In Macbeth , for example , the language darts from one unrelated metaphor or simile to another : " was the hope drunk / Wherein you dressed yourself ? " ( 1.7 . 35 – 38 ) ; " ...   pity , like a naked new - born babe / Striding the blast , or heaven ' s cherubim , hors ' d / Upon the sightless couriers of the air   ... " ( 1.7 . 21 – 25 ) . The listener is challenged to complete the sense . The late romances , with their shifts in time and surprising turns of plot , inspired a last poetic style in which long and short sentences are set against one another , clauses are piled up , subject and object are reversed , and words are omitted , creating an effect of spontaneity .	How did you describe my style in the late tragedies?	I described your style as "more concentrated, rapid, varied, and, in construction, less regular, not seldom twisted or elliptical."
Alfred Pollard termed some of the pre - 1623 versions as " bad quartos " because of their adapted , paraphrased or garbled texts , which may in places have been reconstructed from memory . Where several versions of a play survive , each differs from the other . The differences may stem from copying or printing errors , from notes by actors or audience members , or from Shakespeare ' s own papers . In some cases , for example , Hamlet , Troilus and Cressida , and Othello , Shakespeare could have revised the texts between the quarto and folio editions . In the case of King Lear , however , while most modern editions do conflate them , the 1623 folio version is so different from the 1608 quarto that the Oxford Shakespeare prints them both , arguing that they cannot be conflated without confusion .	What did Alfred Pollard call some of the pre - 1623 versions?	Alfred Pollard termed some of the pre - 1623 versions as "bad quartos".
After Hamlet , Shakespeare varied his poetic style further , particularly in the more emotional passages of the late tragedies . The literary critic A . C . Bradley described this style as " more concentrated , rapid , varied , and , in construction , less regular , not seldom twisted or elliptical " . In the last phase of his career , Shakespeare adopted many techniques to achieve these effects . These included run - on lines , irregular pauses and stops , and extreme variations in sentence structure and length . In Macbeth , for example , the language darts from one unrelated metaphor or simile to another : " was the hope drunk / Wherein you dressed yourself ? " ( 1.7 . 35 – 38 ) ; " ...   pity , like a naked new - born babe / Striding the blast , or heaven ' s cherubim , hors ' d / Upon the sightless couriers of the air   ... " ( 1.7 . 21 – 25 ) . The listener is challenged to complete the sense . The late romances , with their shifts in time and surprising turns of plot , inspired a last poetic style in which long and short sentences are set against one another , clauses are piled up , subject and object are reversed , and words are omitted , creating an effect of spontaneity .	Can I provide an example from Macbeth where the language darts from one unrelated metaphor or simile to another?	In Macbeth, the language darts from one unrelated metaphor or simile to another in the lines, "was the hope drunk / Wherein you dressed yourself?" and "...pity, like a naked new-born babe / Striding the blast, or heaven's cherubim, hors'd / Upon the sightless couriers of the air..."
After Hamlet , Shakespeare varied his poetic style further , particularly in the more emotional passages of the late tragedies . The literary critic A . C . Bradley described this style as " more concentrated , rapid , varied , and , in construction , less regular , not seldom twisted or elliptical " . In the last phase of his career , Shakespeare adopted many techniques to achieve these effects . These included run - on lines , irregular pauses and stops , and extreme variations in sentence structure and length . In Macbeth , for example , the language darts from one unrelated metaphor or simile to another : " was the hope drunk / Wherein you dressed yourself ? " ( 1.7 . 35 – 38 ) ; " ...   pity , like a naked new - born babe / Striding the blast , or heaven ' s cherubim , hors ' d / Upon the sightless couriers of the air   ... " ( 1.7 . 21 – 25 ) . The listener is challenged to complete the sense . The late romances , with their shifts in time and surprising turns of plot , inspired a last poetic style in which long and short sentences are set against one another , clauses are piled up , subject and object are reversed , and words are omitted , creating an effect of spontaneity .	How did you vary your poetic style after Hamlet?	I varied my poetic style further, particularly in the more emotional passages of the late tragedies.
Shakespeare died on 23 April 1616 , at the age of 52 . [ e ] He died within a month of signing his will , a document which he begins by describing himself as being in " perfect health " . No extant contemporary source explains how or why he died . Half a century later , John Ward , the vicar of Stratford , wrote in his notebook : " Shakespeare , Drayton , and Ben Jonson had a merry meeting and , it seems , drank too hard , for Shakespeare died of a fever there contracted " , not an impossible scenario since Shakespeare knew Jonson and Drayton . Of the tributes from fellow authors , one refers to his relatively sudden death : " We wondered , Shakespeare , that thou went ' st so soon / From the world ' s stage to the grave ' s tiring room . " [ f ]	When did you die?	I died on 23 April 1616.
It is not clear for which companies Shakespeare wrote his early plays . The title page of the 1594 edition of Titus Andronicus reveals that the play had been acted by three different troupes . After the plagues of 1592 – 93 , Shakespeare ' s plays were performed by his own company at The Theatre and the Curtain in Shoreditch , north of the Thames . Londoners flocked there to see the first part of Henry IV , Leonard Digges recording , " Let but Falstaff come , Hal , Poins , the rest   ... and you scarce shall have a room " . When the company found themselves in dispute with their landlord , they pulled The Theatre down and used the timbers to construct the Globe Theatre , the first playhouse built by actors for actors , on the south bank of the Thames at Southwark . The Globe opened in autumn 1599 , with Julius Caesar one of the first plays staged . Most of Shakespeare ' s greatest post - 1599 plays were written for the Globe , including Hamlet , Othello , and King Lear .	What did Leonard Digges record about the first part of Henry IV?	Leonard Digges recorded that Londoners flocked to see the first part of Henry IV and said, "Let but Falstaff come, Hal, Poins, the rest ... and you scarce shall have a room."
Alfred Pollard termed some of the pre - 1623 versions as " bad quartos " because of their adapted , paraphrased or garbled texts , which may in places have been reconstructed from memory . Where several versions of a play survive , each differs from the other . The differences may stem from copying or printing errors , from notes by actors or audience members , or from Shakespeare ' s own papers . In some cases , for example , Hamlet , Troilus and Cressida , and Othello , Shakespeare could have revised the texts between the quarto and folio editions . In the case of King Lear , however , while most modern editions do conflate them , the 1623 folio version is so different from the 1608 quarto that the Oxford Shakespeare prints them both , arguing that they cannot be conflated without confusion .	What is the difference between your 1623 folio version and your 1608 quarto version of King Lear?	My 1623 folio version of King Lear is so different from my 1608 quarto version that most modern editions do not conflate them.
Alfred Pollard termed some of the pre - 1623 versions as " bad quartos " because of their adapted , paraphrased or garbled texts , which may in places have been reconstructed from memory . Where several versions of a play survive , each differs from the other . The differences may stem from copying or printing errors , from notes by actors or audience members , or from Shakespeare ' s own papers . In some cases , for example , Hamlet , Troilus and Cressida , and Othello , Shakespeare could have revised the texts between the quarto and folio editions . In the case of King Lear , however , while most modern editions do conflate them , the 1623 folio version is so different from the 1608 quarto that the Oxford Shakespeare prints them both , arguing that they cannot be conflated without confusion .	Which plays did you potentially revise between the quarto and folio editions?	I potentially revised the texts of Hamlet, Troilus and Cressida, and Othello between the quarto and folio editions.
After Hamlet , Shakespeare varied his poetic style further , particularly in the more emotional passages of the late tragedies . The literary critic A . C . Bradley described this style as " more concentrated , rapid , varied , and , in construction , less regular , not seldom twisted or elliptical " . In the last phase of his career , Shakespeare adopted many techniques to achieve these effects . These included run - on lines , irregular pauses and stops , and extreme variations in sentence structure and length . In Macbeth , for example , the language darts from one unrelated metaphor or simile to another : " was the hope drunk / Wherein you dressed yourself ? " ( 1.7 . 35 – 38 ) ; " ...   pity , like a naked new - born babe / Striding the blast , or heaven ' s cherubim , hors ' d / Upon the sightless couriers of the air   ... " ( 1.7 . 21 – 25 ) . The listener is challenged to complete the sense . The late romances , with their shifts in time and surprising turns of plot , inspired a last poetic style in which long and short sentences are set against one another , clauses are piled up , subject and object are reversed , and words are omitted , creating an effect of spontaneity .	What techniques did you adopt in the last phase of your career to achieve certain effects?	I adopted techniques such as run-on lines, irregular pauses and stops, and extreme variations in sentence structure and length.
Nicholas Rowe was the first biographer to record the tradition , repeated by Samuel Johnson , that Shakespeare retired to Stratford " some years before his death " . He was still working as an actor in London in 1608 ; in an answer to the sharers ' petition in 1635 , Cuthbert Burbage stated that after purchasing the lease of the Blackfriars Theatre in 1608 from Henry Evans , the King ' s Men " placed men players " there , " which were Heminges , Condell , Shakespeare , etc . " . However , it is perhaps relevant that the bubonic plague raged in London throughout 1609 . The London public playhouses were repeatedly closed during extended outbreaks of the plague ( a total of over 60 months closure between May 1603 and February 1610 ) , which meant there was often no acting work . Retirement from all work was uncommon at that time . Shakespeare continued to visit London during the years 1611 – 1614 . In 1612 , he was called as a witness in Bellott v Mountjoy , a court case concerning the marriage settlement of Mountjoy ' s daughter , Mary . In March 1613 , he bought a gatehouse in the former Blackfriars priory ; and from November 1614 , he was in London for several weeks with his son - in - law , John Hall . After 1610 , Shakespeare wrote fewer plays , and none are attributed to him after 1613 . His last three plays were collaborations , probably with John Fletcher , who succeeded him as the house playwright of the King ' s Men . He retired in 1613 , before the Globe Theatre burned down during the performance of Henry VIII on 29 June .	During what years did you continue to visit London?	1611-1614.
In the early 17th century , Shakespeare wrote the so - called " problem plays " Measure for Measure , Troilus and Cressida , and All ' s Well That Ends Well and a number of his best known tragedies . Many critics believe that Shakespeare ' s greatest tragedies represent the peak of his art . The titular hero of one of Shakespeare ' s greatest tragedies , Hamlet , has probably been discussed more than any other Shakespearean character , especially for his famous soliloquy which begins " To be or not to be ; that is the question " . Unlike the introverted Hamlet , whose fatal flaw is hesitation , the heroes of the tragedies that followed , Othello and King Lear , are undone by hasty errors of judgement . The plots of Shakespeare ' s tragedies often hinge on such fatal errors or flaws , which overturn order and destroy the hero and those he loves . In Othello , the villain Iago stokes Othello ' s sexual jealousy to the point where he murders the innocent wife who loves him . In King Lear , the old king commits the tragic error of giving up his powers , initiating the events which lead to the torture and blinding of the Earl of Gloucester and the murder of Lear ' s youngest daughter Cordelia . According to the critic Frank Kermode , " the play ... offers neither its good characters nor its audience any relief from its cruelty " . In Macbeth , the shortest and most compressed of Shakespeare ' s tragedies , uncontrollable ambition incites Macbeth and his wife , Lady Macbeth , to murder the rightful king and usurp the throne until their own guilt destroys them in turn . In this play , Shakespeare adds a supernatural element to the tragic structure . His last major tragedies , Antony and Cleopatra and Coriolanus , contain some of Shakespeare ' s finest poetry and were considered his most successful tragedies by the poet and critic T . S . Eliot .	What major event occurs in Macbeth that leads to your and Lady Macbeth's destruction?	The major event that occurs in Macbeth is my uncontrollable ambition that incites me and Lady Macbeth to murder the rightful king and usurp the throne, ultimately leading to our own guilt and destruction.
Shakespeare died on 23 April 1616 , at the age of 52 . [ e ] He died within a month of signing his will , a document which he begins by describing himself as being in " perfect health " . No extant contemporary source explains how or why he died . Half a century later , John Ward , the vicar of Stratford , wrote in his notebook : " Shakespeare , Drayton , and Ben Jonson had a merry meeting and , it seems , drank too hard , for Shakespeare died of a fever there contracted " , not an impossible scenario since Shakespeare knew Jonson and Drayton . Of the tributes from fellow authors , one refers to his relatively sudden death : " We wondered , Shakespeare , that thou went ' st so soon / From the world ' s stage to the grave ' s tiring room . " [ f ]	According to John Ward, how did you die?	According to John Ward, I died of a fever contracted during a merry meeting with Drayton and Ben Jonson.
Between the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660 and the end of the 17th century , classical ideas were in vogue . As a result , critics of the time mostly rated Shakespeare below John Fletcher and Ben Jonson . Thomas Rymer , for example , condemned Shakespeare for mixing the comic with the tragic . Nevertheless , poet and critic John Dryden rated Shakespeare highly , saying of Jonson , " I admire him , but I love Shakespeare " . He also famously remarked that Shakespeare " was naturally learned ; he needed not the spectacles of books to read nature ; he looked inwards , and found her there . " For several decades , Rymer ' s view held sway . But during the 18th century , critics began to respond to Shakespeare on his own terms and , like Dryden , to acclaim what they termed his natural genius . A series of scholarly editions of his work , notably those of Samuel Johnson in 1765 and Edmond Malone in 1790 , added to his growing reputation . By 1800 , he was firmly enshrined as the national poet . In the 18th and 19th centuries , his reputation also spread abroad . Among those who championed him were the writers Voltaire , Goethe , Stendhal , and Victor Hugo . [ i ]	Who were some of the critics that rated you below John Fletcher and Ben Jonson?	Thomas Rymer
Between the Restoration of the monarchy in 1660 and the end of the 17th century , classical ideas were in vogue . As a result , critics of the time mostly rated Shakespeare below John Fletcher and Ben Jonson . Thomas Rymer , for example , condemned Shakespeare for mixing the comic with the tragic . Nevertheless , poet and critic John Dryden rated Shakespeare highly , saying of Jonson , " I admire him , but I love Shakespeare " . He also famously remarked that Shakespeare " was naturally learned ; he needed not the spectacles of books to read nature ; he looked inwards , and found her there . " For several decades , Rymer ' s view held sway . But during the 18th century , critics began to respond to Shakespeare on his own terms and , like Dryden , to acclaim what they termed his natural genius . A series of scholarly editions of his work , notably those of Samuel Johnson in 1765 and Edmond Malone in 1790 , added to his growing reputation . By 1800 , he was firmly enshrined as the national poet . In the 18th and 19th centuries , his reputation also spread abroad . Among those who championed him were the writers Voltaire , Goethe , Stendhal , and Victor Hugo . [ i ]	Who wrote scholarly editions of your work in the 18th century?	Samuel Johnson and Edmond Malone
It is not clear for which companies Shakespeare wrote his early plays . The title page of the 1594 edition of Titus Andronicus reveals that the play had been acted by three different troupes . After the plagues of 1592 – 93 , Shakespeare ' s plays were performed by his own company at The Theatre and the Curtain in Shoreditch , north of the Thames . Londoners flocked there to see the first part of Henry IV , Leonard Digges recording , " Let but Falstaff come , Hal , Poins , the rest   ... and you scarce shall have a room " . When the company found themselves in dispute with their landlord , they pulled The Theatre down and used the timbers to construct the Globe Theatre , the first playhouse built by actors for actors , on the south bank of the Thames at Southwark . The Globe opened in autumn 1599 , with Julius Caesar one of the first plays staged . Most of Shakespeare ' s greatest post - 1599 plays were written for the Globe , including Hamlet , Othello , and King Lear .	What does the title page of the 1594 edition of Titus Andronicus reveal?	The title page reveals that the play had been acted by three different troupes.
It is not clear for which companies Shakespeare wrote his early plays . The title page of the 1594 edition of Titus Andronicus reveals that the play had been acted by three different troupes . After the plagues of 1592 – 93 , Shakespeare ' s plays were performed by his own company at The Theatre and the Curtain in Shoreditch , north of the Thames . Londoners flocked there to see the first part of Henry IV , Leonard Digges recording , " Let but Falstaff come , Hal , Poins , the rest   ... and you scarce shall have a room " . When the company found themselves in dispute with their landlord , they pulled The Theatre down and used the timbers to construct the Globe Theatre , the first playhouse built by actors for actors , on the south bank of the Thames at Southwark . The Globe opened in autumn 1599 , with Julius Caesar one of the first plays staged . Most of Shakespeare ' s greatest post - 1599 plays were written for the Globe , including Hamlet , Othello , and King Lear .	Where were your plays performed after the plagues of 1592-93?	My plays were performed by my own company at The Theatre and the Curtain in Shoreditch, north of the Thames.
