Smith again reprised his role as Agent J with Men in Black 3 , which opened on May 25 , 2012 , his first major starring role in four years . After the release of the film , Smith was content with ending his work with the franchise , saying , " I think three is enough for me . Three of anything is enough for me . We ' ll look at it and we ' ll consider it , but it feels like that it might be time to let someone else do that . " Men in Black 3 , released ten years after Men in Black II ( 2002 ) , grossed over $ 624   million worldwide . Unadjusted for inflation , it is the highest - grossing film in the series .	What is the name of the film in which you reprised your role as Agent J?	Men in Black 3
Smith donated $ 4 , 600 to the 2008 presidential campaign of Democrat Barack Obama . On December 11 , 2009 , Smith and his wife hosted the Nobel Peace Prize Concert in Oslo , Norway , to celebrate Obama ' s winning of the prize . In 2012 , Smith said he supported legalizing same - sex marriage . In 2021 , Smith announced that production of his upcoming film , Emancipation , was being pulled from the U . S . state of Georgia because of the recent passage of the Election Integrity Act of 2021 , which critics viewed as a restrictive voting law , negatively impacting non - white voters . Smith and director Antoine Fuqua released a joint statement : " We cannot in good conscience provide economic support to a government that enacts regressive voting laws that are designed to restrict voter access " .	When did you and your wife host the Nobel Peace Prize Concert?	My wife and I hosted the Nobel Peace Prize Concert on December 11, 2009.
His film Bright was distributed via Netflix on December 22 , 2017 . An urban fantasy , it was the most expensive film for Netflix to date . Smith collaborated with his director from Suicide Squad , David Ayer . This would also be another critical disappointment for Smith , with critics panning the movie . Richard Roeper of The Chicago Sun - Times criticized the film and Smith ' s performance writing , " By the time Will Smith barks [ the line , " Dude , you can ' t go through elf town ! " ] with 100 percent urgency and sincerity in the mindboggling mess that is " Bright , " it ' s clear we are watching a truly terrible , mountainous pile of genre - blending garbage . "	How did critics receive your film Bright?	Critics panned the film, with Richard Roeper of The Chicago Sun-Times criticizing both the film and my performance.
In Concussion , Smith played Dr . Bennet Omalu of the Brain Injury Research Institute , the first to discover chronic traumatic encephalopathy . Smith reported he had doubts about the film early in the production , saying , " some of my happiest memories are of watching my son catch and throw a football . I didn ' t want to be the guy who did a movie saying football could be dangerous . " These views subsided when he met Omalu , whose words about American ideals resonated with Smith . Smith ' s performance was praised for being " sensitive [ and ] understated " .	What made you change your views about the film?	My views changed after I met Dr. Bennet Omalu, whose words about American ideals resonated with me.
Smith donated $ 4 , 600 to the 2008 presidential campaign of Democrat Barack Obama . On December 11 , 2009 , Smith and his wife hosted the Nobel Peace Prize Concert in Oslo , Norway , to celebrate Obama ' s winning of the prize . In 2012 , Smith said he supported legalizing same - sex marriage . In 2021 , Smith announced that production of his upcoming film , Emancipation , was being pulled from the U . S . state of Georgia because of the recent passage of the Election Integrity Act of 2021 , which critics viewed as a restrictive voting law , negatively impacting non - white voters . Smith and director Antoine Fuqua released a joint statement : " We cannot in good conscience provide economic support to a government that enacts regressive voting laws that are designed to restrict voter access " .	Why did you announce the pull of your film production from Georgia?	I announced the pull of my film production from Georgia because of the recent passage of the Election Integrity Act of 2021, which critics viewed as a restrictive voting law negatively impacting non-white voters.
2003 saw Smith return for Bad Boys II , the sequel to the 1995 film Bad Boys ; the film follows detectives Burnett and Lowrey investigating the flow of ecstasy into Miami . Despite receiving generally negative reviews , the film was a box - office success , grossing $ 270   million worldwide . In the following year , he starred in the science fiction film I , Robot and the animated film Shark Tale ; both films were box office successes despite mixed reviews . Smith ' s latest album Lost and Found was released in 2005 , peaking at number six on the Billboard 200 . Lead single " Switch " reached the top ten of both the Billboard Hot 100 and the UK Singles Chart . In 2005 , Smith was entered into the Guinness Book of World Records for attending three premieres in a 24 - hour time span . Smith and his son Jaden played father and son in the 2006 biographical drama The Pursuit of Happyness . In the film Smith portrays Chris Gardner . Smith first became interested in making a film about Gardner after seeing him on 20 / 20 and connected with him during production . The film , along with Smith ' s performance , received praise .	What was the title of the sequel that you returned for in 2003?	Bad Boys II
Smith portrayed heavyweight boxer Muhammad Ali in the 2001 biopic Ali . For his performance he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor , and the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor   – Motion Picture Drama . In 2002 , following a four - year musical hiatus , Smith returned with his third album Born to Reign , which reached number 13 on the Billboard 200 and was certified gold by the RIAA . The album ' s lead single was the theme song from Smith ' s film Men in Black II , called " Black Suits Comin ' ( Nod Ya Head ) " , which reached number three on the UK Singles Chart . Later in the year , Smith ' s first compilation album Greatest Hits was released , featuring songs from his three solo albums as well as those produced with DJ Jazzy Jeff .	How did your album Born to Reign perform on the Billboard 200?	It reached number 13
In 2016 , Smith played Deadshot in the supervillain team - up action film Suicide Squad . Smith ' s participation in the film meant choosing it over a role in Independence Day : Resurgence , which he said would be like " clinging and clawing backwards . " While Suicide Squad was a massive financial success , earning over $ 700 million at the box office , the film received negative reviews from critics . Christopher Orr , film critic from The Atlantic wrote that " the latest offering from the DC Comics superhero universe may be the most disastrous yet " . Later that year , Smith starred in director David Frankel ' s drama Collateral Beauty , playing a New York advertising executive who succumbs to a deep depression after a personal tragedy . Weeks after signing Smith onto the film , his father was diagnosed with cancer , from which he died in 2016 . As part of his role required him to read about religion and the afterlife , he was brought closer to the elder Smith , calling the experience " a beautiful way to prepare for a movie and an even more majestic way to say goodbye to my father . " The film marked the lowest box office opening of Will Smith ' s career . The film also received near universal negative reviews from film critics . Hollywood Reporter critic David Rooney criticized Smith ' s performance writing as " the least interesting component in a madly overqualified cast " .	What role did you play in the film Collateral Beauty?	I played a New York advertising executive in the film Collateral Beauty.
Smith again reprised his role as Agent J with Men in Black 3 , which opened on May 25 , 2012 , his first major starring role in four years . After the release of the film , Smith was content with ending his work with the franchise , saying , " I think three is enough for me . Three of anything is enough for me . We ' ll look at it and we ' ll consider it , but it feels like that it might be time to let someone else do that . " Men in Black 3 , released ten years after Men in Black II ( 2002 ) , grossed over $ 624   million worldwide . Unadjusted for inflation , it is the highest - grossing film in the series .	How long was it since you had your last major starring role before Men in Black 3?	Four years
On December 10 , 2007 , Smith was honored at Grauman ' s Chinese Theatre on Hollywood Boulevard . Smith left an imprint of his hands and feet outside the theater in front of many fans . Later that month , Smith starred in the film I Am Legend , released on December 14 , 2007 . Alongside marginally positive reviews , its opening was the largest ever for a film released in the United States during December . Smith himself has said that he considers the film to be " aggressively unique " . A reviewer said that the film ' s commercial success " cemented [ Smith ' s ] standing as the number one box office draw in Hollywood . " On December 1 , 2008 , TV Guide reported that Smith was selected as one of America ' s top ten most fascinating people of 2008 for a Barbara Walters ABC special that aired on December 4 , 2008 .	What was notable about the film's opening?	The film's opening was the largest ever for a film released in the United States during December.
Smith portrayed heavyweight boxer Muhammad Ali in the 2001 biopic Ali . For his performance he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor , and the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor   – Motion Picture Drama . In 2002 , following a four - year musical hiatus , Smith returned with his third album Born to Reign , which reached number 13 on the Billboard 200 and was certified gold by the RIAA . The album ' s lead single was the theme song from Smith ' s film Men in Black II , called " Black Suits Comin ' ( Nod Ya Head ) " , which reached number three on the UK Singles Chart . Later in the year , Smith ' s first compilation album Greatest Hits was released , featuring songs from his three solo albums as well as those produced with DJ Jazzy Jeff .	What was the lead single from your album Born to Reign?	"Black Suits Comin' (Nod Ya Head)"
Smith again reprised his role as Agent J with Men in Black 3 , which opened on May 25 , 2012 , his first major starring role in four years . After the release of the film , Smith was content with ending his work with the franchise , saying , " I think three is enough for me . Three of anything is enough for me . We ' ll look at it and we ' ll consider it , but it feels like that it might be time to let someone else do that . " Men in Black 3 , released ten years after Men in Black II ( 2002 ) , grossed over $ 624   million worldwide . Unadjusted for inflation , it is the highest - grossing film in the series .	When did Men in Black 3 open?	May 25, 2012
Later that year , Smith had his second starring role in an animated film , in Spies in Disguise , opposite Tom Holland . Smith voiced Lance Sterling , a spy who teams up with the nerdy inventor who creates his gadgets ( Holland ) . In 2020 , he reteamed with Martin Lawrence for the third film in their franchise , Bad Boys for Life . In 2019 , Smith invested $ 46 million in esports organization Gen . G with Smith ' s Dreamers Fund , which he co - founded with Keisuke Honda . In June 2020 , it was announced that Smith would star in Emancipation , directed by Antoine Fuqua , in which he portrays Peter , a runaway slave , who outsmarts hunters and the Louisiana swamp on a journey to the Union Army .	In what year did you invest in esports organization Gen. G?	2019.
In Concussion , Smith played Dr . Bennet Omalu of the Brain Injury Research Institute , the first to discover chronic traumatic encephalopathy . Smith reported he had doubts about the film early in the production , saying , " some of my happiest memories are of watching my son catch and throw a football . I didn ' t want to be the guy who did a movie saying football could be dangerous . " These views subsided when he met Omalu , whose words about American ideals resonated with Smith . Smith ' s performance was praised for being " sensitive [ and ] understated " .	What did Dr. Bennet Omalu discover?	Dr. Bennet Omalu was the first to discover chronic traumatic encephalopathy.
His film Bright was distributed via Netflix on December 22 , 2017 . An urban fantasy , it was the most expensive film for Netflix to date . Smith collaborated with his director from Suicide Squad , David Ayer . This would also be another critical disappointment for Smith , with critics panning the movie . Richard Roeper of The Chicago Sun - Times criticized the film and Smith ' s performance writing , " By the time Will Smith barks [ the line , " Dude , you can ' t go through elf town ! " ] with 100 percent urgency and sincerity in the mindboggling mess that is " Bright , " it ' s clear we are watching a truly terrible , mountainous pile of genre - blending garbage . "	What genre does your film Bright belong to?	Bright is an urban fantasy film.
Later that year , Smith had his second starring role in an animated film , in Spies in Disguise , opposite Tom Holland . Smith voiced Lance Sterling , a spy who teams up with the nerdy inventor who creates his gadgets ( Holland ) . In 2020 , he reteamed with Martin Lawrence for the third film in their franchise , Bad Boys for Life . In 2019 , Smith invested $ 46 million in esports organization Gen . G with Smith ' s Dreamers Fund , which he co - founded with Keisuke Honda . In June 2020 , it was announced that Smith would star in Emancipation , directed by Antoine Fuqua , in which he portrays Peter , a runaway slave , who outsmarts hunters and the Louisiana swamp on a journey to the Union Army .	Who did you team up with in Bad Boys for Life?	Martin Lawrence.
On December 10 , 2007 , Smith was honored at Grauman ' s Chinese Theatre on Hollywood Boulevard . Smith left an imprint of his hands and feet outside the theater in front of many fans . Later that month , Smith starred in the film I Am Legend , released on December 14 , 2007 . Alongside marginally positive reviews , its opening was the largest ever for a film released in the United States during December . Smith himself has said that he considers the film to be " aggressively unique " . A reviewer said that the film ' s commercial success " cemented [ Smith ' s ] standing as the number one box office draw in Hollywood . " On December 1 , 2008 , TV Guide reported that Smith was selected as one of America ' s top ten most fascinating people of 2008 for a Barbara Walters ABC special that aired on December 4 , 2008 .	When did the Barbara Walters ABC special featuring you air?	The Barbara Walters ABC special featuring me aired on December 4, 2008.
Smith donated $ 4 , 600 to the 2008 presidential campaign of Democrat Barack Obama . On December 11 , 2009 , Smith and his wife hosted the Nobel Peace Prize Concert in Oslo , Norway , to celebrate Obama ' s winning of the prize . In 2012 , Smith said he supported legalizing same - sex marriage . In 2021 , Smith announced that production of his upcoming film , Emancipation , was being pulled from the U . S . state of Georgia because of the recent passage of the Election Integrity Act of 2021 , which critics viewed as a restrictive voting law , negatively impacting non - white voters . Smith and director Antoine Fuqua released a joint statement : " We cannot in good conscience provide economic support to a government that enacts regressive voting laws that are designed to restrict voter access " .	What issue did you express your support for in 2012?	In 2012, I expressed my support for legalizing same-sex marriage.
During the 94th Academy Awards on March 27 , 2022 , Smith walked onstage and slapped presenter and comedian Chris Rock who had made a joke about his wife Jada Pinkett Smith ' s shaved head with a reference to the main protagonist in the film G . I . Jane . Smith then returned to his seat and yelled at Rock , twice saying " Keep my wife ' s name out your fucking mouth ! " Pinkett Smith had been diagnosed with alopecia areata in 2018 and would later shave her head due to the condition . The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ( AMPAS ) said that Smith was asked to leave the ceremony but he refused . Later in the night , Smith was named Best Actor for King Richard and apologized to the Academy and the other nominees , but not to Rock , in his acceptance speech . Following public backlash , Smith issued a formal apology via a public Instagram post . ABC , AMPAS , and the Screen Actors Guild condemned Smith following the incident , prompting an investigation by the Academy ' s Board of Governors . Rock declined to press charges against Smith , according to the Los Angeles Police Department . On April 1 , 2022 , Smith tendered his resignation from the Academy , writing in part :	How did you react after slapping Chris Rock?	After slapping Chris Rock, I returned to my seat and yelled at Rock, twice saying "Keep my wife's name out your fucking mouth!"
During the 94th Academy Awards on March 27 , 2022 , Smith walked onstage and slapped presenter and comedian Chris Rock who had made a joke about his wife Jada Pinkett Smith ' s shaved head with a reference to the main protagonist in the film G . I . Jane . Smith then returned to his seat and yelled at Rock , twice saying " Keep my wife ' s name out your fucking mouth ! " Pinkett Smith had been diagnosed with alopecia areata in 2018 and would later shave her head due to the condition . The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences ( AMPAS ) said that Smith was asked to leave the ceremony but he refused . Later in the night , Smith was named Best Actor for King Richard and apologized to the Academy and the other nominees , but not to Rock , in his acceptance speech . Following public backlash , Smith issued a formal apology via a public Instagram post . ABC , AMPAS , and the Screen Actors Guild condemned Smith following the incident , prompting an investigation by the Academy ' s Board of Governors . Rock declined to press charges against Smith , according to the Los Angeles Police Department . On April 1 , 2022 , Smith tendered his resignation from the Academy , writing in part :	What action did the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) take regarding your behavior?	The Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences (AMPAS) said that I was asked to leave the ceremony but I refused. Later, an investigation was prompted by the Academy's Board of Governors.
On December 10 , 2007 , Smith was honored at Grauman ' s Chinese Theatre on Hollywood Boulevard . Smith left an imprint of his hands and feet outside the theater in front of many fans . Later that month , Smith starred in the film I Am Legend , released on December 14 , 2007 . Alongside marginally positive reviews , its opening was the largest ever for a film released in the United States during December . Smith himself has said that he considers the film to be " aggressively unique " . A reviewer said that the film ' s commercial success " cemented [ Smith ' s ] standing as the number one box office draw in Hollywood . " On December 1 , 2008 , TV Guide reported that Smith was selected as one of America ' s top ten most fascinating people of 2008 for a Barbara Walters ABC special that aired on December 4 , 2008 .	When was your film "I Am Legend" released?	My film "I Am Legend" was released on December 14, 2007.
In Concussion , Smith played Dr . Bennet Omalu of the Brain Injury Research Institute , the first to discover chronic traumatic encephalopathy . Smith reported he had doubts about the film early in the production , saying , " some of my happiest memories are of watching my son catch and throw a football . I didn ' t want to be the guy who did a movie saying football could be dangerous . " These views subsided when he met Omalu , whose words about American ideals resonated with Smith . Smith ' s performance was praised for being " sensitive [ and ] understated " .	How was your performance in Concussion described?	My performance in Concussion was praised for being "sensitive [and] understated."
On December 10 , 2007 , Smith was honored at Grauman ' s Chinese Theatre on Hollywood Boulevard . Smith left an imprint of his hands and feet outside the theater in front of many fans . Later that month , Smith starred in the film I Am Legend , released on December 14 , 2007 . Alongside marginally positive reviews , its opening was the largest ever for a film released in the United States during December . Smith himself has said that he considers the film to be " aggressively unique " . A reviewer said that the film ' s commercial success " cemented [ Smith ' s ] standing as the number one box office draw in Hollywood . " On December 1 , 2008 , TV Guide reported that Smith was selected as one of America ' s top ten most fascinating people of 2008 for a Barbara Walters ABC special that aired on December 4 , 2008 .	When were you selected as one of America's top ten most fascinating people?	I was selected as one of America's top ten most fascinating people in 2008.
2003 saw Smith return for Bad Boys II , the sequel to the 1995 film Bad Boys ; the film follows detectives Burnett and Lowrey investigating the flow of ecstasy into Miami . Despite receiving generally negative reviews , the film was a box - office success , grossing $ 270   million worldwide . In the following year , he starred in the science fiction film I , Robot and the animated film Shark Tale ; both films were box office successes despite mixed reviews . Smith ' s latest album Lost and Found was released in 2005 , peaking at number six on the Billboard 200 . Lead single " Switch " reached the top ten of both the Billboard Hot 100 and the UK Singles Chart . In 2005 , Smith was entered into the Guinness Book of World Records for attending three premieres in a 24 - hour time span . Smith and his son Jaden played father and son in the 2006 biographical drama The Pursuit of Happyness . In the film Smith portrays Chris Gardner . Smith first became interested in making a film about Gardner after seeing him on 20 / 20 and connected with him during production . The film , along with Smith ' s performance , received praise .	What were the two films that you starred in the following year?	I, Robot and Shark Tale
Smith again reprised his role as Agent J with Men in Black 3 , which opened on May 25 , 2012 , his first major starring role in four years . After the release of the film , Smith was content with ending his work with the franchise , saying , " I think three is enough for me . Three of anything is enough for me . We ' ll look at it and we ' ll consider it , but it feels like that it might be time to let someone else do that . " Men in Black 3 , released ten years after Men in Black II ( 2002 ) , grossed over $ 624   million worldwide . Unadjusted for inflation , it is the highest - grossing film in the series .	How much did Men in Black 3 gross worldwide?	Over $624 million
Smith portrayed heavyweight boxer Muhammad Ali in the 2001 biopic Ali . For his performance he was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor , and the Golden Globe Award for Best Actor   – Motion Picture Drama . In 2002 , following a four - year musical hiatus , Smith returned with his third album Born to Reign , which reached number 13 on the Billboard 200 and was certified gold by the RIAA . The album ' s lead single was the theme song from Smith ' s film Men in Black II , called " Black Suits Comin ' ( Nod Ya Head ) " , which reached number three on the UK Singles Chart . Later in the year , Smith ' s first compilation album Greatest Hits was released , featuring songs from his three solo albums as well as those produced with DJ Jazzy Jeff .	Which two awards were you nominated for your performance in Ali?	I was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Actor and Golden Globe Award for Best Actor - Motion Picture Drama.
