In January 1943 , Churchill met Roosevelt at the Casablanca Conference ( codename Symbol ) , which lasted ten days . It was also attended by General Charles de Gaulle on behalf of the Free French Forces . Stalin had hoped to attend but declined because of the situation at Stalingrad . Although Churchill expressed doubts on the matter , the so - called Casablanca Declaration committed the Allies to securing " unconditional surrender " by the Axis powers . From Morocco , Churchill went to Cairo , Adana , Cyprus , Cairo again and Algiers for various purposes . He arrived home on 7 February having been out of the country for nearly a month . He addressed the Commons on the 11th and then became seriously ill with pneumonia the following day , necessitating more than one month of rest , recuperation and convalescence – for the latter , he moved to Chequers . He returned to work in London on 15 March .	Why did Stalin decline to attend the Casablanca Conference?	Because of the situation at Stalingrad.
Also in September , Churchill ' s fifth and last child , Mary , was born , and in the same month he purchased Chartwell , in Kent , which became his family home for the rest of his lifetime . In October 1922 , he underwent an operation for appendicitis . While he was in hospital , Lloyd George ' s coalition was dissolved . In the general election , Churchill lost his Dundee seat to Edwin Scrymgeour , a prohibitionist candidate . Later , he wrote that he was " without an office , without a seat , without a party , and without an appendix " . Still , he could be satisfied with his elevation as one of 50 Companions of Honour , as named in Lloyd George ' s 1922 Dissolution Honours list .	When did you undergo an operation for appendicitis?	I underwent an operation for appendicitis in October 1922.
In the summer of 1910 , Churchill had to deal with the Tonypandy Riot , in which coal miners in the Rhondda Valley violently protested against their working conditions . The Chief Constable of Glamorgan requested troops to help police quell the rioting . Churchill , learning that the troops were already travelling , allowed them to go as far as Swindon and Cardiff , but blocked their deployment ; he was concerned that the use of troops could lead to bloodshed . Instead he sent 270 London police , who were not equipped with firearms , to assist their Welsh counterparts . As the riots continued , he offered the protesters an interview with the government ' s chief industrial arbitrator , which they accepted . Privately , Churchill regarded both the mine owners and striking miners as being " very unreasonable " . The Times and other media outlets accused him of being too soft on the rioters ; in contrast , many in the Labour Party , which was linked to the trade unions , regarded him as having been too heavy - handed . In consequence of the latter , Churchill incurred the long - term suspicion of the labour movement .	How many London police did you send to assist your Welsh counterparts during the riots?	I sent 270 London police to assist my Welsh counterparts.
As First Lord , Churchill was tasked with overseeing Britain ' s naval effort when the First World War began in August 1914 . In the same month , the navy transported 120 , 000 British troops to France and began a blockade of Germany ' s North Sea ports . Churchill sent submarines to the Baltic Sea to assist the Russian Navy and he sent the Marine Brigade to Ostend , forcing a reallocation of German troops . In September , Churchill assumed full responsibility for Britain ' s aerial defence . On 7 October , Clementine gave birth to their third child , Sarah . In October , Churchill visited Antwerp to observe Belgian defences against the besieging Germans and promised British reinforcements for the city . Soon afterwards , however , Antwerp fell to the Germans and Churchill was criticised in the press . He maintained that his actions had prolonged resistance and enabled the Allies to secure Calais and Dunkirk . In November , Asquith called a War Council , consisting of himself , Lloyd George , Edward Grey , Kitchener , and Churchill . Churchill set the development of the tank on the right track , and financed its creation with Admiralty funds .	What did you finance with Admiralty funds?	I financed the creation of the tank with Admiralty funds.
As First Lord , Churchill was tasked with overseeing Britain ' s naval effort when the First World War began in August 1914 . In the same month , the navy transported 120 , 000 British troops to France and began a blockade of Germany ' s North Sea ports . Churchill sent submarines to the Baltic Sea to assist the Russian Navy and he sent the Marine Brigade to Ostend , forcing a reallocation of German troops . In September , Churchill assumed full responsibility for Britain ' s aerial defence . On 7 October , Clementine gave birth to their third child , Sarah . In October , Churchill visited Antwerp to observe Belgian defences against the besieging Germans and promised British reinforcements for the city . Soon afterwards , however , Antwerp fell to the Germans and Churchill was criticised in the press . He maintained that his actions had prolonged resistance and enabled the Allies to secure Calais and Dunkirk . In November , Asquith called a War Council , consisting of himself , Lloyd George , Edward Grey , Kitchener , and Churchill . Churchill set the development of the tank on the right track , and financed its creation with Admiralty funds .	Who did you promise British reinforcements to in October?	I promised British reinforcements to Antwerp.
In October 1916 , Asquith resigned as Prime Minister and was succeeded by Lloyd George who , in May 1917 , sent Churchill to inspect the French war effort . In July , Churchill was appointed Minister of Munitions . He quickly negotiated an end to a strike in munitions factories along the Clyde and increased munitions production . It was in his October 1917 letter to the attention of his Cabinet colleagues that he penned the plan of attack for the next year that would bring final victory to the Allies . He ended a second strike , in June 1918 , by threatening to conscript strikers into the army . In the House of Commons , Churchill voted in support of the Representation of the People Act 1918 , which gave some British women the right to vote . In November 1918 , four days after the Armistice , Churchill ' s fourth child , Marigold , was born .	What position were you appointed to in July?	I was appointed Minister of Munitions in July.
The Churchills ' first child , Diana , was born in July 1909 ; the second , Randolph , in May 1911 . Their third , Sarah , was born in October 1914 , and their fourth , Marigold , in November 1918 . Marigold died in August 1921 , from sepsis of the throat , and she was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery . Although her remains were re - located to Bladon churchyard in 2019 to join the rest of her family , her cenotaph still stands at Kensal Green . On 15 September 1922 , the Churchills ' last child , Mary , was born . Later that month , the Churchills bought Chartwell , which would be their home until Winston ' s death in 1965 . According to Jenkins , Churchill was an " enthusiastic and loving father " but one who expected too much of his children .	When were you born?	I was born on 15 September 1922.
Until the outbreak of the Second World War , Churchill ' s approach to politics generated widespread " mistrust and dislike " , largely on account of his two party defections . His biographers have variously categorised him , in terms of political ideology , as " fundamentally conservative " , " ( always ) liberal in outlook " , and " never circumscribed by party affiliation " . Jenkins says that Churchill ' s self - belief was " far stronger than any class or tribal loyalty " . Whether Churchill was a conservative or a liberal , he was nearly always opposed to socialism because of its propensity for state planning and his belief in free markets . The exception was during his wartime coalition when he was completely reliant upon the support of his Labour colleagues . Although the Labour leaders were willing to join his coalition , Churchill had long been regarded as an enemy of the working class . His response to the Rhondda Valley unrest and his anti - socialist rhetoric brought condemnation from socialists . They saw him as a reactionary who represented imperialism , militarism , and the interests of the upper classes in the class war . His role in opposing the General Strike earned the enmity of many strikers and most members of the Labour movement . Paradoxically , Churchill was supportive of trade unionism , which he saw as the " antithesis of socialism " .	How did your political approach generate mistrust and dislike?	My approach to politics generated mistrust and dislike largely because of my two party defections.
In January 1943 , Churchill met Roosevelt at the Casablanca Conference ( codename Symbol ) , which lasted ten days . It was also attended by General Charles de Gaulle on behalf of the Free French Forces . Stalin had hoped to attend but declined because of the situation at Stalingrad . Although Churchill expressed doubts on the matter , the so - called Casablanca Declaration committed the Allies to securing " unconditional surrender " by the Axis powers . From Morocco , Churchill went to Cairo , Adana , Cyprus , Cairo again and Algiers for various purposes . He arrived home on 7 February having been out of the country for nearly a month . He addressed the Commons on the 11th and then became seriously ill with pneumonia the following day , necessitating more than one month of rest , recuperation and convalescence – for the latter , he moved to Chequers . He returned to work in London on 15 March .	Who attended the Casablanca Conference on behalf of the Free French Forces?	General Charles de Gaulle.
The Churchills ' first child , Diana , was born in July 1909 ; the second , Randolph , in May 1911 . Their third , Sarah , was born in October 1914 , and their fourth , Marigold , in November 1918 . Marigold died in August 1921 , from sepsis of the throat , and she was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery . Although her remains were re - located to Bladon churchyard in 2019 to join the rest of her family , her cenotaph still stands at Kensal Green . On 15 September 1922 , the Churchills ' last child , Mary , was born . Later that month , the Churchills bought Chartwell , which would be their home until Winston ' s death in 1965 . According to Jenkins , Churchill was an " enthusiastic and loving father " but one who expected too much of his children .	When were you born?	I was born in July 1909.
As First Lord , Churchill was tasked with overseeing Britain ' s naval effort when the First World War began in August 1914 . In the same month , the navy transported 120 , 000 British troops to France and began a blockade of Germany ' s North Sea ports . Churchill sent submarines to the Baltic Sea to assist the Russian Navy and he sent the Marine Brigade to Ostend , forcing a reallocation of German troops . In September , Churchill assumed full responsibility for Britain ' s aerial defence . On 7 October , Clementine gave birth to their third child , Sarah . In October , Churchill visited Antwerp to observe Belgian defences against the besieging Germans and promised British reinforcements for the city . Soon afterwards , however , Antwerp fell to the Germans and Churchill was criticised in the press . He maintained that his actions had prolonged resistance and enabled the Allies to secure Calais and Dunkirk . In November , Asquith called a War Council , consisting of himself , Lloyd George , Edward Grey , Kitchener , and Churchill . Churchill set the development of the tank on the right track , and financed its creation with Admiralty funds .	What did you do with the submarines in August 1914?	I sent submarines to the Baltic Sea to assist the Russian Navy.
Until the outbreak of the Second World War , Churchill ' s approach to politics generated widespread " mistrust and dislike " , largely on account of his two party defections . His biographers have variously categorised him , in terms of political ideology , as " fundamentally conservative " , " ( always ) liberal in outlook " , and " never circumscribed by party affiliation " . Jenkins says that Churchill ' s self - belief was " far stronger than any class or tribal loyalty " . Whether Churchill was a conservative or a liberal , he was nearly always opposed to socialism because of its propensity for state planning and his belief in free markets . The exception was during his wartime coalition when he was completely reliant upon the support of his Labour colleagues . Although the Labour leaders were willing to join his coalition , Churchill had long been regarded as an enemy of the working class . His response to the Rhondda Valley unrest and his anti - socialist rhetoric brought condemnation from socialists . They saw him as a reactionary who represented imperialism , militarism , and the interests of the upper classes in the class war . His role in opposing the General Strike earned the enmity of many strikers and most members of the Labour movement . Paradoxically , Churchill was supportive of trade unionism , which he saw as the " antithesis of socialism " .	How did socialists perceive you in the class war?	Socialists perceived me as a reactionary who represented imperialism, militarism, and the interests of the upper classes in the class war.
The Churchills ' first child , Diana , was born in July 1909 ; the second , Randolph , in May 1911 . Their third , Sarah , was born in October 1914 , and their fourth , Marigold , in November 1918 . Marigold died in August 1921 , from sepsis of the throat , and she was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery . Although her remains were re - located to Bladon churchyard in 2019 to join the rest of her family , her cenotaph still stands at Kensal Green . On 15 September 1922 , the Churchills ' last child , Mary , was born . Later that month , the Churchills bought Chartwell , which would be their home until Winston ' s death in 1965 . According to Jenkins , Churchill was an " enthusiastic and loving father " but one who expected too much of his children .	When were you born and when did you die?	I was born in November 1918 and I died in August 1921.
Until the outbreak of the Second World War , Churchill ' s approach to politics generated widespread " mistrust and dislike " , largely on account of his two party defections . His biographers have variously categorised him , in terms of political ideology , as " fundamentally conservative " , " ( always ) liberal in outlook " , and " never circumscribed by party affiliation " . Jenkins says that Churchill ' s self - belief was " far stronger than any class or tribal loyalty " . Whether Churchill was a conservative or a liberal , he was nearly always opposed to socialism because of its propensity for state planning and his belief in free markets . The exception was during his wartime coalition when he was completely reliant upon the support of his Labour colleagues . Although the Labour leaders were willing to join his coalition , Churchill had long been regarded as an enemy of the working class . His response to the Rhondda Valley unrest and his anti - socialist rhetoric brought condemnation from socialists . They saw him as a reactionary who represented imperialism , militarism , and the interests of the upper classes in the class war . His role in opposing the General Strike earned the enmity of many strikers and most members of the Labour movement . Paradoxically , Churchill was supportive of trade unionism , which he saw as the " antithesis of socialism " .	Why were you opposed to socialism?	I was opposed to socialism because of its propensity for state planning and my belief in free markets.
In the early hours of 10 May , German forces invaded Belgium , Luxembourg and the Netherlands as a prelude to their assault on France . Since the division vote , Chamberlain had been trying to form a coalition but Labour declared on the Friday afternoon that they would not serve under his leadership , although they would accept another Conservative . The only two candidates were Churchill and Lord Halifax , the Foreign Secretary . The matter had already been discussed at a meeting on the 9th between Chamberlain , Halifax , Churchill , and David Margesson , the government Chief Whip . Halifax admitted that he could not govern effectively as a member of the House of Lords and so Chamberlain advised the King to send for Churchill , who became Prime Minister . Churchill later wrote of feeling a profound sense of relief in that he now had authority over the whole scene . He believed himself to be walking with destiny and that his life so far had been " a preparation for this hour and for this trial " .	How did you feel after becoming Prime Minister?	I felt a profound sense of relief and believed myself to be walking with destiny. I saw my life so far as "a preparation for this hour and for this trial".
In the summer of 1910 , Churchill had to deal with the Tonypandy Riot , in which coal miners in the Rhondda Valley violently protested against their working conditions . The Chief Constable of Glamorgan requested troops to help police quell the rioting . Churchill , learning that the troops were already travelling , allowed them to go as far as Swindon and Cardiff , but blocked their deployment ; he was concerned that the use of troops could lead to bloodshed . Instead he sent 270 London police , who were not equipped with firearms , to assist their Welsh counterparts . As the riots continued , he offered the protesters an interview with the government ' s chief industrial arbitrator , which they accepted . Privately , Churchill regarded both the mine owners and striking miners as being " very unreasonable " . The Times and other media outlets accused him of being too soft on the rioters ; in contrast , many in the Labour Party , which was linked to the trade unions , regarded him as having been too heavy - handed . In consequence of the latter , Churchill incurred the long - term suspicion of the labour movement .	Who requested troops to help police quell the rioting in the Rhondda Valley?	The Chief Constable of Glamorgan requested troops.
Until the outbreak of the Second World War , Churchill ' s approach to politics generated widespread " mistrust and dislike " , largely on account of his two party defections . His biographers have variously categorised him , in terms of political ideology , as " fundamentally conservative " , " ( always ) liberal in outlook " , and " never circumscribed by party affiliation " . Jenkins says that Churchill ' s self - belief was " far stronger than any class or tribal loyalty " . Whether Churchill was a conservative or a liberal , he was nearly always opposed to socialism because of its propensity for state planning and his belief in free markets . The exception was during his wartime coalition when he was completely reliant upon the support of his Labour colleagues . Although the Labour leaders were willing to join his coalition , Churchill had long been regarded as an enemy of the working class . His response to the Rhondda Valley unrest and his anti - socialist rhetoric brought condemnation from socialists . They saw him as a reactionary who represented imperialism , militarism , and the interests of the upper classes in the class war . His role in opposing the General Strike earned the enmity of many strikers and most members of the Labour movement . Paradoxically , Churchill was supportive of trade unionism , which he saw as the " antithesis of socialism " .	What was your response to the Rhondda Valley unrest?	My response to the Rhondda Valley unrest brought condemnation from socialists.
In October 1916 , Asquith resigned as Prime Minister and was succeeded by Lloyd George who , in May 1917 , sent Churchill to inspect the French war effort . In July , Churchill was appointed Minister of Munitions . He quickly negotiated an end to a strike in munitions factories along the Clyde and increased munitions production . It was in his October 1917 letter to the attention of his Cabinet colleagues that he penned the plan of attack for the next year that would bring final victory to the Allies . He ended a second strike , in June 1918 , by threatening to conscript strikers into the army . In the House of Commons , Churchill voted in support of the Representation of the People Act 1918 , which gave some British women the right to vote . In November 1918 , four days after the Armistice , Churchill ' s fourth child , Marigold , was born .	When did you send me to inspect the French war effort?	You sent me to inspect the French war effort in May 1917.
In the early hours of 10 May , German forces invaded Belgium , Luxembourg and the Netherlands as a prelude to their assault on France . Since the division vote , Chamberlain had been trying to form a coalition but Labour declared on the Friday afternoon that they would not serve under his leadership , although they would accept another Conservative . The only two candidates were Churchill and Lord Halifax , the Foreign Secretary . The matter had already been discussed at a meeting on the 9th between Chamberlain , Halifax , Churchill , and David Margesson , the government Chief Whip . Halifax admitted that he could not govern effectively as a member of the House of Lords and so Chamberlain advised the King to send for Churchill , who became Prime Minister . Churchill later wrote of feeling a profound sense of relief in that he now had authority over the whole scene . He believed himself to be walking with destiny and that his life so far had been " a preparation for this hour and for this trial " .	Who advised the King to send for you?	Chamberlain advised the King to send for me.
Also in September , Churchill ' s fifth and last child , Mary , was born , and in the same month he purchased Chartwell , in Kent , which became his family home for the rest of his lifetime . In October 1922 , he underwent an operation for appendicitis . While he was in hospital , Lloyd George ' s coalition was dissolved . In the general election , Churchill lost his Dundee seat to Edwin Scrymgeour , a prohibitionist candidate . Later , he wrote that he was " without an office , without a seat , without a party , and without an appendix " . Still , he could be satisfied with his elevation as one of 50 Companions of Honour , as named in Lloyd George ' s 1922 Dissolution Honours list .	When was your fifth child, Mary, born?	Mary was born in September.
In the summer of 1910 , Churchill had to deal with the Tonypandy Riot , in which coal miners in the Rhondda Valley violently protested against their working conditions . The Chief Constable of Glamorgan requested troops to help police quell the rioting . Churchill , learning that the troops were already travelling , allowed them to go as far as Swindon and Cardiff , but blocked their deployment ; he was concerned that the use of troops could lead to bloodshed . Instead he sent 270 London police , who were not equipped with firearms , to assist their Welsh counterparts . As the riots continued , he offered the protesters an interview with the government ' s chief industrial arbitrator , which they accepted . Privately , Churchill regarded both the mine owners and striking miners as being " very unreasonable " . The Times and other media outlets accused him of being too soft on the rioters ; in contrast , many in the Labour Party , which was linked to the trade unions , regarded him as having been too heavy - handed . In consequence of the latter , Churchill incurred the long - term suspicion of the labour movement .	What event did you have to deal with in the summer of 1910?	I had to deal with the Tonypandy Riot.
Until the outbreak of the Second World War , Churchill ' s approach to politics generated widespread " mistrust and dislike " , largely on account of his two party defections . His biographers have variously categorised him , in terms of political ideology , as " fundamentally conservative " , " ( always ) liberal in outlook " , and " never circumscribed by party affiliation " . Jenkins says that Churchill ' s self - belief was " far stronger than any class or tribal loyalty " . Whether Churchill was a conservative or a liberal , he was nearly always opposed to socialism because of its propensity for state planning and his belief in free markets . The exception was during his wartime coalition when he was completely reliant upon the support of his Labour colleagues . Although the Labour leaders were willing to join his coalition , Churchill had long been regarded as an enemy of the working class . His response to the Rhondda Valley unrest and his anti - socialist rhetoric brought condemnation from socialists . They saw him as a reactionary who represented imperialism , militarism , and the interests of the upper classes in the class war . His role in opposing the General Strike earned the enmity of many strikers and most members of the Labour movement . Paradoxically , Churchill was supportive of trade unionism , which he saw as the " antithesis of socialism " .	How have your biographers categorized you in terms of political ideology?	My biographers have categorized me in terms of political ideology as "fundamentally conservative", "liberal in outlook", and "never circumscribed by party affiliation".
In the summer of 1910 , Churchill had to deal with the Tonypandy Riot , in which coal miners in the Rhondda Valley violently protested against their working conditions . The Chief Constable of Glamorgan requested troops to help police quell the rioting . Churchill , learning that the troops were already travelling , allowed them to go as far as Swindon and Cardiff , but blocked their deployment ; he was concerned that the use of troops could lead to bloodshed . Instead he sent 270 London police , who were not equipped with firearms , to assist their Welsh counterparts . As the riots continued , he offered the protesters an interview with the government ' s chief industrial arbitrator , which they accepted . Privately , Churchill regarded both the mine owners and striking miners as being " very unreasonable " . The Times and other media outlets accused him of being too soft on the rioters ; in contrast , many in the Labour Party , which was linked to the trade unions , regarded him as having been too heavy - handed . In consequence of the latter , Churchill incurred the long - term suspicion of the labour movement .	Why did you block the deployment of the troops?	I was concerned that the use of troops could lead to bloodshed.
Also in September , Churchill ' s fifth and last child , Mary , was born , and in the same month he purchased Chartwell , in Kent , which became his family home for the rest of his lifetime . In October 1922 , he underwent an operation for appendicitis . While he was in hospital , Lloyd George ' s coalition was dissolved . In the general election , Churchill lost his Dundee seat to Edwin Scrymgeour , a prohibitionist candidate . Later , he wrote that he was " without an office , without a seat , without a party , and without an appendix " . Still , he could be satisfied with his elevation as one of 50 Companions of Honour , as named in Lloyd George ' s 1922 Dissolution Honours list .	What was the name of the honours list in which you were named one of 50 Companions of Honour?	The honours list was called Lloyd George's 1922 Dissolution Honours list.
On the other hand , his detractors did not take Churchill ' s domestic reforms into account , for he was in many respects a radical and a reformer , but always with the intention of preserving the existing social structure , never of challenging it . He could not empathise with the poor , so he sympathised with them instead , displaying what Addison calls the attitude of a " benevolent paternalist " . Jenkins , himself a senior Labour minister , remarked that Churchill had " a substantial record as a social reformer " for his work in the early years of his ministerial career . Similarly , Rhodes James thought that , as a social reformer , Churchill ' s achievements were " considerable " . This , said Rhodes James , had been achieved because Churchill as a minister had " three outstanding qualities . He worked hard ; he put his proposals efficiently through the Cabinet and Parliament ; he carried his Department with him . These ministerial merits are not as common as might be thought " .	According to Jenkins, what is your record as a social reformer?	According to Jenkins, I had a substantial record as a social reformer, particularly in the early years of my ministerial career.
