As to Nebraska, I regarded its character as being fixed, by the Missouri compromise, for thirty years---as unalterably fixed as that of my own home in Illinois.
The slaves do not vote; they are only counted and so used, as to swell the influence of the white people's votes.
This again I deny. I deny it, and demand the proof. I have already stated fully what the compromises of '50 are.
We knew, before the Judge told us, that these measures passed separately, and in distinct bills; and that no two of them were passed by the votes of precisely the same members.
he turns unto the Gentiles.
I contend it did not. I insist that it contained no general principle, but that it was, in every sense, specific.
Is there not some reason to suspect that it was the principle of the REVOLUTION, and not the principle of Nebraska bill, that led to emancipation in these old States?
Thus we see, the plain unmistakable spirit of that age, towards slavery, was hostility to the PRINCIPLE, and toleration, ONLY BY NECESSITY.
The election came. Mr. Buchanan was elected, and the indorsement, such as it was, secured.
But, can we for that reason, run ahead, and infer that he will make any particular change, of which he, himself, has given no intimation?
A leading Douglas Democratic newspaper thinks Douglas' superior talent will be needed to resist the revival of the African slave trade.
Can we safely base our action upon any such vague inference?
The practical effect of this is more aptly shown by a comparison of the States of South Carolina and Maine.
If we do this, we shall not only have saved the Union; but we shall have so saved it, as to make, and to keep it, forever worthy of the saving.
This point is made in order to deprive the negro, in every possible event, of the benefit of that provision of the United States Constitution, which declares that -
If this be the rule, you must leave it to each individual to say for himself whether he will have slaves.
Plainly enough now, it was an exactly fitted nitch for the Dred Scott decision to afterward come in, and declare that perfect freedom of the people, to be just no freedom at all.
That countenance can not now be changed by argument. You can as easily argue the color out of the negroes' skin.
That its terms limit it to the country purchased from France, is undenied and undeniable. It could have no principle beyond the intention of those who made it.
Why are the people of a territory and the people of a state therein lumped together, and their relation to the Constitution therein treated as being precisely the same?
Already a few in the North, defy all constitutional restraints, resist the execution of the fugitive slave law, and even menace the institution of slavery in the states where it exists.
I conclude then, that the public never demanded the repeal of the Missouri compromise.
Well I doubt not that the people of Nebraska are, and will continue to be as good as the average of people elsewhere.
I meant nothing about additional territories, because, as I understood, we then had no territory whose character as to slavery was not already settled.
If he is not a man, why in that case, he who is a man may, as a matter of self-government, do just as he pleases with him.
I have quoted so much at this time merely to show that according to our ancient faith, the just powers of governments are derived from the consent of the governed.
Thus through sixty odd of the best years of the republic did that policy steadily work to its great and beneficent end.
This is precise equality so far; and, of course they are equal in Senators, each having two. Thus in the control of the government, the two States are equals precisely.
The negro's name was "Dred Scott," which name now designates the decision finally made in the case.
The territorial legislation, admitted a few negroes, from the slave States, as indentured servants.
The outgoing President, in his last annual message, as impressively as possible echoed back upon the people the weight and authority of the indorsement.
A universal feeling, whether well or ill-founded, can not be safely disregarded. We can not, then, make them equals.
I have no doubt Judge Douglas thinks they were very inconsistent in this. It is a question of discrimination between them and him.
But when I go to Union saving, I must believe, at least, that the means I employ has some adaptation to the end.
The north got the western boundary of Texas, thence further back eastward than the south desired; but, in turn, they gave Texas ten millions of dollars, with which to pay her old debts.
But if the negro is a man, is it not to that extent, a total destruction of self-government, to say that he too shall not govern himself?
But how are they in the number of their white people? Maine has 581,813---while South Carolina has 274,567.
In the latter case you stand with the southern disunionist. What of that? you are still right.
In 1853, a bill to give it a territorial government passed the House of Representatives, and, in the hands of Judge Douglas, failed of passing the Senate only for want of time.
Let north and south---let all Americans---let all lovers of liberty everywhere---join in the great and good work.
The same thing was true of the whole nation at the time our constitution was formed.
In my opinion, it will not cease, until a crisis shall have been reached, and passed -
But this is not all. The earliest Congress, under the constitution, took the same view of slavery. They hedged and hemmed it in to the narrowest limits of necessity.
At last, if ever the time for voting comes, on the question of slavery, the institution already in fact exists in the country, and cannot well be removed.
Before long the bill is so modified as to make two territories instead of one; calling the Southern one Kansas.
They remind us that he is a great man, and that the largest of us are very small ones. Let this be granted.
I think I would not hold one in slavery, at any rate; yet the point is not clear enough for me to denounce people upon.
Why was the repeal omitted in the Nebraska bill of 1853? Why was it omitted in the original bill of 1854?
It is an aggravation, rather, of the only one thing which ever endangers the Union. When it came upon us, all was peace and quiet.
Finally, the Judge invokes against me, the memory of Clay and of Webster. They were great men; and men of great deeds.
If that law contained any prospective principle, the whole law must be looked to in order to ascertain what the principle was.
I do not say the contrary. What I do say is, that no man is good enough to govern another man, without that other's consent.
Now, in the slave States, they count free negroes just as we do; and it so happens that besides their slaves, they have as many free negroes as we have, and thirty-three thousand over.
Why did you do this? If you did not feel that it was wrong, why did you join in providing that men should be hung for it?
It is common with you to join hands with the men you meet; but with the slave dealer you avoid the ceremony---instinctively shrinking from the snaky contact.
It directly applied to Iowa, Minnesota, and to the present bone of contention, Kansas and Nebraska.
These principles are an eternal antagonism; and when brought into collision so fiercely, as slavery extension brings them, shocks, and throes, and convulsions must ceaselessly follow.
I am aware Judge Douglas now argues that the subsequent express repeal is no substantial alteration of the bill.
This is very cheap, and it is a great abridgement of the sacred right of self-government to hang men for engaging in this profitable trade!
To get slaves into the country simultaneously with the whites, in the incipient stages of settlement, is the precise stake played for, and won in this Nebraska measure.
On Judge Douglas' motion a bill, or provision of a bill, passed the Senate to so extend the Missouri line.
He should remember that he took us by surprise---astounded us---by this measure. We were thunderstruck and stunned; and we reeled and fell in utter confusion.
When the storm shall be past, he shall find us still Americans; no less devoted to the continued Union and prosperity of the country than heretofore.
Our cause, then, must be intrusted to, and conducted by its own undoubted friends-those whose hands are free, whose hearts are in the work-who do care for the result.
To my mind, Nebraska has no such adaptation.
This was in 1845, only nine years ago.
But a moment's reflection would convince me, that whatever of high hope, there may be in this, in the long run, its sudden execution is impossible.
There it has lain open ever since, and there it still lies. And yet no effort has been made at any time to wrest it from the south.
They also got the area of slavery somewhat narrowed in the settlement of the boundary of Texas. Also, they got the slave trade abolished in the District of Columbia.
It is kindly provided that of all those who come into the world, only a small percentage are natural tyrants.
By this treaty the Wilmot Proviso was defeated, as so far as it was intended to be, a condition of the acquisition of territory.
If the negro is a man, why then my ancient faith teaches me that "all men are created equal;" and that there can be no moral right in connection with one man's making a slave of another.
"A house divided against itself cannot stand."
Slavery already existed among the French at New Orleans; and, to some extent, at St. Louis. In 1812 Louisiana came into the Union as a slave state, without controversy.
But if it is, how can he resist it? For years he has labored to prove it a sacred right of white men to take negro slaves into the new territories.
The two things are precisely alike; and it is but natural that they should find similar arguments to sustain them.
We shall have so saved it, that the succeeding millions of free happy people, the world over, shall rise up, and call us blessed, to the latest generations.
This declared indifference, but as I must think, covert real zeal for the spread of slavery, I can not but hate.
Is this the sacred right of self-government we hear vaunted so much? No sir, the Nebraska bill finds no model in the acts of '50 or the Washington act.
His late joint struggle with the Republicans, against the Lecompton Constitution, involves nothing of the original Nebraska doctrine.
If we do not know these things, we do not know that we ever had a revolutionary war, or such a chief as Washington.
Is it quite safe to disregard it---to despise it? Is there no danger to liberty itself, in discarding the earliest practice, and first precept of our ancient faith?
It DID go into Missouri, and did NOT go into Illinois. That is the fact. Can any one doubt as to the reason of it?
These territories, together with the States themselves, constituted all the country over which the confederacy then claimed any sort of jurisdiction.
Maine has twice as many as South Carolina, and 32,679 over. Thus each white man in South Carolina is more than the double of any man in Maine.
These sympathies in the bosoms of the southern people, manifest in many ways, their sense of the wrong of slavery, and their consciousness that, after all, there is humanity in the negro.
How fortunate for them, they did not sooner become sensible of their great misery! Oh, how difficult it is to treat with respect, such assaults upon all we have ever really held sacred.
If you are obliged to deal with him, you try to get through the job without so much as touching him.
I go against the repeal of the Missouri compromise; did they ever go for it? They went for the compromise of 1850; did I ever go against them?
It will become all one thing, or all the other.
In ignorance of his legal emancipation, he is kept chopping, splitting and plowing. Others are brought, and move on in the same track.
Now I had seen the Washington act before; and I have carefully examined it since; and I aver that there is no repeal of the ordinance of '87, or of any prohibition of slavery, in it.
They, at the same time, got California into the Union as a free State. This was far the best part of all they had struggled for by the Wilmot Proviso.
"It hath no relish of salvation in it."
By the former the white man is to do just as he pleases with his black slaves, being responsible to God alone.
Thus their free negroes more than balance ours; and their advantage over us, in consequence of their slaves, still remains as I stated it.
At the time I thought this was merely playful; and I answered it accordingly. But in his reply to me he renewed it, as a serious argument.
This argument seems wonderful to me. It is as if one should argue that white and black are not different.
They lie side by side, the Mississippi river only dividing them; while their early settlements were within the same latitude.
Our Senator also objects that those who oppose him in this measure do not entirely agree with one another.
The Proviso men in the House, including myself, voted it down, because by implication, it gave up the Southern part to slavery, while we were bent on having it all free.
Connecticut, I think, owned the little remaining part of Ohio---being the same where they now send Giddings to Congress, and beat all creation at making cheese.
The Missouri Compromise ought to be restored. For the sake of the Union, it ought to be restored. We ought to elect a House of Representatives which will vote its restoration.
It will throw additional light on the latter, to go back, and run the mind over the string of historical facts already stated.
On the contrary if you are opposed to the principle---intend to give it no such endorsement---let no wheedling, no sophistry, divert you from throwing a direct vote against it.
Under all the circumstances perhaps this was not wrong. There were other points of dispute, connected with the general question of slavery, which equally needed adjustment.
But we also know, and so does he know, that no one of them could have passed both branches of Congress but for the understanding that the others were to pass also.
We were then living under the Articles of Confederation, which were superceded by the Constitution several years afterwards.
I will attempt an answer to each of them in its turn. First, then, if that country was in need of a territorial organization, could it not have had it as well without as with the repeal?
For myself, I can answer this question most easily. I meant not to ask a repeal, or modification of the fugitive slave law.
Now I deny that the public ever demanded any such thing---ever repudiated the Missouri Compromise---ever commanded its repeal.
Whether this feeling accords with justice and sound judgment, is not the sole question, if indeed, it is any part of it.
What is then left of us? What use for the general government, when there is nothing left for it govern?
Like the "bloody hand" you may wash it, and wash it, the red witness of guilt still sticks, and stares horribly at you.
Again, is not Nebraska, while a territory, a part of us? Do we not own the country? And if we surrender the control of it, do we not surrender the right of self-government?
An intention to extend the law is not only not mentioned in the law, but is not mentioned in any contemporaneous history.
If it had been said in old Independence Hall, seventy-eight years ago, the very door-keeper would have throttled the man, and thrust him into the street.
Let no one be deceived. The spirit of seventy-six and the spirit of Nebraska, are utter antagonisms; and the former is being rapidly displaced by the latter.
He admits, however, that there is a literal change in the bill; and that he made the change in deference to other Senators, who would not support the bill without.
As to what was to be done with the remaining part south of the line, nothing was said; but perhaps the fair implication was, that it should come in with slavery if it should so choose.
Allow ALL the governed an equal voice in the government, and that, and that only is self government.
These points all needed adjustment; and they were all held up, perhaps wisely to make them help to adjust one another.
Now all this is manifestly unfair; yet I do not mention it to complain of it, in so far as it is already settled.
The doctrine of self government is right---absolutely and eternally right---but it has no just application, as here attempted.
Less than this our fathers COULD not do; and NOW they WOULD not do. Necessity drove them so far, and farther, they would not go.
Two years ago the Republicans of the nation mustered over thirteen hundred thousand strong.
The restriction of slavery by the Missouri Compromise directly applies to it; in fact, was first made, and has since been maintained, expressly for it.
The Union, now, as in 1820, was thought to be in danger; and devotion to the Union rightfully inclined men to yield somewhat, in points where nothing else could have so inclined them.
Utah and New Mexico needed territorial governments; and whether slavery should or should not be prohibited within them, was another question.
Now I insist this provision was made for Utah and New Mexico, and for no other place whatever. It had no more direct reference to Nebraska than it had to the territories of the moon.
The war continued, and at the next session, the president renewed his request for the appropriation, enlarging the amount, I think, to three million.
I also think it probable that it had some reference to the existence of slavery amongst them. I will not deny that it had.
Indeed, there was no uninhabited country on the continent, which we could acquire; if we except some extreme northern regions, which are wholly out of the question.
As to new acquisitions I said "sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof." When we make new acquaintances, we will, as heretofore, try to manage them some how.
I particularly object to the NEW position which the avowed principle of this Nebraska law gives to slavery in the body politic.
Thus, with the author of the Declaration of Independence, the policy of prohibiting slavery in new territory originated.
They consider slavery a great moral wrong; and their feelings against it, is not evanescent, but eternal.
In seriousness then, the facts of this proposition are not true as stated. God did not place good and evil before man, telling him to make his choice.
But, say they, because the public had demanded, or rather commanded the repeal, the repeal was to accompany the organization, whenever that should occur.
There are those who denounce us openly to their own friends, and yet whisper us softly, that Senator Douglas is the aptest instrument there is, with which to effect that object.
It is not climate, then, that will keep slavery out of these territories. Is there any thing in the peculiar nature of the country?
The arguments by which the repeal of the Missouri Compromise is sought to be justified, are these:
At the hazzard of being thought one of the fools of this quotation, I meet that argument---I rush in, I take that bull by the horns.
My first impulse would be to free all the slaves, and send them to Liberia,---to their own native land.
It had allayed all sectional jealousies and irritations growing out of this vexed question, and harmonized and tranquilized the whole country.
But there is not an inch of ground left for his claiming that their opinions---their example---their authority---are on his side in this controversy.
It is quite true, that of the Senators who passed the Nebraska bill, a majority of the whole Senate will retain their seats in spite of the elections of this and the next year.
or is it to await the arrival of a hundred? Is it to be decided by a vote of the people? or a vote of the legislature?
This demonstrates the absurdity of attempting to deduce a prospective principle from the Missouri Compromise line.
If by any means, we omit to do this, what follows? Slavery may or may not be established in Nebraska.
The Washington act not only differs vitally from the Utah and New Mexico acts; but the Nebraska act differs vitally from both.
In our greedy chase to make profit of the negro, let us beware, lest we "cancel and tear to pieces" even the white man's charter of freedom.
Now, when the restriction is removed, what is to prevent it from going still further? Climate will not.
Under the operation of that policy, that agitation has not only, not ceased, but has constantly augmented.
But clearly, he is not now with us-he does not pretend to be-he does not promise to ever be.
If he grows rich and retires from business, you still remember him, and still keep up the ban of non-intercourse upon him and his family.
During this long period of time Nebraska had remained, substantially an uninhabited country, but now emigration to, and settlement within it began to take place.
But you say this question should be left to the people of Nebraska, because they are more particularly interested.
Could there be a more apt invention to bring about collision and violence, on the slavery question, than this Nebraska project is?
With such an universal provision, all know the bills could not have passed. Did they, then---could they---establish a principle contrary to their own intention?
But all this; to my judgment, furnishes no more excuse for permitting slavery to go into our own free territory, than it would for reviving the African slave trade by law.
And lastly, that the repeal establishes a principle, which is intrinsically right.
But ask us not to repeat, for nothing, what you paid for in the first instance. If you wish the thing again, pay again.
But whether it be or not, we shall have repudiated---discarded from the councils of the Nation---the SPIRIT of COMPROMISE; for who after this will ever trust in a national compromise?
Then, in a few days, came the decision.
When it is said that the institution exists; and that it is very difficult to get rid of it, in any satisfactory way, I can understand and appreciate the saying.
But how can we best do it?
All these many years since 1820, the Northern part had remained a wilderness. At length settlements began in it also.
More recently, Iowa, north of the line, came in as a free state without controversy. Still later, Minnesota, north of the line, had a territorial organization without controversy.
It should not be overlooked that, by the Nebraska bill, the people of State as well as Territory, were to be left "perfectly free" "subject only to the Constitution."
This opened all the national territory to slavery; and was the first point gained.
The repeal of the Missouri Compromise, and the propriety of its restoration, constitute the subject of what I am about to say.
It is in the constitution; and I do not, for that cause, or any other cause, propose to destroy, or alter, or disregard the constitution.
Take the particular case. A controversy had arisen between the advocates and opponents of slavery, in relation to its establishment within the country we had purchased of France.
Our republican robe is soiled, and trailed in the dust. Let us repurify it. Let us turn and wash it white, in the spirit, if not the blood, of the Revolution.
Equal justice to the south, it is said, requires us to consent to the extending of slavery to new countries.
This provision of law, is the Missouri Compromise. In excluding slavery North of the line, the same language is employed as in the Ordinance of '87.
In order to a clear understanding of what the Missouri Compromise is, a short history of the preceding kindred subjects will perhaps be proper.
This is the origin of the far-famed 'Wilmot Proviso.' It created a great flutter; but it stuck like wax, was voted into the bill, and the bill passed with it through the House.
The spirit of mutual concession---that spirit which first gave us the constitution, and which has thrice saved the Union---we shall have strangled and cast from us forever.
This result is not doubtful. We shall not fail-if we stand firm, we shall not fail.
The Judge replied, that the constitution requires the suppression of the foreign slave trade; but does not require the prohibition of slavery in the territories.
That is good book-law; but is not the rule of actual practice. Wherever slavery is, it has been first introduced without law.
I believe this government cannot endure, permanently half slave and half free.
It does seem to me that systems of gradual emancipation might be adopted; but for their tardiness in this, I will not undertake to judge our brethren of the south.
That is my answer. That is what I meant and said; and I appeal to the people to say, each for himself, whether that was not also the universal meaning of the free States.
How can he oppose the advance of slavery? He don't care anything about it. His avowed mission is impressing the "public heart" to care nothing about it.
But, however this may be, we know the opening of new countries to slavery, tends to the perpetuation of the institution, and so does KEEP men in slavery who otherwise would be free.
Can he possibly show that it is less a sacred right to buy them where they can be brought cheapest?
We are now far into the fifth year, since a policy was initiated, with the avowed object, and confident promise, of putting an end to slavery agitation.
But even if we fail to technically restore the compromise, it is still a great point to carry a popular vote in favor of the restoration.
It could not but be expected by its author, that it would be looked upon as a measure for the extension of slavery, aggravated by a gross breach of faith.
In 1803 they passed a law in aid of one or two State laws, in restraint of the internal slave trade.
The new year of 1854 found slavery excluded from more than half the State by State Constitutions, and from most of the national territory by congressional prohibition.
Before proceeding, let me say I think I have no prejudice against the Southern people. They are just what we would be in their situation.
In such a case I can only commend him to the seventy thousand answers just in from Pennsylvania, Ohio and Indiana.
She also owned what has since been formed into the State of Kentucky.
The practice was no more than bringing wild negroes from Africa, to sell to such as would buy them.
The truth is that some support from whigs is now a necessity with the Judge, and for thus it is, that the names of Clay and Webster are now invoked.
We know that some southern men do free their slaves, go north, and become tip-top abolitionists; while some northern ones go south, and become most cruel slave-masters.
AT the framing and adoption of the constitution, they forbore to so much as mention the word "slave" or "slavery" in the whole instrument.
I meant not to ask for the abolition of slavery in the District of Columbia. I meant not to resist the admission of Utah and New Mexico, even should they ask to come in as slave States.
To deny these things is to deny our national axioms, or dogmas, at least; and it puts an end to all argument.
In 1800 they prohibited AMERICAN CITIZENS from trading in slaves between foreign countries---as, for instance, from Africa to Brazil.
The south ought to join in doing this. The peace of the nation is as dear to them as to us. In memories of the past and hopes of the future, they share as largely as we.
Wise counsels may accelerate or mistakes delay it, but sooner or later the victory is sure to come.
To meet and overthrow the power of that dynasty, is the work now before all those who would prevent that consummation.
I do not quote; but this in substance. This was right. I see nothing objectionable in it.
They found the institution existing among us, which they could not help; and they cast blame upon the British King for having permitted its introduction.
Now, this, to my mind, is manifestly unjust. After an angry and dangerous controversy, the parties made friends by dividing the bone of contention.
Why the outgoing President's felicitation on the indorsement? Why the delay of a reargument? Why the incoming President's advance exhortation in favor of the decision?
But in ascertaining the number of the people, for this purpose, five slaves are counted as being equal to three whites.
If you cannot help it, you sell to him; but if you can help it, you drive him from your door. You despise him utterly.
Have we no tendency to the latter condition?
South Carolina has six representatives, and so has Maine; South Carolina has eight presidential electors, and so has Maine.
Iowa and Minnesota, to both of which the Missouri restriction applied, had, without its repeal, each in succession, territorial organizations.
He was not aware that any man or any party from any section of the Union, had ever urged as an objection to Mr.
During this time, the ordinance forbid slavery to go into Illinois; and NOTHING forbid it to go into Missouri.
Senator Douglas holds, we know, that a man may rightfully be wiser today than he was yesterday-that he may rightfully change when he finds himself wrong.
Now, as ever, I wish to not misrepresent Judge Doulgas' position, question his motives, or do aught that can be personally offensive to him.
Threats of breaking up the Union were freely made; and the ablest public men of the day became seriously alarmed.
The one party first appropriates her own share, beyond all power to be disturbed in the possession of it; and then seizes the share of the other party.
The oldest laws we find concerning it, are not laws introducing it; but regulating it, as an already existing thing.
Mr. Clay was the leading spirit in making the Missouri compromise; is it very credible that if now alive, he would take the lead in the breaking of it?
He commenced by stating I had assumed all the way through, that the principle of the Nebraska bill, would have the effect of extending slavery.
Again, it is claimed that by the Resolutions of the Illinois Legislature, passed in 1851, the repeal of the Missouri compromise was demanded.
These things look like the cautious patting and petting of a spirited horse, preparatory to mounting him, when it is dreaded that he may give the rider a fall.
Its friends however, were still determined to find some way to restrain slavery from getting into the new country.
Congress accepted the cession, with the condition; and in the first Ordinance for the government of the territory, provided that slavery should never be permitted therein.
I have even heard it said that there are more slaves, in proportion to whites, in the north western county of Missouri, than within any county of the State.
That future use is to be the planting of slavery wherever in the wide world, local and unorganized opposition can not prevent it.
Previous to this, in 1851, the Illinois Legislature had indorsed it.
But without the action of Congress they could say nothing; and Congress said ``no.'' In the measures of 1850 Congress had the subject of slavery in the District expressly in hand.
This is the Compromise of 1850.
If slavery did not now exist amongst them, they would not introduce it. If it did now exist amongst us, we should not instantly give it up.
The several points of the Dred Scott decision, in connection with Senator Douglas' "care not" policy, constitute the piece of machinery, in its present state of advancement.
If a man will stand up and assert, and repeat, and re-assert, that two and two do not make four, I know nothing in the power of argument that can stop him.
I say this is the leading principle---the sheet anchor of American republicanism. Our Declaration of Independence says:
The reputed author of the Nebraska bill finds an early occasion to make a speech at this capitol indorsing the Dred Scott Decision, and vehemently denouncing all opposition to it.
I stand to it, fairly, fully, and firmly.
It had thus become a part of Mexico. Mexico revolutionized and became independent of Spain. American citizens began settling rapidly, with their slaves in the southern part of Texas.
When we established our independence, we did not own, or claim, the country to which this compromise applies.
But if at these elections, their several constituencies shall clearly express their will against Nebraska, will these senators disregard their will?
Give us another free State; press the boundary of Texas still further back, give us another step toward the destruction of slavery in the District, and you present us a similar case.
It is now more than fifty years, since the last of these States adopted its system of emancipation.
Let us re-adopt the Declaration of Independence, and with it, the practices, and policy, which harmonize with it.
New free States are the places for poor people to go to and better their condition. For this use, the nation needs these territories.
Such a decision is all that slavery now lacks of being alike lawful in all the States.
Now why is this? You do not so treat the man who deals in corn, cattle or tobacco.
This shows exactly where we now are; and partially also, whither we are tending.
And so, there is still no difference between the cases.
I object to it as a dangerous dalliance for a few people---a sad evidence that, feeling prosperity we forget right---that liberty, as a principle, we have ceased to revere.
Thus, away back of the constitution, in the pure fresh, free breath of the revolution, the State of Virginia, and the National congress put that policy in practice.
The working points of that machinery are:
In 1820, finding these provisions ineffectual, they declared the trade piracy, and annexed to it, the extreme penalty of death.
One year after the adoption of the first State constitution the whole number of them was---what do you think?
That is to say, inasmuch as you do not object to my taking my hog to Nebraska, therefore I must not object to you taking your slave.
If that ordinance did not keep it out of Illinois, what was it that made the difference between Illinois and Missouri?
But it is said, there now is no law in Nebraska on the subject of slavery; and that, in such case, taking a slave there, operates his freedom.
It is now what Jefferson foresaw and intended---the happy home of teeming millions of free, white, prosperous people, and no slave amongst them.
But it is said we cannot restore it; that though we elect every member of the lower house, the Senate is still against us.
No peculiarity of the country will---nothing in nature will. Will the disposition of the people prevent it?
Senator Douglas sometimes says the Missouri line itself was, in principle, only an extension of the line of the ordinance of '87---that is to say, an extension of the Ohio river.
Still further; there are constitutional relations between the slave and free States, which are degrading to the latter.
But when I am told I must leave it altogether to OTHER PEOPLE to say whether new partners are to be bred up and brought into the firm, on the same degrading terms against me.
Before the then next Presidential election, the law case came to, and was argued in the Supreme Court of the United States; but the decision of it was deferred until after the election.
Will they neither obey, nor make room for those who will?
A compromise was finally effected. The south got their new fugitive-slave law; and the North got California, as a free State.
When the white man governs himself that is self-government; but when he governs himself, and also governs another man, that is more than self-government---that is despotism.
But you never thought of hanging men for catching and selling wild horses, wild buffaloes or wild bears.
"Fools rush in where angels fear to tread."
This is fact---naked fact.
Thus this was just as clearly a slavery question as any of the others.
That is what we have to do.
They did not intend to extend the line to country which they did not own. If they intended to extend it, in the event of acquiring additional territory, why did they not say so?
I do not expect the Union to be dissolved - I do not expect the house to fall - but I do expect it will cease to be divided.
There is no instance of exact equality; and the disadvantage is against us the whole chapter through.
BEFORE the constitution, they prohibited its introduction into the north-western Territory---the only country we owned, then free from it.
In due course, Iowa, came in as a free State, and Minnesota was given a territorial government, without removing the slavery restriction.
When we voted against extending the Missouri line, little did we think we were voting to destroy the old line, then of near thirty years standing.
I sincerely wish every man could read this law quite through, carefully watching every sentence, and every line, for a repeal of the ordinance of '87 or any thing equivalent to it.
No less absurd than it would be to say that because I may have refused to build an addition to my house, I thereby have decided to destroy the existing house!
But where have I assailed them? For what is it, that their life-long enemy, shall now make profit, by assuming to defend them against me, their life-long friend?
Now, whether this view is right or wrong, it is very certain that the great mass of mankind take a totally different view.
Whether slavery shall go into Nebraska, or other new territories, is not a matter of exclusive concern to the people who may go there.
This appears by the census returns. During nearly all of that ten years, both were territories---not States.
Now if you wish to give them this endorsement---if you wish to establish this principle---do so. I shall regret it; but it is your right.
He denied that this was INTENDED, or that this EFFECT would follow.
Slavery is founded in the selfishness of man's nature---opposition to it, is his love of justice.
It is as if two starving men had divided their only loaf; the one had hastily swallowed his half, and then grabbed the other half just as he was putting it to his mouth!
The census returns of 1850 show that, within these, there are 867,276 slaves---being more than one-fourth of all the slaves in the nation.
One side will provoke; the other resent. The one will taunt, the other defy; one agrees, the other retaliates.
I am glad he has done this. I love the sentiments of those old-time men; and shall be most happy to abide by their opinions.
Mr. President and Gentlemen of the Convention.
But being, as it is, the great Behemoth of danger, shall the strong gripe of the nation be loosened upon him, to entrust him to the hands of such feeble keepers?
North Carolina thus owned what is now the State of Tennessee; and South Carolina and Georgia, in separate parts, owned what are now Mississippi and Alabama.
In 1794, they prohibited an out-going slave-trade---that is, the taking of slaves FROM the United States to sell.
That to secure these rights, governments are instituted among men, DERIVING THEIR JUST POWERS FROM THE CONSENT OF THE GOVERNED."
It still will be the abundance of man's heart, that slavery extension is wrong; and out of the abundance of his heart, his mouth will continue to speak.
This bill contained no repeal of the Missouri Compromise. Indeed, when it was assailed because it did not contain such repeal, Judge Douglas defended it in its existing form.
This is a palliation---a lullaby. I have some hope that it will not; but let us not be too confident.
If this question of slavery extension were an insignificant one---one having no power to do harm---it might be shuffled aside in this way.
In support of his application of the doctrine of self-government, Senator Douglas has sought to bring to his aid the opinions and examples of our revolutionary fathers.
In 1798, they prohibited the bringing of slaves from Africa, INTO the Mississippi Territory---this territory then comprising what are now the States of Mississippi and Alabama.
Every inch of territory we owned, already had a definite settlement of the slavery question, and by which, all parties were pledged to abide.
This is mere desperation. If they have no connection, why are they always spoken of in connection? Why has he so spoken of them, a thousand times?
It is part of ourselves. If you say we shall not control it because it is ONLY part, the same is true of every other part; and when all the parts are gone, what has become of the whole?
Some men, mostly whigs, who condemn the repeal of the Missouri Compromise, nevertheless hesitate to go for its restoration, lest they be thrown in company with the abolitionist.
And now, in turn, let me ask a few questions. If by any, or all these matters, the repeal of the Missouri Compromise was commanded, why was not the command sooner obeyed?
And if this fight should begin, is it likely to take a very peaceful, Union-saving turn? Will not the first drop of blood so shed, be the real knell of the Union?
Does Douglas believe an effort to revive that trade is approaching? He has not said so. Does he really think so?
The Senate, however, adjourned without final action on it and so both appropriation and proviso were lost, for the time.
And if I catch you setting fire to my house, you will turn upon me and say I INSTRUCTED you to do it!
Why, in the accompanying report, was such a repeal characterized as a departure from the course pursued in 1850?
Through all this, bowie-knives and six-shooters are seen plainly enough; but never a glimpse of the ballot-box.
Secondly, that "subject to the Constitution of the United States," neither Congress nor a Territorial Legislature can exclude slavery from any United States Territory.
Between 1810 and 1820 the number of slaves in Missouri INCREASED 7,211; while in Illinois, in the same ten years, they DECREASED 51.
Argue as you will, and long as you will, this is the naked FRONT and ASPECT, of the measure. And in this aspect, it could not but produce agitation.
This they cannot be, to any considerable extent, if slavery shall be planted within them. Slave States are places for poor white people to remove FROM; not to remove TO.
Will they allow me as an old whig to tell them good humoredly, that I think this is very silly? Stand with anybody that stands RIGHT.
Leave it to the people of those old emancipating States, and I am quite sure they will decide, that neither that, nor any other good thing, ever did, or ever will come of Nebraska bill.
It would be on their part, a great act---great in its spirit, and great in its effect. It would be worth to the nation a hundred years' purchase of peace and prosperity.
A white man takes his slave to Nebraska now; who will inform the negro that he is free? Who will take him before court to test the question of his freedom?
I now come to consider whether the repeal, with its avowed principle, is intrinsically right. I insist that it is not.
Four days later, commenced the struggle, which ended in repealing that congressional prohibition.
Repeal the Missouri compromise---repeal all compromises---repeal the declaration of independence---repeal all past history, you still can not repeal human nature.
That is the principle of the compromises of '50, if indeed they had any principles beyond their specific terms---it was the system of equivalents.
At $500 per head they are worth over two hundred millions of dollars. How comes this vast amount of property to be running about without owners?
Circuit Court for the District of Missouri; and both Nebraska bill and law suit were brought to a decision in the same month of May, 1854.
Did we brave all then to falter now? - now - when that same enemy is wavering, dissevered, and belligerent?
First, that the Nebraska country needed a territorial government.
He prevailed on the Virginia Legislature to adopt his views, and to cede the territory, making the prohibition of slavery therein, a condition of the deed.
Any why the hasty after indorsements of the decision by the President and others?
But "a living dog is better than a dead lion." Judge Douglas, if not a dead lion for this work, is at least a caged and toothless one.
I should scarcely wish so strong a prohibition against slavery in Nebraska.
With them, Nebraska alone is a small matter---to establish a principle, for FUTURE USE, is what they particularly desire.
I object to it because it assumes that there CAN be MORAL RIGHT in the enslaving of one man by another.
And what shall we have in lieu of it? The South flushed with triumph and tempted to excesses; the North, betrayed, as they believe, brooding on wrong and burning for revenge.
If we could first know where we are, and whither we are tending, we could better judge what to do, and how to do it.
When southern people tell us they are no more responsible for the origin of slavery, than we; I acknowledge the fact.
And as the home producers will probably not ask the protection, he will be wholly without a ground of opposition.
Out of this small matter, the Judge manufactures his argument that Illinois came into the Union as a slave State.
Why was the court decision held up? Why, even a Senator's individual opinion withheld, till after the Presidential election?
This result we do not FEEL like favoring, and we are under no legal obligation to suppress our feelings in this respect.
Whenever, if ever, he and we can come together on principle so that our great cause may have assistance from his great ability, I hope to have interposed no adventitious obstacle.
Again came the proviso; and defeated the measure. Congress adjourned again, and the war went on. In Dec., 1847, the new congress assembled.
Then opened the roar of loose declamation in favor of "Squatter Sovereignty," and "Sacred right of self government."
This was the COUNTENANCE of the thing; and, both friends and enemies, instantly recognized it as such.
The Proviso men, of course were for letting her in, but the Senate, always true to the other side would not consent to her admission.
On the contrary, he did tell him there was one tree, of the fruit of which, he should not eat, upon pain of certain death.
In the course of his reply, Senator Douglas remarked, in substance, that he had always considered this government was made for the white people and not for the negroes.
And, unquestionably they can be bought cheaper in Africa than in Virginia.
His old friends have deserted him in such numbers as to leave too few to live by. He came to his own, and his own received him not, and Lo!
In all our struggles to prohibit slavery within our Mexican acquisitions, we never so much as lifted a finger to prohibit it, as to this tract.
Here, or at Washington, I would not trouble myself with the oyster laws of Virginia, or the cranberry laws of Indiana.
The Supreme Court met again, did not announce their decision, but ordered a re-argument.
For all these desirable objects the North could afford to yield something; and they did yield to the South the Utah and New Mexico provision.
Let it not be said I am contending for the establishment of political and social equality between the whites and blacks.
And yet again; there are in the United States and territories, including the District of Columbia, 433,643 free blacks.
This was TEN YEARS before they had the authority to do the same thing as to the States existing at the adoption of the constitution.
It shows that the Judge has no very vivid impression that the negro is a human; and consequently has no idea that there can be any moral question in legislating about him.
Clay, that he was the great champion of the Missouri Compromise. On the contrary, the effort was made by the opponents of Mr.
And the farther East the slavery opponents could thrust the boundary back, the less slave ground was secured.
Let me here drop the main argument, to notice what I consider rather an inferior matter. It is argued that slavery will not go to Kansas and Nebraska, in any event.
The nation was looking to the forming of new bonds of Union; and a long course of peace and prosperity seemed to lie before us.
They will surely be too small for detection with the naked eye.
He approaches it more than once, using the precise idea, and almost the language too, of the Nebraska act.
And thus, in those five states, and five millions of free, enterprising people, we have before us the rich fruits of this policy.
But restore the compromise, and what then? We thereby restore the national faith, the national confidence, the national feeling of brotherhood.
Missouri adjoins these territories, by her entire western boundary, and slavery is already within every one of her western counties.
But, he says, Illinois came into the Union as a slave State. Silence, perhaps, would be the best answer to this flat contradiction of the known history of the country.
Why no necessity then for the repeal? But still later, when this very bill was first brought in, it contained no repeal.
And there California stood, kept out of the Union, because she would not let slavery into her borders.
Now can it be pretended that the principle of this arrangement requires us to permit the same provision to be applied to Nebraska, without any equivalent at all?
The Judge rather insinuated that I had found it convenient to forget the Washington territorial law passed in 1853.
We did this under the single impulse of resistance to a common danger, with every external circumstance against us.
Welcome or unwelcome, such decision is probably coming, and will soon be upon us, unless the power of the present political dynasty shall be met and overthrown.
Second, that in various ways, the public had repudiated it, and demanded the repeal; and therefore should not now complain of it.
I deny it, and call for the proof. It is not contended, I believe, that any such command has ever been given in express terms.
Why ask us to do what you will not do yourselves? Why ask us to do for nothing, what two hundred million of dollars could not induce you to do?
The nearest approach to the point of declaring the power of a State over slavery, is made by Judge Nelson.
Little by little, but steadily as man's march to the grave, we have been giving up the OLD for the NEW faith.
That is a mistake, in point of fact. The constitution does NOT require the action of Congress in either case; and it does AUTHORIZE it in both.
and its continued omission recommended?
Then again, in the control of the government---the management of the partnership affairs---they have greatly the advantage of us.
I will not re-open the argument upon this point. That such was the intention, the world believed at the start, and will continue to believe.
Is not this entirely conclusive that at all times, we have held the Missouri Compromise as a sacred thing; even when against ourselves, as well as when for us?
I surely will not blame them for not doing what I should not know how to do myself. If all earthly power were given me, I should not know what to do, as to the existing institution.
I do not read this extract to involve Judge Douglas in an inconsistency. If he afterwards thought he had been wrong, it was right for him to change.
"The citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States."
It is about one third as large as the present United States, and its importance so long overlooked, begins to come into view.
But, so far, Congress only, had acted; and an indorsement by the people, real or apparent, was indispensable, to save the point already gained, and give chance for more.
But we rose each fighting, grasping whatever he could first reach---a scythe---a pitchfork---a chopping axe, or a butcher's cleaver.
Let the facts be the answer to the argument.
If this had been said to the men who captured Andre, the man who said it, would probably have been hung sooner than Andre was.
Another LULLABY argument is, that taking slaves to new countries does not increase their number---does not make any one slave who otherwise would be free.
This proves that those other Senators thought the change a substantial one; and that the Judge thought their opinions worth deferring to.
In express terms, there is absolutely nothing in the whole law upon the subject---in fact, nothing to lead a reader to THINK of the subject.
If Nebraska bill is the real author of these benevolent works, it is rather deplorable, that he has, for so long a time, ceased working all together.
If this had been said among Marion's men, Southerners though they were, what would have become of the man who said it?
In this shape the bill passed both branches of congress, and became a law.
Or perhaps I should rather say that whether it has such just application depends upon whether a negro is not or is a man.
We thereby reinstate the spirit of concession and compromise---that spirit which has never failed us in past perils, and which may be safely trusted for all the future.
If they were then establishing the principle of allowing the people to do as they please with slavery, why did they not apply the principle to that people?
I bring this forward merely to show the high estimate placed on the Missouri Compromise by all parties up to so late as the year 1849.
Plainly enough now, the speaking out then would have damaged the "perfectly free" argument upon which the election was to be carried.
Again, if Congress, at that time, intended that all future territories should, when admitted as States, come in with or without slavery, at their own option, why did it not say so?
The southern part, except a portion heretofore mentioned, afterwards did come in with slavery, as the State of Arkansas.
I do not mean that the whole North, or even a majority, yielded, when the law passed; but enough yielded, when added to the vote of the South, to carry the measure.
But had it, in any reference to the carrying of slavery into NEW COUNTRIES? That is the question; and we will let the fathers themselves answer it.
And, really, what is to be the result of this? Each party WITHIN, having numerous and determined backers WITHOUT, is it not probable that the contest will come to blows, and bloodshed?
But now new light breaks upon us. Now congress declares this ought never to have been; and the like of it, must never be again.
What then? Free them all, and keep them among us as underlings? Is it quite certain that this betters their condition?
Virginia thus owned the North-Western territory---the country out of which the principal part of Ohio, all Indiana, all Illinois, all Michigan and all Wisconsin, have since been formed.
In both cases you are right. In both cases you oppose the dangerous extremes. In both you stand on middle ground and hold the ship level and steady.
The whole nation is interested that the best use shall be made of these territories. We want them for the homes of free white people.
And well may he cling to that principle. If he has any parental feeling, well may he cling to it. That principle, is the only shred left of his original Nebraska doctrine.
I have done with this mighty argument, of self-government. Go, sacred thing! Go in peace.
That struggle was made on a point, the right of a people to make their own constitution, upon which he and the Republicans have never differed.
And now, why will you ask us to deny the humanity of the slave? and estimate him only as the equal of the hog?
