The cause, therefore, could not be due to the failure or to the will of individuals. The reasons went deeper.
But even externally this world domination is only a figment. New centres have been given to the world.
However, if those financial hyenas want war, if they want to exterminate Germany, they will get the surprise of their lives.
And yet to speak today of England’s World Power or of England as the master of the world, is nothing but an illusion.
I hope that in the course of the year the gentlemen will acquire a more accurate understanding of this.
If States on this continent now attempt to interfere in the European conflict, then the aim will only be changed more quickly.
It is certain, however, that never was a change of Government attended with such far-reaching results as that eight years ago.
Maybe this has already dawned on some Englishmen.
It was in this period that the National Socialist movement originated.
the fighting movement which fought by the spirit as long as the opponent kept to spiritual weapons….
In this connection I may point out that our striving in one case, in that of France, almost succeeded.
In this respect they differ from the German people. The German nation has learned since then; nor has it forgotten anything.
This means that the so-called National Socialist Revolution has defeated democracy, within democracy, by democracy.
Pay has been increased, the gigantic unique experience of war among the leaders and the file has been put to use.
The year which lies behind us has been a year of great successes, but also, it is true, one of many sacrifices.
Our ideals were between the two: we saw the people as a community of body and soul, formed and willed by Providence.
The British World Empire has left behind an icy stream of blood and tears in the path of its creation.
The man is mistaken. I have checked it. I did not make seven mistakes but 724.
But this state of affairs naturally increased national weakness, and the economic decline, and caused more unemployment.
Perhaps they pin their hopes on the Balkans. If I were they, I would not give much for that. One thing is certain.
On the other hand, our people were tempted by the theory of universal humanity which alone was to guide the individual.
Once more, the nations’ blood must be at the service of the money of this small group of interested people.
The attempt to reach the border of the Ruhr and the Ruhr zones via Holland and Belgium collapsed after a few days.
I started from the one insight: the German nation fell because it indulged in the luxury of spending its strength at home.
If they had kept some of their promises because you were willing to be good democrats on the pattern of others.
If the others believed they could apply the same methods to us they applied to the November men, they were greatly mistaken.
This was a matter of simple deduction.
Democracy was nothing but a mask covering subjugation and the oppression of nations and individuals.
The only thing to do, therefore, was to leave Geneva.
Indeed, they forced us to take the road which we took. The League of Nations only ridiculed and derided us.
And Great Britain received foreign help for this World War, which, again, she was only able to wage with foreign help.
But it does not know nearly all.
Today, my countrymen, when millions and millions are marching under the symbol of this unity, this appears to be obvious.
We are now standing on this Continent and from where we stand nobody will be able to remove us again.
On the contrary, Egyptian Nationalists, Indian Nationalists in their thousands are filling the prisons.
This German people, I know it and I am proud of it, is pledged to me and will go with me through thick and thin.
Deutschland! Sieg Heil!
And the Air Force will play its part and the entire armed forces will force the decision by hook or by crook.
But I did not hesitate to appeal to violence when the other thought he would help the spirit by violence.
Strictly copied from the western countries, it was compromise between monarchy and parliamentary leadership.
Whenever England puts in an appearance we shall attack her, and we are sufficiently strong to do so.
Raw material shortage! That too, we have foreseen, and have for that reason made our Four Year’s Plan.
Thus we started a struggle against everyone in those days, against the individualist as well as against the humanitarians.
To this must be added new elements which make the Balance of Power appear an illusion. It exists no longer.
We are involved in a war which we did not want. Otherwise one could not stretch out one’s hand to the other side.
But in the years 1918 and 19l9, this seemed to be the product of a diseased imagination. At best, people pitied me.
But I continued to calculate and found that my opponents had made 4,385,000. That is right. I have checked it carefully.
Only they made the League of Nations the agent for this purpose, and this institution was quite unsuited for its task.
And this idealistic strength was at the time only to be found in two camps; in the Socialist and in the Nationalist camps.
The front of Aryan mankind against Jewish-International exploitation and destruction of nations.
The equipment has been improved-our enemies will see how it has been improved .
However, should the other side entertain hopes to the contrary, then I can only say, “I cannot understand you.”
Not a single pledge has been fulfilled. Never before has a great nation been deceived as the German nation was then deceived.
But not before that time.
They cover 40,000,000 square metres. What do they do with them? Absolutely nothing.
I, myself, and in fact, all of us, made up our minds that voluntary negotiation at Geneva would not yield any result.
However, the German nation will never starve, never, rather will the English nation, those gentlemen can be sure of that.
We may safely state this today.
This use of strength in the interior took away external strength according to an external law.
Before I  . . .
At that time they opposed the Germany of the Kaiser, this time they opposed National-Socialist Germany.
I should like to save them the difficulties of landing and we should then introduce ourselves and discuss matters once more.
That was not the German nation, and to connect the nation with such people we regard as a defamation.
It was plundered, it was exploited. A foreign statesman, an American, was employed to make the German people even more credulous.
Finally this year will help to assure the basis for understanding between the peoples, and thereby, for their reconciliation.
But even in war, the possibility of an understanding still existed. At once, after the war with Poland, I held out my hand.
We have demanded nothing from the others. When France entered this war, she had absolutely no reason.
You should not get exasperated because this is not the case, but not for the reason that somebody has at long last expressed it.
This was not then the case. Neither on the German nor on the other side were there personalities cast in an unusual mould.
The country which is a paradise for a few, is nothing but continuous misery for many, that is, for the masses.
That the German nation has no quarrel with the Americans is evident to everybody who does not consciously wish to falsify truth.
Although the whole world had at that time been mobilized against Germany, Germany was actually not defeated.
They went to Geneva before the International Tribunal. They begged: “Give us a revision.” Everything was in vain.
Oh, if at least this had been the case! But who was it they blackmailed? Who was it they sweated?
Concentration camps were not invented in Germany; it is the English who were the ingenious inventors of this idea.
In other words, it has to play Great Powers against each other in order to maintain at least a semblance of a World Power.
In the spring our U-boat war will begin at sea, and they will notice that we have not been sleeping .
What are they expecting now?
But when they end up by saying: “But think of all the mistakes they made!” God, who doesn’t make mistakes!
These gentlemen should only have read what I wrote about myself a thousand times instead of listening to stupid emigre trash.
It is interesting to visualize the development of the British policy of world domination during the last 400 years.
But it is not at all necessary that everything should be told. What is decisive is that everything has been done.
You cannot conceive it without National Socialism. It will only then disappear when its programme has become a matter of course.
Thus England could thrust forward undisturbed into other areas offering comparatively little resistance.
And England? I held out my hand, again and again. It was actually my programme to reach an understanding with the English people.
We shall win final victory.
This morning I read that an Englishman, I don’t know how, has calculated that I made seven mistakes last year.
It had received so many assurances, this credulous nation had been promised so much, and what did they do to our nation?
Was it the National Socialist State? It was the German democracy!
It was simply childish.
Year after year unemployment increased and caused the confusion of national conceptions and of economic plans.
And if the enemies do as many clever things as last year, I shall be satisfied.
The World War which shook Europe from 1914 to 1918 was exclusively the longed-for result of British statesmanship.
Here we come to the State which regarded this encroachment as intolerable-England.
This credulity of the German nation, which was at the time regretted by many, received a terrible reward.
For they say: “Never shall we be reconciled with this world-it is the world of awakening social conscience .
France went the same way. England was chased from the Continent.
And in the language which is the only one they understand they now have hopes. For they must have hopes.
All right. Everything is in vain. The financial interests of this Democracy are victorious over the true National interests.
I was received with derision. They practically spat at me. They were indignant.
In the long run the greater interest of mankind is bound to prevail over the interests of these little plutocratic profiteers.
Each individual German had to make other sacrifices. The nation worked in all spheres. German women worked to replace men.
We know the coalitions of that time. In this battle of the spirit we have defeated them everywhere.
This common interest regulates and orders, if necessary, curtails, but also commands.
