It is hard to think when you really don't care too much one way or the other...
I have just been sitting in jail thinking nothing. Nothing to think about.
Am I to be found guilty on her assumption?
you are supposed to guide them."
It doesn't really make any difference because we are all going to the same place anyway. It's all perfect.
Why should she blame it on me? I can face death. I have all the time.
That is the fact.
You have lost sight of God. You sing your songs to woman. You put woman in front of man.
I never found any wrong. I looked at wrong, and it is all relative. Wrong is if you haven't got any money.
You expect to break me? Impossible! you broke me years ago.
He set me in this seat.
You see, you can send me to the penitentiary, it's not a big thing. I've been there all my life anyway.
You taught them. I didn't teach them. I just tried to help them stand up.
And I have swept when I was supposed to sweep.
But don't try to tell him nothing. He ain't listening to nobody. He got his own thoughts.
I do not dislike you, I cannot dislike you. I am you. You are blood.
Because there is nothing here to worry about, nothing here to think about, nothing here to be confused over.
This is all we have done. We have played like mom and dad. We have loved each other.
We have to find ourselves first, God second, and kind, k-i-n-d, come next. And that is all I was doing.
Had you not arrested Robert Beausoleil for something he did not do....
It is a motion. You take another's life. Boom!
I don't have any particular reality.
The truth is now; the truth is right here: the truth is this minute, and this minute we exist.
We make it a game on the ranch.
It is your reflection and you're right, because that is what I am. I am whatever you make me.
I could not see locking another human being up.
That is not my responsibility. I don't tell people what to do.
What do you think is going to happen when I get out?
That is the thing that you worship.
No. We're all our own prisons, we are each all our own wardens and we do our own time. I can't judge anyone else.
Then you establish a reality within that reality of play acting. And then you get to conspiracy.
Then I look at the beast, and I say, "Who is the beast?"
you can only live in the now, for what is real is now.
So, it is not without violence that I live. It is not without pain that I live.
You could call it a Family joke about the bottomless pit. How many people could you hide down in this hole?
He is doing whatever he is doing. Whether he thinks it is right or not, I couldn't say. That is up to him.
I'm a human being.
I just listened to him and I would react to his statement.
You haven't got long before you are all going to kill yourselves because you are all crazy.
The issues are that Mr. Younger is Attorney General, and I imagine he is a good man and does a good job.
You live in your creation. I never created your world, you created it.
Mr. Bugliosi is a hard-driving prosecutor, with a polished educa- tion. Semantics, words.
But this woman has got here and she has testified. She said she wasn't sure, but maybe.
So, let's make that circle.
I am not saying you are wrong, and I hope that you say I am not wrong for believing what I believe in.
I don't care. I have one law and I learned it when I was a kid in reform school. It's don't snitch.
You assume what you would do in my position, but that doesn't mean that is what I did in my position.
If a guy comes up to me and he says, "The Yankees are the best ball team," I am not going to argue with that man.
And then comical as it may seem, you look at me, and you say, "You threatened to kill a person if they snitch."
Murder? Murder is another question. It is a move.
The man made her do it. The man put her up to it.
I don't recognize the courtroom, I recognize the press and I recognize the people.
I'm terrible. I'm a terrible guy, man.
Hippie cult leader; actually, hippie cult leader, that is your words. I am a dumb country boy who never grew up.
I am whoever you make me, but what you want is a fiend; you want a sadistic fiend because that is what you are.
I spent the best part of my life in boy schools, prisons, and reform schools because I had nobody.
You know I didn't break the law. You're all a bunch of liars. You're all lying.
You say, "Where do we start from there?" Back to the facts again. You say that the facts are elusive in my mind.
Every morning you eat that meat with your teeth. You're all killers, you kill things better than you.
And what can I say to you that you don't already know? And I have known that there is nothing I can say to you.
How she has only stolen, lied, cheated and done everything that you have got there in that book.
And things mean different things to different people, and to match the symbols up as you talk back and forward.
If I break his law, he puts me back in the grave again.
No, I am not responsible for you. Your karma is not mine.
Do you care what I think of you? Do you care what my opinion is? No, I hardly think so.
My house is not divided. My house is one with me, myself.
It is gone in the past, and when it is gone, it is gone, sisters. It is gone, brother.
I don't care what you believe. I know what I am. You care what I think of you?
I sit and I watch you from nowhere, and I have nothing in my mind, no malice against you and no ribbons for you.
If a soldier goes off to the battlefield, he goes off with his life in front. He is giving his life.
She got immunity on seven counts of murder.
Actually, they just don't mean anything. The District Attorney can call them facts. They are facts.
I have never lived in time. A bell rings, I get up. A bell rings and I go out.
A bell rings, and I live my life with bells. I get up when a bell rings and I do what a bell says.
Well, God, I guess you're my best friend it means I invented you.
Like in jail you have a whole new attitude or a whole different way of thinking. I don't think like you people.
Well, that is the law where I am from. Where I am from, if you snitch, you leave yourself open to be killed.
What other people do is not really my affair unless they approach me with it.
The issues in this case? The issues in this case?
There is a God. He sits right over here beside me. That is your God.
I don't believe in anything past now. I speak to you from now.
I could never snitch because I wouldn't want someone to kill me.
So he goes off to the desert and finds a father image.
And it's world.
But he is also another one of your society's rejects.
You can "but" it to death. You can say, "You are right, but, but, but."
You can say everything is the same, but it is always different. It is the same, but it is always different.
I don't know who I am.
She got out of my life early. And let me scuffle for myself. And then I became my own mother.
But is that my fault? Is it my fault that your children do what they do?
They are going to interject their inadequate feelings; they are going to interject what they think.
I never asked them to come with me—they asked me.
What else do you look at? Oh, the leather thong.
In my mind I live forever. In my mind I live forever, and in my mind I have always lived forever.
You can't enforce your will over someone inside the law.
You put on a hat and you ride a horse.
I don't know him. I can't judge him. But I know he has got me here.
I like it in there."
Sometimes I think about giving it to you. Sometimes I'm thinking about just jumping on you and let you shoot me.
It is what it is because that is what it is. It doesn't go anv farther. What?
So you have got the guy who is against killing on the witness stand, and you are all asking him to kill you.
There is all kinds of different families.
I am only what you made me. I am only a reflection of you.
Over and over you put me in your penitentiary. I did not build the penitentiary. I would not lock one of you up.
I look at the jury and they won't look at me. So I wonder why they won't look at me. They are afraid of me.
We train them to kill, and they go over and kill, and we prosecute them and put them in jail because they kill.
The words go in circles.
Then the words go into another meaning and another level of understanding.
Now in death you might find peace, and soon I may start looking in death to find my peace.
Then the magical mystery tour wouldn't be able to be explained to you.
He is a genius. He has got everything that every lawyer would want to have except one thing: a case.
And do you know why they are afraid of me? Because of the newspapers.
Wrong is if your car payment is overdue. Wrong is if the TV breaks. Wrong is if President Kennedy gets killed.
What about your children? These are just a few, there is many, many more coming right at you.
But actually all I ever did with Danny DeCarlo or any other human being was reflect himself back at himself.
I run the pack of wolves and I got to be a wolf.
I don't have the schooling in it. I don't believe in your church. I don't believe in anything you do.
Whether I said it in jest and whether I said it in joking, I can't recall and reach back into my memory.
And somebody else says, "The Dodgers are good." I will agree with that; I will agree with anything they tell me.
You try to tell him something, and he will say, "Well, if that's your bag."
I am content with myself.
They testified for what was best for them, their own benefit.
I was given a name and a number and I was put in a cell, and I have lived in a cell with a name and a number.
I have got better sense than to break the law. I give to the law what it has coming. It is his law.
And I'm sure everyone else would like to get it over with too.
How many witnesses have you got up here and projected only what they believe in. What I believe in is right now.
You can't prove anything except to yourself. My reality is my reality, and I stand within myself on my reality.
I know what I have done.
How much all money has passed over this case?
We have done everything we could to stay outside the frame of the law, the shakedowns. Nothing has been stolen.
You reach a stage of no thought.
You sat here for nineteen days questioning that girl.
They put the hideous bodies on display and they say: "If he gets out see what will happen to you." Implying it.
He would not be there, he is good, human, just like the policeman that arrested him is a good human.
It keeps it out of my eyes. And you pull it down on your neck. And I imagine a lot of long-haired people do.
I don't even like to eat meat because that is how much I am against killing.
I am still that stupid, corn-picking country boy that I always have been.
How would you feel if I were to judge you? Could I judge you? I can only judge you if you try to judge me.
Guide them into armies?" I said, "No, let the children loose and follow them." That is what I did on the desert.
I forget what day it is or what month it is or what year it is.
How many people could we take leather thongs from? That is an issue.
He doesn't have a case.
The music speaks to you every day, but you are too deaf, dumb, and blind to even listen to the music.
Randy Starr thought he was a Hollywood stunt man. He had a car all painted up and like never done any stunts.
That is what I was doing, following your children, the ones you didn't want, each and every one of them.
You should all turn around and face your children and start following them and listening to them.
That is all there is. Why? Why?
I killed a chicken once.
And he says, "What shall we do?" I say, "Hit him on the head with a hammer." We magical mystery tour it.
I don't know what a hippie is.
I have always been yours anyway. I have always been in your cell.
I said, "Guide them into what? Guide them into what you have got them guided into? Guide them into dope?
You make your children what they are. I am just a reflection of every one of you.
We turn it into a magical mystery tour.
As a human, it won't be long, and God will ask you to take responsibility for it. It is your creation.
We will put this over here, we can hang this on him. Or we can do this to that."
Then you could find something else to put your fear on, because it's all your fear.
I did. I put a knife to his throat. And he said I was responsible for all of these killings.
Like, Helter Skelter is a nightclub. Helter Skelter means confusion. Literally.
What could you prove?
It is not my conspiracy. It is not my music. I hear what it relates.
I have done everything I have always been told. I have mopped the floor when I was supposed to mop the floor.
You could go on forever. You can just talk endless words. It don't a mean anything.
Mr. Bugliosi is doing his job for a paycheck. That is an issue.
And I have told them many times, I don't want no weak people around me.
And she keeps telling the old man he's going blind until he goes blind. Is that a conspiracy?
Prison's in your mind ... Can't you see I'm free?
You come and got me. Remember? Or could you prove that?
I am the beast.
It doesn't mean any war with anyone. It doesn't mean that those people are going to kill other people.
It only means what it means. Helter Skelter is confusion.
But the facts of the case aren't even relative, in my mind. They are relative to the Thirteenth Century.
If I were to judge them, what scale would that balance? Would the scale balance if I was to turn and judge you?
Her assumption.
I liked it in there because I like myself. I like being with myself.
You have your world. You are going to do whatever you do with it. I have got nothing to do with it.
Then you move on and you say I had one around my neck. I always tie one around my head when my hair is long.
I will know what I am doing. I will know exactly what I am doing. If you ever let me go before you kill me.
I am not saying that I didn't say it, but if I said it, at that time I may have thought it was a good idea.
Is that a conspiracy? Where does conspiracy come in? Does it come in that?
I'm just looking into it and it frightens me sometimes.
