No. No I'm just reading now.
Piece of advice?
It didn't take much thought to choosing Ken. I had seen him "The Last Samurai" and on other occasions.
Yes, thank you.
And I… It was like having a little gem, a little cupcake or something that you're going to savor it before you eat it.
And I says Richard, it’s EASTWOOD, it’s me,
I, you know, I haven't seen it. I read some notices that said it was violent, but I guess it was a violent era.
Sometimes. It depends on the actors. It depends on the actors.
Meanwhile, the lady I was visiting, she's going back going yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Well I guess maybe I did.
Why isn't this guy still making movies? But they rotated people faster in those days.
Oh my god we've got film.
So it was easy, I just kind of go up when nobody else was looking I'd go up, ah you dirty son of a bitch.
No, I haven't seen it.
Yes. It -- no, it didn't shock me. I thought it was a very good idea, actually, the promotion.
I don't know too much about it. I will see it, though...
Nah, the heck with it.
I figured I got to tour the country if nothing else.
And so it became actually of the two pictures that’s kind of my favorite.
I went to see it, it was playing a second feature in North Hollywood. I went to see it and I saw that film and I said I'm through.
Why didn’t he move? A dolt, you know.
But the picture turned out to be a hit and then things… That was the end of it.
Mine go from 11 -- or from 10 -- from 10 to 52.
Hm. Well. That’s interesting.
And I said yeah. And he says come into my office a minute. And I'm going who the hell is this guy.
But I didn’t have that opportunity as I didn’t have any money so that didn’t work out too well.
Maybe subconsciously yeah.
But circumstances have just led away from it.
I'm just glad that -- that -- I'm glad when anybody gets DUI that they haven't hurt anybody in the process.
I just enjoy storytelling. It’s a great way to tell stories and the people are fun and the actors are fun and great actresses.
So that gave me six years of work.
No. It isn't. I love it.
So you just figure if it -- if you like it, the end results, when you're working on it, then -- then that's OK.
Yeah. Two years. It was held up because they neglected one thing.
Well I wasn’t terrible because I absorbed something of it all but it was a interesting time in that time in the 50s.
And I read it and two weeks later I owned it and we had a screenwriter working on it.
Oh yeah. Oh yeah, good.
I was. I liked it. I used to go down and watch Kurosawa films and various directors that I liked at that time.
Yeah, generally.
And so I left and as I left there was another actor saying the same lines and he was saying them all perfectly.
Almost impossible thing.
If the actor’s having trouble you know with a dialogue it just sounds clumsy, ah it sounds better maybe if you take it out.
And they'd have some Westerns and stuff. I never could get a bit in a Western for some reason.
And I said yeah. He said yeah, but he doesn’t want to pay you. And I said that’s all right.
So I wanted five, six months off to sort out, just improve the golf game.
I said I thought you were going to play that role because I'd read somewhere that he was going to play.
Oh Don. Well Don… They were both very different but they both admired each other and as filmmakers, Leone was very childlike.
True. That’s true. Not everything ends well.
It was probably the worst film ever made and… But I had the second lead in it and an actor named Scott Brady was the lead.
So we didn’t have a lot to work with.
On my own work? Yeah and Don Siegel had a… His last advice to me when I first went to do Play Misty, he says don’t short yourself.
Of course it is.
So it was a kind of fun period where everybody was so enthusiastic.
So on top of that, because the writing is a creative art form and the acting and directing is more of an interpretive art form.
So you want to interpret it and enhance the writing. Or take it even another step and add your own stamp on it.
He says well, I get the same money but I only have to work two weeks. I said well you've figured it out.
Well it’s just twice as bad when you see yourself and you keep saying, you know, what’s the matter with this guy?
No they had to by scale, union scale they had to give me scale so.
I was hoping to parlay after City College go to either L.A. State or somewhere maybe even as fine as LMU.
It has a great indication of the stresses they are under. And I think that all becomes… Adds up to kind of an anti-war.
He said come here, I want to talk to you to the agent. And so I hung around…
They were all still working. But not with me. Not with me in them at that time.
I said… Of course the agent didn’t like to hear that because they get 10 percent of anything you get.
And then we had another… As long as we had something to eat that was okay by us.
And then I'd go back and I'd just be kind of cool.
Maybe you'd remember but I don't know if anyone here would.
And I did… I was reading the book and then all of the sudden the studio calls me up and said would you direct American Sniper?
The experience is much, much greater.
I mean it had a certain satire to it all. But I liked the character, it was great fun. And the picture did real well.
No, no. It just was an opportunity for him. It’s time for him to fly on his own.
EASTWOOD Eastwood. And he says, is this Al? He says is this Joe?
But… And you make it happy. And the same thing with pessimism.
Thank you very much. Thank you.
Maybe just a happy in memory, what have you.
And then finally I accidentally ran into somebody out at CBS on Beverly Boulevard and they were doing a Western called Rawhide.
Yeah, which one do you favor?
Anyway, that was a philosophy they had in the 30s. Not today.
We were trying to concentrate on a scene. So it did improve your concentration a lot, yeah. But basically it was similar.
And it was… But then eventually you get into William Munny and he's a man with a very bad past, but he's haunted by it.
He says take the time to do a good job with yourself so that you're satisfied with it.
By the way, and I told him I said I'm taking your leftovers again. And he was…
We'd get a time schedule from all of the activities that she has so that picture never came into being.
And it was great just to see his lifestyle and how he was and get his philosophies and what have you.
So… But I said I should pay him. I should have to pay him. I said I should show him what I can do if I can do anything.
Or you know that kind of thing but I just kind of hung in there and had fun with it and…
I said I've been in the business. I never thought I'd last 63 days.
Yeah, I did. Yeah. I liked him, he's a very charming guy.
Obviously don’t need a script. He says just I'll be there. I said great.
Raoul Walsh, yeah. But Sunset Boulevard…
And went in the ocean. So we went swimming. It was a tough time of year in November and… I think it was November.
Taking on four guys sitting on the fence.
I don't know. I'm not objective about that. I think I did all right in that movie.
Well, he -- there's been a lot of people getting juiced up here lately, I'm telling you, whether on television or on the highway.
And I said would you come play British Bob in this picture and he says who is this calling, anyway?
Well, the -- yes, James Bradley's book, "Flags of Our Fathers," was a book that I was interested in when it first came out.
And I said I've always liked it and would love to do it and he said fine. And I'd love to direct it as well.
Just gut. You read a story, you like the story. You ask yourself first, OK, would I like to be in this?
Yeah, I would if… But, you know, I'm getting to an age where there’s not really that many good roles.
When you were broke you were just broke and when you were out of a job you were just out of a job, period.
But he was very imaginative and you know was great at satire. So and Don Siegel was more straight ahead.
If you would look at the beginning of Gunsmoke and all those things, they always cut to somebody, cut to somebody and then back.
They could give the -- give Japan a two-and-a-half hour lead start.
Things I haven’t done?
And you could tell by the look on his face that yeah, he's got some regrets in there. And that’s just the way it is.
And so that’s my way of kind of dominating it. I said, you know, you're not going to intimidate me kind of thing.
Whatever you end up doing.
Yes. I don't -- I'm -- I love history, but I must say, the Mayan culture is not one that I'm really up on.
And eventually you start living with these people and the defense. And this is -- but it all boils down to the same thing.
And so I said well let me finish the next 30 pages of this book here and then I'll give you a call.
Because if it doesn’t work…
So if I went out to the naval base in Monterey which I did at that time, and I took a flight to Seattle I could go for free.
No. I've rewritten a lot of stuff.
When Gran Torino came along and I knew that guy, I knew that character. He was a very politically incorrect, which I…
And they cast me as one of the leads.
No, not really. I mean they just didn’t say much of anything. We can't use you.
I don't know if he did or not but if he did, maybe.
I said take it, I'm going to be here a while and I don't know.
And the film was made in eight days. So it was really el speedo grande. And I saw it.
But I do fire them and I do enjoy target shooting and all that sort of thing. I'm not much of a hunter.
But I'm still playing with the idea, then also I've got one other thing I'm looking at that’s interesting.
I thought maybe if we were lucky we'd see it in America but…
So I called Steven…
Never met any of them.
So I got to work with all these different people so you saw that and after a while you kind of get different ideas yourself.
Talked very… You know, you didn’t have to go into big exposition, you could just give him a little scan of what you wanted.
And… But I just picked up from everybody.
Say move over here, move and slide in over here or something.
So they were all sort of starting from scratch, starting from him as the senior player. Yet they all went back and researched it.
But it’s just a next step. You're on the sets all the time, you're working with material so you're right there.
No, no. Well I did two pictures back-to-back, I did Jersey Boys and then this, American Sniper back-to-back.
I put it in a drawer, I just thought this would be something that would be great to do a little bit older.
She had been deceased for many years but he just, everything he did was based upon what she would have liked.
Yeah. And he says you'll never believe this, I'm watching High Plains Drifter. And I said well, this is a little different.
And this Italian guy did.
And this is part of his penance he was doing for all his bad boy activity when he was young.
KING: Now, the Japanese had almost no chance to win that, right?
Steady work as an actor.
Cinema students would know, yeah.
I am a very sensitive person, you know.
Thank you, Larry
So I'm coming back and making Japanese films from now on out.
He said no, no, he said I want to play the Kurtz role that  Brando ended up playing. And I said well why do you want to play that?
Well you just change as the years go by. The more knowledge you get, the more things change in your life and circumstances change.
Least enjoy? I guess going around looking at locations and stuff, there’s no gratification in that.
But if it wasn’t then we just… I sometimes talked to him even when the shot was going.
He's a total failure, they said.
I said would you like to come do this and I'll send a script out to you. He said oh, you don’t need a script.
I love the story and I just… And I fortunately had Gene Hackman and Morgan Freeman and a lot of great performers in the picture.
Well they dumped me yeah after a year and a half.
No, that wasn’t Billy Wilder, White Heat, no that was…
I don’t watch a lot of them. I mean I'm usually involved in making them. I try to watch them.
He was from the school of Raoul Walsh and those guys that could do a lot in a very short time with little.
And then I did everything else over here. But I went over there when we filmed it.
No, no, he didn’t. He didn’t. He always was going to be the sheriff in the thing.
Appreciated. And he was a very, you know, just a grumpy old man kind of thing. So I'm not that old really, I just fake all that.
It comes out next Wednesday, actually, a week from Wednesday.
Just call it second picture and don’t make any notes on it because we haven’t had a deal on that yet.
Yes, you do. It's -- you're -- it starts out in -- with a certain way and it just pulls you into it.
And he was -- he was tremendous about researching it, as much material as there was on Kuribayashi, which there isn't a whole lot.
The director who was the director/writer didn’t like me right away because I didn’t use any of his dialogue.
How I feel about myself?
I abhor violence.
Even… I'd always think I'd get another director but I never found anybody else I could trust.
They were very dictator-type studio head.
I don’t like killing animals, but I love to shoot. And I love the drama of detective movies or action movies.
... in current days.
Well sometimes. Sometimes you're pessimistic, sometimes you're optimistic but…
Is there a part for me?
We also had translators with us at all times just to make sure I wasn't -- nobody was going off the deep end.
And then finally Steven Spielberg cornered me one night and said why don't you come over and direct it for us?
And if you don’t see it correctly you've made a giant error and it could not make you look so good.
Of… He was wild. They were going to Italy and I was the only one on the company that spoke English.
That he had never directed… He'd only directed one picture. I think called, The Colossus of Rhodes.
Yeah. Well yeah. In that era a lot of those guys came up under where they were just given a script.
Uh…  He was all right I guess. I don't know. I mean not objectively at any age but…
And asked me if I wanted to play that and I said gee, I don't know I don’t understand this show too much.
And that’s what… I remember in the L.A. Times when it came out everybody said yeah, just what we need is another Western.
Yes, I think he is. Yes, I think he is. And I think he's -- I haven't seen this latest one, but I think he takes to it very well.
Well this was before all that.
Yeah I was tired. It’s more tiring that’s for sure. Much easier to do one then the other.
Everything. I hold onto everything. Ideas, always keep your ego in check and not be afraid to listen.
It's not really taught in schools or...
No. I bought the script in 1980 and I didn’t make it until 1992. And 1991 I guess where it started at.
It was the last Western I made and maybe the best, I don't know.
A young Gregory Peck.
Not after a while, no. No. It shouldn't be.
I've got to go back to school. I've got to do something else, I've got to get a job of other sorts.
And I thought he was the modern day Mifune.
But I never got to work with him and never got to work with Wilder or with Ford or any of those guys.
Yeah. Well he loves old movies and so do I. Pretty soon we’re getting old and the movies are getting…
Nobody was going to go see Westerns anymore and I said gee, that’s great, I did one and now they're finished.
You get actors that like to give a lot to the role and who appreciate the role on the same level that you do.
Sometimes you can glue into a story and say this is what the writer intended but what are you intending?
And sometimes I come in under, because I try to live up to what -- to the financier, to what I told them I could do.
Right. Steven Spielberg was going to direct it, Bradley Cooper and I read about it and I didn’t think too much of it.
... somebody jumps out and then likes it. Fine by me.
Because he does have a group of writing students that he worked with. Do you have any students who are really good?
And he said fine.
But… So, people sometimes think I should have a .44 magnum . But that’s not true. I don’t have that.
But we laughed because I had done the Flag pictures for him that he had planned on doing.
I've heard about your -- your famous for some...
Yeah, sometimes you cut out things. Or some you wait until you try it. Sometimes you try it and it gets clumsy.
Well, I don't know about that, you know? I mean I don't -- yes, I do -- I try to come in on budget.
I've been lucky on a few occasions. There was a lot of precedent for actors directing back in early years.
Well this is a great crowd, I've got to say.
