So we’re going to come together —
Well, let me tell you --
More importantly, though, let me just say this.
It would have never happened for two reasons. Number one, and most importantly, Putin has a lot of respect for me.
No, I don’t think you should have — I don’t think you should be allowed to have abortions well into a pregnancy.
Today, people can’t buy homes.
No, no. I don’t do that. I don’t think he’d do that.
Because I was right, 100% right. But I was impeached for a perfect phone call. And how sad that is.
You have to catch up.” You know, Europe is about the same size as our economy if you add them all up, add the countries up.
The store owners don’t even rebuild storefronts anymore. They put up two-by-fours.
And you know what? The most — the most powerful people that are anti-abortion are okay with that now.
I’m not going to tell you. I’ll tell people later at an appropriate time. Just so you understand, however --
But it would have been a lot easier if it didn’t. But I can get it done and I can get it done quickly.
They took the strategic reserves, and he issued it to everybody so that he could keep the gas prices down.
No, I think that’s good. I think we did — I think we did a lot.
No, and you know that. You’re terrible when you say this. You’re off to a bad start, because what I said is very simple.
I mean, they literally took over a big chunk of the city. People died, and nothing happened to them.
You were very moderate.”
No, no, no, no. I’d make a fair deal for everybody. Nope, I’d make it fair.
Ukraine was the apple of his eye. I said, “Don’t ever do it. Don’t ever do it.” He would have never done it.
Tens of thousands.
And they didn’t. They weren’t talking about it. It was only after I left.
No, no. I didn’t do it 60 times --
And nothing is happening.
Look. Look. Biden should say to them, “You have to equalize.
Nancy Pelosi also was asked, and she turned it down. The police commissioner of Capitol Police —
Those jobs are all going to be gone, because all of those electric cars are going to be made in China.
Number one, the statement is false. Much more importantly, when the tapes came, and everybody says this, they weren’t deleted.
No, no, I’m just saying —
Tremendous evidence.
True the Vote. Take a look. It’s on camera.
And it’s so hard —
Excuse me, that governor said you can kill the baby after birth.
There is a number, and there’s a number that’s going to be agreed to, and Republicans should go out and say the following.
I was a much different person. What happened to this world, not our country, the whole world. What happened with Covid.
But we had 100% in the Senate. People think I was treated very unfairly.
But he said last week, I didn’t do anything wrong —
– much more importantly, I offered two days before — two or three days before — 10,000 soldiers, right?
This democracy is — I don’t consider us to have much of a democracy right now. They indict their political opponents.
No, but I don’t mind. I have all the time in the world.
And we’ll take a look at everything. But many of these people have been persecuted, what they’ve done to them.
Well, I hope he’s loyal to me.
Your life will be a lot easier.” I said, “I would never give myself a pardon.”
We have to save our country. You know, the —
It’s unprecedented. Nobody’s ever seen a thing like that. And the voters themselves, I think they’re going to be very happy.
We had to let some money come out. We were going to — we were on the verge of doing something that was amazing.
What does Nikki Haley know? I mean, I know Nikki Haley very well. She said I’m the greatest president.
And he wouldn’t have been able to afford to have gone in. At $100 a barrel, he made a fortune. And that’s one reason.
I knew that many people were on the line. I knew that it was– who is, who is — I happen to be a really smart person.
Because we are $200 billion. And they’re at $20 or $25 billion. It’s so unfair.
Depends. It depends.
Well, sure, maybe. I mean, let’s see what happens. But this is the only charge that doesn’t affect Joe Biden.
It was a rigged election. I challenged a rigged election. And now I’m going to win for a third time.
She left, she said I’m the greatest president. Now she’s running for office, and she says something.
But here’s the thing. The European countries have to start paying their share, because we are having to do with Ukraine.
Kristen, she’s in charge of security --
They cheated on the election in that way too.
Did you see the statements I made in the Oval Office and just outside of the Oval Office?
Well, Kristen.
Biden indictments. Excuse me, Biden political indictments. He said to the attorney general —
– when he makes bad decisions, like you.
Well, I think there’s no question about it. He had a plea deal that was the deal of the century — the art of the deal.
Where there’s a quid —
Well, wait. Wait. Let me just say.
I say, “Well, why is he saying the strategy?” You can’t say that. So when you ask me that question, I would never say that.
And I think that probably adds to what we’re doing.
I left him a note. I think it was very — it was a nice note. I took a lot of time in thinking about it.
– when I spoke in front of Brad Raffensperger, who again last week said I didn’t do anything wrong.
This is a hoax just like Russia, Russia, Russia. Just like Ukraine, Ukraine, Ukraine. This is a hoax.
I didn’t do anything wrong —
And I aced it. I get everything right. I’m all for testing.
No, I just wish you a lot of luck. You’re going to have --
– you have ballot stuffing. You have a lot of other things.
We lost because the judges didn’t want to hear them.
Right now, to my way of thinking, the Democrats are the radicals, because after four and five and six months.
– great success —
They burned down Portland. They burned down Minneapolis. They took over Seattle.
Oh, I think it’s very unlikely. What — what did I do wrong? I didn’t do anything wrong.
And I just hope they have better vote counters.
I don’t have -- why would I tell you that? Listen. Nancy Pelosi --
And that’s a good thing, not a bad thing. He’s got 1,700 nuclear missiles. And so do we.
Look at all the lies he’s told--
But why do you do that?
That’s a radical change.” Look, something is going to happen that’s going to be good for everybody.
Because you know what? I will tell you this. I never said this.
And she’s very popular. She actually is. Oh, and she’ll be with us.
And I made beautiful statements.
And they’re allowed to do that, and you can’t do that.
They destroyed all the evidence about Nancy Pelosi.
You don’t find much reporting. That means that Ukraine’s losing. Okay?
Nancy Pelosi is responsible. And the J6 Committee refused to interview her.
The mayor of D.C. gave us a letter, saying that she turns it down, okay? We have it.
But I did respect others. I respected many others that said the election was rigged. Look.
But you have legislation —
Well, I don’t —
We have many people, and it’s my choice — I happen to, I happen to know that the election was rigged.
They all lied. And they said about the laptop that it was Russia disinformation. That was a lie.
Because the news is no longer reporting about the war. The fake news. They don’t report about the war anymore.
– petroleum reserves.” I mean, why do you do that? Or, “It’s okay that he has open borders.” Somebody who was —
I said, “Here’s the story. These people are thugs, horrible people, fascists, Marxists, sick people.
You know, we were ready to go dominant within a matter of months. We would have been making so much money.
I wouldn’t tell you what I’d do. Why would I say that? Because, again, you don’t want people to know your strategy.
And you could have made a deal where nobody was killed. They had a deal. They would have had a Ukraine country.
Yeah. If I would’ve had another 22,000 votes over the whole -- but, look. They rigged the election --
Ready? I was able to do something which gave at least pro-life people a voice. Now it’s going to work out.
I mean, I didn’t do anything wrong —
None whatsoever.
The electric cars, automatically, are going to be made in China.
And he wouldn’t have played games. And I told him, “Don’t ever go in.” And he would never have gone in.
– he said to the attorney general, “Indict him.” They put in the New York DA case —
If I ever said that —
I do. I do. But it has to be a democracy that’s fair.
People — people that went there.
Everybody’s now agreeing that it came from Wuhan. I said that years ago. But we had to do things that were very severe.
I don’t know him. I never met him. I never heard of him until I started reading this stuff.
Some people told me that.
They had the fake dossier. That turned out to be true. It was paid for by the Democratic party.
– which everybody admits isn’t even a case.
Excuse me. Mollie Hemingway, who’s highly respected and great, she wrote a book, a bestselling book called “Rigged.”
Oh, I see. She’s right now with Barron in school. She loves that boy.
“I got cheated in this election.”
Kristen, let me ask you this.
And I think that’s why the media —
“Go home. Our police are great. We love our police.
I had a great relationship with President Xi, a really great relationship. And he was going to stop fentanyl from coming in.
He called in. I mean, he called in to all these meetings. He was calling in on the meetings.
Nobody said, “Sir.” It was only a long time after the call that somebody said, “Oh, maybe he said something wrong.”
They’ve been persecuted.
Let me just tell you --
But, wait, wait. You saw the prosecutor —
That’s an inappropriate statement.”
Look, we have to turn our country around and very — I said it before: We have to make America great again.
This is a hoax.
Kristen, you’re asking me a question. What’s going to happen is you’re going to come up with a number of weeks or months.
People like that answer, to be honest. And I stay with that same answer. I want people to stop being killed.
I’d shut down the government if they can’t make an appropriate deal, absolutely.
They burned all the evidence.
They’re all Biden indictments, political. They indicted — they want to arrest their political opponents.
Actually, I wish I was so strong to be able to do that. These are all tough guys, smart guys --
I like the concept, but we’re going to pick the best person. But I do like the concept, yes.
The other reason he wouldn’t have gone in is because I said, “Don’t go in. Don’t even think about it.”
Judges would look at stuff, say, “I’m not getting involved.” They didn’t want to get involved.
He’s 95 years old. It’s really a level of competency, not the age.
– from what I understand, they burned all the evidence.
Just those things. But in addition to that --
Okay. Let me talk about it without interruption. All right?
He said, “Bush would come in, make a speech, and leave. Obama would come in, make a speech, and leave.
– quid pro quo.
Nancy Pelosi turned down 10,000 soldiers. If she didn’t do that --
You know what he was afraid of? He was afraid of being impeached. He was petrified to be impeached.
Yeah, we can do that.
He was going to make that with fentanyl dealers too. But then the election didn’t work out and he never had to do that.
A documentary worker just happened to be there taping her at the time?
– where you’re wrong.
Like, guys like Bill Barr, who was a stiff, but he wasn’t there at the time. But he didn’t do his job because he was afraid.
But I will — I will say — and horribly — that they kill 250,000 people in the United States every year.
Now, strategic reserves are at the lowest level they’ve ever been at, and we need that for war.
I watched that election, and I thought the election was over at 10 o’clock in the evening.
Everybody’s going to the side of China, Russia, Saudi Arabia —
They do it at a level that you wouldn’t believe. I mean nobody has ever done that. No, I wouldn’t do that.
But many people told me the opposite.
It’s a touch. It’s a feel. And I predicted a lot of markets.
It hasn’t been debunked. It’s on camera.
Well, I guess he would have two years left or something like that, so we’ll see.
I think that Europe has to do more. We’re in for $200 billion. They’re in for $25 billion.
Yeah, sure, sure.
Again, listen, look —
I’m not going to tell you anything. I told --
Did you know that --
1,000 people. How many people — let me ask you this. How many people were charged for destroying Portland?
Brad Raffensperger said “it was a negotiation.”
Biden is an incompetent man. And what happened is oil. In fact, you’re going to hit a new high very soon again.
Let me put it this way. I behaved so well. I did such a good job.
You know, when I lowered taxes, we took in more revenue.
It’s all terrible. It’s all terrible.
It was my decision. But I listened to some people. Some people said that.
Okay? I know it because I have so much, there’s so much proof of ballot stuffing. You know, It’s amazing.
When it’s appropriate, but pretty soon. She’s a private person, a great person, very confident person.
You get a recommendation. They turn out to be RINOs, or they turn out to be not so good. In many cases, I didn’t respect them.
So, look, it’s a bad thing. But it’s one of 12, and it’s the one charge that doesn’t affect Joe Biden.
We had a normal phone call. This became —
Wait a minute. Wait a minute. Yeah.
The prices would have come down. We were going to make a fortune, and we were going to start paying off debt.
If you look at Pennsylvania --
And her daughter taping her. Her daughter happened to be documenting what --
I’m not anywhere very near 80, by the way. And Biden’s not too old. I don’t think Biden’s too old.
It could be state or it could be federal. I don’t frankly care.
They caught no terrorists. There was nothing that they saw. There was no anything.
You can’t forget that and just go — now, with all of the things that we said, I had the best economy maybe in history.
My instincts are a big part of it. That’s been the thing that’s gotten me to where I am, my instincts.
I frankly think testing would be a good thing. A lot of people say it’s not constitutional to do it.
It’s very important.
But I also listen to people. There are many lawyers. I could give you many books.
The governor of Virginia, previous governor, who was a whack job —
Nobody wants that.
By the way, that was even more perfect than my call to —
These are political indictments.
You know, they illegally tape me, because they tape me in Florida. It’s a two-party state. You know that, right?
Our country is doing so badly with the borders, with the military, with the lack of respect all over the world.
Well, hold on, hold on. I’ve got a lot of meetings coming up. I mean, we’ve been doing this for —
No, because I’m using it in my court case instead.
We got it done. Something is going to happen. It’s going to be a number of weeks.
Wait. Wait. Wait.
Oh, she’s full of it.
And it’s a sad situation. I mean, nobody should be happy about this. I’m not happy about it.
He was put on speakerphone and — every single day and —
I’m going down on January 6th. I’m going down. I’m going to listen to your speech,” et cetera.
– the president of Ukraine.
And I know, I know I was treated —
I’d like to lower them a little bit if we could. But, what I want to do is we have to get some income coming in.
That was a surrender, and an embarrassment, and horrible. We gave $85 billion worth of equipment to the Taliban.
– because you’ve been hearing me talk about this--
– in your position, not quite as good, said this morning, “Oh, having open borders is a wonderful thing.” I don’t know why.
What’s going to happen, this is an issue that’s been going on for a long time. And it’s a very polarizing issue.
I like not to think too much about that. You always do a little bit, but I really don’t think it’s time.
They wouldn’t hear it, based on all sorts of crazy -- they wouldn’t hear it. We never got — we never got a trial.
Capitol Police said that he wanted it. And Nancy Pelosi wouldn’t accept it. She’s responsible for January 6th.
Still under investigations. But it’s a very sad thing, and it’s a slippery slope —
We’re going to agree — no — we’re going to agree to a number of weeks or months or however you want to define it.
Are you ready?
Yes. Soon? Yeah, pretty soon.
Well, they announced that they destroyed --
I think retribution is talking in terms of I have to protect people. What they’re doing to people is so horrible.
I can go another couple of minutes.
And she loves our country very much. She’ll be, she’ll be — at the appropriate time she’ll be out there.
– is the only charge that doesn’t affect his father.
Kristen, wait a minute, wait, wait. Could I say one thing? Look at all the lies he’s told over the last couple of weeks.
But I was asked to speak. Other groups, I think it was women’s groups, a lot of people were involved in that.
You know, we’re taking it from Venezuela. You know what it is? Tar.
They have thousands of —
But wait a minute. This comes within the Presidential Records Act —
It’s too bad we have to wait so long.
I had it ended. The pipeline was dead. Biden came in and he approved it.
Thank you very much. And good luck.
We love everybody. Go home.”
And it’s — they’re dividing the country so badly, and it’s very dangerous.
And we could go on forever. We could go on forever. But, but no.
I was asked to speak. And I was the president of the United States. I’m allowed to do that.
We had the lowest drug numbers. We had the lowest human trafficking numbers. We had the least number of people coming across.
But I had a great relationship with --
I mean, he wouldn’t do it based on me, no.
Look, the media —
And we lose them on a yearly basis. Something has to be done. And it has to be done fairly quickly.
I mean, you have to stop all the time. They don’t go far enough. They’re very expensive.
Go ahead. Go ahead.
We had low interest rates. We had the best housing market ever. We had people buying homes.
I think they’ll — I think they’re all going to like me. I think both sides are going to like me.
Well, it’s always time for a new generation. But, you know, some of the greatest world leaders have been in their 80s.
No, not at all. I think, look, you look at the terrible things that have been happening with respect to Biden.
And now it’s very low. It may be below Congress, which is pretty hard to believe. People understand what’s going on.
And now, this year, it’s a record number like they’ve never seen before. So, we did a great job at the border.
“I have no interest in even thinking about it.” I never even wanted to think about it. And I could’ve done it.
Well, I don’t know, I don’t know what he’s saying, because before, he wanted, you know, you couldn’t have abortions at all —
And for the first time in 52 years, you’ll have an issue that we can put behind us.
But if this were ever before a court, we would win so easy. There is so much evidence that the election was rigged.
I got cheated in the election —
You agree there was Twitter Files, right?
And certainly she’d be one of the people I’d consider, or for something else maybe. But we have a lot of people.
Uh, frankly, just so you understand, I assumed that she took care of it. She turned down --
Democrats don’t want to see abortion in the seventh month, okay. I speak to a lot of Democrats. They want a number.
Look, I had a very good relationship with him. And yet nobody was tougher on Russia than me. I stopped Nord Stream 2.
I’d certainly look at it. I’d look at that. And I’d look at all the other people that have suffered, the J6 people.
And she turned it down.
They asked him — It didn’t stop these animals from impeaching me. But, you know, one of those things.
She’s very, very supportive.
And it just shouldn’t have happened. It shouldn’t have happened. What happened, what China did to the world was so bad.
– she turned them down.
– as lawyers. Sure. But that doesn’t mean -- you hire them, you never met these people.
But the country’s doing horribly. I don’t think the country’s ever been so disrespected. So many bad things are happening.
– a beautiful statement --
Anybody that says they need eight years, you don’t want that person.
We did a great job with the military. We did a great job with inflation. We had essentially no inflation.
He’s a lunatic. So it’s a fake charge. But, more importantly, the tapes weren’t deleted.
So I spoke. And then I went back. I wanted to go down peacefully and patriotically to the Capitol.
They testified against her. And they burned all the evidence. Okay?
That didn’t even go into the building have suffered gravely. And you have to say one system of justice, right?
We have a lot of great people in the Republican Party.
And as a senator and a vice president —
I think he’s going to end up being number three or four. He just had a poll today. He was number four.
So, we had a thing happen to us. We had the greatest economy in history, and then we got hit with Covid.
Instead, we got hit with Covid. People didn’t need oil, because nobody was driving all over the world, I mean, frankly.
What’s going to have to happen is you’re going to have to —
If you looked at all the stuff --
Good luck for many years.
DeSanctimonious is at nine. I just see a poll come — I mean, I’m leading him by 60 points.
And, by the way --
Why do you give me a horrible question and then you don’t let me answer it? You’re off to a bad start, I’m telling you.
What I told them, I said “The election was rigged.” I said all sorts of things about the election, which I believe —
They’re dealing with Fani Willis all the time.
No, but there should be a competency. I’m all for the test. You know, I took a test two years ago, three years ago.
We have to protect all people.
I’d get Zelenskyy into a room. Then I’d bring them together. And I’d have a deal worked out.
Well, I can’t tell you exactly. Because if I did — People understand, if I tell you exactly, I lose all my bargaining chips.
He said he was at the World Trade Center and he wasn’t. He said he flew airplanes, right? He didn’t.
No, what — when you talk about quid pro quo, please don’t talk about quid pro quo, because there was none in the call at all.
You know who I listen to? Myself. I saw what happened.
Look, the Democrats are able to kill the baby after birth.
They didn’t want that. They wanted to see through it. They want it to be steel, concrete, and rebar.
– literally many, many calls. And what about the fact that he got rid of the prosecutor for a billion dollars?
In fact, Mollie Hemingway wrote a great book --
And they turned it down flat. And the police commissioner was very nasty about it to her. And he testified.
We gave them 100%.
– but there were tweets that were put out --
Oh, stop it. Let me just tell you --
Where there is a quid pro quo —
Well, people, people are starting to think of 15 weeks. That seems to be a number that people are talking about right now.
No. Not at all. Because China, he’s another one I got along to, until we had the China virus come in.
Now, with all of that, we can change it, and we can make America great again. And that’s why I’m doing this.
Well, just so you understand, that’s what the Democrats do. Okay? They do it in spades.
– before that.
I think somebody said 22,000 votes.
And, yet, the people in Washington in some cases never even went into the building. They’ve been persecuted.
– necessarily agree.
Look, look, Nikki Haley doesn’t know anything about it. She’s a politician. She knows nothing about it.
How many people were charged for burning down the police precinct and the courthouse in Minneapolis?
I have no focus on the past except that you have to learn from history. You have to learn from the past.
But I really, I find it very nice and very challenging. But I can’t — You know, I have all those people waiting.
I think they do like me. So in the Republican Party, I’m 89, 90, 92%. There’s a big lovefest going on.
He would have never gone in. Equally as importantly, oil prices would have been at $40 a barrel instead of $110 a barrel.
Well, I like that he said that. Because that means what I’m saying is right. I would get him into a room.
It’s still about the person that’s going to be president.” But it’s an --
What I say is very simple, because you can’t put words in my mouth like that —
I mean, there are a lot of things here, Kristen.
They can look into it. I don’t want them. I want to look into it.
But I think he’s incompetent, and that’s a bigger problem. I don’t think 80 is old. I know people that are 89.
No, no. I don’t talk to him like that.
We have to have borders, and we have to have fair elections. We have neither. But let me just say —
And we had 196 to nothing vote — Republicans. Very unusual for the Republican Party. I was so proud of them.
Well, I will be toward the end. No, because my father lived much longer than that. My mother lived much longer than that.
Dispute it? Who wouldn’t dispute it? She’s — the craziest account I’ve ever heard.
It was perfect.
I’ve been treated very badly. And, I’ve won every single time. When you say, “Do I sleep?” I sleep, I sleep.
I care about it too. Oh, I care about it too.
Wait a minute.
And it was incredible. It was incredible. It was, I think, the largest group I’ve ever spoken.
It’s wrong. See, that’s --
And it affects them more than it affects us. It certainly affects them much more than it affects us.
Okay. Go ahead. Go ahead.
We need a media that’s free and fair. And frankly, if they don’t have that, it’s very, very hard to straighten out our country.
I was given the option. I could’ve done a pardon of myself. You know what I said?
How ridiculous. Just so you understand, and I have great respect for Secret Service, by the way. They’re fantastic.
The news has lost such power.
Now all of a sudden — excuse me — now all of a sudden he’s saying 15 weeks. I said, “Wow, where did that come from?
I’m not going to say I would or I wouldn’t. I mean, DeSanctus is willing to sign a five-week and six-week ban.
Depends where inflation is. But I would get inflation down, because drill we must. We will be drilling for oil.
I don’t think we’ve ever been so low in terms of, certainly opinion, world opinion and country opinion.
No. I think if they don’t get a fair deal — we have to save our country. We have $35 trillion in debt.
But again, oil prices. He wouldn’t have done it because of me. But oil prices.
– You talk about Kim Jong Un, right? I got along great with Kim Jong Un after the first month or two when we were sparring.
We had mountain climbers test the ones that — That’s the wall we built. I built almost 500 miles of wall.
Of course they do —
Yes. Absolutely. I did.
By the way, Nancy Pelosi --
The auto workers will not have any jobs, Kristen, because the — all of these cars are going to be made in China.
That’s a big statement.
We are going to come together —
They’re going to determine the time, because nobody wants to see five, six, seven, eight, nine months.
No, no. I would never do that. But Biden has done that.
– and deleted most of the evidence.
I could’ve pardoned myself. Do you know what? I was given an option to pardon myself.
That had a huge impact on the election. In fact, the pollsters say over 10 points. I didn’t need 10 points.
You know, you never hear that number. You hear 100,000. I think it’s much more.
You know that she’s in charge of security --
The mayor of D.C. —
“You don’t get rid of this prosecutor, we’re not giving you a billion dollars to Ukraine.” He said that.
I do. I think she’s fantastic. She’s been a great governor.
Oh, I don’t know. You got — people are going to — they say that, and then you end up in a depression.
It’s a fake --
Sure. I’m going to. I’ll testify --
They put these guys in jail for 17, 18, and 22 years. They didn’t kill anybody. Some of them never even went into the Capitol.
I could have fought them. I didn’t even have to give them. Just so you understand, though, we didn’t delete anything.
Yeah, but, Kristen, it’s on camera. Hundreds — even thousands and thousands of people. You take a look.
Kristen, you have to just hear me out for one second.
Thank you very much.
It’s about the same size. And Biden should say to them, like I did with NATO — you know, NATO, they all owed money.
You agree there were 51 intelligence agents that lied? You agree with that?
Oh, we’ll give you plenty of evidence —
I was listening to different people. And when I added it all up, the election was rigged. There are books that are written --
Very nice woman. Some people like that, I would say. But she left office.
That’s false, but let me tell you --
So I didn’t have a dispute with them. You know you had that one person said I grabbed the man around the neck.
And, and, and, just so you know, I offered them. I said, “If you want to look at tapes, you can look at them.”
Some of them weren’t even in D.C. And they got a 22- or a 17-year sentence. 16, 18, 15, 22.
I called to complain about an election.
We need that —
Excuse me, but they’re Biden indictments —
I would say that if we got access —
No, no. She has authority over the Capitol.
Well, no, but — I know, but that’s rigging the election.
He also said, “I did nothing wrong,” last week.
He said “that was a negotiation.” Brad Raffensperger, who I was dealing with, I appreciate that he said that.
– and dangerous, very dangerous for our country.
The reason is: You’ve got to have choice, like in school. I want school choice. I also want choice for cars.
That governor —
And by the way, the one that was number two was 59 points behind. So, you know, it’s very interesting.
I said, “Other than certain parts of the country, you can’t — you’re not going to win on this issue.
Who is going to be talking badly when I have lawyers and many other people on the line? Nobody’s going to say something bad.
I don’t take anything off the table, no.
Ready? Little bit of a long answer. I hope you have time.
Nobody said that.
What they’re doing with our trucking industry is a disaster, because they want all electric trucks.
Now, it’s a humanitarian thing. It’s a lot of different reasons. But I will get that war stopped very, very quickly.
So, let me just tell you about January 6th. First of all, I had very little to do with January 6th.
Well, I’m going to look at them, and I certainly might if I think it’s appropriate. No, it’s a very, very sad thing.
We’re not respected in the world. Look at other countries. Look at what’s happened.
Ukraine would have never happened if I were president. If this election weren’t rigged, Ukraine would have never happened.
They indicted their political opponent —
– has lost so much credibility.
I’m looking to appoint an attorney general who’s going to be tough on crime and fair. Very simple.
And it was really, really a call to congratulate him on winning the election. But —
But nobody can back the lives and all of the damage that was caused, including China —
Border patrol, I had them in my office. I wanted to do — We were going to do concrete planks, 40 feet high.
I did everything. I gave them the wall that they wanted. You know, we tested it.
– called “Rigged” --
But, look, that’s a good thing. Getting along is okay. But I got along through strength.
Do you think I have a right to complain about an election?
And he — how do you not get impeached? Don’t do anything.
I mean, it’s there to see. A lot of people don’t like looking at it.
Kristen, you have legislation in certain states where it’s allowed.
And they won’t even have a lawsuit. They may have a civil lawsuit at most, but they probably don’t even have a civil lawsuit.
Well, no. The big factor is the fact that he took that oil —
Oh why? Because you mean he’s honest —
Only third-world countries do that, banana republics. So, ready? I never said this to anybody.
It’s the worst.
That’s what’s happening, number one. Number two, the electric cars are much more expensive and they don’t go far enough.
– he took that and he let — he wanted to have low gas prices for an election. And now, we have nothing left.
In other words, there was nothing done to them. And they were my tapes. I could’ve fought them.
Now, we’re begging for energy. I mean, what they’ve done to this country, they’re destroying our country.
Good luck with everything.
I mean, you can’t really say exactly what you’re going to do. But I would say certain things to Putin.
They say you’re going to do great, you end up bad, and the opposite. These — most of them don’t know what they’re doing.
Now, the number of months will be determined.
And you’re going to have something where everybody comes together.
He’s not a six.
You go: life of the mother, rape, incest. I think most of them are there.
Their lives are destroyed. They’ve destroyed so many families. It comes through Mexico.
Even his handicap in golf, he said he’s a six —
The oil price is so high. When he goes above $50 and $60 a barrel, he makes a lot of money on the war.
No, no. China is taking over the world —
It was all fiction. All of these things happened. Impeachment hoax number one, impeachment hoax number two.
And there were other speak -- I wasn’t the only speaker. There were many speakers. But wait a minute.
If you take a look at the evidence, we have so much evidence. If you take a look at the evidence, even you I could convince.
And I showed calm. Nancy Pelosi is responsible for the security. And she did a terrible job.
That’s what it’s about. It’s about records.
I didn’t say that. No. People said I said that.
“And all I need is, like, 11,000,” whatever the number was.
I see somebody that loves this country, and me, that loves this country. I see tremendous unfairness.
Well, look, it’s one of 12 charges. There are 12 possible charges, and this —
I don’t know why people stick up for him so much —
Roe v. Wade — I did something that nobody thought was possible, and Roe v. Wade was terminated, was put back to the states.
When I first got involved in politics —
So genetically, that’s a good thing.
I didn’t say that.
It used to be you’d go and you’d watch, even a couple of months ago, you’d watch all of this great strategy.
They’re putting people in jail for long periods of time, firemen, policemen, accountants, even lawyers.
You know, it’s interesting. He actually said it’s up to me to do, and I actually think it’s up to him to do.
We had an election that was very, very terrible. It was a terrible thing for our country. And you have to learn from that.
I don’t think anything’s going to stop it. Nothing’s going to stop it, because people see what’s happened to our country.
As to whether or not I believed it was rigged? Oh, sure.
And he ultimately dropped his interest rates. The same gentleman, as you know. And — but it was a lot of pressure.
I mean, I was very active on that. Right now, interest rates are very high. They’re too high.
And I have every right to do that. Would you say --
Good. Thank you very much.
– and now I understand — I understand that the police testified against -- listen to me, Kristen. Listen to me.
There’s no country with more — and it’s sweet. It’s the finest. We have the best.
I needed a very small --
I think Europe is taking advantage of a stupid president.
Remember this was a new thing that came in. Somebody said, “It’s dust coming in from China.” It came from China.
But you know what, they have to, they have to pay something back. They have to do something —
You almost say, like, “Why are they campaigning?” Asa Hutchinson, he’s at zero. Christie’s at two. Other ones are at one.
When that statement was made --
Yeah. If you divide it among the states, it was 22,000 votes, something to that effect --
Because you give away all your options.
We have more oil, I call it liquid gold, under our feet than any other country — Saudi Arabia, Russia.
No, but you’re saying– It hasn’t. We have thousands of essentially motion pictures of people stuffing the ballot boxes.
– important decision.
And you know what? They weren’t okay with that even a year ago.
People can’t buy homes. They can’t do anything. I mean, they can’t borrow money.
You know, that when I — depends. It depends on where we are at the time. You know, a lot happens in a year.
I call him the Michael Jackson governor.
Nothing was deleted.
It was a disaster. What China did to the world with Covid is something that we’re going to get to the bottom of.
And honestly, I like to keep her away from it. It’s so nasty and so mean. And a lot of it’s me.
You know the word jawboning? I did a lot of jawboning against him, and he ultimately lowered interest rates.
But if it was bad, why didn’t they say, “Sir, that was very inappropriate of you to say?” Nobody said that.
You take a look at what’s gone on in Portland. They burned down the city. The city is in shambles to this day.
I’m not acknowledging. No. I say I won the election.
Well, I’d like you to, but you keep interrupting me.
– I don’t know --
And as the doctors said -- and it was in front of doctors and a whole big deal at Walter Reed, which is an incredible place.
Because I didn’t respect them --
I was told by some people that these are sick lunatics that I’m dealing with. “Give yourself a pardon.
Are you talking about a complete ban?
And it just got worse and worse, and we caught them. We said, “They were spying on our campaign.” It turned out to be true.
He said he drove trucks, and he didn’t. Everything he says is, like, a lie. It’s terrible.
I want somebody that’s going to be strong, respected, tough, and fair.
There’s another example. You talk about Kim Jong —
