The first general or principal agent will be Colonel Benjamin Hawkins, a man already known and respected by you.
The execution of these maxims belongs to your representatives; but it is necessary that public opinion should cooperate.
Of all the dispositions and habits which lead to political prosperity, religion and morality are indispensable supports.
To admit then a right in the House of Representatives to demand, and to have as a matter of course, all the Papers respecting a negotiation with a foreign power, would be to establish a dangerous precedent.
I repeat, therefore, let those engagements be unwise to extend them.
It is substantially true that virtue or morality is a necessary spring of popular government. The rule indeed extends with more or less force to every species of free government.
Thirty days from the commencement of this session, being the legal limitation of the employment of the militia, Congress cannot be too early occupied with this subject.
Measures are pursuing to prevent or mitigate the usual consequences of such outrages, and with the hope of their succeeding at least to avert general hostility.
But that jealousy, to be useful, must be impartial, else it becomes the instrument of the very influence to be avoided, instead of a defense against it.
This was adjustedby a prolongation of the period of reimbursement in nature of a new loanat an interest of 5% for the term of ten years, and the expenses of thisoperation were a commission of 3%.
But let there be no change by usurpation; for though this in one instance may be the instrument of good, it is the customary weapon by which free governments are destroyed.
Whether measures may not be advisable to reinforce the provision of the redemption of the public debt will naturally engage your examination.
I have further directed him to procure some cattle and sheep for the most prudent and industrious men, who shall be willing to exert themselves in tilling the ground and raising those useful animals.
If it should be agreeable to you that your wise men should hold such meetings, you will speak your mind to my beloved man, Mr.
He will see what improvements are made; who are most industrious in raising cattle; in growing corn, wheat, cotton and flax; and in spinning and weaving; and on those who excel these rewards are to be bestowed.
These considerations speak a persuasive language to every reflecting and virtuous mind, and exhibit the continuance of the union as a primary object of patriotic desire.
A letter from the Emperor of Morocco announces to me his recognition of our treaty made with his father, the late Emperor, and consequently the continuance of peace with that power.
Liberty itself will find in such a government, with powers properly distributed and adjusted, its surest guardian.
It exists under different shapes in all governments, more or less stifled, controlled, or repressed; but in those of the popular form it is seen in its greatest rankness and is truly their worst enemy.
The result on the part of His Britannic Majesty is unknown. When received, the subject will without delay be placed before Congress.
I have considered how this could be done; and have discovered but one path that could lead them to that desirable situation.
The productiveness of the public revenues hitherto has continued toequal the anticipations which were formed of it, but it is not expectedto prove commensurate with all the objects which have been suggested.
From a belief, that by a more formal concert, their operation might be defeated, certain self-created societies 36 assumed the tone of condemnation.
There is a pleasing prospect that the institution will, at no remote day, realize the expectation which was originally formed of its utility.
These will be offered to you with the more freedom as you can only see in them the disinterested warnings of a parting friend, who can possibly have no personal motive to bias his counsel.
There is a rank dueto the United States among nations which will be withheld, if not absolutelylost, by the reputation of weakness.
On the first day of June last an installment of 1,000,000 florins becamepayable on the loans of the United States in Holland.
But the paperswhich will be delivered to you disclose the critical footing on which westand in regard to both those tribes, and it is with Congress to pronouncewhat shall be done.
Who that is a sincere friend to it can look with indifference upon attempts to shake the foundation of the fabric?
The great rule of conduct for us in regard to foreign nations is, in extending our commercial relations to have with them as little political connection as possible.
A fire not to be quenched, it demands a uniform vigilance to prevent its bursting into a flame, lest, instead of warming, it should consume.
Nor ought I to omit to acknowledge the efficacious and patriotic co-operation, which I have experienced from the chief magistrates of the states, to which my requisitions have been addressed.
Let me now take a more comprehensive view, and warn you in the most solemn manner against the baneful effects of the spirit of party generally.
The very idea of the power and the right of the people to establish government presupposes the duty of every individual to obey the established government.
Will they not henceforth be deaf to those advisers, if such there are, who would sever them from their brethren and connect them with aliens?
I will only observe that, according to my understanding of the matter, that right, so far from being denied by any of the belligerent powers, has been virtually admitted by all.
His whole time will be employed in contriving how to do you good, and you will therefore act wisely to follow his advice.
As avenues to foreign influence in innumerable ways, such attachments are particularly alarming to the truly enlightened and independent patriot.
The government sometimes participates in the national propensity, and adopts through passion what reason would reject.
To cooperate with you in this desirable work is a fervent and favorite wish of my heart.
The advice I here give you is important as it regards your nation; but still
Contemplating the internal situation as well as the external relations of the United States, we discover equal cause for contentment and satisfaction.
When the occasion proper for it shall arrive, I shall endeavor to express the high sense I entertain of this distinguished honor, and of the confidence which has been reposed in me by the people of united America.
Sanctioned by your approving voice and by that of your representatives in both Houses of Congress, the spirit of that measure has continually governed me, uninfluenced by any attempts to deter or divert me from it.
Whatsoever those remedies may be, they will be well administered bythe judiciary, who possess a long-established course of investigation,effectual process, and officers in the habit of executing it.
I hold the maxim no less applicable to public than to private affairs that honesty is always. the best policy.
To every description, indeed, of citizens let praise be given. But let them persevere in their affectionate vigilance over that precious depository of American happiness, the constitution of the United States.
Towards none of the Indian tribes have overtures of friendship been spared. The Creeks in particular are covered from encroachment by the interposition of the General Government and that of Georgia.
I add with pleasure that the probability even of their civilization is not diminished by the experiments which have been thus far made under the auspices of Government.
The first installment of the loan of $2,000,000 from the Bank of theUnited States has been paid, as was directed by law.
One of the expedients of party to acquire influence within particular districts is to misrepresent the opinions and aims of other districts.
In some, indeed, alarms were at first conceived, until they were banished by reason and patriotism.
The precedent must always greatly overbalance in permanent evil any partial or transient benefit which the use can at any time yield.
If we desire to avoid insult, we mustbe able to repel it; if we desire to secure peace, one of the most powerfulinstruments of our rising prosperity, it must be known that we are at alltimes ready for war.
Though in reviewing the incidents of my Administration I am unconscious of intentional error, I am nevertheless too sensible of my defects not to think it probable that I may have committed many errors.
In subsequent communications, certain circumstances of our intercourse with foreign nations, will be transmitted to Congress.
afterwards the very engines which have lifted them to unjust dominion.
The beloved agent of the United States would meet with them. He would give them information of those things which are found good by the white people, and which your situation will enable you to adopt.
But in those of the popular character, in governments purely elective, it is a spirit not to be encouraged.
It is a slave to its animosity or to its affection, either of which is sufficient to lead it astray from its duty and its interest.
Whatever they may be, I fervently beseech the Almighty to avert or mitigate the evils to which they may tend.
In vain would that man claim the tribute of patriotism who should labor to subvert these great pillars of human happiness--these firmest props of the duties of men and citizens.
For this purpose Mr. Dinsmoor is from time to time to visit every town in your nation. He will give instructions to those who desire to learn what I have recommended.
Our agriculture, commerce, and manufactures prosper beyond former example, the molestations of our trade  being overbalanced by the aggregate benefits which it derives from a neutral position.
Gentlemen of the Senate and of the House of Representatives:
In these journals it will appear that a proposition was made, "that no Treaty should be binding on the United States which was not ratified by a Law"; and that the proposition was explicitly rejected.
The subject is of so much moment in my estimation as to excite a constant solicitude that the consideration of it may be renewed until the greatest attainable perfection shall be accomplished.
Pardon, too, was tendered to them by the government of the United States, and that of Pennsylvania, upon no other condition, than a satisfactory assurance of obedience to the laws.
The attempt, however, of an amicable negotiationhaving been frustrated, the troops have marched to act offensively.
It was a task too difficult to ascertain with precision, the lowest degree of force, competent to the quelling of the insurrection.
In relation to the still subsisting war in Europe my proclamation of the 22d of April, 1793, is the index to my plan.
Agreeably thereto, and to the best judgment I was able to form of the public interest after full and mature deliberation, I have added my sanction.
Mr. Dinsmoor, my beloved agent to your nation, being here, I send you this talk by him. He will have it interpreted to you, and particularly explain my meaning.
Real patriots who may resist the intrigues of the favorite are liable to become suspected and odious, while its tools and dupes usurp the applause and confidence of the people to surrender their interests.
The basis of our political systems is the right of the people to make and to alter their constitutions of government.
Why forego the advantages of so peculiar a situation? Why quit our own to stand upon foreign ground?
more important as the event of the experiment made with you may determine the
The very forbearance to press prosecutions was misinterpreted into a fear of urging the execution of the laws; and associations of men began to denounce threats against the officers employed.
Without looking forward to an extremity of this kind , the common and continual mischiefs of the spirit of party are sufficient to make it the interest and duty of a wise people to discourage and restrain it.
With the review of our Army establishment is naturally connected that of the militia. It will merit inquiry what imperfections in the existing plan further experience may have unfolded.
The nation which indulges toward another an habitual hatred or an habitual fondness is in some degree a slave.
One method of assault may be to effect in the forms of the Constitution alterations which will impair the energy of the system, and thus to undermine what can not be directly overthrown.
To the efficacy and permanency of your union a government for the whole is indispensable. No alliances, however strict, between the parts can be an adequate substitute.
Excessive partiality for one foreign nation and excessive dislike of another cause those whom they actuate to see danger only on one side, and serve to veil and even second the arts of influence on the other.
Will it not be their wisdom to rely for the preservation of these advantages on the union by which they were procured?
From a respect, indeed, to oeconomy, and the ease of my fellow citizens belonging to the militia, it would have gratified me to accomplish such an estimate.
It opens the door to foreign influence and corruption, which find a facilitated access to the government itself through the channels of party passion.
In proportion as the structure of a government gives force to public opinion, it is essential that public opinion should be enlightened.
By using the plow you can vastly increase your crops of corn. You can also grow wheat,  as well as other useful grain.
The wise men of the United States meet together once a year, to consider what
He is often to talk with you on these subjects, and give you all necessary information to promote your success.
Nor can I forget as an encouragement to it your indulgent reception of my sentiments on a former and not dissimilar occasion.
These reflections, arising out of the present crisis, have forced themselves too strongly on my mind to be suppressed.
The instructions given to the commissionersevince a moderation and equity proceeding from a sincere love of peace,and a liberality having no restriction but the essential interests anddignity of the United States.
I now send my best wishes to the Cherokees, and pray the Great spirit to preserve them.
The course which the debate has taken, on the resolution of the House, leads to some observations on the mode of making treaties under the Constitution of the United States.
By proper management you can raise live stock not only for your own wants, but to sell to the White people.
The inducements of interest for observing that conduct will best be referred to your own reflections and experience.
Taking care always to keep ourselves by suitable establishments on a respectable defensive posture, we may safely trust to temporary alliances for extraordinary emergencies.
You have in a common cause fought and triumphed together. The independence and liberty you possess are the work of joint councils and joint efforts, of common dangers, sufferings, and successes.
The several subjects to which I have now referred open a wide rangeto your deliberations and involve some of the choicest interests of ourcommon country.
In this conflict of emotions all I dare aver is that it has been my faithful study to collect my duty from a just appreciation of every circumstance by which it might be affected.
I shall take occasion to agree with them on the running of the boundary line between your lands and ours, agreeably to the treaty of Holston.
But before I retire, I shall speak to my beloved man, the Secretary of War, to get prepared some medals, to be given to such Cherokees as by following my advice shall best deserve them.
Let it simply be asked, Where is the security for property, for reputation, for life, if the sense of religious obligation desert the oaths which are the instruments of investigation in courts of justice?
Is there a doubt whether a common government can embrace so large a sphere? Let experience solve it.
Nor can such arrangements, with such objects, be exposed to the censureor jealousy of the warmest friends of republican government.
It does not occur that the inspection of the papers asked for, be relative to any purpose under the cognizance of the House of Representatives, except that of an impeachment, which the resolution has not expressed.
With slight shades of difference, you have the same religion, manners, habits, and political principles.
At other times it makes the animosity of the nation subservient to projects of hostility, instigated by pride, ambition, and other sinister and pernicious motives.
Time is wearing away some advantages for forwarding the object, while none better deserves the persevering attention of the public councils.
It may seem a little difficult to enter; but if you make the attempt, you will find every obstacle easy to be removed.
If the state of things had afforded reason for the continuance of my presence with the army, it would not have been withholden.
So far as we have already formed engagements let them be fulfilled with perfect good faith. Here let us stop.
After they shall have provided for the present emergency, it will merittheir most serious labors to render tranquillity with the savages permanentby creating ties of interest.
The Interpreters will, on proper occasions, read and interpret the same to all your people.
Observe good faith and justice toward all nations. Cultivate peace and harmony with all. Religion and morality enjoin this conduct.
No people can be bound to acknowledge and adore the Invisible Hand which conducts the affairs of men more than those of the United States.
Who can doubt that in the course of time and things the fruits of such a plan would richly repay any temporary advantages which might be lost by a steady adherence to it?
The misled have abandoned their errors, and pay the respect to our Constitution and laws which is due from good citizens to the public authorities of the society.
will be for the good of all their people. The wise men of each separate state also meet together once or twice every year, to consult and do what is good for the people of their respective states.
To the preceding observations I have one to add, which will be most properly addressed to the House of Representatives.
The South, in the same intercourse, benefiting by the same agency of the North, sees its agriculture grow and its commerce expand.
Hence, therefore, it must be unwise in us to implicate ourselves by artificial ties in the ordinary vicissitudes of her politics or the ordinary combinations and collisions of her friendships or enmities.
I have chosen him for this office because he is esteemed for a good man; has a knowledge of Indian customs, and a particular love and friendship for all the Southern tribes.
The arts of delusion were no longer confined to the efforts of designing individuals.
I constantly hoped that it would have been much earlier in my power, consistently with motives which I was not at liberty to disregard, to return to that retirement from which I had been reluctantly drawn.
How far in the discharge of my official duties I have been guided by the principles which have been delineated the public records and other evidences of my conduct must witness to you and to the world.
It is a fact declared by the General Convention, and universally understood, that the Constitution of the United States was the result of a spirit of amity and mutual concession.
An estimate of the appropriations necessary for the current serviceof the ensuing year and a statement of a purchase of arms and militarystores made during the recess will be presented to Congress.
the object, it is believed, has been fully attained. The articles agreed upon will immediately be laid before the Senate for their consideration.
And how are you to provide against them? Listen to my words and you will know.
I now repeat that I shall be glad to see a small number of your wisest chiefs; but I shall not expect them 'till November.
To enforce upon the Indians the observance of justice it is indispensable that there shall be competent means of rendering justice to them.
Hence frequent collisions, obstinate, envenomed, and bloody contests. The nation prompted by ill will and resentment sometimes impels to war the government contrary to the best calculations of policy.
There is an opinion that parties in free countries are useful checks upon the administration of the government, and serve to keep alive the spirit of liberty.
Let them cherish it too, for the sake of those, who from every clime are daily seeking a dwelling in our land.
The accomplishment of this work, if practicable, will reflect undecaying luster on our national character and administer the most grateful consolations that virtuous minds can know.
Such an attachment of a small or weak toward a great and powerful nation dooms the former to be the satellite of the latter.
Interwoven as is the love of liberty with every ligament of your hearts, no recommendation of mine is necessary to fortify or confirm the attachment.
Thus, the painful alternative could not be discarded. I ordered the militia to march, after once more admonishing the insurgents, in my proclamation of the 25th of September last.
Europe has a set of primary interests which to us have none or a very remote relation. Hence she must be engaged in frequent controversies, the causes of which are essentially foreign to our concerns.
In this posture of affairs, both new and delicate, I resolved to adoptgeneral rules which should conform to the treaties and assert the privilegesof the United States.
The peace often, sometimes perhaps the liberty, of nations has been the victim.
In testimony whereof I have caused the seal of the United States of America to be affixed to these presents, and signed the same with my hand.
On none can delay be more injurious oran economy of time more valuable.
The devising and establishing of a well regulated militia, would be a genuine source of legislative honor, and a perfect title to public gratitude.
They must inevitably experience the infractions and interruptions which all alliances in all times have experienced.
But the cares of the United States are not confined to your single nation.
Dinsmoor, to be communicated to the President of the United States, who will give such directions as shall be proper.
A statement of our present military force will be laid before you by the Department of War.
The mere politician, equally with the pious man, ought to respect and to cherish them. A volume could not trace all their connections with private and public felicity.
Done at the city of Philadelphia, the 7th day of August, 1794, and of the Independence of the United States of America the nineteenth.
For the second itis necessary that provision be made.
Your wives and daughters can soon learn to spin and weave; and to make this certain, I have directed Mr.
The considerations which respect the right to hold this conduct it is not necessary on this occasion to detail.
There can be no greater error than to expect or calculate upon real favors from nation to nation. It is an illusion which experience must cure, which a just pride ought to discard.
Should this recommendation accord with the opinion ofCongress, they will recollect that it can not be accomplished by any meansyet in the hands of the Executive.
I have already intimated to you the danger of parties in the State, with particular reference to the founding of them on geographical discriminations.
In this path I wish all the Indian nations to walk. From the information received concerning you, my beloved Cherokees, I am inclined to hope that you are prepared to take this path and disposed to pursue it.
Alas! is it rendered impossible by its vices?
In the adjustment of the terms the satisfaction of the Indians was deemed worthy no less of the policy than of the liberality of the United States as the necessary basis of durable tranquillity.
It is due, however, to the character of our government, and to its stability, which cannot be shaken by the enemies of order, freely to unfold the course of this event.
He will also procure some plows and other implements of husbandry, with which to begin the improved cultivation of the ground which I recommend, and employ a fit person to shew you how they are to be used.
You will join with me, I trust, in thinking that there are none under the influence of which the proceedings of a new and free government can more auspiciously commence.
lot of many nations. If it succeeds, the beloved men of the United States will be encouraged to give the same assistance to all the Indian tribes within their boundaries.
And yet, even at this late hour, when our power to punish them cannot be questioned, we shall not be unwilling to cement a lasting peace, upon terms of candor, equity, and good neighborhood.
This spirit, unfortunately, is inseparable from our nature, having its root in the strongest passions of the human mind.
Here every portion of our country finds the most commanding motives for carefully guarding and preserving the union of the whole.
Promote, then, as an object of primary importance, institutions 'for the general diffusion of knowledge.
Individuals will not pursue such a traffic unless they be alluredby the hope of profit; but it will be enough for the United States to bereimbursed only.
Nothing can more promote the permanent welfare of the nation, and nothing would be more grateful to our constituents.
It is called for by the events which have changed, and may be expected still further to change, the relative situation of our frontiers.
Legal process was, therefore, delivered to the marshal, against the rioters and delinquent distillers.
The intelligence from the army, under the command of general Wayne, is a happy presage to our military operations against the hostile Indians north of the Ohio.
The name of American, which belongs to you in your national capacity, must always exalt the just pride of patriotism more than any appellation derived from local discriminations.
Previous to the execution of any official act of the President the Constitution requires an oath of office.
What I have recommended to you I am myself going to do. After a few moons are passed I shall leave the great town and retire to my farm.
I shall expect them to inform me what chiefs are to attend the running of this line, and I shall tell them whom I appoint to run it; and the time and place of beginning may then be fixed.
It was now perceived, that every expectation from the tenderness which had been hitherto pursued, was unavailing, and that further delay could only create an opinion of impotency or irresolution in the government.
Gentlemen of the House of Representatives:
When I have retired to my farm I shall hear of you; and it will give me great pleasure to know that you have taken my advice, and are walking in the path which I have described.
Fellow Citizens:
Some among you already experience the advantage of keeping cattle and hogs: let all keep them and increase their numbers, and you will ever have a plenty
In this sense it is that your union ought to be considered as a main prop of your liberty, and that the love of the one ought to endear to you the preservation of the other.
These circumstances have induced me to pardon generally the offenders here referred to, and to extend forgiveness to those who had been adjudged to capital punishment.
Under these impressions the proclamation which will belaid before you was issued.
My beloved Cherokees,
Fellow Citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives.
When we contemplate the war on our frontiers, it may be truly affirmedthat every reasonable effort has been made to adjust the causes of dissensionwith the Indians north of the Ohio.
Fellow-Citizens of the Senate and of the House of Representatives:
But the constitution which at any time exists till changed by an explicit and authentic act of the whole people is sacredly obligatory upon all.
My very reluctance to ascribe too much importance to the opposition, had its extent been accurately seen, would have been a decided inducement to the smallest efficient numbers.
It is a valuable ingredient in the general estimate of our welfare that the part of our country which was lately the scene of disorder and insurrection now enjoys the blessings of quiet and order.
Thus the policy and the will of one country are subjected to the policy and will of another.
Nay, they have more than acquiesced: for till now, without controverting the obligation of such treaties, they have made all the requisite provisions for carrying them into effect.
To such general or principal agent I must desire your careful attention. He will be one of our greatly beloved men.
How many opportunities do they afford to tamper with domestic factions, to practice the arts of seduction, to mislead public opinion, to influence or awe the public councils!
For this you have every inducement of sympathy and interest. Citizens by birth or choice of a common country, that country has a right to concentrate your affections.
Besides the extraordinary expense and waste, which are not the least of the defects, every appeal to those laws is attended with a doubt of its success.
Can it be that Providence has not connected the permanent felicity of a nation with its virtue? The experiment, at least, is recommended by every sentiment which ennobles human nature.
Respect for its authority, compliance with its laws, acquiescence in its measures, are duties enjoined by the fundamental maxims of true liberty.
An estimate of the necessary appropriations, including the expenditures into which we have been driven by the insurrection, will be submitted to Congress.
This within certain limits is probably true; and in governments of a monarchical cast patriotism may look with indulgence, if not with favor, upon the spirit of party.
Faithful to ourselves, we have violated no obligation to others.
A numerous body repeatedly attacked the house of the inspector, seized his papers of office, and finally destroyed by fire, his buildings, and whatsoever they contained.
But these considerations, however powerfully they address themselves to your sensibility, are greatly outweighed by those which apply more immediately to your interest.
The impressions with which I first undertook the arduous trust were explained on the proper occasion.
Hence, while the greater part of Pennsylvania itself were conforming themselves to the acts of excise, a few counties were resolved to frustrate them.
of meet. To these add sheep, and they will give you cloathing as well as food. Your lands are good and of great extent.
Hence you are sometimes exposed to suffer much from hunger and cold; and as the game are lessening in numbers more and more, these sufferings will increase.
The latest advices from our envoy at the Court of Madrid give, moreover, the pleasing information that he had assurances of a speedy and satisfactory conclusion of his negotiation.
A just estimate of that love of power and proneness to abuse it which predominates in the human heart is sufficient to satisfy us of the truth of this position.
The spirit of encroachment tends to consolidate the powers of all the departments in one, and thus to create, whatever the form of government, a real despotism.
Having taken it, I determined as far as should depend upon me to maintain it with moderation, perseverance, and firmness.
To these you will easily add flax and cotton, which you may dispose of to the White people, or have it made up by your own women into cloathing for yourselves.
To myself, the assurance of my own conscience is that I have at least believed myself to be guided by them.
Our population advances with a celerity which, exceeding the most sanguine calculations, proportionally augments our strength and resources, and guarantees our future security.
Having been informed that some of your chiefs wished to see me in Philadelphia, I have sent them word that I would receive a few of the most esteemed.
Among the vicissitudes incident to life no event could have filled me with greater anxieties than that of which the notification was transmitted by your order, and received on the 14th day of the present month.
Gentlemen: Among the objects which will claim your attention in the course of the session, a review of our military establishment is not the least important.
To satisfy the complaints of the latter, prosecutionshave been instituted for the violences committed upon them.
Beloved Cherokees,
That this talk may be known to all your nation, and not forgotten, I have caused it to be printed, and directed one, signed by my own hand, to be lodged in each of your towns.
From the advices which have been forwarded, the advance which he has made must have damped the ardor of the savages, and weakened their obstinacy in waging war against the United States.
In tendering this homage to the Great Author of every public and private good, I assure myself that it expresses your sentiments not less than my own, nor those of my fellow- citizens at large less than either.
Dinsmoor, to procure all the necessary apparatus for spinning and weaving, and to hire a woman to teach the use of them.
My Proclamation of the 7th of August last was accordingly issued, and accompanied by the appointment of Commissioners, who were charged to repair to the scene of insurrection.
It is believed, that the result is such, as to encourage Congress to consummate this work, without delay.
Why, by interweaving our destiny with that of any part of Europe, entangle our peace and prosperity in the toils of European ambition, rivalship, interest, humor, or caprice?
The frequent destruction of innocent women and children, who are chiefly the victims of retaliation, must continue to shock humanity, and an enormous expense to drain the Treasury of the Union.
I am again called upon by the voice of my country to execute the functions of its Chief Magistrate.
No pecuniary consideration is more urgent than the regular redemptionand discharge of the public debt.
No sooner was he understood to be engaged in this duty, than the vengeance of armed men was aimed at his person, and the person and property of the inspector of the revenue.
