He who loses his life will gain it; he who will seek to save it shall lose it. Freedom is not for the coward or the faint-hearted.
If millions of Mussalmans are with you can you not afford to ignore the handful of Mussalmans who may appear to you to be misguided?
It is a call to war. The Congress cannot be party to such a fratricidal war. Those Hindus who, like Dr.
It should be the proud privilege of the newspapers to lead and set an example in laying down one's life for freedom.
If the students want to join the struggle only to go back to their studies after a while, I would not invite them to it.
Not a trace of suspicion lurked in anybody's heart. Where has all that dignity, that nobility of spirit, disappeared now?
Millions of Mussalmans in this country come from Hindu stock. How can their homeland be any other than India?
But under the Congress scheme of things, essentially nonviolent as it is, there can be no room for dictatorship.
The possession and sale of contraband salt, which includes natural salt or salt earth, is also an offence.
True, I did in my heart of hearts cherish a hope that it might enable me to save the cow. I am a worshipper of the cow.
Possibly these may be the last words of my life here.
I should feel flattered at this; but how can I agree to proposal which does not appeal to my reason?
What about the rest? Where are they to go? Even free India will not be able to accommodate a greater number of public servants.
I was born in a State. My grandfather refused to salute with his right hand any Prince other than his own.
The late Justice Ranade did not resign his post, but he openly declared that he belonged to the Congress.
We have thus to deal with an empire whose ways are crooked. Ours is a straight path which we can tread even with our eyes closed.
Today there is talk of war everywhere. Everyone fears a war breaking out between the two countries.
But they themselves make no such claim. It is not their argument that Muslims have committed no atrocities in Pakistan.
If such warfare is to be our lot, I shall not live to witness it.
But I will say, "Nothing less than freedom."
You are right in asking that question.
Thousands of Mussalmans have told me, that if Hindu-Muslim question was to be solved satisfactorily, it must be done in my lifetime.
I believe that in the history of the world, there has not been a more genuinely democratic struggle for freedom than ours.
I do not think I am such a simpleton, nor am I so gullible as these friends take me to be. But their criticism does not hurt me.
How can I persuade myself to agree to an impossibility? To demand the vivisection of a living organism is to ask for its very life.
To the Quaid-Azam I would say: Whatever is true and valid in the claim for Pakistan is already in your hands.
. It is no wonder that we have come to Madras. As my Friend, Mr.
Do you belong to the Congress, or to the Government? If you belong to the Congress, you need not vacate your posts.
Mutual trust is essential for success in the final nation-wide struggle that is to come.
In Satyagraha, there is no place for fraud or falsehood, or any kind of untruth. Fraud and untruth today are stalking the world.
A free man would not engage in a secret movement. It is likely that when you gain freedom you will have a C.I.D.
He will plainly tell the master: "I was your bond slave till this moment, but I am a slave no longer.
I ask you to consider it from my point of view, because if you approve of it, you will be enjoined to carry out all I say.
And so, whenever I had occasion to stay with him, he called a Brahmana cook and made social arrangements for separate cooking.
I should prefer to be considered gullible rather deceitful.
There is much I should et like to say. But my heart is heavy. I have already taken up much of your time.
But, whatever my philosophy of life and my ultimate hopes, I joined the movement in no spirit of bargain.
He is a true Brahmacharri1 who does not fritter away his energy. He will, therefore, always control his speech.
You may take it as my will. It was the message that I desired to impart to you before starting on the march or for the jail.
The draft resolution of the Working Committee is based on Ahimsa, the contemplated struggle similarly has its roots in Ahimsa.
It contains an open incitement to organizations which crop up like mushrooms to combine to fight the Congress.
Nevertheless, the actual struggle does not commence this moment. You have only placed all your powers in my hands.
Everybody will be his own master. It is to join a struggle for such democracy that I invite you today.
I cannot be a helpless witness to such a situation. I have traveled all over India as perhaps nobody in the present age has.
Maulana Saheb is being made a target for the filthiest abuse. Why? Because he refuses to exert on me the pressure of his friendship.
You may take it from me that I am not going to strike a bargain with the Viceroy for ministries and the like.
If I hold the demand to be just, I should concede it this very day. I should not agree to it merely in order to placate Jinnah Saheb.
I know there are some who say that I take things too readily at their face value, that I am gullible.
If that unity is not achieved, sacrifices necessary for it will have to be much greater than would have otherwise sufficed.
A Collector then will not need the number of servants, he has got today. He will be his own servant.
In the democracy which I have envisaged, a democracy established by nonviolence, there will be equal freedom for all.
You may kill me. That will not hurt me. But what of those who indulge in abusing?
If this is true, the solution of Hindu-Muslim question, too, cannot be achieved by a resort to violence.
Sir Subramania Iyer in the Chair, Mr. Gandhi said -
I must act now. I may not hesitate and merely look on, when Russia and China are threatened.
I had gone to the Camp for the evening prayer. I came away after the prayer but he had stayed over to talk to the people in the Camp.
We shall sink or swim with them." Believe me, there is nothing unconstitutional in the course I am suggesting.
As you know, the spinning wheel is the first thing that occurs to me. I made the same answer to the Maulana.
I do not represent that section. I represent the Congress. You want to kill the Congress which is the goose that lays golden eggs.
I know the restrictions and handicaps under which you have to labour. But I would now ask you to snap the chains that bind you.
He realizes that it is a misuse of friendship to seek up to compel a friend to accept as truth what he knows is an untruth.
Soldiers too are covered by the present programme. I do not ask them just now to resign their posts and to leave the army.
The Prophet treated even enemies with kindness and tried to win them over by his fairness and generosity.
A word to the journalists. I congratulate you on the support you have hitherto given to the national demand.
I have a word to say to Government servants also. They may not, if they like, resign their posts yet.
I attach the same importance to nonviolence that I did then. If at all, my emphasis on it has grown stronger.
The Princes may renounce ownership over their properties and become their trustees in the true sense of the term.
It was the Madrasis who of all the Indians were singled out by the great Divinity that rules over us for this great work.
But I cannot be party to a course of action with a false promise. At any rate, it is not my method."
I saw trust in their eyes, which I now want to turn to good account in fighting this empire upheld on untruth and violence.
The police have stayed on there. I understand they had to use tear gas. Tear gas does not kill but it can be pretty painful.
If there are raids from outside the frontier of Kashmir, the obvious conclusion is that it must be with the connivance of Pakistan.
Let them settle down. If they don't, then apart from a war between Indian and Pakistan, we may kill ourselves in mutual strife.
To me, these abuses are like bullets. They can kill me, even as a bullet can put an end to my life.
I spent days and nights in their company. And I make bold to say that their utterances were the honest expression of their beliefs.
What these Communist friends proposed through their amendments is nothing new. It has been repeated from thousands of platforms.
Muslims throughout the country accepted me as their true friend.
Moonje and Shri Savarkar, believe in the doctrine of the sword may seek to keep the Mussalmans under Hindus domination.
We too, if we sincerely aspire to Swaraj and are impatient to attain it, should have similar self-confidence.
For the rest, every one has a free hand. But, than does not give a license to all and sundry to carry on their own responsibility.
Let no one commit a wrong in anger. This is my hope and prayer. I wish these words of mine reached every nook and corner of the land.
These young men deserve all the adjectives that you have so affectionately, but blindly lavished upon us.
The Congress is fighting not on behalf of the Hindu but on behalf of the whole nation, including the minorities.
If that happens it will be a calamity both for India and for Pakistan. India has written to the U.N.
A non-violent soldier of freedom will covet nothing for himself, he fights only for the freedom of his country.
Our ranks will swell and our hearts strengthen, as the number of our arrests by the Government increases.
I do not want the Princes to live as paupers. But I would ask them : "Do you want to remain slaves for all time?
The Congress has agreed to submitting all the differences to an impartial international tribunal and to abide by its decisions.
He is vanquished only, when he forsakes truth and nonviolence and turns a deaf ear to the inner voice.
India therefore wrote to the U. N. O.
I read Carlyle's French Resolution while I was in prison, and Pandit Jawaharlal has told me something about the Russian revolution.
Every Congressman, whether a Hindu or a Mussalman, owes this duty to the organization to which will render a service to Islam.
I am told that something has happened today again.
I am told they did not indulge in any kind of violence. Some of the houses were vacant. Some were occupied by the owners.
If that change does not come about, his conversion goes in vain and our non-co-operation with him will have to continue."
If even this fairest of proposals is unacceptable, the only course that remains open is that of the sword, of violence.
Let the Government then shower bombs, if they like. But no power on earth will then be able to keep you in bondage any longer.
To them, the two are one This hatred would even make them welcome the Japanese. It is most dangerous.
If, therefore, there is any among you who has lost faith in Ahimsa or is wearied of it, let him not vote for this resolution.
These laws can be violated in three ways. It is an offence to manufacture salt wherever there are facilities for doing so.
Where is the escape for me, if I injure their cause or betray their interests? My life is entirely at their disposal.
Congressmen must for ever remain humble servants of the people.
It is abuse of womanhood. I must humbly ask all the refugees - women and children - not to behave in this way.
Natesan, will perhaps tell you, we have been overdue and we have neglected Madras. But we have done nothing of the kind.
From the Princes I ask with all respect due to them a very small thing. I am a well-wisher of the Princes.
Let me explain my position clearly. God has vouchsafed to me a priceless gift in the weapon of Ahimsa.
We must, therefore, purge ourselves of hatred. Speaking for myself, I can say that I have never felt any hatred.
In reply to the Welcome address read by Mr. G. A.
But even so why should the Mussalmans sitting here be reviled, if they do not see eye to eye with him?
I have done so, even though it meant putting a strain on your patience; and I do not regret having done it.
I have given you my message and through you I have delivered it to the whole of India.
I can testify to the fact that this was their innermost conviction and nor a mask; I lived with them for years.
That has been my conscious effort all these years. But today the occasion has come when I had to unburden my heart before you.
God dislikes pride and keeps away from it. God would not tolerate a forcible imposition of an untruth.
To those who gloated over the conversion, she wrote to say: "I do not mind his becoming a Mussalmans, so much as his drinking.
That is the beauty of Satyagraha.
They can, if they like, swamp the Congress by their numbers, and can steer it along the course which appeals to them.
I approve of it, because after all what else are they to do? They are convinced that what they are doing is right.
They keep saying that they want an amicable settlement but they do nothing to create the conditions for such a settlement.
Let me, however, hasten to assure that I am the same Gandhi as I was in 1920. I have not changed in any fundamental respect.
You have seen the secret circular issued by Sir Frederick Puckle. It is a suicidal course that he has taken.
Pakistan can deny it. But the denial does not settle the matter. Kashmir has acceded the accession upon certain conditions.
Much can be done in many other ways besides these. The Liquor and foreign cloth shops can be picketed.
So is the hawking of such salt. In short, you may choose any one or all of these devices to break the salt monopoly.
There is no real contradiction between the present resolution and my previous writings and utterances.
The Hindus and Mussalmans must, therefore, unite in the first instance on the issue of fighting for freedom.
He wants planned economy. He wants to reconstruct India according to plan. He likes to fly; I do not.
I believe the cow and myself to be the creation of the same God, and I am prepared to sacrifice my life in order to save the cow.
You used to feed and cloth me, though I could have provided food and clothing for myself by my labour.
What would you do in the meanwhile? What is the programme, for the interval, in which all can participate?
Nothing, however, should be done secretly. This is an open rebellion. In this struggle secrecy is a sin.
As you know my press was attached in the past and returned later on. But I do not ask from you that final sacrifice.
And where these three combine, there defeat is an impossibility. A Satyagrahi, whether free or incarcerated, is ever victorious.
So long as I have reached Jalalpur, let nothing be done in contravention to the authority vested in me by the Congress.
