Throughout all my life and with all my heart I shall strive to be worthy of your trust.
Her influence, moreover, was almost always in the direction on which middle-class sentiment would have approved.
In this resolve I have my husband to support me. He shares all my ideals and all my affection for you.
Their declarations in every quarter are favourable to the maintenance of European peace.
What they said to each other about their constitutional powers must be taken with a large pinch of salt.
This conflict ended when Victoria married Prince Albert in 1840 and Albert replaced Melbourne as her Private Secretary.
She was just as sympathetic to Disraeli’s Conservative successor, Lord Salisbury, as she had been to Disraeli.
A Bill will be submitted to you, on the earliest available occasion, to amend the provision for the Government of Ireland.
The annual Estimates of Charge, so far as they have not been already voted, will be promptly laid before you.
The element of magic sometimes associated with a monarchy, the idea of the magical monarchy, began with her.
I place my firm reliance upon the wisdom of Parliament and upon the loyalty and affection of my People.
I only ask. It is for you to judge.” The truth is that both the Queen and Disraeli were elderly, lonely and bereaved.
If, on the other hand, as was more likely, he refused to dissolve, the Queen would have to dismiss him.
I regard such a fulfilment as essential for the avoidance of further complications in the East.
The question of the sufficiency of the advances already authorised by Parliament is under my consideration.
In relation both to Egypt and Uganda, papers in continuation of those heretofore presented will at once be laid before you.
With her power withering away, she could become head of the whole nation as well as head of state.
She cannot, she wrote to a Liberal minister in 1880, and will not, be the Queen of a democratic monarchy.
This growing impartiality of the Crown was due of course less to the wishes to the Queen than to the growth of party.
On the third anniversary of Albert’s death, the Times commented: “The living have their claims, as well as the dead.
But perhaps constitutional purists have taken all this a little too seriously. Indeed, they did so even at the time.
I have observed with concern a wide prevalence of agricultural distress in many parts of the country.
By the end of the 19th Century, Victoria would be ruling over nearly one-quarter of the world’s population.
My Lords, and Gentlemen,
But the most fundamental changes in the monarchy were at home. Queen Victoria was in fact the first sovereign of a new type.
To this too, the Queen was vehemently opposed, seeing it as tantamount to abolition of the Lords.
It is to be hoped that, among the causes of the present depression, some may be temporary in their nature.
In accordance with this view, I have deemed it expedient to dispatch an Ambassador Extraordinary to the Court of the Sultan.
And perhaps the personal element in the Queen’s attitudes to Disraeli and Gladstone has been over-estimated.
Liberal opposition to this innovation annoyed the Queen and perhaps strengthened her Conservative sympathies.
I humbly commend your labours upon these and upon all other subjects to the guidance of Almighty God.
I have directed that you shall be supplied with the fullest information upon this weighty subject.
I continue to hold friendly and harmonious relations with all foreign Powers.
The consort is not under parliamentary control and therefore cannot act as sovereign.
Gentlemen of the House of Commons,
I invite your careful notice to the important questions of policy connected with the future of South Africa.
One Government Minister said, rightly I think, “Princes are strong when ministers are weak.”
But I do not doubt that you will take this grave matter into your consideration, and make it a subject of careful inquiry.
Victoria was devastated when Disraeli’s Conservatives were defeated in the general election of 1880.
The German Minister in London said, “The victory of the peace party is the victory of the Queen”.
After reading the letter, he said, “And now let us proceed to business.”
These and all your labours I heartily commend to the blessing of God.
We think, by contrast, of the respectability of the Victorian age.
She came to be known as the “Widow of Windsor”. This led to a brief but significant growth of republican sentiment.
“The mass of the people”, one peer told the Queen’s Secretary, “expect a King or Queen to look and play the part.
The sovereign cannot be, as Albert thought, an independent power in the state.
I thank you all from a full heart. God bless you all.
The condition of Indian Finance, as it has recently been made known to me, has required my special attention.
In 1868, the Dean of Windsor told Gladstone that “Everything depends upon your manner of approaching the Queen.
In 1886, she pressed the unionist leader, Lord Hartington, to support Lord Salisbury’s Conservative Government.
The Queen ceased to be a political force in her own right.
Indeed, she wanted to be called “Empress of Great Britain, Ireland and India”, but Disraeli said that would be unwise.
Instead, I will concentrate on a theme which I am sure you will all find much more exciting, namely, the constitution!
The ceremonies you have seen today are ancient, and some of their origins are veiled in the mists of the past.
It will be necessary to ask you to renew the Act for secret voting.
He whom Your Majesty has so highly preferred presumed to trust Your Majesty’s condescension in this behalf.
But all that had been changing, or at least views of it had been changing during the 18th Century.
