Got about 300 people. And that’s what we do.
That’s where one gets the idea. If it weren’t for the Mac, they would never have that in their products.
And I don’t think you get that if you’re very narrow.
And everybody knows that. That’s all that matters is the work. People are being counted on to do specific pieces of the puzzle.
Hmmm, no. See, there wasn’t such a thing as the silicon business back in the early '60s when I was between the ages of 5 and 10.
I read an article when I was very young in Scientific American, and it measured the efficiency of locomotion for various species on the planet.
And I walked into the first computer store in the world which was the Byte Shop of Mountain View, I think, on El Camino.
They just keep on coming. They were able to do that because of the revenue stream from the IBM deal.
Actually, I had a pretty normal childhood. It’s nice growing up here. I mean the air was very clean; it was a little like being out in the country.
And to me…We actually ran an ad like this very early at Apple. The personal computer was the bicycle of the mind.
Somebody once told me, “This guy didn’t get to be the president of PepsiCo without these kinds of instincts.” And it was true.
So I called Mike on the phone, and Mike came over, and Mike had retired at about 30 or 31 from Intel.
I had the surgery and I’m fine now.
We used the computer quite a bit. And to calculate how much error we would get in the frequencies, and how much could be tolerated.
And so, we ended up helping them build most of their computers, and it was really taking up all of our time.
And I could not convince enough people in the senior management of Apple that that was the case and we ran the place as a team for the most part.
Yes. The guy next door to my parents’ place was doing some of the foundation research on solar cells.
It’s very sad in a way because this valley was probably the closest thing to the Garden of Eden at one point in time.
Nobody thinks about things very deeply in business. That’s what I found. I’ll give you an example.
Having lived through it, I can now say this to you with a bit more certainty than when death was a useful but purely intellectual concept:
But then our visions of the future began to diverge and eventually we had a falling out. When we did, our Board of Directors sided with him.
Oh, if I had to pick one of I’m clearly a hippie. All the people I worked with were clearly in that category, too.
Well, the types of computers we have today are tools. They’re responders: you ask a computer to do something and it will do it.
And in those days… Again, it’s hard to remember how primitive it was. There was no such thing as a computer with a graphics video display.
Apple’s dying today. Apple’s dying a very painful death. It’s on a glide slope to die.
About a year ago I was diagnosed with cancer. I had a scan at 7:30 in the morning, and it clearly showed a tumor on my pancreas.
We had a lot of people who were great at management process. They just didn’t have a clue as to the content.
It started before I was born. My biological mother was a young, unwed college graduate student, and she decided to put me up for adoption.
It was created by a fellow named Stewart Brand not far from here in Menlo Park, and he brought it to life with his poetic touch.
And so, I guess I am saddened, not by Microsoft’s success. I have no problem with their success. They’ve earned their success for the most part.
It freed me to enter one of the most creative periods of my life.
We are very lucky to have Paul McCartney’s solo work on iTunes. We have added John Lennon solo work and Ringo's solo work.
Just three stories.
And we thought it must be a hoax. And we started looking through the libraries, looking for the secret tones that would allow you to do this.
None of them could afford a product like that. And it failed.
And there was no leadership. John was in a situation where the board was not happy and where he was probably not long for the company.
And of course, the pendulum swung too far the other way, and it was crazy, but there was a germ of something there.
Well, I think the Internet and the Web… in software and in computing today. I think one is objects, but the other one is the Web.
Hart? I don’t dislike him. I met him about a year ago and my impression was that there was not a great deal of substance there.
And there was a core team that did, but there was a larger team that mostly had come from Hewlett-Packard that didn’t have a clue.
There were some problems with some of the divisions. There was a person running the storage division that was completely out to lunch.
So Silicon Valley is destined to become a technological metropolis and there are pluses and minuses to that.
When I was young, there was an amazing publication called The Whole Earth Catalog, which was one of the bibles of my generation.
So it’s hard to explain, and it’s certainly not the result of one person. People like symbols, so I’m the symbol of certain things.
And so nobody had ever seen one. They were very mysterious, very powerful things, that did something in the background.
Could have been the Microsoft of the ’90s. So…But anyway, that’s all ancient history. It doesn’t really matter anymore.
It was dominated by Lotus. And Microsoft took a big gamble to write for the Mac. And they came out with applications that were terrible.
I want to show you something.” And he pulled out this dusty, old rock tumbler. It was a motor and a coffee can and a little band between them.
But it’s a glide slope that’s just gonna go like this. So, it’s unfortunate. And I don’t really think it’s reversible at this point in time.
But somebody there had the brilliance to test a human riding a bicycle. Blew away the condor. All the way off the charts.
And John didn’t know what to do. He had not a clue. And there was a leadership vacuum at the top of Apple.
I think the computer as an agent will start to mature in the late '80s, early '90s.
I’ve never voted for a presidential candidate. I’ve never voted in my whole life.
The Macintosh that’s shipping today is 25% different than the day I left. They’ve spent hundreds of millions of dollars a year on R&D.
Could have been a company 10 times its size. Could have been IBM. Could have been the IBM of the ’90s.
So I could just look in the book, and looked his name up. And he answered the phone, and I said, “Hi.
I never graduated from college. Truth be told, this is the closest I’ve ever gotten to a college graduation.
Which is not growing, and which is shrinking slowly, but will provide a good revenue stream for several years.
It’s very interesting. I was worthabout over $1 million when I was 23, and over $10 million when I was 24, and over $100 million when I was 25.
Well, no. You know what it is? No, it’s not dark and light.
My doctor advised me to go home and get my affairs in order, which is doctor’s code for prepare to die.
To learn people love it as much as you do is a relief and also really exciting.
And the rocket ship left the pad. And it kind of went to his head. He got confused, and thought that he built the rocket ship.
I view the cutthroat political nature of things very much like that. And right now our business is moving very swiftly.
A total of, probably, $5 billion on R&D. What did they get for it? I don’t know.
The water’s pretty clear and there’s not a lot of ruthlessness. There’s a lot of room for innovation.
Well, what happened was that the industry went into a recession in late 1984. Sales started seriously contracting.
And no one at the company wanted to do it but a few of us in the Mac group. Everybody thought a $7,000 printer was crazy.
I’ll never forget it as long as I live. And he gave me the parts, but he also gave me a job working at Hewlett-Packard that summer.
I didn’t see it then, but it turned out that getting fired from Apple was the best thing that could have ever happened to me.
It means to make sure everything is buttoned up so that it will be as easy as possible for your family.
You know, it’s…Some of those things are not sustainable for some people.
Really. But you could feel it in there. There was something really wonderful there.
I loved it. And much of what I stumbled into by following my curiosity and intuition turned out to be priceless later on.
And so Mike said, “Okay, I’ll invest after a few weeks.” And I said, “No. No. We don’t want your money.
Hmm. Well, um…I ran into my first computer when I was about 10 or 11. And it’s hard to remember back then.
They somehow already know what you truly want to become. Everything else is secondary.
characteristics. I think they’re very strong opportunists, and I don’t mean that in a bad way. Japanese.
Beneath it were the words: “Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish.” It was their farewell message as they signed off.
Picasso had a saying. He said, “Good artists copy. Great artists steal.” And we have always been shameless about stealing great ideas.
So keep looking until you find it. Don’t settle.
And actually, this machine would take your idea, and it would execute your idea and give you back some results.
They were tones that sounded like the touch tone you could make on your phone, but they were a different frequency, so you couldn’t make them.
If you talk to people that use the Macintosh, they love it. You don’t hear people loving products very often.
And much to Bill and Microsoft’s credit, they used that fantastic opportunity to create more opportunity for themselves.
Remembering that I’ll be dead soon is the most important tool I’ve ever encountered to help me make the big choices in life.
And it’s such a fragile, delicate experience that it’s very much like music. But you could never describe it to anyone.
There was electronics. Silicon, as a distinct item from the whole of electronics, didn’t really occur until the '70s.
We hope George’s solo work isn't far in the future. We love the stuff. Of course we'd like the beatles, too.
I think he might have paid me to mow his lawn or something. And one day, he said, “Come on into my garage.
And Laurene and I have a wonderful family together.
They didn’t know about cholesterol back then. But at that time, they used to bring a big cartful of donuts and coffee out at 10 every morning.
That was what we learned, We didn’t know much. We could build a little thing that could control a giant thing.
We had just released our finest creation — the Macintosh — a year earlier, and I had just turned 30.
It means to try to tell your kids everything you thought you’d have the next 10 years to tell them in just a few months.
And so, to see one and actually get to use one was a real privilege back then. And I got into NASA, the Ames Research Center down here.
And then he changed the trajectory so that it was inevitably going to crash into the ground.
We were designing the Apple II, and we really had much higher ambitions for the Apple II. Woz’s ambitions were, he wanted to add color graphics.
Let me give you one example:
Stewart and his team put out several issues of The Whole Earth Catalog, and then when it had run its course, they put out a final issue.
It’s not the hardest thing in the world. It’s not rocket science.
So at 30 I was out. And very publicly out. What had been the focus of my entire adult life was gone, and it was devastating.
And that was an incredible lesson. I don’t think there would have ever been an Apple computer had there not been blue boxing.
So, what’s happened with Apple now is that they’ve fallen behind in many respects, certainly in market share.
And I think…My recollection is, we stole the show. And a lot of dealers and distributors started lining up, and we were off and running.
And every day you discover something new, that is a new problem or a new opportunity to fit these things together a little differently.
I said, “Why don’t I start a research division?” And give me a few million bucks a year and I’ll go hire some really great people.
Our logo was, “He’s got the whole world in his hands.” And they worked. We built the best blue box in the world.
Don’t let the noise of others’ opinions drown out your own inner voice. And most important, have the courage to follow your heart and intuition.
And here I was spending all of the money my parents had saved their entire life. So I decided to drop out and trust that it would all work out OK.
You ought to go see them.” And I finally went and saw them, and I saw what they were doing, and it was better than what we were doing.
Remembering that you are going to die is the best way I know to avoid the trap of thinking you have something to lose.
We built this terminal. And so, what an Apple I was, was really an extension of this terminal putting a microprocessor on the back end.
Well, I’m not doing anything about it. Because NeXT is too small of a company to do anything about that.
And most importantly, their differentiation has been eroded by Microsoft. And so, what they have now is, they have their installed base.
Well, maybe the best thing, since we don’t have much time, is I just tell you what NeXT is today. The innovation in the industry is in software.
So…And it’s good that they showed us, because the technology crashed and burned at Xerox.
If we only had one of those, we could sell them to all our friends for as much as it cost us to make them, and make our money back.
Today I want to tell you three stories from my life. That’s it. No big deal.
So that’s not the important part. The important part was the values of Apple over the next several years were systematically destroyed.
There’s something going on here, there’s something that is changing the world and this is the epicenter.
And that’s what the Mac team was like. They were all A players. And these were extraordinarily talented people.
And the only way to do great work is to love what you do. If you haven’t found it yet, keep looking.
And so they just grabbed defeat from the greatest victory in the computer industry. Xerox could have owned the entire computer industry today.
And they really have no feeling in their hearts usually about wanting to really help the customers.
No one wants to die. Even people who want to go to heaven don’t want to die to get there. And yet death is the destination we all share.
So, I don’t think that most of the really best people that I’ve worked with have worked with computers for the sake of working with computers.
And what we learned was that we could build something ourselves that could control billions of dollars’ worth of infrastructure in the world.
And John decided that a really good person to be the root of all these problems would be me. And so, we came to loggerheads.
What happens is, like with John Sculley…John came from PepsiCo, and they, at most, would change their product once every 10 years.
It was beautiful, historical, artistically subtle in a way that science can’t capture, and I found it fascinating.
But it was miraculous, and we built these little boxes to do blue boxing, as it was called, and we put a little note in the bottom of them.
It’s that people get confused. Companies get confused. When they start getting bigger, they want to replicate their initial success.
So we have to remember that. And that’s sort of when I came of age, so I saw a lot of this. And a lot of it happened right in our backyard here.
Sorry to be so dramatic, but it is quite true.
Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish.
And the reason is because…When I walked out the door at Apple, we had a 10-year lead on everybody else in the industry.
And one thing I did not ever see about John until that time was he had an incredible survival instinct.
For every one of those, there were a thousand people that couldn’t do that, but wanted to mess around with programing.
When we create stuff, we do it because we listen to customers, get their inputs and also throw in what we'd like to see, too.
I was lucky — I found what I loved to do early in life. Woz and I started Apple in my parents’ garage when I was 20.
Oh, okay. Well, I have no idea. But they did show us.
You look back and consider itan enriching experience that taught you to think in a different way, or not?
No, no, no. I’m just a guy who probably should have been a semi-talented poet on the Left Bank. I sort of got sidetracked here.
And so that was the early days. And I met Steve Wozniak around that time, too. Well, maybe a little earlier when I was about 14, 15 years old.
And he was in his 80s. He was a little scary-looking. And I got to know him a little bit.
Pixar went on to create the world’s first computer animated feature film, Toy Story, and is now the most successful animation studio in the world.
It metamorphosized into an adult bookstore a few years later. But at this point, it was the Byte Shop.
Yeah, we did call the Pope. He pretended to be Henry Kissinger. And we got the number of the Vatican, and we called the Pope.
It had to do with using them to be a mirror of your thought process, to actually learn how to think.
Oh, I actually thought a lot about that. And I learned more about that with John Sculley later on, and I think I understand it now pretty well.
Oh! Oh! You mean they were reluctant to show us the demo?
I think we’ve had a chance to do that a few times, and it brings all of us associated with it tremendous satisfaction.
Asia, probably 2008. I think we'll start to see it in some countries in Europe next quarter.
I was 30 years old. And I don’t think I had enough experience to run $2billion company. Unfortunately, John didn’t either.
We designed the first laser printer controller at Apple. And we got the software from Adobe, and we introduced the LaserWriter.
We want to get more aggressive for the holiday season. So, you know, we know a lot of people want an iPhone.
Oh, it was very painful. I’m not even sure I want to talk about it. What can I say?
But even with that, it was still remarkable, especially for a 10-year-old, that you could write a program in BASIC, let’s say, or FORTRAN.
And it wasn’t that important because I never did it for the money. I think money is a wonderful thing because it enables you to do things.
And then I got tours of computers after that, and saw the insides. And then I was part of this group at Hewlett-Packard.
It should be something that everybody learns. Takes a year in their life, one of the courses they take is learning how to program.
You’ve heard about this, I’m sure. And again, we were captivated. How could anybody do this?
I dropped out of Reed College after the first 6 months, but then stayed around as a drop-in for another 18 months or so before I really quit.
You are already naked. There is no reason not to follow your heart.
Right. That’s right. Isn’t this a wonderful place we live in?
We wanted a little bit of control. And we were off to the races, and so we got the engines from Canon.
Because I had dropped out and didn’t have to take the normal classes, I decided to take a calligraphy class to learn how to do this.
And the product people get driven out of the decision-making forums. And the companies forget what it means to make great products.
But something slowly began to dawn on me — I still loved what I did. The turn of events at Apple had not changed that one bit.
First of all, things happen in increments, right? They don’t happen all at once. But people didn’t start these companies just to make a buck.
I’m just watching it. And there is really nothing I can do about it.
And now, as you graduate to begin anew, I wish that for you.
Sure, it was. It was very scary. We made a very big mistake, though.
But nonetheless, they made the most of it, and I give them a lot of credit for that. The only problem with Microsoft is they just have no taste.
But it was…What happened was the understanding of how to move these things forward and how to create these new products somehow evaporated.
I hired the wrong guy . And he destroyed everything I’d spent 10 years working for. Starting with me, but that wasn’t the saddest part.
I had 3-4 people who kept bugging me that I ought to get my rear over to Xerox PARC and see what they were doing, and so I finally did.
In the sense that……they don’t think of original ideas and they don’t bring much culture into their product.
And there hasn’t ever been a real revolution in how we created software. Certainly not in the last 20 years.
They showed me that, but I didn’t even see that. The other one they showed me was, really, a network computer system.
Because I’m like that. I don’t mind being wrong. I’ll admit that I’m wrong a lot.
But if it hadn’t been for computer science, these people would have all been doing amazing things in life in other fields.
Because now there are too many square miles of concrete and asphalt.
But they kept at it and they made them better, and eventually, they dominated the Macintosh application market.
I never sold any stock. Just really believed that the company would do very well over the long term.
It doesn’t really matter to me too much. What matters to me is that we do the right thing.
This was the closest I’ve been to facing death, and I hope it’s the closest I get for a few more decades.
So, we used them in our work. But much more importantly, it had nothing to do with using them for anything practical.
Well, for PepsiCo, that might have been okay. But it turns out, the same thing can happen in technology companies that get monopolies.
The heaviness of being successful was replaced by the lightness of being a beginner again, less sure about everything.
And I had cut a deal with Adobe to use their software, and we bought 19.9% of Adobe at Apple. They needed some financing.
So why did I drop out?
But we needed some money for tooling the case and things like that. We needed a few hundred thousand dollars.
It was so obvious. You would have felt the same way had you been there.
For some, it's out of their price range. We want it to be affordable for more people as we head into the holiday season.
And the problem with that is that there is just a tremendous amount of craftsmanship in between a great idea and a great product.
In software, and it used to be the case in hardware, too, the difference between average and the best is 50-to-1, maybe 100-to-1.
We worked hard, and in 10 years Apple had grown from just the two of us in a garage into a $2 billion company with over 4,000 employees.
And we really started to design this product that could be sold for $1,000 called the Macintosh. And we didn’t make it.
And I would just, for hours, get a ride up to Hewlett-Packard and just hang around that machine and write programs for it.
IBM has the best process people in the world. They just forgot about the content. And that’s what happened a little bit at Apple, too.
Most people don’t remember, but until 1984 with the Mac, Microsoft was not in the applications business.
She refused to sign the final adoption papers. She only relented a few months later when my parents promised that I would someday go to college.
Yeah, and so, we never got to talk to the Pope, but it was very funny.
It was great. We got the best. The West Coast Computer Faire was small at that time, but to us, it was very large.
There was no wire going off behind the curtain somewhere. And I fell in love with it. And you could program it in BASIC and APL.
In an automobile, what’s the difference between average and the best? Maybe 20%. The best CD player and an average CD player?
And as we evolved the Mac, it became very clear that this was also a way of reinventing Apple. We reinvented everything.
And you say, “Well, why is that important?” Well, proportionally-spaced fonts come from typesetting and beautiful books.
But when I left, it was the largest printer company in the world.
And we have perfected it and commercialized it here and become the biggest supplier of it to the market.
And the way it worked was, you know when you make a long-distance call, you used to hear… Right? In the background?
It turned out that, that was the signal from one telephone computer to another controlling the computers in the network.
And in my career, I found that the best people are the ones that really understand the content, and they’re a pain in the butt to manage.
And if they were the results that you predicted, your program really worked. It was an incredibly thrilling experience.
So, uh… But we needed a terminal, and we couldn’t afford one, so we designed and built one. And that was the first thing we ever did.
When Apple Corps is ready, we're ready to go.
The most successful business war was MCI’s Friends and Family in the last 10 years. And what was that?
I am honored to be with you today at your commencement from one of the finest universities in the world.
We built a completely different marketing approach. And I think it worked pretty well.
Stay Hungry. Stay Foolish. And I have always wished that for myself.
When you want to understand something that’s never been understood before, what you have to do is construct conceptual scaffolding.
Some people have hated it. And I’m also one of these people that I don’t really care about being right.
And we’ve got a small-to- medium-sized business and we’re the largest supplier of objects. We’re a 50-to-75-million-dollar company.
I have a problem with the fact that they just make really third-rate products. Their products have no spirit to them.
The developer paid the price. And software got much more complicated to write as it became easier to use for the end user.
It was… It was miraculous. And you might ask, “Well, what’s so interesting about that?” What’s so interesting is that we were young.
So, software is infiltrating everything we do these days. In businesses, software is one of the most potent competitive weapons.
The first story is about connecting the dots.
My third story is about death.
Very few things in life are like this. But what I was lucky enough to spend my life in, is like this.
We built the product. We built the automated factory, the machine to build the machine. We built a completely new distribution system.
It is a rhythmic experience, or it is an experience where everything’s related to everything else and it’s all intertwined.
Oh, clearly. Well, not so much competing visions for the company, ‘cause I don’t think John had a vision for the company.
It’s probably closest to Washington during the Kennedy era or something like that. Now I start sounding like Gary Hart.
Like, oh, IBM and Xerox. If you were a product person at IBM or Xerox…So you make a better copier or a better computer.
So I think the Web…As we look back 10 years from now, the Web is going to be the defining technology.
Isn’t that odd?
But you put up with it because they’re so great at the content. And that’s what makes great products.
It means to say your goodbyes.
And before very long, people get very confused that the process is the content. And that’s, ultimately, the downfall of IBM.
“We’ll do the next great thing.” And I was told there was no opportunity to do that. So, my office was taken away.
They had over 100 Alto computers, all networked, using email, et cetera, et cetera. I didn’t even see that.
My second story is about love and loss.
They have no conception of the craftsmanship that’s required to take a good idea and turn it into a good product.
So we convinced these distributors to give us the parts on net 30 days credit. We had no idea what that meant.
We could have sold it at $2,000. Although, we came out at $2,500. And we spent four years of our life doing that.
This was in the late 1960s, before personal computers and desktop publishing, so it was all made with typewriters, scissors and Polaroid cameras.
And this object technology lets you build software 10 times faster and is better. And so that’s what we do.
I had been rejected, but I was still in love. And so I decided to start over.
And I finally got fed up. I just went outside and found David Kelley Design, and asked him to design me a mouse.
It’s not process. It’s content. So we had a little bit of that problem at Apple.
I got to use a time-sharing terminal. So I didn’t actually see the computer, but I saw a time-sharing terminal.
And I came back the next day, and we opened the can, and we took out these amazingly beautiful polished rocks.
And he said, “Come on with me.” We went out to the back and we got just some rocks. Some regular, old, ugly rocks.
So in business, a lot of things are… I call it folklore. They’re done because they were done yesterday and the day before.
Now, remember, it was very flawed. What we saw was incomplete. They’d done a bunch of things wrong, but we didn’t know that at the time.
And that’s what saved them in the end.
Sure. Oh, I think if you talk to a lot of people on the Mac team, they will tell you it was the hardest they’ve ever worked in their life.
They have absolutely no taste. And what that means is…I don’t mean that in a small way, I mean that in a big way.
And it’s the same thing that causes people to wanna be poets instead of bankers. And I think that’s a wonderful thing.
And John had cultivated a very close relationship with the board. And they believed him. So, that’s what happened.
It was about as big as a suitcase, but it actually had a small cathode-ray tube display in it, and it was completely self-contained.
But I’m an old fossil now. I’m an old fossil. So when I was 10 or 11 was about 30 years ago.
It's up to Apple Corps. I hope you will see something in the next six months. We'll see.
I don’t know. 20%. 2-1 is a big dynamic range in most of life.
And we had canceled our internal project. And a bunch of people wanted to kill me over this, but we did it.
No one has ever escaped it. And that is as it should be, because Death is very likely the single best invention of Life.
And they were gonna be a hardware company. They wanted to make printers and the whole thing. And so I talked them into being a software company.
We'll launch the iPhone in Europe next quarter.
