Because birds and bees and. Everything wasn’t meant to be analyzed.
It’s contagious, you know?
Fear. They’re scared. They’re scared of watching us grow up.
I didn’t teach them that.
I understand. Yes, you can go to the party.
So they make the decision for them.
But we’re more alike than we are unlike. That’s really weird.
I can’t stand racism in any form, shape, or color. I can’t stand it.
You’re gonna see that they’re good.
It should be common knowledge.
We’re given the gift that we’re getting when we got to take over. It’s horrible.
It might set me back, but only momentarily, only to spring back.
So I’ll be the scapegoat. No problem. As long as it changes.
Oh, I’m most like my mom because I’m arrogant. Totally arrogant. I agree.
And that’s how I feel.
You know, I try to be as mature as I can be and demand it wherever I can get it.
So I feel like my mother made a lot of decisions in her life.
Shot dead, in the head.
That should be illegal.
I think adults should go through school again.
And I think that’s wrong. I think that’s really bad.
She couldn’t keep her job because of her choices, because it was too much.
And I mean, just growing up in America.
The upper class run it, while we talk about it.
I don’t want Bush and government.
And they smack, they’re beating.
My children in college, it’s over. Oh, my God. And so it’s that difference.
Tell them. But don’t get the wrong idea. I feel like I’m being gloomy.
If I hated anything, it’d be that.
And for me and hI hope this doesn’t start anything.
It was me, I admit it.
It’s nice. It’s like a learning stage for me.
That’s like my hair cut. The line. 360 degrees by knowledge always.
And I was like, it’s the weekend.
But they didn’t.
I guess 17 is all right.
I still see things that.
And they like that.
And I don’t think you should.
Mostly, you know, just listen a lot.
And we just get along really good.
So she lost her job. And of course, we were like stranded in New York.
Then she was really close with me and really strict almost.
I’m masculine. I mean! With the guys, I’m trying.
Definitely not. Definitely not.
That’s what I think should happen.
So that was natural. That’s arrogance at the top.
And I don’t think that’s good, because you don’t prepare them for the world.
No, so that’s what I think about that.
Politicians double-talk.
I think it’s gonna work. I think it’ll work out and everything,
If something’s going on wrong in the house, I know everything.
I mean, is the upper class white and upper class black.
And they were like, it’s Du kakis.
We’ll be able to deal with people.
I’ve seen guys speak to women with this much respect.
And this is where we chose to live.
And there’s racism, but it’s not like that.
Raised by the Black Panthers and strung out.
I’ll be there late.
Right. Definitely have to be realistic.
But I always wanted to make a book out of my life, like a fairy tale.
It’s like we’re waiting for some big button to be pushed. Something like that.
Then he’ll have people from the streets to help him make, what his ideas.
