And controversy hence a question takes,
What rocky heart to water will not wear?
''All my offences that abroad you see
For on his visage was in little drawn
'But, woe is me! too early I attended
'O father, what a hell of witchcraft lies
Knew vows were ever brokers to defiling;
The broken bosoms that to me belong
And I serve the Fairy Queen,
Over park, over pale,
''O, pardon me, in that my boast is true:
And mine I pour your ocean all among:
That's to ye sworn to none was ever said;
And now, to tempt, all liberty procured.
Ere long espied a fickle maid full pale,
Upon whose weeping margent she was set;
Or sister sanctified, of holiest note;
I do wander everywhere,
Where neither party is nor true nor kind:
I have received from many a several fair,
'But, ah, who ever shunn'd by precedent
Love to myself and to no love beside.
Whether the horse by him became his deed,
Each cheek a river running from a fount
Experience for me many bulwarks builded
The destined ill she must herself assay?
Age like winter bare:
To spend her living in eternal love.
If best were as it was, or best without.
And now she would the caged cloister fly:
In the small orb of one particular tear!
Must for your victory us all congest,
Of court, of city, and had let go by
He had the dialect and different skill,
Or my affection put to the smallest teen,
Effects of terror and dear modesty,
Which like a cherubin above them hover'd.
Or he his manage by the well-doing steed.
Age is weak and cold,
His phoenix down began but to appear
Which may her suffering ecstasy assuage,
Over hill, over dale,
Like fools that in th' imagination set
With twisted metal amorously impleach'd,
That we must curb it upon others' proof;
And was my own fee-simple, not in part,
What I should do again for such a sake.
Which fortified her visage from the sun,
All kinds of arguments and question deep,
O appetite, from judgment stand aloof!
With sleided silk feat and affectedly
'That he did in the general bosom reign
Proud of subjection, noble by the sway,
Works under you; and to your audit comes
Of grief and blushes, aptly understood
'In him a plenitude of subtle matter,
'O, that infected moisture of his eye,
Threw my affections in his charmed power,
But with the inundation of the eyes
'Nor gives it satisfaction to our blood,
Youth, I do adore thee;
''Lo, this device was sent me from a nun,
Youth like summer brave,
The accident which brought me to her eye
In either's aptness, as it best deceives,
'That not a heart which in his level came
'Tis promised in the charity of age.
A plaintful story from a sistering vale,
Thorough bush, thorough brier,
A thousand favours from a maund she drew
Lending soft audience to my sweet design,
Of folded schedules had she many a one,
Religious love put out Religion's eye:
The naked and concealed fiend he cover'd;
Demand of him, nor being desired yielded;
And hang a pearl in every cowslip's ear.
Fresh to myself, If I had self-applied
Of paled pearls and rubies red as blood;
Would yet again betray the fore-betray'd,
His real habitude gave life and grace
Which one by one she in a river threw,
Accomplish'd in himself, not in his case:
And, privileged by age, desires to know
'Yet did I not, as some my equals did,
As often shrieking undistinguish'd woe,
O, all that borrow'd motion seeming owed,
As oft 'twixt May and April is to see,
Even there resolved my reason into tears;
Not age, but sorrow, over me hath power:
Like unshorn velvet on that termless skin
What me your minister, for you obeys,
And be not of my holy vows afraid:
Those be rubies, fairy favours;
O! my Love, my Love is young!
Of amber, crystal, and of beaded jet,
And supplicant their sighs to you extend,
And reign'd, commanding in his monarchy.
O sweet shepherd, hie thee,
Age's breath is short,
Their distract parcels in combined sums.
And dialogued for him what he would say,
And deep-brain'd sonnets that did amplify
How coldly those impediments stand forth
Swifter than the moon's sphere;
Age is full of care;
The injury of many a blasting hour,
For methinks thou stay'st too long.
When he again desires her, being sat,
The cowslips tall her pensioners be;
Of stale example? When thou wilt inflame,
The carcass of beauty spent and done:
That season'd woe had pelleted in tears,
Youth is full of sports,
Youth is wild, and Age is tame:-
Like usury, applying wet to wet,
In their gold coats spots you see;
All vows and consecrations giving place:
To appertainings and to ornament,
To put the by-past perils in her way?
Upon the moment did her force subdue,
Did livery falseness in a pride of truth.
And every light occasion of the wind
What unapproved witness dost thou bear!
Upon her head a platted hive of straw,
The goodly objects which abroad they find
Age like winter weather;
Youth like summer morn,
Who, disciplined, ay, dieted in grace,
Since I their altar, you enpatron me.
'Thus merely with the garment of a Grace
His rudeness so with his authorized youth
Whereto his invised properties did tend;
Not to be tempted, would she be immured,
So slides he down upon his grained bat,
In those freckles live their savours;
To dew her orbs upon the green;
O cleft effect! cold modesty, hot wrath,
Thorough flood, thorough fire!
And comely-distant sits he by her side;
She was new lodged and newly deified.
Or any of my leisures ever charm'd:
'So on the tip of his subduing tongue
Age, I do abhor thee;
Till now did ne'er invite, nor never woo.
Ay me! I fell; and yet do question make
Age, I do defy thee-
And new pervert a reconciled maid!'
Of burning blushes, or of weeping water,
Which on it had conceited characters,
Youth is full of pleasance,
Youth is nimble, Age is lame:
For when we rage, advice is often seen
That is, to you, my origin and ender;
Cannot live together:
Hanging her pale and pined cheek beside;
And so much less of shame in me remains,
I must go seek some dewdrops here,
With the annexions of fair gems enrich'd,
Let it not tell your judgment I am old;
Youth is hot and bold,
Crabbed Age and Youth
Finding myself in honour so forbid,
Appear to him, as he to me appears,
