We are told that Herr Hitler has a plan for invading the British Isles. This has often been thought of before.
If it is of large size, then the Navy have something they can find and meet and, as it were, bite on.
I will tell you about it.
That was the prospect a week ago. But another blow which might well have proved final was yet to fall upon us.
In the meantime, there may be raids by parachute troops and attempted descents of airborne soldiers.
Against this loss of over 30,000 men, we can set a far heavier loss certainly inflicted upon the enemy.
Capital and Labor have cast aside their interests, rights, and customs and put them into the common stock.
However, the German eruption swept like a sharp scythe around the right and rear of the Armies of the north.
There should be no difficulty in this, owing to our great superiority at sea.
That is what we are going to do.
And every chance brought forth a noble knight,
How long it will be, how long it will last, depends upon the exertions which we make in this Island.
But there was a victory inside this deliverance, which should be noted. It was gained by the Air Force.
I thought-and some good judges agreed with me-that perhaps 20,000 or 30,000 men might be re-embarked.
There never has been, I suppose, in all the world, in all the history of war, such an opportunity for youth.
That was our constant fear: one blow after another, terrible losses, frightful dangers. Everything miscarried.
Therefore, I cannot accept the drawing of any distinctions between Members of the present Government.
But the question is whether there are any new methods by which those solid assurances can be circumvented.
During the first four years of the last war the Allies experienced nothing but disaster and disappointment.
We have fully consulted them, and I have received from their Prime Ministers, Mr. Mackenzie King of Canada, Mr.
They were pressed on every side by heavy attacks and far outnumbered in the air.
They underrate its achievements. I have heard much talk of this; that is why I go out of my way to say this.
Only 30 unwounded survivors were brought off by the Navy, and we do not know the fate of their comrades.
And these very high-class forces from the Dominions will now take part in the defence of the Mother Country.
Every morn brought forth a noble chance
But this will not continue. We shall not be content with a defensive war. We have our duty to our Ally.
All these shall be restored.
